-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NCAA Football 09
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/ncaafootball09/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Online Dynasty mode supports 12 players.
 Great college atmosphere.
 Home-field advantage is effective but doesn't feel cheap.
 Custom rosters can be shared online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lots of missed tackles.
 Recruiting gets old quick.
 Campus Legend is more of the same.
 Icing the kicker works way too well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 15, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 952 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Jul 15, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Just as the addition of the Online Dynasty mode will satisfy many, the lack of significant improvements 
 to other key modes of NCAA Football 09 will disappoint many others. 

  The NCAA Football series has always been in the shadow of its big brother, Madden. But like Eli 
 Manning or Ronde Barber, both of whom have a more-famous sibling, NCAA Football has established 
 its own identity and proven itself to be more than Madden with marching bands. This year's effort 
 benefits from the inclusion of an Online Dynasty mode and the ability to share custom roster files, 
 but other than these two additions, little has changed.  

           You can now take your dynasty online. Finally!      

  Series fans have long clamored 
 for the ability to play Dynasty mode online, and EA has finally made that dream a reality. Up to 
 12 players can compete head-to-head online for up to 60 in-game years. Setting up an online dynasty 
 is a breeze. One person acts as the commissioner and sets the rules and difficulty and sends out 
 player invites. Because you're free to play as any Division 1A school and might not otherwise encounter 
 another human opponent, it's good that the commish can alter each team's schedule to ensure that 
 people get to play against one another. You'll want to make sure you play against one another because 
 although you're all recruiting against everyone else, doing so doesn't provide any sense of competition -- it's 
 just navigating menus for weeks on end. NCAA 09 seems to do a good job anticipating the problems 
 that typically arise when coordinating a large group online for any length of time. If one player 
 is holding the group back, the commissioner can advance the week or even boot the offending player 
 from the dynasty. You can even throw out results from a game if you suspect something's fishy. 
 If you lose a few people, or just want to add a few new coaches to the mix, you can do so at any 
 time. It would have been nice if you had the option to play a few weeks ahead if you wanted to, 
 but there's very little not to like. It was a long time coming, but it was worth the wait.  

  It's a good thing Dynasty mode is online this year, because few changes have been made with regard 
 to how it's played. You pick a school, recruit players, and try to lead them to a championship. 
 While you now have the option for the AI to handle a few minor aspects of recruiting and you can 
 quick-call prospects to save a few minutes, the process once again gets tedious after you're about 
 halfway through the season. There simply aren't enough variables to make it interesting. One notable 
 addition is the ability to download custom rosters and use them in Dynasty mode. Some ambitious 
 individual has already made a file available with real player names, so no longer will you have 
 to play with fake player names, nor will you have to spend hours altering individual players.  
 

  Another mode that hasn't received a whole lot of attention is Campus Legend, where you create a 
 player, guide him through the final games of his high school career, and help him pick a college 
 where he can pursue his dreams of becoming a legend. You'll still need to attend practice to work 
 your way up the depth chart and boost your attributes by studying for class, going to the gym, 
 reviewing your playbook, or going to the trainer. That may sound interesting on paper, but it involves 
 nothing more than picking an option from a menu and hitting a button. If you've never played Campus 
 Legend before, you'll find that it's a lot of fun for a season or two, but if you've previously 
 spent time with it, you'll be let down that there's nothing new here.  

  Home-field advantage is a huge part of college football, and it's a huge part of NCAA 09. If you're 
 on the road playing in a hostile environment like Nebraska or Tennessee, you'll have to contend 
 with the crowd as well as the opposition on the field. A rattled quarterback who checks his receivers' 
 routes preplay will see the normally straight lines replaced with a moving, squiggly mess or, worse 
 yet, a question mark over the players' heads. If you manage a few successful drives, you'll take 
 the crowd out of the game (they'll actually leave the stadium in a blowout) and the routes will 
 return to normal. It's a neat way of taking home-field advantage into account without going overboard 
 as is the case with icing the kicker. When the game's on the line, you can now call a time-out 
 to "ice" the kicker. This moves the camera down behind the kicker, which makes it tough to aim 
 and literally puts ice on the kick meter. It's extraordinarily difficult to make even a short kick 
 if you've been iced, which is completely contrary to what happens in real life, where the tactic 
 has a minimal effect on the kicker.  

           Thankfully, you can turn off the way-too-effective ice-the-kicker feature.      

  
 Fast, offensive-minded gameplay has always been a series staple, but this year it's even more wide 
 open. Defenders seem to have been slowed down a bit, so you'll see a lot of long touchdown runs 
 if the ball carrier gets past the first wave of defenders, the secondary simply can't catch up. 
 Huge plays are also common because there are too many broken tackles. Players often slip out of 
 defenders' arms as if they've been coated in oil or bounce off 300-pound linemen like they're made 
 of rubber. The game's breakaway engine is supposed to let you quickly transition from one move 
 to another mid-animation, but most of the aforementioned elusive moves seem to happen on their 
 own without your input. In fact, the breakaway engine doesn't seem to do much at all. You'll still 
 get stuck in long animations and sucked into defenders by some magical, invisible force even if 
 you're madly pressing buttons. Broken tackles are great if you're the person with the ball, but 
 they're particularly frustrating on defense because of how often you'll be victimized by receivers 
 who have an uncanny knack for getting open and who almost never drop the pigskin. Although receivers 
 have no problem getting open, they still have the propensity to catch the ball short of the first-down 
 marker, even though the game touts "smart routes" that let receivers adjust their routes to get 
 first downs.  

  Despite these problems, the gameplay has been improved over last year and generally plays quite 
 well. Offline co-op play is back after a long absence and allows up to four players to play together 
 on the same system. There are fewer interceptions, but you'll still pay the price when you make 
 an egregiously poor throw. Running the option is as fun as ever, especially since you're not likely 
 to make a poor pitch, even if you're being swarmed by defenders. Many of the on-field changes won't 
 matter to casual players but will be appreciated by long-term fans of the series. You can now audible 
 to a new play while remaining in your original formation so as not to tip off the defense, and 
 you can also display bluff plays when checking your routes before the snap. Defenders aren't without 
 their own weapons, however. You can alter individual assignments or change what your line, linebackers, 
 or secondary will do with just a few button presses. It's great to have this much control over 
 your D, but you'll really have to be quick with the controller to get all of your changes done 
 before the ball is snapped.  

  NCAA Football received a major presentation overhaul last year, so it's not surprising that 09's 
 presentation isn't vastly different. There are a ton of real stadiums in the game, and as always, 
 they look great. Customization is a large part of how NCAA's presentation stands out from other 
 sports titles -- little touches allow you to become completely immersed. You can save photos and 
 replays and display them in your team's shrine, which is filled with trophies you've won over the 
 years. The menus are attractive and easy to navigate, and the newspaper-style articles in Dynasty 
 mode are particularly cool-looking and accurately reflect what's happening around college football. 
 On the field you'll notice a few new player animations, the most notable of which are celebration-related. 
 You can run up to a mascot after a touchdown and interact with him, and some teams have a custom 
 celebration that can be performed with the touch of a button.  

  The game's audio provides a similar level of freedom thanks to the custom music feature. This lets 
 you take music from your hard drive and assign it to a wide variety of events: sacks, first downs, 
 touchdowns, extra points, kickoffs, and more. Even if you don't take advantage of the ability to 
 import your entire Michael Bolton collection, you'll have plenty of music to listen to courtesy 
 of the game's large number of marching band songs. Lee Corso, Kirk Herbstreit, and Brad Nessler 
 do a solid job of calling the action on the field. Their comments are sometimes disjointed, but 
 the presence of ESPN's number-one broadcast team brings an authentic feel to the game.  

           Big plays are easy to come by in this year's wide-open game.      

  Thanks to the 
 long-awaited addition of an online dynasty and downloadable custom rosters, NCAA 09 is an improvement 
 over NCAA 08. However, those are the only noteworthy changes to a game that otherwise has a little 
 too much in common with its predecessor to feel entirely fresh. Playing NCAA Football 09 is like 
 watching your favorite college team blow up a lower division opponent; fun, but not very surprising. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (63 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MighteyMouse2
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 6:48 am PT
Review:  This is by far the most addicting football game i've played, and i absolutely love it. The dynasty 
 mode could not be more perfect in any aspect. Some things i look forward to be worked on for NCAA 
 Football '10 are: AI intelligence in game; no more of this terrible juking, sidestep out of bounds, 
 and running to the sidelines with a wide open field in front of a computer player, as well as the 
 catch with two feet inbounds five yards away from the sideline and the player falling down. 
  
  There should be infinite space for trophies won by a user, or just a list of all possible trophies 
 and awards with an xNUMBER by it to state how many that player has. It is fun to know how many 
 i have and with what team and player. I like how it is set up, but there jsut needs to be more. 
 
  
  Heisman with Full AI should be a bit harder, my friends and i with 50% attributes are able to beat 
 the computer teams with scores of 70-35 and that was me (LSU) vs. Georgia last season in our dynasty. 
 
  
  My one friend is Michigan in our main dynasty that we are 12 years in the making and he has like 
 9 bcs national championships, which bothers me lol, but regardless... He is on a 65 game win streak 
 overall and knocks me out of the race almost every year, it's disgusting. I hope there is something 
 that is done that like impoves diffuculty vs the computer especiall in away games, so he can not 
 win so easily. hahaha. 
  
  
  I would highly recommend this game over madden '09. Anyday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KPAW74
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: For the most part the on field action is accurate and moderately difficult. I play the 
 game on all-american level with ten minute quarters and find that stats and scores are commensurate 
 with real games. 
  
  Passing can be somewhat difficult with the AI awareness turned up. If you simply throw the ball 
 up you will get picked off. You have to be able to read and react quickly to get the open receivers. 
 The physics of the passing game are also pretty good. If your QB doesn't have a great arm and you 
 roll him to the same side as his throwing arn he will often throw an inaccurate ball or a duck. 
 
  
  Running is also somewhat difficult with some adjustments made to the AI. I have found that you 
 have to be patient with your running game and follow your blockers. Most of the special moves really 
 aren't that special. It is possible to pull them off to good effect on some occasions but timing 
 has to be just right. Fumbling seems to happen at about the right frequency. 
  
  Defense is a mixed bag, pretty easy against the run, tough against the pass (turn up the awareness 
 level for your team) , and the AI will complete around 70 percent of passes during the game. Play 
 lots of different zone coverages and mix in some blitzes to create short gains and interceptions. 
 It is often hard to get pressure on the quarterback even against bad teams. 
  
  Special teams has a few flaws. Punt returns and coverage aren't really very accurate. It's easy 
 to get good returns on most punts (20 plus yards) and the AI often kicks the ball through the endzone 
 or shanks one out of bounds; probably one of the worst parts of the game's playability. Kickoffs 
 and returns are accurate. Field goal kicking is not very difficult, but if your thumb happens to 
 run away with the analog stick it is possible to shank one. 
  
  The stadium atmospheres are pretty good, if somewhat canned. What happened to the create a sign 
 feature? I like the fact that the visiting team will get rattled and that this affects the ability 
 to execute. 
  
  Weather effects are cool, but they don't really change the game. Rain, sleet, snow, monsoon, fireballs 
 shooting from the sun and the passing keeps right on clicking.
  
  Probably the most glaring problem during gameplay is the lack of penalties, even with the level 
 up to 100. This has been an issue with all of the college games I have played. Penalties are not 
 called based upon what one would normally see in a real game. Most of the time each team has two 
 or less penalties a game. Though this does not ruin the experience, it could be tweaked bit by 
 the developers.
  
  Menus, Recruiting, etc: All of the Menus are easy to navigate and are very self-explanatory. I 
 wish that stats were a little more in depth, but as they are they provide good information and 
 are kept throughout a player's career. 
  
  Recruiting can be a bit tedious, but if you want the simulation aspect of college football you 
 really can't skip it. It's rewarding to land the five star blue chipper you have been after all 
 season. 
  
  Graphically the game is very good. Players are still a little blocky and there are a few gaffs 
 here and there with the collision detection, but overall I can't complain. The one thing that could 
 really use a fix is the injury cut scene. How about having the trainers run and to help the injured 
 party off the field instead of letting the poor schmuck lay there with a broken tibia. 
  
  Conclusion: In my opinion this is a better game than Madden. Going from season to season is exciting 
 as you see you player progressions, sign your new recruits, and customize your schedules. The game 
 plays very well, though not flawlessly. From a simualtion aspect it is quite accurate. The good 
 far outweighs the bad and I keep coming back for more, even though football season is done until 
 the fall. This is unusual for me as I am usually a seasonal sports video game player. If you are 
 a college football and sports video game fan then this is a must have. Hope this review helps.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyle12271
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2009 6:41 am PT
Review:  I have always been waiting for a football game like this. Even better graphics than last years, 
 although, in campus legend, your guy can only look ugly! Now, you can get an even easier audible 
 switch also, with it being fast too. I was interested to see which would be better, madden 09 or 
 NCAA football 09. To my surprise, it was NCAA football 09. First of all, there are more teams. 
 Second, there are tons more rivalries. Third, There can be nail-biters, whether it's LSU V. S. Ohio 
 State, or Minnesota V. S. Georgia. Online, is awesome too. You can play anyone, including talking 
 to them (available fro awhile now) , and it makes it even more fun. The mini-games also make things 
 more fun, if you don't have enough time to finish a game. Say what you want, but NCAA football 
 09 is an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisdukefan
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2009 5:32 am PT
Review:  This NCAA football game is the best type of that game that I have ever played. 
  The Campus Legend Feature is a great feature that allows you to make your own college athlete. 
 You start out pretending to be playing at your own high school. Depending on how good you do there 
 can decide which schools will offer you scholarships. You then pick your team and start trying 
 to win the elusive Heisman award. The only bad thing about Campus Legend is that you can only play 
 as your player. Let's say that you're a quarterback, you can only watch or sim through the defensive 
 plays. Also, during running plays you would hand it off to the back and then either wait or block 
 with your character. This gets a little annoying.
  The dynasty mode is much more in depth than previous dynasty modes. They also made a feature that 
 allows you to sort through all of the recruits for people who only meet your requirements. Such 
 as if you are trying to draft a 4 star caliber scrambling quarterback that has your school in his 
 top 5 schools you can do that. 
  The playing of the game is a little shaky, but I would say that it is definitely a good game. Overall 
 I would recommend you rent this game first and then you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razorback6189
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I found NCAA 09 to be a highly addictive game. The dynasty mode is especially addictive for me. 
 As a huge football fan, I enjoy every last aspect of the game. This is my first NCAA game for the 
 lastest generation consoles, but from watching friends play I can see that the dynasty is very 
 much unchanged from last year's game, but the game play and recruiting can still be fun. Campus 
 Legend is also very fun. For the most fun I would suggest using a quarterback or a running back, 
 but I've also found safety to be very fun too. The game play and graphics are both very good. It 
 can be very frustrating when your kicker is iced, however. I think that in the future the game 
 could improve by adding more tackling and tackle breaking animations to help add a greater sense 
 of realism to the game, simliar to the animations in Madden. From what I have seen, a consumer 
 could save money by just playing NCAA 08 because the two games do not seem to differ from much 
 more than just the players on the rosters. But NCAA 09 is still a solid college football game that 
 can keep you busy for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergod317
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  I THINK THAT THIS WAS ONE OF THE MOST DYNAMIC GAMES THAT EA SPORTS HAVE CAME OUT WITH. NOT TO IMPRESSED 
 WITH THE WAY THAT THEY MEASURE FOR FIRST DOWNS (THEY WONT) . I DO LIKE THE WAY THE BALL CARRIER CAN 
 RUN WITH FLUID MOTION. I THINK I HAVE CREATED MY OWN CREATIVE FREAKISH MOVES ON THE GAME! I ALSO 
 LIKE THE WAY THAT YOU CAN PLAY YOUR DYNASTY MODE ONLINE WITH OTHER FOOTBALL GAMERS. I HAVE BEEN 
 COMPLAINING FOR THE PAST 4 OR 5 YEARS OF HOW NCAA AND MADDEN SHOULD HAVE TEAM GAMEPLAY ONLINE, 
 BUT THEY NEVER DO OR WILL. THEY HAVE GAMES THAT YOU CAN TEAM UP ONLINE AND SHOOT, KILL, AND BE 
 VIOLENT, BUT YOU CAN NOT PLAY A TEAM SPORT ON TEAMS? AM I THE ONLY ONE WHO SEE THE IRONY IN THAT? 
 HOWEVER, IF NCAA CAN SOMEHOW ADD TEAMS ONLINE, THEN EA SPORTS SHOULD ANTICIPATE MORE 10 OUT OF 
 10'S!! I GET REALLY INTO FOOTBALL GAMES SO IT WAS REALLY EASY FOR ME TO PLAY ABOUT 30 HOURS WEEKLY 
 !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spfx30
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  NCAA Football 09 can best be described as pleasantly refreshing. The game is not so distinguishable 
 from its predecessors that it could be considered out in left field. Yet, as with previous games 
 in the series, 09 brings to the table enough subtle differences to make it unique.
  
  I'll start with the general game play. What I've really enjoyed with this particular series is 
 how each new game showcases some new controls, while keeping the rest relatively intact. I like 
 to think of it as progressive adaptation. The controls are familiar enough that any fan of the 
 series could play the game right off the bat. Yet, the controls are challenging enough that taking 
 a few more glances at the game book are required if a player really wants to pull off those "massive 
 ownage" moves/plays.
  
  Onto setting up the game. As always, this is the simplest part of the game. What sets creating 
 a profile on 09 apart from, specifically in this instance, 08 is the background. Sure, My Shrine 
 and Co. are back. However, what really caught my eye was the actual game photos implemented into 
 the background. So crisp, clear, and concise. Players, fans, cheerleaders. The photos, I think, 
 are a great addition because they provide a more realistic (and even submersing) atmosphere for 
 the player (unlike 08, which merely showcased front cover player Jared Zabransky on a large billboard 
 in the trophy room) .
  
  Next up is playing the game. Again, you have your familiar controls for calling plays and audibles. 
 However, new to the game are complete formation audibles. These now allow the player to call an 
 audible at the line of scrimmage without having to switch to a new formation. 
  
  Also new is home field advantage. One of the most important aspects in football, home field atmospheres 
 can decide games just as easily as the teams playing the game or even The Big Mo. EA has done a 
 respectable job with crowd dynamics this time. Unlike in 08, where the crowd tended to cheer and 
 boo randomly, crowds in 09 are more realistic in their responses to plays, scores, and even penalty 
 calls.
  
  Interactive timeouts and icing the kicker have made their debuts in 09. In 08, calling a timeout 
 was simple: press the back button and a timeout was called. This time, timeouts not only stop the 
 clock, but they allow players to coach their team (offense or defense, depending on who has the 
 ball) with 6 options. But it gets better: neither the player nor the CP knows who is using which 
 option, so it is completely possible for options to cancel out. Meaning, a player's timeout coaching 
 could all be for nought. So, choose wisely!
  
  And, as I mentioned, there is icing the kicker. Unfortunately, EA has made this feature effective 
 only in the 2nd and 4th quarters. But hey, those are the clutch moments. Calling a timeout before 
 the opposition attempts a field goal creates a much more dramatic scene, with blue ice covering 
 the kick meter, the camera angle lowering right onto field level, and the controller vibrating 
 simultaneously with a heartbeat sound in the background. This feature does a great job complementing 
 the whole "home field atmosphere" mentioned previously.
  
  Wrapping up this section are 3 new features: the QB quiz, bluff play art, and custom stadium sounds. 
 The QB quiz is 09's new way of showcasing momentum. In 08, all that was needed to bring back momentum 
 was solid play calling and scores. This time, correcting mistakes is more challenging. Solid plays 
 and scores still help, but the QB quiz is a fun way to bring the QB back to composure. For some 
 reason, only INTs initiate the QB quiz, but then again, INTs are sometimes the most critical mistakes 
 QBs can make. After an INT is thrown, the player is shown several different defensive plays on-screen 
 at the end of the play. Choosing the correct formation regains the QB's composure, while an incorrect 
 guess plummets his ratings.
  
  Bluff play art basically pertains to 2-player matchups. This feature allows players to throw off 
 their opponent, in case the opponent begins to catch on to play calling schemes. At the line of 
 scrimmage, a player can hide their true play by showing their opponent play art for 2 other random 
 plays. Finally, custom stadium sounds allows players to upload their own personal audio collections 
 to complement the in-game atmosphere according to several different user-defined situations that 
 can occur on the field.
  
  Now I'll discuss some of the game modes. Dynasty mode has remained pleasantly untouched, showcasing 
 many of 08's features. However, the recruiting has been enhanced to be more user-friendly. The 
 new recruiting strategy allows players to tailor their teams' recruiting efforts according to needed 
 positions. And when enticing prospects, quick calls can now be made, allotting a certain amount 
 of time per prospect. Campus Legend was a fantastic way of playing the game from a player's perspective 
 in 08, so EA has chosen to leave that mode alone in 09.
  
  In the Mini-Games, players can now play 2 new games: HORSE and the Special Teams Challenge. In 
 HORSE, a mini-game focusing on the skill of kicking field goals, players get to spot the ball at 
 various places on the field and at various distances to attempt field goals. The first player to 
 miss enough times to spell HORSE is, of course, the loser. In the special teams challenge, the 
 first player to score special teams points (whether by field goal, punt return, or kick return) 
 is the victor.
  
  The final modes showcased are Mascot Mash-Up, sponsored by Coke Zero, and Online Dynasty. Although 
 not new to the series, Mascot Mash-Up has been tweaked by the addition of a new sponsor, new moves, 
 and of course, more fun and innovative celebrations. With online dynasty, players can invite up 
 to 11 friends to compete in up to 60 seasons.
  
  All in all, I am quite pleased with 09. It is fun and easy to play and, while not the best game 
 ever, 09 provides hours of entertainment with its many features. While I have been disappointed 
 with the series in regards to completeness (for example: FCS teams have only been showcased once 
 so far, in 07, and some alternate unis are just now being re-included) , the innovations being made 
 with each new addition to the series makes up for what is missing.
  
  Thank you all for reading my review, hope it has been enjoyable. God Bless and Happy Holidays. 
 :)
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hahnasty
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  By far the best game of the series. It is very similar to the ones before it just with a few little 
 features. The mode where you choose a single player and bring him up is identical to the first 
 Madden version, but can be played for hours to work your way up to a starting job on the team of 
 your choosing.
  The dynasty mode is pretty much the exact same as the versions before it. The problem is that recruiting 
 can get very old. You do the same thing for every recruit, every week, of every year. It gets old 
 after about three weeks, but you still have to do it in order to get high star recruits.
  The game play is a lot of fun. Basically all the same plays as usual. The only thing is that the 
 AI of the computer defense is not very smart. You can find one play that consistently works and 
 run that every play if you wanted. That makes it very easy to defeat the computer even on the hardest 
 level.
  The defensive audibles and offensive hot routes are solid. They are easy to change and provide 
 a large range of different routes and plays.
  You can easily spend hours after hours playing this, especially if you have large school pride, 
 but either way, some parts will get old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowb0ysFaN15
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  -Superstar mode that goes from high school to college is actually quite fun because your players 
 are actually good unlike madden.
  -graphics are still pretty amazing with a couple glitches here and there
  -Playing online is 
 fun because there is hardly ne lag
  -A great game to play at a party
  
  The Bad
  -really nothing new!!!!!!
  
  And this is really my biggest concern with the game because they 
 could do so much with a ncaa football but they keep it the same just like the ncaa basketball they 
 could also make them way better then they have to be if only they would add some new content instead 
 of keeping it the same every year. Like they say it its not broken dont fix it but this game is 
 broken on a count that you just get bored of the samething every year i could throw in 06 and play 
 it just like 09 EA should just face there fears and do something no football game has done change 
 the game play a little bit it could have been way better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolaidWTF
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good in my opinion, sometimes it can be a little too easy. Example me and my 
 friends were playing and we had two back to back kickoff TD returns. Another thing is the defensive 
 line is just a little too easy to get through sometimes, almost every other play I would of had 
 a chance to sack the QB and other times the RB. But the graphics are pretty good and gameplay is 
 great. It's not like madden games (which I don't like very much) . I also like the realistic look 
 of the stadium. It's not like their just cardboard people standing up against a wall, it actually 
 has some good detail to it. So if you see this game at the video store I suggest you pick up to 
 at least rent for a couple days it's worth it. Also some of the features I like very much too, 
 like the mascot game. Also the dynasty is game is online this year which is very cool to have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taj7575
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first of all, I hated ncaa 08, (review: http://www. gamespot. com/xbox360/sports/ncaafootball08/player_review. html? id=539906&tag=readerreviews; continue) , 
 so when I bought this... I was skeptical.
  
  First of all, NCAA football 08... well... sucked. The game was just terrible.
  
  When I got this 
 game after reading the GS review, I was skeptical. I got it anyways with low expectations, and 
 It went beyond my expectations.
  
  First of all, the downloadable rosters were a HUGE plus. Finally can I play now with real players! 
 It was easy downloading the rosters and I was happy.
  
  So.... On to the campus legend...
  
  IT SUCKS! End of story. It plain sucks. Dont even bother with it. I can't believe it was not 
 fixed. I'm disappointed at EA for this. It's even worse that last year to be honest.
  
  Onto the dynasty...
  
  I love it. I absolutely love it. I dont know why, but it felt like a 
 great improvement over last year's version.
  I love the quick call feature probably the most. It's just a nice addon.
  
  Online dynasty 
 is great. Tons of fun.
  
  Multiplayer? Dunno. Dynasty is keeping me busy...
  
  
  So... onto the cons of this game:
  
  CAMPUS LEGEND SUCKS!!
  
  Recruiting is still tiresome 
 and I feel it could be improved...
  
  STILL No D-1AA teams! Come on EA! It's not that tough!
  
  The things not on the field need 
 to be improved. I want to see the refs real time, not just when a penalty is called. Fans have 
 been improved a LOT, but still can be improved more.
  
  Also.... So many injuries happen this year. It's kinda annoying.
  
  
  So overall, this game 
 didn't disappoint. It was a lot better than what gamespot rated it. Hope you enjoyed the review!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3rev
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Every July EA Brings NCAA the pigskin into your home. As always this year was no diffrent. There 
 is always a lot of hype and excitment every year. EA has not exacly delivered these past couple 
 years on the next gen concols. This year they focused on the online aspect of the game with the 
 addition of online dynasty. When i first heard about this i thought well this cant be that good 
 im sure they will screw up something and well i got news for you fans online dynasty is a blast. 
 I only have one complaint with the online dynasty and that would be its hard to find someone who 
 will stay comitted to it and finish out a season but that is a very small complaint. Everything 
 from offline dynasty is there for you online. You can even bring your offline dynasty online when 
 your in the middle of one.
  
  You might be asking me how the gameplay is considering it has been the weak point for the past 
 3 years on the next gen consols. Well this year they tried to add more life into the game with 
 the addition of cheerleader and more people on the side lines. They even brought back the toughest 
 places to play and you can now ice the kicker. Icing the kicker works really well against freshman 
 or sophmore kickers. Those are some nice needed features that make the game more relistic. Its 
 these little things people have been complaining about for a while now. Oh and no there is no refs 
 on the field yet. They featured a new runing break away system and it really dont feel any diffrent 
 then any other year. Yes u have good juke moves and spin moves but its really hard to run the ball 
 sometimes. Then other times u can get lucky and break a good run if you follow your blockers some 
 of the way but then 8 yards down field they will just get in your way.
  
  The passing game has not been changed at all as it is still way to easy to pass. you will be putting 
 up rediculious numbers as you play against the computer or a friend it dont matter it will all 
 be the same. Defence has been downgraded i belieave, Yes it is easy to stop the run very easy but 
 stoping the pass is another story its almost impossible. You think you have the computer stopped 
 and then they just run a slant route and pick up the first down almost every time it gets really 
 frustrated. When someone throws the ball down the field and you know you could pick off the ball 
 if your able to switch to the guy you want most of the time it will just switch to a line backer 
 20 yards away from the ball and they make the catch. Other then those few complaints the gameplay 
 is much improved but also could be much better next year.
  
  Some of you may wonder why im not mentioning the campus legend of offline dynasty well that would 
 be becasue campus legend has seriously not been touched nothing and i mean nothing has changed 
 since last year. The dynasty only had a very few minor changes like a quick call option for your 
 recruites which enables you to instead of trying to find what the recruit is intreasted in you 
 can quick call for 5-60 minutes and have the computer give it a shot. Its a nice feature to try 
 and speed the recruiting process up but sometimes i dont think it does as good as i think it could. 
 Thats all really that has been changed in the dynasty. Oh forgot to mention on thing i know many 
 people are wonder no there is no 1-AA teams still. Why? Well not even i know.
  
  The graphics in this game are a little bit better then last year but nothing exstreamly better 
 from the past years. The sound is good with lee corso and kirk hirbstreet coming back with there 
 great comitating skills im glad to see they bad another comeback to the game. sometimes you can 
 hear the fans yelling out at your players if you do something wrong and the hits just sound better 
 to me this year.
  
  I myself have been playing this game since it has came out im in love with i think it dont get 
 enough repsect by reviewrs its a great game that will make any college football fan happy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: try122583
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  You have no idea how much I want to love this game. College football is such a great sport, but 
 unfortunately, for the 4th year in a row, EA has hit the thumb with the hammer. 
  
  What is missing? How about the online stats. Where the hell did they go? Sure you got your basic 
 5 statistics, but there use to be a good amount to look at, and you were also able to look at your 
 opponents stats. If you can't see your opponent's stats, this just allows cheesers to sneak up 
 on straight players and ruin the experience for them. What else is missing? How about the sub-division 
 teams. Where did they go? Probably not enough people wanting them I guess, so I can live with that. 
 What else is missing? How about gameplay. Crossing routes are as close to a given as ever, and 
 the problem here could have been fixed very easily. Make the defense a tad bit faster, or the offense 
 a tad bit slower, and this is not a problem. I am not saying these plays should never work, I am 
 saying that people shouldn't be doing them successfully over and over again. Also, 4th down is 
 ridiculous. They need to do what Madden did and force special teams usage on this down unless it 
 is 4th and 1 or less, or it is late in the game. Until stuff like this is fixed, cheesers will 
 reign supreme, and people will continue to disrespect the real game of football.
  And what is with all of the 99's? Are you telling me that Georgia, OSU, and some other parts of 
 teams are the greatest ever? This is ridiculous. You are telling me that every single player on 
 that team is a 99 overall with 99 everything. I don't think so. 
  
  With all of that being said, I must say the online dynasty is pretty cool. This is one of the only 
 things that keeps my playing. This alone is enough to check this game out, but if you want to play 
 online, get ready for a questionable opponent who is afraid to use anything but a top 5 team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisRig4
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 8, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  Once again modern video game developers are going to the halo style of video games, all offence, 
 no deffence, get the best gun and you win. That is how ncaa 09 is. Sure the dynasty mode is really 
 cool but once your playing the actual game you find that it looks like crap, the physics are crap, 
 and the game is complete crap. I have bought every ncaa title for the past 6 years, and every one 
 is different so i am used to putting up with different and annoying things about the game, But 
 this piece of crap reminded me more of nfl blitz, drop back and bomb it. And this is by far the 
 worst EA Sports release of the year, every other ea sports game is awesome, they must have had 
 their retarded cousin be lead of development of ncaa 09. I wasted my money on this game and unless 
 your into fantasy football so will you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgfanr
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  First off I got say I wasn't even gunna get this game cuz I hate college games (because they always 
 have no named players just # numbers) . 
  
  They fixed that with the addition of SHARING ROSTERS!
  
  This game has got to be the only sports 
 game to date to blend the best of OFFLINE activities and ONLINE together. 
  
  NCAA developers REALLY understood that user really wanted to play and build a dynasty (team/school) 
 as well as show that team off to your friends online.... H_ell you can now even whoop your friends 
 with that VERY team. 
  
  I have been on this non-stop since July 15, 2008.... my friends online that are not playing NCAA 
 09 think I just abandoned them (because I usually play multiple games at a time) . 
  
  All I can say is NCAA 09 brought it this year!.... Madden did too...
  
  BUT Madden fell REAL 
 short with their wack ONLINE LEAGUE which is a glorified tournament (anyway thats another review) . 
 
  
  But NCAA 09 doesn't go WITHOUT FLAWS ... the online dynasty stats are not completely adding up 
 OR the progressing of players from Freshman to Seniors isn't realistic, Bowl game trophies aren't 
 added to your shrine and players you've beefed up disappear from your rosters, actually their are 
 more little things like too that bother me. 
  
  BUT all and all that WILL NOT STOP ME from playing this Masterpiece of football. 
  
  NCAA 09's 
 online dynasty ..... THAT"S NEXT GEN ONLINE GAMING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keveroo83
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  NCAA Football 08 was a great game. It captured a lot of the essence of a great college football 
 game, but you still got the feeling that there were unpolished portions of the game.
  
  I will not say that NCAA Football 09 is a completely polished game, that's just not the truth. 
 However, EA has put great emphasis on improving great game play mechanics without going crazy with 
 features.
  
  NCAA Football 09 is one of the most challenging "Veteran" football games I've played. By "Veteran", 
 I mean the player that is too overwhelmed by Heisman difficulty, but feels All American is a bit 
 too easy. This year's All American mode hits the gap harder than Jonathan Stewart! Balanced game 
 play against the CPU and greatly varying levels of difficulty by team. If you're playing Ohio State, 
 you really feel why they're such a powerhouse! The same can be said about rivalry games, you may 
 be the favorite by far, but when the rivalry game comes up, throw out all of the predictions because 
 your rivals will really give you a run for your money.
  
  Another great feature is the "Ice the Kicker" feature which GameSpot says is too difficult. However, 
 by the time you've kicked the football about 300 times in kick offs, field goals, extra points, 
 etc. you have a VERY good feel for what it takes to kick a perfect field goal (in fact it's almost 
 too easy!) . Ice the Kicker places a very opaque ice crystal over the gauge and changes your perspective 
 to the field. This carries all of the potency of real world football and for anyone who plays this 
 game more than on occasion, the kick is still very make-able.
  
  Finally, dynasty mode is what all NCAA Football fans are really after. Dynasty mode is really, 
 really similar to NCAA Football 08. However, one small modification definitely helps, quick call 
 allows you to call your recruits in allotments of time, rather than having to mini-game your way 
 through the entire season. This is a great feature, especially when you're just finding out about 
 your recruit's interests.
  
  However, the biggest feature that makes NCAA 09 a must buy is the Online Dynasty mode. Yes, it's 
 simple, it doesn't have a lot of bells and whistles, it's just dynasty mode, but with friends online. 
 The simplicity is key here, my biggest fear when I heard that this was included was that they would 
 feature it to death. Not the case at all, it's plainly the dynasty mode, with friends. Of course, 
 they make allowances for things like playing your pvp game face to face with your buddy on one 
 system as well as provide very solid controls for administration. I say "solid" because they are 
 simple and they work well.
  
  Overall, if you're a NCAA Football fan and a true College Football fan looking for the right simulation, 
 this is as close as it's gotten so far!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  NCAA Football is a great game.
  
  The dynasty mode is very fun. I'm in the year 2022.
  
  I'm glad they changed the suspensions from years past. It was really annoying to have your 
 star quarterback miss out on a bowl game because you had to suspend them for the season for killing 
 someone. That was totally random and you had no control over it.
  
  Recruiting is easy, it's best to do it yourself and not let the CPU handle it. You can easily build 
 up a school. You can take a one star school and build them up year after year.
  
  Game play is awesome. All the controls are very solid. They changed the sprint button to the right 
 trigger, which was good because then you can press A for another pass button.
  
  Game play seems reasonable. There are a reasonable amount of turnovers - you can tell that the 
 programmers made it so that even the best players can't intercept the ball every time even if it 
 hits them directly in the hands and you manually hit the intercept ball button.
  
  The difficulty doesn't seem too hard. I've been playing NCAA Football games forever though, so 
 for the beginner it certainly would be difficult just because they are new to the genre.
  
  Formation audibles are awesome; you can audible into a new play, without changing your formation. 
 So if you had a run play, but see a blitz, you can just change to a pass play and pick up big yardage.
 
  
  Graphically, the game looks great. The physics engine is awesome. The animations are all incredible. 
 There are so many different kinds of animations, for every catch, juke, pass, etc, etc. There are 
 very occasionally a few glitches, but I'm talking like once every two or three games; it's a two 
 second distraction and takes nothing away from the game play - you just notice it for a second.
 
  
  I give this game a buy rating.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toosmoothforya
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  NCAA 09 hits the college world ready to provide plenty of upsets and Heisman hopefuls this year.
 
  The Good:
  1. Jukes
  a. Solid animations when you break open field tackles and take it all the way.
  2. Passing
 
  a. If you are a passing wizard then watch out for 500 yds game with 5 Tds a game. Passing is easy 
 if that is your niche
  3. Commentary
  a. These 3 sound good. It is time to add in more from Lee Corso. Almost at that point of knowing 
 what he is going to say. But good to have actual real life commentators not Tom Hammond... exactly 
 who?
  4. Feel
  a. Now this is college football. Even on a old crap TV this sound good. Crank up the crowd volume 
 a bit and you will think Percy Harvin just ran it back in your own yard!
  5. Dynasty
  a. NCAA Guros don't consider offline to be that great. but if that is your only option then it 
 is better than Madden. ESPN, National, and Campus news give a real meaning to the feel. Player 
 hot streaks is nice. Not bad for those who don't have Xbox live. IF you have live then.. uh.. sorry.
 
  The bad:
  1. Running
  a. While the new jukes are a feature. It can be hard to find room to run. Until you learn how to 
 juke trying to get past someone even on All-American can be a challenge.
  2. Defense
  a. This is an offensive game. Dont expect to hold someone to 50 total yards unless it's the Army. 
 You better be ready to handle those teams w/ a great Passing attack. Gonna be a long day
  3. Pass Rush
  a. Any sack was earned. Hard to put some pressure on the QB
  4. Pre-Snap audibles
 
  a. YOu better practice memorizing cause u only got time to change 1 hotroute and maybe adjust the 
 line if you do
  5. Interceptions
  a. If you are going deep you better know how to throw it's not your simply hold and lob over the 
 top it takes skill to throw in the middle of the field. Once you've got then your off.
  6. Returns
  a. Plan on taking a kick or punt back? Okay you'll get 30 plus yards don't know about 
 the rest.
  
  Environment yields results:
  NCAA 09 does the main things you HAVE to HAVE it do:
  It not College Madden. Meaning it has it's 
 own identity and feel. You know you are playing College Football and not Madden with Bands and 
 the Heisman. Probably better on feel than Madden and excitement from the players and commentators. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LosDaddie
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  If you're not a fan of college football, then NCAA isn't going to convert you into one. But if 
 you are a fan, then this is the NCAA Football game you've been waiting for.
  
  Alright, I'll do this the Kotaku-way 
  
  LOVED
  
  Online Dynasty: This feature is exactly 
 what it sounds like. Up to 12 gamers pick a team and play through a dynasty together. Depending 
 on the teams chosen, you either play against a human opponent (if, for say, it's an SEC Online 
 Dynasty) or the CPU. Your team plays through its conference schedule like usual, but the Conference 
 Commisioner can set your Out Of Conference schedule to be against other players in your Online 
 Dynasty if the teams chosen are not in the same conference.
  
  And all 12 of your compete for recruits too. Yup, this feature rocks!
  
  Gameplay: EA Tiburon 
 finally got the gameplay down right. This game just "feels" like college football as compared to 
 Madden. The single best feature is the ability to move the Offensive Line before each snap. Also, 
 the playbooks are better than before. The AI is also more forgiving & realistic than in the past.
 
  
  Online Rosters: Did it annoy you that the only way to get the real names on the jerseys was to 
 buy a memory card with the rosters? No more! EA Tiburon implemented a feature that you can search 
 by gamertag for someone who has posted a complete roster for sharing. And yes, the rosters/names 
 show up during online games. Thank You, EA!
  
  Graphics/Animation: This game doesn't graphically compare to Gears of War or MGS4, but it still 
 looks damn pretty on my HDTV. There are a ton of new animations as well.
  
  
  HATED
  
  Presentation: EA Tiburon still hasn't implemented the College Gameday pre-game show that was 
 in the last gen versions of NCAA. No halftime show either. And I like there to be more views of 
 the crowd too. For example, I can see FSU fans doing the Tomahwak Chop in the stands, but it's 
 never shown in between plays. And I want the create-a-sign feature back.
  
  Graphics: Yup, this is listed twice. While the graphics look good, it's easy to tell EA is just 
 fine-tuning the graphics engine. Other than new animations, it would be difficult to spot the difference 
 between NCAA 08 and NCAA 09.
  
  
  Score: 9.0/10
  
  Time Played: About 30hrs so far
  
  Achievement Detail: An Easy 600-700pts.
  
  A must-have game for any college football fan.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbydees65
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I've never played a more thrown together mode in any sports game as NCAA 2009's legend mode. Practice 
 is dull, Campus activities are a waste of time and watching the computer throw the ball 80 to 90 
 percent of the time is mind numbingly boring. No team at any level has a run pass ratio that is 
 so disproportionate. God forbid that you want to make your campus legend a running back, because 
 you will never receive any carries. This game makes me want to tear my hair out. You spend hours 
 playing through the early weeks of your freshman season, plodding through practice after practice 
 to finally earn a starting to position, just so you can watch a computer simulation of a football 
 game. I actually had a game where, as the starting running back I had only two attempts in the 
 first half. No team in the history of college football has ever been that pass happy.
  
  The game play is decent and the online dynasty is actually pretty good. I joined a league with 
 some friends of mine and the dynasty mode is the only part of this game that has brought me any 
 enjoyment. So, if you don't intend on playing online then I would definitely skip this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucamet85
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Just to get it out of the way, NCAA Football 09 is a great game. If you are a fan of college football 
 and a fan of video games, this is a must have. The addition of the Online Dynasty was a great idea, 
 long overdo, but still a great idea. Unfortunately it becomes a hassle to continue playing a Dynasty 
 on a regular schedule. Oftentimes you have to try to get replacements every few weeks, and people 
 who didn't get the best team in whatever classification system the league is using, they usually 
 just quit. Most people aren't gonna want to do an SEC dynasty and get stuck playing with Vanderbilt 
 and just get killed every game. The graphics are far superior over 08. The animations are also 
 a lot better but eventually it won't seem like all that big of a deal. The regular Dynasty Mode 
 is great, but there really aren't any differences between 09 and 08. Unfortunately, Campus Legend 
 Mode just gets worse and worse. It's really unfortunate because I got really excited about Campus 
 Legend after NCAA 07. I thought it was fun to be really immersed into the life of a college athlete. 
 Living in a dorm room, doing spring practices in the offseason, keeping your grades up in a way 
 other than just choosing to go to the library like in this version. There really is no part of 
 Campus Legend that really pulls you into except to get the few achievements from it. The gameplay 
 is good, but many will probably have a hard time finding the right difficulty. Heisman is probably 
 too hard for some people, but All American is too easy. Other issues with the gameplay include 
 defense being way too difficult and offense being way too easy. Another subtraction from previous 
 versions of the game are the FCS teams. That's something that really disappointed me. I don't think 
 it would be all that hard to just add the conferences and have the game feature FCS teams. It sure 
 would make it a little more of a challenge for LSU to play Appalachian State (which they would 
 still cream but they would at least be better than a generic FCS East) . All in all this is still 
 a great game, but it is a little disappointing because of the potential it has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSHEATZ
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  NCAA Football 09 may be very similar to the previous installments. Although, the gameplay is alot 
 more fluid and natural looking. Also the graphics seem to be improved too.
  
  Online Dynasties are a great idea, it seems to take off where as Madden 09's online leagues aren't 
 quite as complex. The offline dynasty is pretty fun to, and realistic. Also you may download rosters 
 off of LIVE which is great when you are exporting the draft classes for Madden 09. You get to actually 
 see the players names. You can get real names for all the team rosters from username "EAROSTERS 
 COM" yes that is a space between the two, not a period.
  
  Overall this is the best NCAA Football game to date, but if you are expecting great gains from 
 last year's installment you may be disappointed. Although you can be safe and rent it first to 
 see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eaglezfreak36
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Even though the names are fake the recruiting system blows me away in NCAA 09. It tells you everything 
 you need to know to recruit, from the caliber of the players, (1-5 stars) to the level of intrest 
 the recruit has in your school, to the phone calls with the players to see if there intrested in 
 education or national championships... DYNASTY HAS IT ALL!!! oh and let us not forget the players 
 do actually go one the field and play. The fluient gameplay from jukes and spins to intense broken 
 tackles and hurdles makes this game even more exciting then before. There is a significant decrease 
 in magnet catches and overall glitchy gameplay. The mini-games will keep you and your friends awake 
 deep into the late hours of the night. All of this are wonderful additions but the reason this 
 game is getting a 9 and not a 10 is the disappointing campus laegend mode. Don't get me wrong taking 
 control of pat white is fun on the football field but i really was expecting more out of this mode. 
 It would be cool if you could actually attend a class or too or be quizzed like a mid term... and 
 not just simulate over classes... Practices become boring and unnecessary once you get the starting 
 job... when you hit the gym you don't actually hit the gym it just says strength +4... I want to 
 lift the weight bar and impress the coaches not just repeatedly hit the A button.... Other than 
 that the amount of gameplay and content delivered in NCAA 09 is enough to make it worth the $60.00 
 price tag! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to play this one for a while before I decided what I thought of it, I was very impressed 
 with NCAA 2006, but I know the history of EA and their lack of improving a game in the right direction.
 
  This year's version did improve on graphics and animation; the graphics are very impressive, with 
 great looking stadiums and cheerleaders. The fans in the stands and the players and extras on the 
 sideline really make the game feel life like. The animation is very smooth and I saw almost no 
 lag or shudder in the action.
  The game play is very much like what I saw in 2006, lot of options and tweaks in the game to make 
 it easier for anyone to play. There are some new features this year like the home field advantage 
 option, I tried it a few games, didn't impress me that much, seem a bit gimmicky for my taste and 
 I turned it off. The Quarterback Quiz is another one that I turned off right away.
  There is a new feature that I really like and that is Campus Legend, you start out as a high school 
 senior in the beginning of your high school championship. You need to play your best here, so that 
 when you graduate you will have the best schools knocking on your door. You play only one person 
 in this mode, so pick wisely, QB or RB is your best bet. The only problem with this mode is that 
 the computer coach picks the plays that you run, and they are normally a really bad choice, and 
 after a few games, you really want to get back and call your own plays. 
  The bad thing about this game, and it's pretty bad is that the AI on the Defense is some of the 
 worst I've seen in many years. My defensive team couldn't stop anyone playing on default level. 
 Scores in the 50's at half time is common, and the computer QB will hit his receivers 90% of the 
 time. I had a game that the computer QB completed every pass in the game, he went 23-23 and throw 
 for over 400 yards, and my Wisconsin badgers defensive backs never seem to understand that you 
 have to guard the receiver. It was a total joke. I even had a game in 10 minute qts of 103-95, 
 though my Defense couldn't stop anyone, neither could theirs, So the AI in the game is poor, even 
 very poor at times.
  Overall the game is fun to play, but following in EA normal fashion, football is way too complex 
 to have such dumb AI in the game. Shame on you guys at EA.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmo643
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I mean its NCAA football, you know what you are buying, nothing really new about it at all, but 
 if you like all the old ones, you will like this one. Especially if you liked NCAA 2008.
  
  Overall, nothing really new about this game that I can see. Tackles look more real, fields look 
 more real, player animations look more real, but nothing major and nothing overly impressive. Its 
 without a doubt been created and molded around the offensive minded players as it is much harder 
 to stop teams than it is to score on them. They need something new, some new innovation with recruiting, 
 they need to bring back create a playbook, create a school and stadium and that, I have no idea 
 why they would take all those things out.
  
  i need to keep typing so my review gets put on here.... blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah 
 , blah blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah 
 , blah blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah 
 , blah blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah 
 , blah blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zmoore
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  It's not the most exciting game of football ever made, however it's pretty darn close. If you're 
 a die hard college football fan, then buy and enjoy. If you're a Wolverine fan buy and adjust your 
 team ratings slightly. They're grossly underrated. In my opinion they're are twenty to twenty five 
 teams that should be adjusted during the season to reflect their talent levels. I'm running out 
 of things to say, so ignore everything from this point forward. Happy, happy, joy, joy. The Ohio 
 State University is going to have a very fine year up until the point when they meet a certain 
 team from Ann Arbor  abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvw abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvw 
 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvw abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvw abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvw abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvw 
 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvw abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvw abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvw abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvw 
 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvw abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvw abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvw abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvw
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGhostAPC
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  NCAA football 09. Really this is officially the greatest entry in the series. The College atmosphere 
 is almost perfectly recreated, especially when playing in surround sound. Online Dynasties can 
 be fun if you can find a dynasty not full of quitters and cheaters. The running game is PERFECT 
 this year thanks to the new animation system. But since EA can never deliver a perfect football 
 game, there are problems.
  
  First off the CPU never seems to adjust to running plays if your corners are in zone coverage. 
 Also players tend to slip off of the running backs if they aren't directly tackled. Ice the kicker 
 seems to work a little too well in the case of, when the game is on the line and the defense happens 
 to ice you, you most likely are screwed. But being a big improvement over last years game, the 
 bugs won't really bug you. 
  
  Campus legend, It's really the one mode EA never improved. The new camera angle helps, but its 
 almost impossible to win the Heisman trophy unless your on offense. Also when you aren't QB it's 
 impossible to audible plays, even defensive All-Americans can't audible plays!
  
  
  Dynasty mode is were most players will spend all of their time, the new recruiting took me awhile 
 to get used to but once you do, it makes recruiting simple and almost fun.
  
  Overall NCAA 09, in my opinion is the greatest SO FAR in the NCAA series, but for it to be perfect 
 EA must improve its campus legend mode, and fix many of the bugs in the game. Bringing back Create-a-School, 
 and Division II schools would be nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visser13
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Solid in gameplay. Some parts are impossible to stop... working on ALL Heisman. Stopping the pass 
 is difficult compared to the run.... esp the short under passes. Overall a good game play performance 
 the player controls are much improved and the audibles accessible are much better. Passing is a 
 lot easier than running the ball. Interceptions are common on all-american or all-H level... hard 
 to predict which offense to run. Work on the consistency on calls... seemed to get screwed over 
 on a lot of reviewed calls.
  Solid in gameplay. Some parts are impossible to stop... working on ALL Heisman. Stopping the pass 
 is difficult compared to the run.... esp the short under passes.
  its a good game overall.... i recomend playing it... play all-americn right away..
  Solid in 
 gameplay. Some parts are impossible to stop... working on ALL Heisman. Stopping the pass is difficult 
 compared to the run.... esp the short under passes. Overall a good game play performance the player 
 controls are much improved and the audibles accessible are much better. Passing is a lot easier 
 than running the ball 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tizzomr
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Well, with an above average knowledge of college football, and being someone that plays on the 
 hiesman difficulty, I have to say I was impressed. the new physics, and improved controls feel 
 good. If you add the capability of downloading shared rosters, and having online dynasty mode you 
 have a solid outing for the 2009 college football season. 
  
  Minuses: Loss of injury animation (If it aint broke don't fix it) , lack of actual Div IIA teams, 
 and inability to FULLY customize your controls.
  
  All in all I would recommend getting it if you like college football. And if you want some accurate 
 rosters, go to the EA locker, and download the rosters from username "EArosters com" they are the 
 most accurate I know of. You can upload the draft classes to Madden as usual too, which is great 
 if you are into Dynasty/Franchise stuff.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGDOGG91
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 6, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  Online  thats all thats new with NCAA football 09 
 other than that everything is the same except a lil better graphics. its still a fun game but to 
 be honest if you only have money for one game this summer save it for madden its comin out next 
 week anyway i mean if u played ncaa football 08 then u pretty much have this years edition. LETS 
 GO MAIZE AND BLUE TO THE BCS TITLE  and thats pretty much 
 all there is to say personally if u like college football just rent it and save urself the money 
 for the real thing next week cant wait till madden comes out!!!! so that it i guess ummmmmmm oh 
 ya football starts for me in 12 days and i cant wait to go on the field and do some serious work 
 on some kids chyea son BULLDOGS ALL THE WAY TO THE LONG ISLAND TITLE!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riotingfight
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Woohoo! Another football game to add to my collection right? Wrong. This is the same old thing 
 we get every year. You might get better graphics but still, the gameplay in 08 was so much better. 
 What I shall tell all of you football fans is this is a football game, just like any other one, 
 its got the same stuff as old ones where you hike the ball, pass it, thouchdown, celebration, fieldgoal, 
 and off you go again, please just save your money guys, wait till next year, cuz this year, we 
 failed. Although who doesn't like using a teams mascot to take down a rivial mascot and the new 
 dynasty online is a pretty cool feature, so if this excites you enough, then be my guest and go 
 buy this game. But I warn you, waste of time and  
 review is too short........ game sucks................. there we go..... thank you for reading. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snooktou
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is the worst football game I've ever played and I'm not just saying that because whatever 
 stupid reason people can come up with. This game has so many issues and makes me wonder if madden 
 will be just as bad. I played last year and EA would have better off putting a copy of 08 in every 
 09 box simply they took a step backwards with this year edition. Maybe its the new game engine 
 or whatever but when you rush a quarterback and he's running totally backwards and throws a 360 
 pass while not even looking at the receiver you know you did something wrong in development. This 
 game plays more like ncaa street then ncaa simulation. Defense ceases to exist. I find myself putting 
 the controller down and going to get something to drink while my defense is on the field doing 
 more than what they allow me or any other user to do. Don't bye this game unless your ready to 
 drop some F-Bombs in the late hours of the night. I'm disappointed in you EA now i remember why 
 i liked 2k sports football a bit more : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wvuguy1980
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This game shows a completely lack of effort by EA to make a realistic football sim. The defense 
 for the computer is better than the defense your team plays especially in pass coverage. The deep 
 ball is non-existent in this game, which allows the computer to stack the box against the run. 
 I have not had any fun playing this game because it will not allow me to play defense. I make pre-snap 
 adjustments and call defensive hot routes and nothing works. The computer's running back breaks 
 tackles far more consistently than mine does, which I understand since I play with WVU and Noel 
 Devine who isn't powerhouse, but I have seen at least five times on the game where running back 
 for the computer will grab my defensive end by the shirt and throw him to the ground like he's 
 a feather. That's just way too unrealistic for my liking. Last year's game was much better especially 
 on Heisman because the running game was a grind and there was pass coverage from both sides. EA 
 basically took a **** on this year's edition of NCAA Football. I have never hated playing any version 
 of NCAA until this year. Every time I start a game, I end up turning it off because of some bull**** 
 way the computer does something completely unrealistic. I don't expect to throw 8 touchdown pass 
 or run for 700 yards in a game, but I don't expect the computer QB to go 26 of 29 for 289 yards 
 and 3 touchdowns in the first 2 and a half quarters of the game. I have started playing last year's 
 game because I cannot stand this version. I gave it a 4/10 because I do like how the running game 
 isn't so easy anymore. It's a grind like football is supposed to be. EA needs to fix the user's 
 defensive AI next year and this game would be fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: specialk90
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  Every year EA sports releases there college football "sim" and its sad to say but, its the same 
 as the last. Sorry if im coming off too negative because this is a good game. Although, a lot of 
 things havn't been touched on. For one, Campus Legend is the same exact thing as last year. Second, 
 Dynasty is more or less the same thing also. There have been improvements but only just presentation 
 wise, and yet still isnt that big of a change. Other than that, dynasty is pretty much the same. 
 On the gameplay side, the running game has had some improvements with better blocking AI, and more 
 realistic cuts and jukes. When I played online though it does seem hard to catch the ball carrier 
 because the defense seems abit too slow and can get juked out or spun around too easily. The college 
 atmoshpere is pretty cool but shouldn't be a reason to buy the game, especially with all of the 
 smalls problems still need fixing. Of course, there are the tackling glitches and smalls bugs. 
 Most are not really bothersome except for the ball spot, in which the ref says the ball is down 
 before the ball carrier's knees hit the ground and Coach's Challenge isn't as accurate as it use 
 to be. Despite my review being mostly bad things about the game, its still good, but if your not 
 a football fan then you shouldnt buy this. And if you are really thinking about getting this but 
 are not sure because you havnt played many football games before, dont worry the controls are pretty 
 simple and is beginner friendly, including in dynasty mode. Me personally am a pretty big football 
 fan and i have really puts some hours into this so far. So, hopefully this review is useful and 
 i havnt wasted my time typing this up. :) Overall, NCAA has only made minor improvements but is 
 still a good football game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tattoo04
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  game is the best one yet looks like madden as far as visuals are concern plays great but in the 
 3rd and 4th quarter right before a play game freezes up just for a second sometimes but no big 
 deal stadiums look great players look great love how they put the clear face shields on some of 
 the players the game is just plain fun and if you love college football it's even more fun don't 
 know why gamespot gave it a 7.5 it's alot better then that so if you like football this game is 
 a must have period the play calling screens look good commentary is good as always for this game 
 online is fun also when you have a lag free game i don't play the online dynasty it's more fun 
 offline to me interception are kinda high on all american and heisman but if you are good at the 
 game these levels are still kinda easy if you have a good team ea did an excellent job with the 
 game now im getting pump up for madden 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_theopolis
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I get this game every year because I'm a college football fan and not a pro fan which is why I 
 skip Madden. I don't know if it was just my game last year (08) but it was so full of interface 
 and play bugs that I would say was unequivocally broken and wasn't ready for the shelves. 20 second 
 random lock ups after plays and during kick meter timing just isn't cool. 
  
  I know what others have written about this '09 release and for the most part I agree with everyone. 
 But, I do want to give credit to the fact that they have mostly fixed the intolerable bugs so at 
 LEAST you can play the game. Still, this should have been done last year and I think EA needs to 
 take a break from trying to push the features boundary and just focus more on a solid, core football 
 game top to bottom. THEN they can start packing on the features. By the time everything on the 
 intangible wish list gets put in, the game as a whole gets so watered down that you don't see any 
 one part of it achieve greatness. 
  
  So basically the trend year after year has been to trade one flaw in for another and it becomes 
 an experience of what bothers you the least, but it never climbs to a higher standard. There is 
 no significant, overall upward trend to benchmark the growth of this game and being without any 
 competition doesn't help the case. It's odd to me that you can see attempts to make it better on 
 EA's part, only to be negated by some new bone head bug that, for instance, makes an AI player 
 inexplicably juke out of bounds when nobody is around him. I recognize that this game is pretty 
 detail involved from a production standpoint and that all games have some flaws so maybe what we've 
 seen of it over the years from a big picture point of view is that it's as good as it's going to 
 get. I mean how else would you explain the time, money and effort put into R&D only to unplug life 
 support in other areas? As Brad says in the game, "They're going in the wrong direction coach!" 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  So I have to start this out by saying I was extra pumped for this years game because my cousin 
 is actually in the game. And when I saw his stats I was even more pumped! Okay, now for the actual 
 review.
  
  This game is fun. There are some issues with stupid teammate AI (in Legend mode in particular) 
 where they will run straight out of bounds instead of turning up field. Or instead of catching 
 a ball and going straight up where it's all clear, they will turn and run straight towards the 
 sideline where defenders are. This doesn't happen too ofter though so it's not a huge deal. The 
 sound in the game is awesome! You really feel like you are at a college game with the volume turned 
 up especially if you have surround sound. The graphics are solid as are the animations. It really 
 feels like you have more freedom when controlling your character which is always nice. Overall 
 it's a solid outing and if you like college football you should like this game for sure. I am actually 
 waiting for Madden though because they always seem to be a step ahead of the college game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunter8man
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  While this is still the best (and only) college football game on the market, it doesn't come without 
 its faults. One of the biggest worries I had was that EA would not make any significant upgrades 
 to the game at all. It seems that my worries were completely founded.
  
  Let's start with the good. Player models, stadiums, crowds, etc.. all look great. The respective 
 schools playbook has changed and does a good job fitting within their new schemes. For example, 
 I play with Georgia Tech a lot, and the change that they made due to their new head coach, to a 
 wishbone run-oriented offensive style works great here. You truly have to know the weaknesses and 
 strengths to all of them in order to be successful just like in the real world. The crowd atmosphere 
 is a bit better, as more crowd reaction occurs when you break big plays or score touchdowns.
  
  Now the bad. This game almost feels no different from 2008 or 2007 even though they added in 
 the Online Dynasty mode which is a cool feature. Unfortunately, I don't play online. The other 
 new feature which affects away teams by scrambling their play diagram before the snap seems like 
 a good idea, but is very annoying. Defensive AI has taken a step backward, especially in the passing 
 game. I can't count how many times my defense has blitzed the QB, and the offensive line is able 
 to block every single stinking one of my defenders. The QB also never misses a pass. The running 
 game is quite lacking as it seems much, much more challenging to pull off a simple option play 
 this year. And don't even think about the option pass. Every time I tried it, I've been sacked 
 in under 3 seconds with no time to look downfield. Commentary hasn't been changed either. 
  
  Like I said, it's a good game of football, but it doesn't warrant me spending another $60 for 
 a game with a lack of significant changes or updates to the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_rudis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  I am astonished at the Gamespot review... astonished. The only conclusion I can come to is that 
 Gamespot reviewer does not actually ever watch college football.
  
  There are missed tackles, but not so many by better players. This is very common in college football. 
 The difference in levels between players in college is WAY higher than that of the NFL.
  
  I think this game brings the game as true as it can come. The positives I see about this game:
 
  
  1) Players actually look like college football players (not all superman builds) .
  2) Home Field matters, just like it really does in college football, and does not feel overdone.
 
  3) Recruiting can be as superficial or as deep as you want it.
  4) For those that like deep recruiting, it is done in an incredibly interesting way. It's not something 
 you can quickly master, but is easy to understand and use.
  5) EA made the game way more online friendly. Online Dynasties and matchups. You can make your 
 current offline Dynasty an online one with friends or vis versa (if an online Dynasty stalls, you 
 can move it to your 360 and play it solo) .
  
  This really is one of the best sports games I've ever played. And I'm not one who feeds the yearly 
 EA sports need. I'll keep Fifa for 2 years... Madden for a while. I actually have been rather disappointed 
 with the last few iterations of both Madden and NCAA and just rented them.... never bought.
  
  This game is worth it... period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnd-ur-mom
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  NCAA Football 09 hasn't changed much, aside from the new online dynasty. I love football and have 
 been playing for years. So obviously I enjoy playing the games (not saying that every football 
 player does) . Although I've stuck with Madden games since 2002, I decided to give NCAA football 
 a chance. The marching bands and hyped crowds make it intense when playing against someone, local 
 or online. I have been playing NCAA football since 2007 and I haven't seen a lot of changes. I 
 know that its hard to make drastic changes to sports games, but the changes in this are less noticeable. The 
 changes now in sports games are; better game play mechanics and sometimes graphical changes. But 
 the game is fast paced and enjoyable. If you do get it, I recommend you don't play it alone. Playing 
 online and with a friend (as I said before) is very fun, intense and the action can get amp'd up. 
 Yes it has it's glitches, but what game doesn't. Give it a chance. It is fun, very fun. But I advise 
 you to rent it and play it until Madden '09 comes out. Leave it to the big boys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonSumrall
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I am 6 weeks into a two team dynasty, and I must say that thus far, I am thorougly impressed 
 with this years version. The graphics are by far and away this biggest improvement, just incredable. 
 The AI this year is also much better, especially on the defensive line, making the running game 
 much more realistic, and much tougher. The few minor negatives: 1. The custom Stadium Songs.... GREAT 
 idea, not quite there yet. We need to be able to link songs to an event by song, not playlist. 
 At this point if you want to have a song play at a certain time, you have to create a playlist 
 for just that song. Also, a music editor so that we can play just the portion of the song that 
 we want played. I know its possible because it was present back on the Sega Genisis in NFL 2K series. 
 2. The Campus Legend hasnt changed hardly at all from last season. 3. The Big hit Stick. I have 
 had an issue with this since EA moved it from a button to the right analog stick, it is way to 
 hit and miss as to when it actually works. 
  
  All in all, a great new release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sullie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  To start, I haven't bought every NCAA game to ever come out. I own 2003 and played 2006 a lot. 
 What I can say is that this game is much more difficult than the previous ones I've played. 2006 
 may have felt more pollished, but you could also win every game by simply doing hail marys all 
 day and eventually score, that doesn't really work anymore. For 09, you actually have to try it 
 seems like. With that said, some pass plays feel nearly foolproof. If all you want to do is pass 
 10 yards or so on a slant route, it will work probably 95% of the time. These types of plays are 
 also very difficult to stop when playing the computer, even when playing against teams that are 
 not very good. The graphics are very nice as expected, audio is also very good. I feel like the 
 games might be more emotional than previous installments. Even though it might be fairly easy to 
 move the ball down the field, it still somehow feels like you have to work harder to get those 
 yeards than in other NCAA games. There is also the usual mixed bag of things where EA didn't try 
 very hard, none of them affecting gameplay, just sort of little annoying things where you have 
 to ask "why did they do that?" Overall I'd say it's a good game and worth picking up if you haven't 
 owned an NCAA game in a couple years. I can't speak to the comments about how this is just like 
 last year's game, but it certainly wouldn't surprise me knowing how lazy EA is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I'm not too sure about the 2009 version of NCAA. I have always been a fan of this now long running 
 series, but I find myself wondering if the next gen versions are any better than last gen's. It 
 seems to happen way too often that the computer will come through on third and longs, late comebacks, 
 or penetrating the line to get to your QB when you need to get a pass downfield for a first down. 
 I've always believed that playing on Heisman level is the only real way to play this game, as the 
 other levels are too easy; but instead of making Heisman difficulty, more difficult for the player, 
 they instead make it easier for the computer, which is not the same thing to me. Breaking tackles, 
 and juking more effectively is one thing, but never dropping any passes, overpowering lines, neverending/unbeatable 
 blitzes, and unreal awareness by the secondary which leads to way too many picks are all too much 
 of a difference from All-American difficulty to Heisman difficulty. I know there are sliders to 
 adjust to taylor to each player, but should I really have to do that? Should anyone? The differences 
 are just too dramatic from one level to another. And let's not forget about ice the kicker, which 
 is impossible to make if you are beyond 10 yards. I had a field goal land in the back right corner 
 of the end zone on a 4 mph wind, on which I didn't move the direction meter whatsoever... a little 
 too effective don't ya think? This might be the first time I actually recommend Madden over NCAA. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomicBaconBits
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 20, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  There's nothing to be seen here.09 is a distant clone in the long run of the monotonous NCAA franchise.
 
  
  EA try's to add Legend mode into the mix to stir things up, but it's really not deep, or fun enough 
 to wet your whistle... this is basically just the same ol' NCAA game you saw last year; and the year 
 before that... and the year before that, etc. and so on and so forth.
  
  The Quiz the QB, and Ice the kicker in-game challenges are still and interesting activity to do 
 for boosting the realism, but it's really just more of EA's bells and whistles that try to distract 
 you from how much they haven't done to improve the game.
  
  Dynasty mode is still a blast for about the first 2 or 3 seasons, I mean, who doesn't love creating 
 a family of players, boosting their stats and owning up on your unlucky opponents? But after a while... you 
 just realize that there is nothing new here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detrek77
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This is really the biggest disappointment i have every played. There was alot of hype but this 
 game sucks i dont even care. Straight up this is the biggest let down i have ever played. Just 
 cause you can play dynasty online with friends doesnt make the rest of the game fun. I know from 
 what ive seen madden will make up for this disaster. Then i see all these people saying oh yeah 
 this is the best game ever i think its gonna be game of the year....... no, no its not it sucks 
 last years game still has a better chance. oh dont let me forget how you walk around is so unrealistic 
 its not even funny NCAA needs to at least get up to date where madden is. When you look at the 
 facts the ncaa franchise has been going down hill for awhile, 2006 was honestly the best year in 
 awhile but since then their games are dropping down pitifuly. Its like they grab last years game 
 and just sweeten it up with a few additions well really thats not gonna cut it. I really enjoy 
 sports games every once in awhile and im not the person that stictly hates them. I like to play 
 them with my friends its a challenge but as these games drop and drop and drop, its really starts 
 to get old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedgreen2-1-5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  the graffics are great, the comentary is good despite a few recycled lines from last year and the 
 controls are also good.
  
  The Good Stuff:
  The animations and physics are awesome, the home feild advantage isnt too cheap as you can still 
 get a hint as to what your play is even when the play art becomes scribbles. The customizable stadium 
 music idea is great because i like colledge ball but all the band music gets old after awhile. 
 The extra game modes are enough to keep you occupied. Dynasty mode is great for single player and 
 i hear it is great online, i havent tried online yet. Freestyle celebrations are cool now you can 
 celebrate witht the team mascot by yourself or with the team, after a while you will get bored 
 and skip it like i do. The game does not fumble like the epidemic that it spread in last years 
 game with a fumble every three plays or so
  
  The Bad Stuff:
  I can bet everyone is aware that on All-american mode the CPU is always open on slants and cut 
 routes. It is almost impossible to stop, believe me, i've tried it all. There is no pre game footage 
 as it just gets into the game, to some that is good but i like games to have great presentation 
 and seem as real as possible. Icing the kicker is very difficult to overcome at times, i have lost 
 2 games because of it but i have won 1 because of it. Campus legend is still a bit boring and they 
 used the same old high school state finals to determine where you go. The coaches still run the 
 sames plays often so if you are an option QB prepare to run 8 out of 10 plays, you could audible 
 out to a pass but it gets old. Some of the controls as the ball carrier can look kind of dumb at 
 times, you could tap B twice and the runner will slide backwards. Whenever you make a diving catch 
 (and you actually have posession) they will challenge it and even if it is a completion it will 
 be reversed thus making it 2nd down or whatever. There is a very weak pass rush and jumping the 
 snap correctlt is hard. Very often the cpu will fake punt to a pass, you play prevent punt coverage 
 but the cpu gets the first down %80 of the time. In franchise mode you will get rain games at least 
 every other game, this makes me mad. If you have a low ranked team it is very difficult to recruit 
 decent players, therefor your team will suck forever until you learn to play with bums and be good. 
 The CPU often runs out of bounds when there is no preasure which might help you out, but it takes 
 away from the people who like challenges. Passing seems way to easy. When you do a screen in all 
 american mode you rarely get good blocks or a defender will follow and stand next to your running 
 back. Also on screens the player never runs into position right away, they always stop for a 2 
 second dely and then finish thier route. When kicking you can barely see your goal post, you have 
 to squint everytime because the goal post blends in perfectly with the crowd.
  
  All together it is a great game with a few bugs, but every game has them. I would give it a 9.5 
 rating 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halosniper52
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Yes :) Hands down NCAA 09 is the best football game of the next gen. NCAA is packed full of stuff 
 to do and you will not get bored anytime soon with it. When you 1st play NCAA the 1st thing you 
 will notice is the look of the game. The graphics are overhauled big time, and and really fells 
 like a college atmosphere. Also a new feature is the new break away tackling system witch makes 
 it alot easier to break out of tackle's. Witch is a good thing on Offense and a bad thing on Defense. 
 Also what makes this game truly great is the little things that are in it, Like the cheerleaders 
 on the sideline and the sound in the game is really nice to hear pads hitting pads all the time 
 make it really fell like football.
  
  The new "Ice the kicker" in the game makes it so when you or your opponent is about to go for a 
 filed goal that could win or tie up the game. You can call a timeout and the camera will drop down 
 to the ground behind the kicker and puts ice on the kicking meter making it really hard to make 
 a long field goal, And unlike gamespot I love this. Another big thing in the game is the new commentary 
 play by play calling that I for one love to hear them talk lol about the game and saying stuff 
 like "What a dumb play what was he thinking" 
  *ONLINE*- What we all really want to hear about the online in NCAA is really good but does have 
 some of the same problem as all EA football games and that is the lag. I would say I have played 
 about 25 games online and about 10 of them unplayable lag and 5 so so lag but could play. But when 
 you get a game with no lag its so much fun going head to head with others online. A BIG key in 
 online with year "Online Dynasty mode" Where you and 11 of your friends or people you don't know 
 can start an Online Dynasty. It's a great new thing in the game that works really well and as for 
 offline Dynasty the game really fun. Taking your team to the bowl games. And some people don't 
 like it but recruiting people and calling them trying to get them to come to your collage can be 
 really fun once you get the hang of things. As for Campus Legend mode really is not that great, 
 It has camera problems and just does not fell any good to play and the play calling problems. Like 
 one time on a 3rd and 12 the called for really dumb run. Most of the time they are not that dumb 
 to do that but they do sometimes. 
  
  All in all NCAA football 2009 is a really great game and the best football game of this gen. A 
 must have for any football fan and for you people that are not a football fan well this is not 
 the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giflow
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 20, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This game doesnt blow you away in any category except fun and honestly you can make playing with 
 two rocks fun.
  
  First of all its basically the same game from last year which i expected but with more animations 
 and a little more polished textures. The sound is good and really gives you the feel of a real college 
 game but basically the same from last year. Im dissapointed in ea for lying to us about the transition 
 animations, most of the time you get stuck in animations more so than last year and are out of control, for 
 example i would throw out to my back in the flats and press the stiff arm command and once he catches 
 it he would run for about a second with his arm extended (which is long time in a fast paced game) and 
 go out of bounds while im pulling the stick away from the sidelines .A lot of times it doesnt seem 
 like your in control of your player when they make moves, they do the moves on their own getting 
 you stuck in another animation that gets you tackled. Also everybody offensively hands are improved 
 for example i would sub my CB in to play receiver and he would make catches just as good as the 
 average receiver on the game would and his rating was a 69 when i converted him. To me the gameplay 
 took a step back do to the animation issues that gets frustrating because they do their own thing 
 most of the time. To me its a average game nothing that deserves a 9 like most of these ratings 
 im seeing, i just hope madden doesnt have the same gameplay issues.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  For some reason I'll never understand, you just can't rely on crtic's reviews of sports video games. 
 I have never (and that's a strong word) read a review of a sports video game from any magazine, 
 online or offline, that I agreed with. This review is no exception.
  It's no wonder why EA can't get things right, when critics praise them when they should critisize 
 them and criticize them when they should be praised. 
  I am one voice, but as far as I'm concerned, this is the best college football sim I have ever 
 played. It's just great.
  Let's starts with graphics. I wasn't sure how much better EA could make last year's game, but they 
 have come through with some incredibly beautiful graphics. The players, the stadiums, especially 
 the field grass (which looks more real than ever before) , even the menus, are all just gorgeous. 
 The lighting is especially fantastic. When you play a late afternoon game, the stadium is basked 
 in a sunset-tinted hue that is a sight to behold. Overall, this is the best looking football game 
 around.
  Presentation is also better. As I've said, the menu are all beautiful, there are more players populating 
 and sidelines, and.... be still my heart!... the commentary of Nessler, Corso, and Herbstreit is 
 great. Very few lines are from previous years, with tons of new conversations from the boys. I 
 also love the stat boxes that quickly pop up after each play and then quickly pop out. Also, gone 
 are the cluttered menu boxes during gameplay. Now you have to click the analog stick to bring that 
 up.
  The player animations may be the biggest jump. They are incredible! Subtle moves and tackles are 
 everywhere, and it seems like you never get the same animation twice. A huge, huge jump, which 
 makes the game authentic and realistic. I swear sometimes it looks like you are watching a real 
 football game.
  Finally, there is the gameplay. You now have pinpoint passing control, no more interception-happy 
 defenders, smooth transitions from the playaction pass, on and on. But the biggest difference that 
 everyone is talking about is the wide open gameplay. This means big plays from big playmakers, 
 and powerhouses like and Oklahoma or LSU rule. Some, like Gamespot's review, may complain about 
 this. l But this is what separates Ncaa from Madden. It's more offensive, more big play, and maybe 
 even more fun.
  There are a few problems, as with all games. The biggest is that it is way too easy to run a punt 
 or kickoff back for a TD. This will swing momentum in your favor, and helps you blow a team out 
 that would otherwise have challenged you. Also, there just isn't enough fumbles in this game, probably 
 'cause of all the complaining last year's game got.
  But when you consider the massive improvements EA has done to this franchise, these flaws are easy 
 to look past. NCAA Football 09 is a giant step over previous efforts. It's fast, offensive, smooth, 
 beautiful, and just plain fun! I hammer EA when they deserve it, which is a lot, but not this time. 
 I think EA really took the time to make a better game this year, and it shows everywhere. They 
 should be commended and congratulated. They certainly have my thanks ! I hope others feel the way 
 I do. After all, video game football is back! Go LSU!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazer003
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 17, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  When I first popped in the game after buying it at midnight on the 15th, I was hoping that a lot 
 of things that I noticed in the demo were just because it was an earlier build and on an easier 
 difficulty.
  
  I really enjoyed NCAA 08, and while it certainly had its quirks and bugs, it was fun. Despite there 
 being no effort to reconnect to online games, and racking up disconnects, I still enjoyed playing 
 the games (this is my #1 gripe, though as to how other games, 2K8 for example, I can go through 
 and never lose because of a disconnect, and in NCAA it happens 25% of the time, but I digress) .
 
  
  This year there is one flaw that I think many reviews overlooked, but will be an issue that would 
 have become apparent after playing a few games. That is:
  
  The defensive AI is terrible. They just don't play good pass defense, or do a good job of going 
 after the ball carrier. Man coverage? They get beat every single time on slants and drags. Zone 
 coverage? They let guys go right through their zone without hardly reacting making it oh so easy 
 for any seasoned player to pick the zone apart. 
  
  Maybe even more apparent than when you're going against the defense, is when you are the defense. 
 Put it on All-American or worse yet, Heisman, and you will find that the only time the computer 
 is stopped is when:
  A. You make a play as the user.
  B. The computer runs on 1st and 2nd down and then throws a pass to a player who runs out of bounds 
 on 3rd down.
  
  Otherwise the computer is hitting the hitches, slants and drags non stop. I finished a game in 
 which the computer was 25-28 and the 3 incompletions were a user interception, and two passes caught 
 by a player out of bounds.
  
  All this is to say that without good defensive AI, the gameplay just isn't fun for me, and if the 
 gameplay isn't fun, then all the other bells and whistles, which would normally be awesome additions, 
 are underwhelming.
  
  NCAA does a lot of things right, and it's obvious they made an effort, but for anyone who bought 
 NBA Live 07 when it first came out will understand when I say it feels exactly like that. They 
 seem to have a lot of good ideas, and make an effort to improve the gameplay, but somehow they 
 forgot to test it, or more likely just didn't have enough time to get it right, and now I'm thinking 
 of next year when I won't be just plopping down the cash for NCAA 10, but will take the cautious 
 approach of renting first.
  
  I'm a die hard fan of both college football, and the NCAA franchise, but this release was just 
 oh so disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thinkfootball
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I bought NCAA 09 with very low expectations after reading some of the "professional" reviews like 
 Gamespot's. As is fast becoming the norm, Gamespot proves once again they are growing more lazy, 
 and basing their reviews on a non-sports gamer's opinion rather than fact.
  
  I'll give you a brief review of my impressions after 8 games online, and 2 offline (football games 
 that have got the "X's and O"s" right and have good multiplayer tend to hold my focus longer personally) . 
 I have also played every football game from the original tecmo bowl/madden on up, on almost every 
 console, so I have a good feel on what constitutes a minor annual upgrade and what we should really 
 be getting excited about... so on to my review and then counter to Gamespot's points (again, let 
 me state I bought the game AFTER reading some "professional" reviews, which I use the term loosely) .
 
  
  Graphics -- Minor upgrade. However, everything runs smoothly during actually gameplay -- so smoothly 
 you'll catch yourself actually planning not just your current cut/juke/etc, but looking at how 
 plays are forming and looking at what might be your 2nd move in order to follow blocks/elude defenders. 
 Some slowdown when the camera pans out to the entire stadium, but I have never noticed ANY slowdown 
 after 10 games online/offline during actual gameplay.
  
  Gameplay -- Speaking of gameplay, this is where I personally have seen the biggest upgrade -- in my 
 long-term on the field football experience and experience with football games off the field, everything 
 just feels "right". It's not an exact sim by any means, but every single play felt tense online, 
 exciting... every single play out of eight games -- now that's saying something.
  I found myself following blocks more than any previous football game I have ever played, and when 
 something good or bad happened, I felt like it was my fault or my success. Finally, if you hate 
 online football games that reward poor football strategy (more specifically, defenses that run 
 nothing but the dime/quarter but bliz 7-8 every play and can't be run on up the gut, or passed 
 on at all, even short slants -- are you listening Madden?) this ends with NCAA 09. Yes, you'll never 
 completely get rid of teh cheesers, but all 8 of my games online were straight up. Why? Because 
 if you "sell out" in your pass, run, blizing, etc on Defense, you WILL get burned in this game, 
 it's that simple. I read from gamespot and other reviews that defenders are too slow making it 
 tough to play D-- sure, if you're a sellout type of player on every down! I found D to be fairly 
 easy to play personally. Yes, I got beat, but only because I had sold out on a play action pass 
 with a safety, or had called a pass defense against the run, or had left a CB 1 on 1 with no over 
 the top help from the safety... Low skill, 100% blitzing players will HATE NCAA 09, and good riddance 
 I say. See you in Madden.
  
  Sound/Atmosphere -- This was a huge improvement over NCAA 08! About 20 minutes ago I got done playing 
 Clemson vs. LSU at home... with my surround sound turned up, I actually got a little nervous as 
 the crowd got into the game -- now that's atmosphere when you actually get into it like a real football 
 game. I found myself screaming into my headset, in joy or dismay, at times, simply due to the atmosphere 
 (how many times are you that moved over a video game match online, in any game?)
  
  Multiplayer -- I have an above-average internet connection and connect my 360 to my LAN wired... but 
 I have experienced no lag, and 1 drop out of 8 games. The drop could have been my ISP, it could 
 have been my opponent's connection, or it could have been EA... it only happened one time, so it's 
 tough for me to troubleshoot.
  
  Overall -- I cannot remember the last time I felt this excited during every single play of every 
 single match online... every single play. Everything feels right, the little details in the gameplay 
 are awesome (my defensive players were still tired after returning a fumble for a TD during my 
 opponent's next possession for example) . I have been thoroughly impressed with the speed and balance 
 of the entire game -- defenders aren't too slow at all! In fact, because any play can break open 
 (they don't, so don't worry, but they can if you play poorly or sell out incorrectly as I explained 
 earlier) , it adds to the tense environment of this game! Nothing is more irritating then when your 
 star player with a 99 speed rating gets caught by a defensive tackle from behind when he's running 
 down the sideline simply because the defensive player had a "catch up" AI that gave him greater 
 than normal speed... NCAA 09 does NOT have that, and if that means I need to play more carefully 
 on defensive, than I'm all game... Thanks EA for a great game, I went into this game quite jaded 
 after so many years of minor updates, but this game's a classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nittanylions
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  What the hell was gamespot thinking when they reviewed this game a 7.5 is that a joke. This game 
 is a 9 and above easily, it's a lot better than gta 5 which gamespot gave a 10 that is one of the 
 most overrated games ever. How can gamespot say this game hasn't changed everything about this 
 game is so much better the gameplay is perfect and the graphics are flawless. Gamespot probably 
 didn't even play this game because they're a bunch a nerds and hate sports games. Anyone who likes 
 sports a little has got to admit this game is spectacular. The home field advantage makes it feel 
 like college gameday. Gamespot gave it a bad review and other nerds because they probably never 
 watched or played football. Maybe someone who likes sports at gamespot should have reviewed this 
 game because you cant be a sports fan and not like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssmarine
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  This is a good game lots of improvements over last year and its a lot of fun. Gamespots review 
 is a joke. These guys dont know anything about the sport. Theres alot of new features including 
 more realistic animations and more fluid gameplay. The only complaint that I have is that its easier 
 then previous versions of NCAA and Madden so playing on Heisman isnt very hard for an experienced 
 player who knows football. When it comes to Gamespot trust their revies with MMOs, RTSs, and FPSs. 
 Dont trust sports game reviews from a bunch of nerds that have never played sports in their lives.
 
  The graphics are a considerable amount better then last year and the new features like online 
 dynasty are great. The best part about 09 is the improved gameplay. The quick audibles on offense 
 and defense add alot more strategy to playcalling on both sides of the ball. Also, the movement 
 of the players on the field is more natural than before. 
  For serious sports gamers like me this is the best football game on the market. If your some kind 
 of comic book collecting, Star Trek fanboy, nerd... well then you might not even understand football 
 enough to appreciate a good game. *cough* gamespot *cough* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BKbroilerXC
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I was very disappointed with the NCAA Football series ever since it went onto the 360, I felt like 
 they went too far away from the formula that brought success in the older games. NCAA 09 brought 
 back what feels like the gameplay I learned to love since my start with the series in 2002. I was 
 also mad when they ditched the Magazine in the Dynasty mode for that ESPN. Com debacle, and this 
 year they some what brought it back with nice articles again even if it's not as good. I like that 
 you don't have to micro-manage as much with recruiting and there are many filters so you can let 
 the CPU know what kind of QB to recruit, if I'm the NAVY coach with the option, I would want a 
 running QB not a pocket passer. The presentation is really nice and crisp especially the menu screen 
 very rich and gives the college feel to the game again. Also I am glad the player models don't 
 look like mutants anymore, they are for the most part not too buff which gives it a college game 
 look again. I'm feeling pretty content right now, and I want to get back to my dynasty already! 
 I can't wait to use the online dynasty (I have no comment on it b/c I have not used it yet, but 
 I'm sure it's good) . The Create-A-Player is almost as good as it used to be as well. NOW BRING 
 BACK CREATE A SCHOOL and NCAA Football will have a pretty happy fellow. The only thing I was disapointed 
 to see was that there was no Create-A-School. Also there were other user reviews about too many 
 tackles or what ever, I guess they over looked the most prized possession on the NCAA Franchise, 
 WHICH ARE THE AWESOME GAMEPLAY SLIDERS everyone can make the game as realistic as they see fit. 
 However so far I haven't had to mess with the sliders, so to each his own. Also the Mascot Mashup 
 should bring some really fun games with my friends if we're just messing around..... that's it, 
 thankyou for reading. BRING BACK CREATE-A-SCHOOL!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit, I liked last year's NCAA release. I am biased towards sports games for the most part 
 and I think these EA football games have gotten a real bad rap from fans and certain critics.
 
  
  Not to say these were classic games or even excellent, but they were worth more than people gave 
 them credit for.
  
  That's part of the reason I chose to ignore the whispers of glitches during the pre-release period.
 
  
  Let's make one thing clear- EVERY game can encounter glitches. Some of the best games on every 
 system I have owned including -- on the 360 -- Obvilion, Gears of War, Halo, COD 4, NBA 2k, Bioshock, 
 etc. EVERY game has a glitch or two in them and they can stand out. So the argument that the game 
 is glitchy isn't a very prevalent one unless the glitches are constant and in NCAA Football 2009, 
 they are few and far between.
  
  The very first ting I did was go to the EA Locker and download a reputable roster patch and it 
 worked perfectly. Every player I am looking for is in the game and then some. At that moment, I 
 knew this game was a step higher. 
  
  Then I go to the dynasty which is more of the same of last year. Little tweaks to certain entities 
 like adding a few more things to recruiting helped this game take another step in the right direction 
 .
  
  Campus Legend went virtually untouched, which isn't a bad thing, but isn't a good thing either. 
 Perhaps another year will give them time to expand that portion but for now it's more of the same.
 
  
  Online is where this game takes a significant jump. Online Dynasty is arguably the biggest addition 
 to an EA Sports game in years. It is very user friendly and really captures the spirit of the football 
 fan within you when invloved. 2K did this type of thing online for years and I am glad EA finally 
 got on board with this. 
  
  As far as the game itself - Much improved. Finally they got on board with the visuals in the NCAA 
 series. The last two installments have lacked in many graphical ares. They actual have a ton of 
 alternate jersies.
  
  This year, the field itself looks much more alive and realistic. Grass and turf look like grass 
 and turf rather than green carpet and the player models have been given a realistic figure. Stadiums 
 are more crisp. 
  
  Gameplay ahas improved as well. People may complain about the lack of a pass-rush, but will soon 
 figure out that it's just the realism factor. You MUST blitz, select different formations, rush 
 different players etc., to keep the offensive line on their toes and if you are good enough, you 
 will be able to get pressure. 
  
  Player movements are life-like, players move believeably (i. e blockers look as if they are blocking 
 correctly and they stay within their block area without wandering aimlessly. DB's have a hard time 
 defending but when most college QB's throw between a 55%-70% completion percentage, you understand 
 why EA made this more difficult. It's still not that hard to stop an opposing offense and your 
 DB's aren't as inept as certain critics have made it out to be 
  
  Tackling is no where near as hard as gamespot makes it. You only miss tackles if you overpursue, 
 which is a user glitch, not a game glitch
  
  Special team blocking is also so much more accurate than in years past. Kick coverage and blocking 
 is on a much higher level than in years past.
  
  The atmosphere of the game overall is one that finally feels like college, plays like college and 
 -- with the ability to download real rosters and have the announcers pronounce everyones name correctly 
 -- is almost everything I could ask for in a game.
  
  Next year, a clear coat should be added to complete this games comeback. It's still lacking side-line 
 activity, chains, markers, refs but those are MINOR issues.
  
  Not enough to overpower the strengths of this game. 
  
  Side note - The edit roster glitch 
 (where listed teams supposedly disappear) has not happened to me, nor do I personally know anyone 
 who has had that problem with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacob2124
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  From the very start you can see the improvements over last year. The game's graphics are cleaner 
 and the game runs very smooth. Game-play feels responsive and transition animations look natural. 
 The new wide open gameplay simulates a real college football game. Giving way to many big play 
 opportunities. You will see defender over pursue leaving wide open cut back lanes. Having a game 
 score between 40-60 points is a regular occurence. 
  The Dynasty and Campus Legend modes give some depth to the game but are not much different than 
 last years version; although there are more options when creating your player. You can ever choose 
 what brand of shoes (Adidas/Nike) or visor (Under Armor/Nike/Oakley) your character wears. But what 
 really STANDS OUT is the option of having an online Dynasty. You can set up one with friends or 
 other players from online. This option is really what has the potential to give this game some 
 longevity.
  Overall, this game is really fun to play. Especially if you are a fan of college football. It is 
 a must buy, and with the option of uploading a draft class or your Campus Legend to Madden 09, 
 hardcore Madden fans will want this too.
  
  Graphics:...............8.8
  Sound:....................8.5
  Controls:....................9
  Gameplay:..............8.5
 
  Replay Value:.........9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bucfan47
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  I'm still in awe that EA can actually release a game that basically prohibits you from pre-assigning 
 buttons on defense. I know, re-read that last sentence and let it sink in for a minute before reading 
 on.... It's true 
  
  EA has a three buttons on defense that cannot be pre-assigned as they are locked. 1) . The famous 
 "A" button cannot be changed to Sprint on defense. It is locked as "Strip Ball" and there is nothing 
 you can do about it.
  
  So for all you gamers that for years have played with "A" as Sprint, better get used to using RT 
 for that now. 
  
  What really pissed me off was the fact you can change Sprint to "A" while under the settings "Loose 
 Ball" but if you go under Defensive Pursuit, you'll quickly find you cannot alter settings...
 
  
  The result? It forces you to essentially use the RT button as Sprint, thus forcing you to decide 
 between buttons on Strafe and Swat ball. 
  
  The RB/LB buttons are locked as well, so think again if you would like to use those buttons for 
 something other than pass rush....
  
  I simply cannot get over this, after all, the game has good overall gameplay and appears to be 
 fun online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgcrider08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  I have always believed in skipping years to own sports titles. For instance, I owned NCAA '07 because 
 I'm a huge college football fan and it was the first installment on the 360. I didn't purchase 
 it last year because generally, not much changes from year to year. So I purchased '09 because 
 I knew it was going to have a lot of stuff. I was correct. The graphics and the sounds in the game 
 are extremely cool, and I think quite realistic. I am finding it a little tough to score, and I 
 don't know if that's just because of my absence from football titles for a period of time. The 
 game has four difficulty levels... so if you're new to the series, get the hang of controls and 
 stuff on Freshman level. Varsity is the step up and it is noticeably harder to break big plays. 
 All-American is another step up, where you really have to read defenses and understand what you 
 are trying to do. Long gone are the days of chucking the ball down the field and scoring every 
 time.
  Online play works very well; I got my butt handed to me in the first game I played, but it was 
 worth it. The game went at a pretty decent pace, and it was a well-played game. The dynasty feature 
 is sweet and if I ever have friends again, I will join and see what it's like. For fans of the 
 series, there's nothing like recruiting players to your school. I've yet to try the Campus Legend 
 feature, but that's why I teach... I get summers to myself to try this stuff out. ESPN has also 
 added features that let you create an avatar and you can unlock different clothing and looks as 
 you progress through the game.
  Gamespot has a history of underrating sports games, because they probably won't change much from 
 year to year, but fans of the installment will purchase it anyway. NCAA has many items to keep 
 one entertained, including mini-games like HORSE (field goals) , Special Teams Challenge, and even 
 the Mascot Game (crazy) . You can save highlights and upload them on the EA sports server (and you 
 get an achievement) . Really, I didn't notice the missed tackles the way GS did, because players 
 break tackles in real life, it's ok, it happens. And the college football game today is full of 
 big plays, so it's no surpise they are happening in the game. Honestly, if you are a college football 
 fan, and you like playing football on a console, get NCAA. You can play online when you get bored 
 of the CPU, and you can even be a legend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theevans
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  NCAA Football 09
  
  With all the hoopla of a College pep rally, EA's latest pre-pro football offering is an exciting 
 brand of partying, participating and pigskin. While many gamers look upon NCAA Football as Madden 
 Junior, the fact remains that this is a solid sporting title that deserves respect. There are a 
 number of things that set College ball apart from its big brother and EA Sports has done a fine 
 job fleshing them out with this year's class of 09.
  
  Gameplay: One of the biggest differences between the collegiate brand of pigskin and the pros is 
 the wide open, fast paced offensive style of the game. NCAA does a great job opening up passing 
 lanes, large running holes for speedy receivers and backs. This feels like a very offensive-minded 
 game. The controls are standard for experienced football gamers and feel quite responsive and quick 
 this season. One of EA's biggest improvements is the "Fluid Breakaway Mechanic" in which your running 
 backs and receivers have the ability to shed tackles with various combinations of spins and jukes. 
 This brings a lot more variety to the gameplay experience and is another checkmark in the games 
 already offense-heavy arsenal. Another noticeable gameplay feature is the incredible breakaway 
 speed most wide outs have in the game. Either that or the defensive backs have been skipping out 
 on their fitness training. It almost feels as though the safeties are playing up in tight coverage 
 on most plays because running backs are able to cut to the outside for huge gains a bit too frequently. 
 Home Field Advantage is a big part of NCAA Football. Visiting teams can have a tough time handling 
 big crowds, and QB's can get completely rattled in crucial situations. If things aren't going well, 
 they are unable to read their player's routes (which become scribbled lines) and toss up interceptions. 
 The players do get stuck in tackling animations from time to time, making it impossible for subsequent 
 defenders to gang tackle an already engaged opponent. The game also offers plenty of play modes, 
 including offline AND new online Dynasty (yeah baby!) , Campus Legend in which you bring a would-be 
 superstar up from high school though his college career, Mini-games, Training and of course Quickplay 
 single matchups. The online gameplay is very smooth and responsive, just a hair slower than playing 
 offline. Surprisingly there is a lag in navigating the online menus. After a noticeable absence 
 in recent years, the return of co-op play is a most welcome addition. There are team-specific playbooks, 
 position-specific audibles and hometown-specific player/mascot celebrations. While there could 
 be a bit more parity between offense and defense in this game, NCAA Football executes strong gameplay 
 in most of its areas. 8.5/10
  
  Graphics: The graphics in NCAA are very good. Player models are excellent. The players are noticeably 
 leaner and smaller than their NFL counterparts. This goes hand in hand with their blazing speed 
 and dramatic agility during gameplay. The stadiums are impressive too. Most of which are architecturally 
 sound renditions of the real team homes. Games are playable in all types of weather and changing 
 time of day. It is possible to select Live Weather as reported by the Weather Network which adds 
 to the authenticity of the experience. Player animations are plentiful and very impressive. The 
 skill moves are incredibly powerful. Making an opponent miss a tackle with with a huge spinout 
 or sidestep is one of the games most satisfying elements. This happens a lot - maybe a little too 
 often, which does affect the overall impact of a huge breakaway. One glaring eyesore is the crowd. 
 Right from the get go the blocky, repetitively animated fans will make you want to squint your 
 eyes to blur them out. The stadiums are massive and colored nicely - giving them an epic scale 
 that even dwarf the NFL's environments. Acrobatic cheerleaders, flag waving supporters and dancing 
 mascots really add to the atmosphere of the college game. The game's menus are nicely designed 
 and easy to navigate. All in all, there isn't that much of a difference in the way the game looks 
 on the field from last season. Aside from a few small refinements, NCAA looks as crisp, clean and 
 colourful as usual. 8.5/10
  
  Sound: Sound is one of those things that can really add or take away from the overall gaming experience 
 - especially true in sports games. EA Sports has done an admiral job bringing the sounds of college 
 football to consoles. Again, there doesn't seem to be a vast difference between 09 and years past, 
 but the game is still lively and geniunely immersive. Marching bands play their school's songs, 
 the crowds roar upon big plays and grow silent when your team isn't playing well, and on field 
 sound effects and chatter is a great finishing touch. The commentary team is fantastic. There is 
 a fluid cohesiveness between the play by play and color commentators that hit their mark with accurate 
 calls most of the time. There is a bit of repetition and recycled material from last season. One 
 of NCAA 09's cool little add on's is the Custom Stadium Sound feature in which you can upload music 
 files to your console to use for specific in game situations. 9/10
  
  Presentation: Bringing the whole package together and offering a superior football experience means 
 delivering great presentation. NCAA 09 does a nice job to set itself apart from NFL football, but 
 doesn't make great strides to show us something new. The camera angles are standard issue for football 
 games and the instant replays are nice broadcast style recaps. There is no choice on the gameplay 
 camera as there is in NHL or FIFA which could be a nice alternative in future games. This could 
 also help out with a more broadcast-true presentation for CPU vs. CPU games. These angles do exist 
 in the game, but are only available when viewing the game highlights from the postgame menu. This 
 is a very cool feature, in which you are able to save and upload the big plays from your game to 
 the EA servers for your friends to see. There are still some areas of improvement for NCAA's presentation, 
 but ultimately it showcases an enjoyable football experience. 8/10
  
  Overall: From the big rivalries, progressive student careers and rousing college atmosphere, NCAA 
 Football 09 is a truly enjoyable sports game. It's very well put together from the responsive gameplay, 
 bold graphics, great sound and standardized presentation. A bit more innovation and broadcast style 
 would give the game push into the epic experience it could be. This is a must own for lovers of 
 College Football and will be a fun gaming experience for casual sports fans. Final rating 8.6/10.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: themediumone
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  First, I will say that I never played NCAA on the 360 until this year. So I don't know exactly 
 what is the same or different from last years. 
  
  Gamespot clearly was in desperate need of reasons why the game was bad, so they used "too many 
 broken tackles" and "icing the kicker works too well." While perhaps those MAY be true, I wouldn't 
 factor them into rating the game lower. If you feel too many tackles are being broken, play with 
 the sliders, or up the difficulty. Maybe even both. Trust me, you won't be breaking as many tackles. 
 As for the "icing the kicker," I just feel that's stupid to include as a "bad" aspect of the game. 
 Not only can it be turned off (if you hate it that much) , but it adds another dimension to the 
 close games. Also, if you're practically right in the middle of the field, it's an easy kick. Just 
 learn the meter timing in practice mode.
  
  
  Pros: 
  -Nice graphics, and awesome stadium atmospheres.
  -Very fluid animations and gameplay. 
  -Online 
 Dynasty.
  -Passing lanes are generally much clearer and aren't cluttered all the time.
  -Receivers don't drop passes too frequently. 
  -Pretty great user control.
  -Custom stadium 
 sounds.
  -The mini-games are surprisingly fun (even if a few are from last year) .
  -Plethora of editing equipment options. 
  -You feel the huge difference when playing a much worse 
 team.
  -EA Locker roster downloads.
  -EA Sports Highlights.
  
  Cons:
  -Repetitive catch animations.
  -Weak DL pass rush.
  -Doesn't have a create-a-team or create-a-playbook.
 
  *Campus legend mode*
  -Very easy as a QB.
  -Can't send receivers in motion.
  -Should be able to user catch with the receivers (mainly since streak, wheel, and fade routes are 
 almost always batted down or picked off.
  -Fairly poor ballcarrier AI. (tend to run the wrong way at first, or dance around too much) .
 
  
  Minor con: While the new endzone celebrations are fun, the well runs dry after a few games. EA 
 should add in a bunch of random mascot celebrations, and a few individual/team celebrations.
  
  
  Overall, I'd say NCAA is a great game and worth buying. I've had a good time playing it 
 today. Once I get completely used to the feel of it, I'll like it even more. I'd suggest getting 
 buying it if you're a college football fan. If you're not sure you want to buy it, rent it and 
 give it a test run.
  
  **Note that I have no comments on Dynasty or other positions for Campus Legend mode. Since I haven't 
 gotten to do a real Dynasty yet, I'm holding off judgment. Same goes for the other Campus Legend 
 positions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drewdog15
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Game is amazing! Especially the Online Dynasty that u can play with ur friends. The graphics are 
 amazing and u need to buy this game as soon as possible. This is the best NCAA Football game ever. 
 I am obsessed with this game. This will be one of the best games of the year and maybe the best 
 sport game ever. I compare this to call of duty and it is right there with call of duty 4 but as 
 a sport game. This may be one of my favorite games of all time. But u definetly need to go get 
 this game. No matter wat! I love this game and u will love this game too. I have switched from 
 call of duty to this and im happy I did because this game is amazing. The greatest thing is that 
 it has an online dynasty that u can play against 11 of ur friends on xbox live and u can create 
 ur own schedule and recruit against ur friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leivac
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Out the box, I set the level on Heisman, took USC down to Florida, and just won by a point in the 
 last 30 seconds 31 to 30. After the game, I got a message that my game was an ESPN Classic, I'll 
 say, I can still feel the gator bites. Every game after that has been a challenge, and I don't 
 feel like the AI is cheating. The miss tackles and drop passes look legit, if you factor in fatigue 
 and injury, that's gonna happen. There are some sideline issues, like no coaches or sideline markers, 
 and the bench players doing the Boogaloo in unison, plus, no refs on the field. Also, daytime games 
 are too bright, the field looks yellow. Other than that, the game play is solid, and the college 
 atmosphere is strong. As far as X's & O's go... NCAA Rocks. Now College Legend , not me, and Dynasty 
 and online is on the horizon. One can only pray that Madden will be just as good or better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LJ2326
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  NCAA 09 is a good game with a lot of cool features. The on line dynasty is a great new thing for 
 all sports things u getting to recruit and everything while playing online. The campus legend is 
 the same as the other games just some new features like your legend score. All the difficulty's 
 are the same to so there is a difficulty just for you. I wouldn't buy the game if your not big 
 into sports because you might not want to spend the time playing it to get some of the achievements 
 for the 360. dont get me wrong the achievements are defiantly not impossible but even with all 
 the new features i just give this game an 8 just because how much time you half to put into the 
 game. I did purchase this game the day it came out and myself is not so disappointed but i realize 
 everybody isn't like me that's why i wrote this review the way i did. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
