-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NCAA March Madness 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/ncaamarchmadness08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New post moves work great.
 Improved interface makes dynasty mode more enjoyable.
 Does a nice job capturing the college atmosphere.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay is sloooooow.
 A large number of small nagging issues really bring down the gameplay.
 Lack of real team schedules and inability to alter sim length are big oversights in dynasty mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 173 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Dec 11, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
March Madness 08 has some new moves, but it's still not ready for the big dance. 

  NCAA March Madness 08 is a frustrating game because it really should have been good. The developer 
 got a lot right, such as a new low-post game, an improved interface, and online leagues. But for 
 every improvement, there seems to be a problem to cancel it out. And it's not just small problems, 
 either. The gameplay is incredibly sluggish, the ball physics are off, teams don't have their real 
 schedules, and the frame rate is downright terrible on the PlayStation 3. March Madness 08 is still 
 worth a look, but hardcore hoops fans probably won't be able to look past the game's many faults 
 to enjoy what it does well.  

           The new low-post moves are terrific. Finally, your center is useful!      

  The biggest 
 change to the gameplay this year is that low-post play has been totally revamped. And while it's 
 by no means flawless, it represents the best post play in any basketball game to date. By moving 
 the right analog stick in conjunction with the left analog stick, you've now got a wide array of 
 moves available to you, both on offense and defense when in the paint. The controls are easy to 
 learn and, more importantly, they're useful. You'll actually want to work the ball down low to 
 take advantage of a mismatch (which the game highlights with a huge circle around the player) , 
 rather than try to run a fast break every time you snag a rebound. The controls are just as satisfying 
 on defense because they really make it feel like you're engaged in a one-on-one battle with the 
 ball handler. The only problem on D is that if you're controlling a perimeter player, you're not 
 likely to be able to switch to your center before the offensive player makes his move when the 
 ball gets passed into the paint.  

  It's too bad that the rest of the gameplay didn't see the same improvement. Using the right analog 
 stick to perform spins and crossovers still works great, but the rest of the controls often feel 
 sluggish and unresponsive. For example, when you pump fake to get a defender in the air, you'll 
 find yourself unable to move for a short period. Most of the sluggishness can be attributed to 
 the overall pace of play, which has been slowed  way  down in an effort to encourage players to 
 take the time to use the new post moves, but you almost feel like you're playing underwater. You 
 can speed things up with a slider, and while that helps some, it makes the weird ball physics (a 
 problem at any speed) even more pronounced. The issue can best be described as "sometimes the ball 
 does whatever the heck it wants." A pass that should go to a wide-open player might suddenly decide 
 to go to the defender, or it'll sometimes go faster than it should, appearing to almost teleport. 
 Occasionally, it will decide that it hates gravity and will fly all the way to the ceiling of the 
 arena.  

  While there are lots of options and gameplay sliders, changing the default settings doesn't seem 
 to have much effect on a lot of the problems. Even with user blocks turned all the way up, you'll 
 be hard-pressed to get more than a few blocks during the course of a full 40-minute game. Steals 
 are incredibly frustrating because it seems like, at least half the time, your player simply pokes 
 the ball out of bounds, pokes it away and doesn't try to pick it up, or picks the ball up then 
 steps out of bounds. You can call a limited number of plays on the fly, but there aren't very many 
 to choose from and your players don't move around a whole lot on their own.  

           The home crowd will give you an extra edge in close games.      

  The fact that there 
 doesn't seem to be any way to display player names or numbers below the player is another issue. 
 Unless you enjoy chucking up three-pointers with your brick-laying power forward or non-shooting 
 center, you'll have to memorize every player's number and position, then check the players' jerseys 
 to find out who you're controlling. Users playing on a non-high-definition screen really get the 
 short end of the stick here because it's nearly impossible to read jersey numbers on a standard-definition 
 display. While it may seem that the number of negatives outweighs the positives with regards to 
 the gameplay, there's still fun to be had -- you just have to be willing to look the other way when 
 bad stuff happens.  

  Most of the changes that have been made to the dynasty mode -- where you have complete control over 
 the basketball program of your choosing -- are cosmetic, but they go a long way toward making the 
 experience more enjoyable. The overall look and feel is reminiscent of NCAA Football 08. Not only 
 are the menus more attractive, but they're easier to navigate. All the latest news on team rankings, 
 scores, player awards, upsets, and more is available on the main screen. It just takes one button 
 press to check out alumni challenges, recruiting, stats, and other administrative options. Recruiting 
 involves little more than picking a few good players and then selecting a few scouting options 
 every week. But the ability to search for players by their home state, position, ability, height, 
 and even interest in your school is nice and really streamlines the process.  

  It's too bad, then, that there are a few major issues that really hurt the mode's values for hardcore 
 fans. Once again, teams don't have their real schedules, and while you can customize them to an 
 extent, you can't get them exactly right. EA has all the NCAA license rights, so it's puzzling 
 that this happened again. There also doesn't appear to be any way to change the length of simulated 
 games, which will be a larger issue for those who enjoy a realistic simulation. This means that 
 unless you're playing 15 to 20 minute halves, your statistics simply aren't going to mesh with 
 everyone else's. Not only is this annoying, but it makes it nearly impossible to get a player named 
 an All-American and it makes some of the alumni goals, such as getting a quadruple-double or scoring 
 100 points, unattainable. It's a shame that a few, seemingly easy-to-correct problems bring an 
 otherwise solid mode down.  

  March Madness 08's presentation hasn't changed a whole lot since last year. The player models are 
 still top-notch, and there are lots of great-looking animations, though the transition from one 
 to the next is often poor. The visuals are able to convey a lot of personality thanks to rowdy, 
 sign-holding fans, cheerleaders, mascots, and even players that can interact with them from time 
 to time. It never gets old seeing one of your players run off the court to dance with the cheerleaders 
 after a big play. As has been the case with many of EA's sports games, PS3 owners get hosed when 
 it comes to the visuals. Not only is there a lot more aliasing in the PS3 version, but the frame 
 rate is pitiful -- stuttering and stammering from the opening tip to the final buzzer. It's a huge 
 problem, and one that makes the game significantly less enjoyable.  

           A new interface goes a long way toward improving the dynasty mode. It's too bad there 
 aren't real team schedules, though.      

  Other than the addition of Erin Andrews (voice only) as a generally competent sideline reporter, 
 the audio is unchanged. If you hate Dick Vitale in real life, you'll hate him here, but he and 
 Brad Nessler do a solid job of calling the action. There are occasionally some long bits of silence, 
 and from time to time, the duo will blurt out something that has nothing to do with what's actually 
 happening on the court. But generally, Vitale and Nessler are on-point, as well as a key part of 
 the game's ability to recreate the atmosphere of a college basketball game.  

  You can't argue with the results of EA's focus on revamping 08's post play, and some people will 
 really dig the inclusion of a large number of classic teams (with short shorts) , but it's really 
 a shame the developer didn't spend a little more time addressing the little nagging issues. These 
 are what's keeping the game from reaching its full potential. If you're the forgiving type, not 
 worried about real schedules or accurate statistics, and willing to look past a few annoying gameplay 
 quirks, you'll probably have a good time with the game, but it's hard to recommend to hardcore 
 hoopsters.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Whiteghost09
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm a sports fan. Big time. I love college sports, and I love basketball (but I hate the 
 NBA) . So, since I buy NCAA FB and Madden every year, sort of as a tradition, I decided to start 
 buying MM every year. While I am really impressed with the menus, recruiting, and dynasty mode 
 in general, the gameplay itself has some flaws. 
  
  For one, the physics are awful. Not just the ball physics, the player physics are abysmal, too. 
 Sometimes when you use the new post control and fake your defender out (then pressing X to put 
 in an easy shot) , your player will leap flat-footed about 8 feet for a huge slam. The players often 
 look like they're feet kinda slide on the floor, or like they're feet aren't moving fast enough 
 to keep up with their bodies. This make them look awkward when moving around on the court. The 
 ball sometimes moves REALLY fast through the air when you pass it, sometimes it moves slow. Also, 
 its virtually impossible to steal the ball or block a shot. Besides those graphical issues, the 
 gameplay is actually quite realistic, and you get some very realistic stats when playing 20 minute 
 halfs (it just looks bad) . The only other gripe I have is that a lot of arenas aren't in the game, 
 even those in power conferences (like the Big Ten) .
  
  Outside of the gameplay, the game is really good. Recruiting is just the right difficulty level, 
 thanks in some part to easily navigable menus, which are present in all facets of the game. I really 
 like the alumni challenges, which allow you to upgrade facilities, which in turn affect recruiting 
 and player attributes. The schedules aren't accurate, but I don't mind that too much. 
  
  All in all, if you don't mind some bad physics, then you'll get a lot of enjoyment out of MM08. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NovaSky
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  EA hasn't been on fire lately and lets face it, without the recent success of Madden and NHL 08 
 they would've have gone completely downhill. I review this game for two reasons, one because like 
 everyone before 2k, I was once a EA fan and two because I have faith in this series unlike NBA 
 Live. 
  
  For the past couple of years everyone has been quick to disown EA's Live and March Madness series 
 because of the bad gameplay and non-realism. Suffice to say, that problem is still here in MM 08. 
 While the offense has undergone some improvements, the defense still lacks in many ways. One, the 
 lock-down stick as EA calls it, is flawed, in that even when you are locked on it is very easy 
 for the computer, more or less a real opponent to get past you easily. Even if you're good at controlling 
 the movements, it is easy for you're player to be left in the dust, literally. This can be frustrating 
 when you're opponent is running a fast break as one simple crossover can take you're players out 
 of the play. Free throws are also still a problem as the camera can be pretty annoying being so 
 it's a down-up mechanic as opposed to 2K8's down-then release. Also there are only four real game 
 modes in MM 08, that being dynasty, tournament, online and the regular play now. 
  
  The strongest part of MM 08 is the dynasty mode. To be completely honest, it's stronger than 2K8 
 for a few reasons. In MM 08 you actually feel like you have something to fight for, as opposed 
 to 2K8 where you just trying to go to a better school. Here you can upgrade your facilities, rename 
 streets on your campus and do everything to improve your players four, or if you have really good 
 players, one or two years there. This alone makes playing the dynasty mode fun as it gives you 
 a goal that takes a little time to unlock everything. The addition of ESPN U also adds nice presentation 
 to 2K8 sometimes, dull screens. 
  
  Graphics, well, yeah nothing much to talk about here. The players are all right, and the cheerleaders, 
 band, and most of the fans within the first three rows look fine. It's everything after that that 
 makes the game feel like a port from the original Xbox. I mean come on people, we paid all this 
 money for a next-gen experience, get with the program. 
  
  In all this game is worth it if you wanna have more fun in the actual dynasty mode, and if you 
 want to use the all-time teams, but besides that, nothings new from last year. Here's to hoping 
 that the dance is a little better next year. 
  
  -NovaSky 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mysterious
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  It's been a while since EA Sports has done a good College basketball game. And this year, they 
 seem to be going in the right direction. Even with minor faults, this game delivers a great and 
 fun experience.
  
  One thing the average gamer will notice is the stunning graphics, player models even for a college 
 game, are given remarkable real life-like details. From hair, eyes, to skin textures. This game 
 is a stunning game to look at. Another thing you will notice is the televised feel of it, while 
 in the stadiums, crowds and bands going crazy. Too actually chants and songs be sang while time 
 outs are called, or during play when the home team is on a roll. 
  
  Gameplay out the box is very good, but on the slow side, this is where the developers stepped up, 
 and gave us a lot of sliders to work with on tweaking the gameplay to our likings. It does fix 
 a lot of things; only thing that is fixable is the ball physics, which are sometimes just wrong 
 during bouncing and crossing over. Play movement seems sluggish at first, but when I little tweak 
 here and there, it's extremely fluid.
  
  Dynasty mode is a nice update from last year's game as well. With an all new custom schedule feature 
 and many more custom options during setting up your teams objectives for your year! From realistic 
 email systems, to recruiting, it gives you so many options this year. And I'm glad to say, that's 
 it's the deepest in any sports video game as far as College Sports and Basketball.
  
  If you are use to College Hoops, then that's fine. CH 2k8 is a great game as well, a lot of nice 
 gameplay modes this year. Along with fantastic gameplay out the box. March Madness with is slowed 
 down gameplay, is looking to be more of a simulation basketball game. Now with a better paced ball 
 moving level. And you now have to make smart decisions and smart substitutions.
  
  The downfall to all these great things are, you have too many limitations during editing the players, 
 there is a major glitch to the faces when editing, where you nose or chin will constantly mess 
 up. There are no knee pads or elbow pads or arm sleeves. The shoes on players are outdated. And 
 tattoo's can only be put on your biceps and forearms. No shoulders, legs or nothing. Also no real 
 schedules and you can use your custom rosters with real names online.
  
  Speaking of online, as long as you don't play in the beginners lobby, you'll be ok. East, West 
 and all the other lobbies, have extraordinary speed levels. This gives you smooth and excellent 
 gameplay online. 
  
  Overall this game is great, and it's my #1 choice this year in the College Basketball Purchase. 
 Its more fun than College Hoops, looks 20x better than College Hoops, and with slider tweaks, its 
 plays just as good as College Hoops.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: geezbob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  The difficulty levels suit every player and the Dynasty mode has been greatly expanded. There is, 
 however, a lack of different modes. There are only 5 different types of play. The Dynasty mode 
 is improved from last year, though they do not provide actual schedules. The development system 
 for your campus gives you a reason to play well. The new simulation system is a great way to skip 
 easy games. The player names do not transfer into the Dynasty modes, so if you put them in the 
 game or download them, you'll just have to replace them again for your Dynasty. The new recruiting 
 system is great and it is better than the system for NCAA Football 08. The new post control is 
 great and the AI adapts to make you improve your game. The Intensity meter really helps you build 
 the crowd and your teammates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  For the most the part this game is fun to play. However there are so many things that could of 
 been done better.
  
  The player graphics are so-so, I've seen better. The crowd animation I thought was poor. Seeing 
 groups of people in the crowd that look exactly the same and then make some kind of move simultaneously 
 really detracts from the realism. You can sometimes see this in the players, if the computer loses 
 you will see all their plays throw their hands up at exactly the same time.
  
  Playing the basketball game itself is pretty good, though the free throw mechanism is not as good 
 as the 2K series. One thing I found odd is that the game actually prevents you from jumping in 
 front of the computer opponent that is trying to inbound the ball. That's just stupid.
  The announcers are good and are not annoying. They are a little repetitive like most video games, 
 but some of the comments they make are suprisingly accurate in regards to what is going on. The 
 only thing I didn't like about the announcers is that there are none when you play at a small school. 
 Then you just hear the arena announcer in the background.
  
  The game certainly could of been better, but I don't regret buying it either. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
