-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NCAA Football 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/ncaafootball08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Super sim is a great way to skip the boring stuff so you can do more of the cool stuff.
 The shrine, trophies, and highlights are nice new additions.
 Running the option is always fun.
 Controls offer a lot of depth but aren't overly complicated.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Way too many turnovers.
 College atmosphere is somewhat lacking.
 Recruiting and campus legend options are a nice start but lack depth.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.2, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 2,261 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Jul 17, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even though a lot of what's new is a bit rough around the edges, NCAA Football 08 is a great game 
 with a lot to offer. 

  NCAA Football 07 was a great game but it suffered from many of the same problems that other series 
 experienced in their transition from one generation of consoles to the next, most notably a lack 
 of game modes and features. That's not a problem in NCAA Football 08. Even if the presentation 
 is largely unchanged, there's no shortage of ways to stay occupied. The new campus legend mode 
 and super sim are also nice additions to an already great-playing game.  

           Running the option never gets old.      

  Last year's relatively light list of game 
 modes is a thing of the past. You can play a quick game, hop online for an unranked or ranked game, 
 play a few minigames, take over a college program in dynasty mode, or try to become an all-time 
 great player in campus legend mode. NCAA 08's minigames are the same as 07's minigames. Tug-of-war, 
 bowling, and option dash are a lot of fun if you didn't play them to death last year, but it would 
 have been nice to have something new.  

  Online play is OK, but lag makes it consistently difficult to tackle and kick. Though online play 
 and minigames are underwhelming, the rest of the game modes make up for the underwhelming parts. 
 If you're online, you can use the new Weather Channel feature to play in the same weather as the 
 real stadium in which you're currently playing. You could always change the weather on your own 
 before, but this is a cool addition especially because playing in rain and snow really affects 
 how players move more than ever.  

  At first glance, dynasty mode isn't terribly different from last year's mode. You still pick a 
 school (you can't create your own) , set your lineup, adjust your schedule, and try to lead your 
 team to a national championship or win as many games as possible so you can earn offers from a 
 more prestigious school. To find success on the field, you'll need to work hard off the field recruiting, 
 and this is where you'll notice the biggest change to dynasty mode.  

  Recruiting now has a lot more of a hands-on feel to it. You select 35 players to focus your efforts 
 on, rank them, and then call them on the phone to establish a relationship. Once you've got them 
 on the phone, you choose from a variety of topics to discuss with your recruit. You can talk about 
 your school's fans, TV coverage, athletic facilities, tradition, and more. Your school is ranked 
 in each category, so you'll want to pick your program's strengths and hope they match the interests 
 of your player. If he's feeling your pitch, a football icon at the top of the screen will smile; 
 if you're not on the same wavelength, the icon will frown, and eventually, the player will hang 
 up on you.  

  Once you've garnered significant interest from the recruit, you can schedule a campus visit and 
 up to three activities during the visit. You'll want to pick the things the recruit is most interested 
 in, which is why you should find out what the player feels is important about his college experience 
 when you've got him on the phone. But you've only got 10 hours per week to talk, and each pitch 
 you select takes several minutes off the clock, so you'll need to budget your time wisely. You 
 can offer a scholarship at any time, which the player can accept right away, mull over, or reject 
 based on his interest level.  

  If you're having a hard time nailing down a commitment, you can make promises to the player. This 
 option is only available in the offseason and lets you promise playing time, personal accolades, 
 or even championships to the player. If you make good on a promise, your integrity rating goes 
 up and you're given access to more promises. If you fail to keep your promise, your integrity goes 
 down and your promises won't carry much weight. This new recruiting system is a lot of fun for 
 a while, and you really feel like your decisions are affecting each player's interest in your school. 
 But by the end of the first season, you'll start to notice that you're just doing the same thing 
 over with each player, and that yapping on the phone with 35 players is rather time consuming. 

           It takes a lot of work to build a college football dynasty.      

  If you're not in the mood to take the reins of an entire program, you can create a high school 
 player in campus legend mode. Once you've picked your position and school, you'll find yourself 
 in your state's playoffs. You've got extra incentive to win and play well because scouts are at 
 each game rating your performance. When the playoffs are over, you're presented with a list of 
 schools that are interested in your services, as well as where you rank on their depth chart. At 
 first, you're not going to be a starter at a top-25 school. To move up the depth chart, you'll 
 have to attend practice. Here, you're given 10 reps and you earn points for successful plays. When 
 you've got enough points, you'll move up on the depth chart.  

  This might sound like a lot of work, but even if you're the fifth-ranked player at a position, 
 you can take the starting spot in a matter of weeks, and once the job is yours, you can't lose 
 it. Not only will you have to attend practice, but you'll also have to make decisions on how to 
 spend your free time. These choices are presented in a "choose your own adventure" format. You 
 will have you decide what to eat, whether or not to play darts, how long to study, and when to 
 hang out with your friends. If you make a good decision, you'll often be rewarded with attribute 
 boosts, but if you choose poorly, you can find yourself with bad grades or even injured. This is 
 an interesting concept, but you never know what the "right" decision is, and many of the situations 
 are just plain goofy (like when you burn your hand frying pickles) .  

  Thankfully, actually playing in games makes up for the somewhat uninteresting time between them. 
 You'll only play when your player is on the field, which is nice because you can breeze through 
 games in no time at all. Because you're the player and not the coach, you might not get the ball 
 every time, but it's always fun to get it through a key block that springs another player for a 
 touchdown. The camera focuses on your player, and while it does a decent job of keeping up with 
 you, it often doesn't show enough of the field around you, which is frustrating when it causes 
 you to run into a defender just offscreen.     

  The game's action on the field during regular game modes, such as exhibition and dynasty, doesn't 
 feel much different from last year. For the most part, this is a good thing. The controls are tight, 
 and it's easy to quickly adjust your defense or call hot routes on offense thanks to clever use 
 of both analog sticks. The right analog stick is also used to nice effect during plays. On offense, 
 you can flick the stick to juke and use it to go high or low to deliver bone-crushing big hits. 
 The game moves at just the right speed; not too fast and not too slow. One of the best things about 
 playing college football games is running the option, and NCAA 08 does it well. However, quarterbacks 
 almost never make a bad pitch, even when they're being hit by two players and flinging the ball 
 backward over their shoulder.  

           Hold on tight to the ball because there are enough turnovers without you being careless. 
     But you'll come to appreciate this because there are so many other ways to turn the ball over. 
 Even with gameplay sliders changed to prevent them, there are an inordinate amount of fumbles and 
 interceptions -- sometimes as many as 10 per game with five minute quarters. Raising the difficulty 
 to Heisman alleviates this problem a bit, but most people aren't good enough to play on this setting, 
 so it's little consolation for the average Joe who's frustrated by turnovers.  

  The playbooks are deep, but because you can pick plays based on Lee Corso's recommendation, play 
 type, and formation, it's not too tough to navigate. It's not quite as easy on defense, but it's 
 still not bad. If you dig deep enough into the playbook, you'll find that trick plays have been 
 added this year. Like play action, these trick plays stand a decent chance of working against a 
 human opponent but are worthless against the CPU.  

  The biggest change to how the game plays actually has to do with how it lets you  not  play. At 
 any point during the game, you can choose the super sim option and skip a single play, an entire 
 possession, quarter, or game. If you choose to simulate more than one play, you can interrupt at 
 any time should things start to go poorly. This is a fantastic option for people who don't like 
 playing defense (or offense) , as well as those who want to skip the end of blowouts. It's also 
 great for people who enjoy playing multiple years of dynasty mode, but who don't necessarily want 
 to simulate an entire game or play every snap of every game either.  

  Visually, NCAA 08 doesn't look much different from last year, which includes the obnoxious sponsor 
 logos that stick out like sore thumbs. There are more stadiums included this time around. While 
 there are some inaccuracies here and there, the stadiums look great. The stands are packed with 
 rabid fans, and mascots still patrol the sidelines. But it's what's not here that makes NCAA 08 
 feel a lot like a pro game; namely referees, marching bands, fans with signs or painted faces, 
 and cheerleaders that detract from the college football feel.  

  Other than some nasty clipping issues, the players look great. There are a wide variety of body 
 types, so it's easy to tell the difference between a running back, offensive lineman, and tight 
 end. But even more impressive than how they look is how the players move. Player animation is outstanding, 
 and you'll be seeing moves for the first time a dozen games into your first season. Running backs 
 will slink through the grasp of would-be tacklers; defensive players will team up for vicious gang 
 tackles; and wide receivers will leap, snag the ball with one hand then crash to the ground. Thanks 
 to a faster, smoother frame rate and better-looking player shadows, the 360 version of the game 
 gets the nod over the PS3, which struggles to run smoothly even at half the frame rate.  

  The main menu screen is home to the biggest change in the game's presentation this year. The background 
 screen is your school's trophy room, complete with trophy cases, video screens, and banners. You 
 can fill this shrine by winning titles, individual player awards, and rivalry games. Each trophy 
 is re-created with a detailed 3D model that you can view from all angles while Chris Fowler gives 
 you a bit of history about the trophy. The main video screen shows in-game highlights that can 
 be saved at any point during a game, and the screens on either side show still photos that are 
 acquired the same way. The trophies and highlight reels are a cool way to remember great plays 
 from the past, as well as a welcome addition to the series.  

  Did you like how last year's game sounded? If you did, and you weren't sick of the commentary from 
 Lee Corso, Kirk Herbstreit, and Brad Nessler, you'll like how 08 sounds because it's pretty much 
 the same. The trio has nice chemistry and offers a bit of in-depth analysis, though they do get 
 behind from time to time, particularly during punts. Corso's goofiness has also been toned down 
 a bit. This means you're less likely to hear him repeat his goofy sayings, but his goofy sayings 
 are kind of his appeal, so it's a bit of a Catch 22. As usual, the fight songs in the game sound 
 great, though you might go insane by the time you hear your school's fight song for the 200th time. 

           The stadiums look great, but the game's atmosphere is still lacking.      

  Almost across the board, the new content EA added to NCAA Football 08 makes it a better game than 
 last year. The ability to sim all or portions of a game at any time is fantastic and feels like 
 such a no-brainer you may wonder why it didn't happen before 2007. Campus legend mode is fun, even 
 if it is a bit shallow, as is the recruiting, which could be great if it were fleshed out a little 
 more. It's also cool to be able to check out your highlights and trophies in your school's shrine. 

  While these additions are welcome, it feels like EA skimped a bit on the stuff that happens after 
 the kickoff. The in-game presentation doesn't have much of a college football feel to it, and the 
 amount of turnovers will likely frustrate many hardcore fans. But even with these issues, NCAA 
 Football 08 is a great game and another step in the right direction for the franchise.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (176 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rime123321
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  I found this game in gamestop for 12 bucks and I was looking for a sports game so I said why not 
 pick this one up? I did and when I got home and started to play and get used to the controls, These 
 are all the ups and downs I noticed. A lot of interceptions sometimes you are lucky that you catch 
 the ball without it being intercepted because the computers end up doing just the right plays every 
 single time. And if your a big college fan you might not like this one much because it does not 
 feature the players name on their jersey it says stuff like n#524. But I thought it was not a big 
 deal because I don't watch college football. Like on the back it says smoothest gameplay ever and 
 that is true its pretty smooth for a sports game. And if you are looking for about a nice 500 gamerpoints 
 within a day of gameplay pick this up for 12 bucks. I got like half the achievments by playing 
 3 quick play matches with my friend. But overall it was good and the mini games were fun but not 
 many people play online anymore so if your looking for a challenge don't get this. Overall I liked 
 it and any sports fan probably would. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatinG187
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  NCAA Football 08 actually improves on what was wrong with NCAA 07. Being able to edit player equipment 
 may not be a big deal but it's one of those small things that adds to the game in my opinion. Graphics 
 look very nice compared to last year. Gameplay is solid, the highlight stick, hit stick all work 
 very well.
  
  The dynasty mode hasn't really changed but still fun to play and build your team over the years 
 with recruiting. Online was tight, didnt really experience much lag or disconnects when I played. 
 Some of the trick plays are pretty cool but some just are designed to lose 10 yards every time 
 you run it.
  
  NCAA 08 is another step in the right direction for the series and I'd recommend this game to any 
 fan of the NCAA series or if you just love college football. This game was a lot of fun playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtafanman89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  NCAA 08 is about as good as college football games get. Earning gamerscore points is too simple 
 considering you can tweak every aspect of the game. Definitely consider picking this one up if 
 you want X-BOX points and fast. The fan crowds are lame as well considering every other five or 
 so Sims are the same, and the subs on the sideline all look alike too. Game play though is an absolute 
 pleaser I couldn't expect anything more from a football game besides just a few miniscule things. 
 What I missed in this game was first-person mode which can always be charming. Multiplayer and 
 Live mode reigns supreme in NCAA 08 Football for any console in the football game universe in my 
 opinion. You should pick this one up. I wasn't even a fan of football till I picked up NFL 2K5 
 a few years ago. Games like NCAA 08 just perpetuate my football passion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phil1472
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-
  
  If your familiar with previous NCAA titles or Madden titles the gameplay should be familiar. They've 
 done a good job with the option this year the staple of college football. NCAA 08 has also incorporated 
 several new trick plays to add to the excitment and strategy of the game. Although lots has been 
 done to reduce the amount of high percentage plays that seem to work most of the time you call 
 them, any veteran of EA's football branch should have no problem picking up the game 
  and having enough experience to carry a team to one of the many bowl games available.
  
  Features- 
 
  
  Campus legend feature allows you to start your football career in a high school tournament to build 
 stats and then guide him through his NCAA career. Theres nothing really special about this feature 
 but its a nice option to the dynasty mode.
  You have a huge trophy room at your main screen wich displays all trophis acquired and saved replays 
 of your best plays playiing on a loop on a large flatscreen tv.
  The recruiting phase at the end of every season is a good feature if you like to micromanage as 
 much as possible and take the game to a new level. Theres is lots to do in the recruiting phase.
 
  
  Graphics/Sound-
  
  NCAA 08 uses bright colours to keep the game from feeling stale. Excellent new tackling look, some 
 hits actually look painful. They did a good job putting in all the different school stadiums. Like 
 any other football game before it the commentary is ridiculously annoying. Good sound effects for 
 hits and blocks.
  
  Multiplayer-
  
  NCAA is a xbox live game. They provide weekly, monthly, yearly and overall standings.
  
  Achievements-
 
  
  NCAA 08 has a good set of achievements of moderate difficulty. To get all achievements you will 
 become familiar with every aspect of the game. The hardest achievement is to get the player interception 
 record in a game which is 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dropster33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  NCAA Football 08
  
  was not the top game in the series needed more updates from 07 to 08. but that does not make it 
 a bad game the quality of the game was an A+ but that dosent make it perfect. sometimes when your 
 playing the game looks so face the way players move and make cuts.
  
  on the otherside..... the games campus legend mode they make you feel like you are the player. 
 In this mode you controle only the one player that you have created and the coach calls all the 
 plays. In dynasty mode you have a very deep recruiting process that allows u to make phone calls 
 to prospects. other than that dynasty mode has not changed. Another added on feature is the mini 
 games bringing back option dash and having two new games called bowling and tug of war. the achivements 
 for this game are very easy and only require minimal effort. I still recommend this game to all 
 sports gamers!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrfaanHafeez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  NCAA 08 is a great game. But it still needs to know what to include and what to throw away. I am 
 pissed off at how desolate the field looks. The gameplay is gay but it seems like you dont have 
 as much freedom with your player. The game is still fun to play but if they fixed things like the 
 momentum meter, the sports classes in campus legend, etc. it would be a game that would be in every 
 football loving household. The many bads in the game is outweighed a little by the superb dynasty 
 mode that has kept the good and threw out the bad. The all new dynasty recruitment is a great add 
 that is a great reason to play this game. the campus legend improvement was also good but taking 
 some of the stuff away from it was crap. The only thing you can do is practice and play game its 
 pretty bare bones. Also there should be a set level for campus legend thats not too hard or to 
 easy because that made the legend mode in this not that entertaining. Also once you export your 
 player to Madden you dont get anything there either. Overall it has some bad things with it but 
 the Dynasty mode makes it a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DawgcityClev
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  All you idiots do, is delete features from already loaded games, and call yourselve *INNOVATING* 
 or adding something new. You are a bunch of liars, and only care about stripping the pockets of 
 the dumb and blind. In 2010, we'll be playing NCAA Football 2006 from the ps2 full of all the old 
 features we've seen before. 
  
  Sick of the same nonsense from this company. No excuse not having Marching Bands, Referees, create-a-school, 
 and many other features in a Nex-Gen game. These morons are ridiculous, lazy, and aren't very good 
 at creating sim games.
  
  I continue to not be impressed by products EA releases. From Madden on down to NCAA Football, March 
 Madness and Live. They just aren't worth the money. I'd rather watch paint dry. Thanks goodness 
 for Companies that actually know how to UTILIZE a nex-gen console's power.
  
  Get a life EA Sports!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taj7575
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I chose this instead of madden 08 because it looked so exciting, even after the people at best 
 buy told me not to get it. I was so excited to get this. it looked great. campus legend was very 
 very fun. dynasty was amazing, everything was great.... but then this game got soooooooooooooo boring!!!!. 
 oh my, campus legend just makes you soooo bored its not even funny! dynasty was perfect, but its 
 the same repetitive BS over and over! recruiting gets so lame. 
  
  
  But the thing i just might hate about this.. the gameplay itself. it is soooo boring when ure playing. 
 the rival team is down by 40 points and the fans are going crazy! what the hell! and why the hell 
 would there be a packed house at a BAYLOR GAME? seriously... what happened? i mean, it will show 
 the fans boo but theyre still going crazy. and ur team looks like a bunch of idiots on the sideline 
 because theyre not even wearing the right helmets! there are no refs either, and all the penalties 
 are the same, clipping or holding... 
  
  And campus legend mode is sooo boring and overrated. the coach will call the same 10 plays the 
 rest of the game.
  
  the graphics are average.
  
  no D-1AA teams? what the hell?
  
  Last time i check, Appalacian state beat michigan 34 to 32, not FCS southeast got blown out by 
 michigan 115 to 0.
  
  
  Thanks for reading and i hope you loved my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brendangagain
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that I am quite impressed with NCAA Football so far. There are many different features 
 that I have come to like that are on NCAA and not Madden. The campus legend mode has far exceeded 
 my expectations by being able create and customize your legend player, playing through your high 
 school playoffs, selecting with college team you would like to play for, and becoming a campus 
 legend.
  
  When you create your legend you will find that many customization options are vital to your players 
 success both in high school and college. When you create you player you will want to put him in 
 a state that is known for football because more scouts will go to watch. For example if you put 
 your legend in Alaska you might get only a few top ranked teams. If you put you legend in Georgia 
 or California you will get a majority of top ranked scouts watching your games. 
  
  How you preform in the playoffs will either make or brake you. Once you finish your high school 
 career you will have the option to select which college you want to go to. You may want to go to 
 USC who is ranked #1 and be 5th string, or you may want to go to a lower ranked team or even a 
 unranked team to be 1st string.
  
  Once you pick your college your typical day consists of three tasks: class, practice, and night 
 events. When you start your day it automatically simulates your class. If you are a starter you 
 don't need to attend practice but if your a backup you might want to go to practice to gain point 
 so you can eventually become 1st string. The night events can be a big help when Sunday rolls around. 
 When you enter your night event it will have a scenario and you will be able to pick from two options. 
 Each option you pick will have a different outcome.
  
  After you finish your senior year of college you can choose to go pro and upload your campus legend 
 to Madden 08 to enter the rookie draft. From here on you play in Madden Superstar mode which is 
 identical to campus legend.
  
  Overall I would have to rate this game a 9.0 for ground breaking graphics/game-play, smooth online 
 play, and the new and improved campus legend mode.
  
  Brendan
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  I LOVED the college football games on the original Xbox. I spent way too much time in the dynasty 
 mode and even changing tons of player names to match their real-life counterparts. I found the 
 game to be very addicting, loved the recruiting aspect, had a blast playing with classic teams 
 and players, etc. Then the 'next-gen' versions came out......
  
  Now granted, last year's game was a disappointment to most people. It really wasn't to me though. 
 I have been relegated to the fact that EA wasn't going to give us much new content in their first 
 installment of the NCAA Football franchise on the 360. Especially after seeing what Madden got. 
 So I had fun with last year's game, even though I knew I was getting robbed of $10 extra dollars 
 for a game that had LESS features than the original Xbox version, albeit with much nicer visuals.
 
  
  But with this year's release, I was expecting much more. And of course, EA didn't live up to that 
 expectation. The dynasty mode is still the best in the business. And the new recruiting features 
 are nice, even if they are a bit of fluff and lacking in any real depth. But if you combine what 
 actually happens ON the field and the lack of enhancements to the game OFF the field, this game 
 is a rehash.
  
  The game plays pretty much like last year's game. While it's still a fun game, I would have hoped 
 some of the annoyances would have been fixed. There are still FAR too many turnovers. The offensive 
 line play is atrocious. Scrambling QB's are still too 'overpowered'. The game still stutters and 
 has some framerate issues. The new feature that lets you get snapshots and little clips of your 
 highlights is pure fluff. And the game didn't get any sort of visual upgrade, which is becoming 
 par-for-the-course in EA's football titles.
  
  Like the Superstar Mode in Madden, the Campus Legend mode just isn't all that fun and needs some 
 major tweaking. Like in previous years, most of my time spent with this game was in the dynasty 
 mode. But like I said earlier, there isn't much here you haven't seen before. And I don't know 
 why EA decides to shaft us by not inserting the classic teams and players. I also don't know why 
 EA doesn't get the excellent trio of announcers from ESPN to record some new lines. A lot of what 
 they say has been recycled from games that were on the original Xbox. And where is the college 
 football atmosphere and feel? That is one of the main draws to watch the college game! It's mostly 
 absent here in this game.
  
  If you purchased last year's game, I wouldn't slap another $60 down on this one. You could just 
 play the game you already own and you wouldn't be missing much. Unfortunately, the same curse that 
 has infected the Madden series has found it's way in the NCAA titles. I think it's time, we as 
 consumers, send a message to EA and not just purchase their games every year just because we are 
 used to doing it and there is no other college football game out there. I am not buying another 
 game in this series until EA figures out that we deserve new content that isn't just crappy fluff. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slick022
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game I started out in the "Campus Legend" mode, it really wasn't 
 too bad, as long as you were a QB, that is. I couldn't imagine being a RB or WR, you would have 
 no control whatsoever, which is the way it really is out on the gridiron. After a few frustrating 
 games of cursing the horrible play calling, I finally decided to crank up a Dynasty. This is the 
 point where I fell in love with this game. The recruiting aspect is one that I thouroughly enjoy. 
 Picking players that will fit your scheme, setting up campus visits, setting up in home visits, 
 finding out which pitches work for which players, and best of all, stealing 5 star prospects from 
 the big name schools. I love it. The game play is everything you woudl expect from EA and more, 
 it's pretty typical football controls, nothing real fancy. The commentary during the game has come 
 a long way, at times you forget you're playing the game instead of just watching it. Building the 
 Dynasty has to be the best part of this game. Campus ledgend is good, online play is average at 
 best (lag, lag, lag) but overall I think it's a pretty solid effort with definate possibilities 
 for the future. For a football fan I would absolutely recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerryr84057
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  A great game. Always a must have each year. I think this is EA s best NCAA game to date. Game flow 
 and speed are well done and the multi-player mode is as good as ever. i've read other reviews. 
 Some point out that there are alot of turnovers, to many for some. And there can be a few during 
 game play. But if your playing online multi-player and playing straight up no cheats, glitch's 
 or cheese the turnovers only level the playing field. The best part i think is EA has allowed the 
 defense to play. Not as easy to roll out those fast qb's and run them on ever play. And if you 
 do run around with your qb you just as well try to get that yard or 2 cause if you run around and 
 throw it up chances are it wont be your team that pulls it down. I rate this game a 9.0 and call 
 it a must have in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwjbd
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best college football games I've ever played. Its very easy to learn the controls. 
 Has fun online play with people throughout the country. Has good graphics for those who pay attention 
 to it. Fun for the whole family. The rivalries are so realistic its awesome. This like it is in 
 real life it comes with all the upsets. Has new features to the dynasty that make it exciting. 
 You can keep control of everything. You also can make a legend which allows you to start a player 
 from high school and play with him throughout the state playoffs then you can chose from all the 
 schools that offer you a scholarship. Very fun to do this. Can't wait for next year to see what 
 they do to keep the viewers happy and satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: senorpablo24
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Another very solid football game to come out for next gen systems, but nothing really stands out 
 to me as being unbelievable. The game is good, its fun to create your legend, and take him through 
 the college seasons. The set up of praticie and events to boost GPA and other attributes related 
 to football is clever. The news paper headlines are a fun to look at and it provides a solid presentation 
 for those moments when you're not playing. 
  
  Going through legend mode is a lot of fun, i especially like the high school football games at 
 the start. The crowd noise is pretty well done, mascots are prsent and you get a feel for the school 
 spiited. Rivarly games feel even more heated when your playing at home and your hear your crowd 
 getting pumped. 
  
  The actaully game play itself is pretty good, its a typical ncaa/madden type game. The few annoying 
 things are the amount of fumbles. I understand these are college kids who aren't as good, but no 
 one fumbles the ball this many times. Also interception a lot of times the guys are really not 
 near the ball at all yet they manage to get it into their hands. Besides the turnovers everything 
 else is pretty solid.
  
  But as you can see I've repeated the game is solid and thats what you will get. Nothing is going 
 to jump out at you, it can be addicting, it is fun, and its worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steelers8694
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is not the best game out there but its still a great game. I dont like that i throw 7 
 interceptions a game but then when i turn the sliders to 0 and i throw 4 interceptions when the 
 slider is on 0 there should be no interceptions but its still great. I really like the Dynasty 
 Mode and the Campus Legend Mode now i have 3 highschool games to make my guy great or I can just 
 get a player whos already made. This game didnt live up to the hype but still great and a solid 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  NCAA 08 is a level up from last year and it has great gameplay and great Graphics. The best thing 
 about college football games are the variety of teams and all the gamemodes, Online is pretty sweet 
 and multiplayer is very fun. You can pick your favorite Fight songs and play them on your 360. 
 Mascott Mode is cool beacuse you can play as your favorite mascotts. all the other modes are really 
 cool. Overall the game is really good and if you are a die hard football fan you will love this 
 game I highly, highly highly highly recomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilitaly28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  Great setup from '07. New features and amazing graphics . This game really pulls its weight this 
 year. '07 was a disappointment, but '08 makes up for it. Amazing graphics and gameplay. Only problem 
 I have is with BCS rankings, teams will be ranked higher throughout the year when i am undefeated 
 and have played a harder schedule. That is probably my only complain. And i miss the door room 
 from race for heisman and players getting into trouble. Overall this is the best NCAA on Xbox 360 
 to date. I can only image what the years to come will have in store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammer242
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  NCAA Football 2008 is one of the most fun football games that Ive ever played. NCAA 08 has awesome 
 graphics and great gameplay with some flaws. One of the flaws include very slow gameplay. It seems 
 like some of the fastest guys on your team are practically walking. Another thing is all of the 
 players dont have there real names. Like Darren McFadden would be HB#5. So if you do want them to 
 have there real names you have to change them yourself. Other than that everything is perfect. I 
 loved that you could record plays when you return a kickoff or return an interception for a touchdown. I 
 also liked the unlockable trophies. But the best part of the game is the campus legend mode. I liked 
 that you start out in high school and can pick which school you can go to. Overall, one of my favorite 
 games for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerofallensk8er
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 28, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  every year nhl mlb ncaa fifi nfl w/e sports there are come out with nhl 05, 06 ,07 ,08 etc. etc. 
 etc. etc. there THE SAME EXACT GAME AS LAST YEAR!! dont buy ncaa 08! it is the same exact thing 
 other then legend mode but they ripped that off of maddens superstar... ooooooooooo u get to play 
 3 games in high school.. thats so awesome.. not... the only thing differint is the graphics and 
 sound,.. but thats pretty much given to them by better technology and consoles.... its so boring.. 
 dont waste your time on it... and OHHHHH YEA MUTLIPLAYER!! good god 1 out of 2 games u play lag 
 so bad its not even funny... and for some reason my game freezes almost all the time and i have 
 to turn my 360 off.. and guess what I get the bad rep QUITS GAME EARLY i have that at 20% because 
 of the crappy mutliplayer.. and if u dont find a laggy game and your winning.. they quit in the 
 4th quarter... DONT BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whiteghost09
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  After reading about the revamped recruiting system on this fabulous site, I set my mind on buying 
 the game the first day it came out. I started my dynasty and have now successfully played through 
 5 full seasons with the Purdue Boilermakers (BOILER UP!!!) . Let me tell ya folks, the new recruiting 
 system is fabulous. I love the system of targeting calling, and signing recruits in 08. However, 
 after about one year of recruiting, it can get VERY tedious. Although this can be avoided by simulating 
 some weeks of recruiting, a control freak like myself can sometimes get a little bored, making 
 up to 35 phonecalls a week. The offensive and defensive control are good and smooth, but their 
 are some major flaws. For instance, when playing defense and attempting to switch players for a 
 better angle, you end up switching to a defender that you did not expect. This has given up many, 
 many TDs for me in situations where their is only one man to beat. Also, the passing is extremely 
 frustratong until after about 6 months of playing and learning which routes and plays work and 
 which ones are simply unexecutable. In addition, there are WAY, WAY too many fumbles and turnovers. 
 Expect to throw at least 2 INTs and fumble at least twice every game until you get really good 
 at QBing, like me. One thing that helps you be a better Q is playing the campus legend mode (which 
 is perfect in every way, I might add) as a quarterback. Despite all this, the game is fun and playing 
 through dynasty and legend modes are quite satisfying. The supersim has been perfectly developed 
 by EA on their first attempt (which is very, very rare) and the play calling is easy for vets and 
 noobs. This game is good and worth 60$, but can be frustrating and is no where near a perfect game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dewAMP88
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, the detail is smooth and the graphics are fine. NCAA 08 is not as good looking 
 as Madden 08, but in my opinion, it is more true to actual game play than the 'Pro's' version.
 
  The playbooks are incredible! You have far more choices in your arsenal with this game.
  I know the rules of NCAA directors frown upon use of real player names (and I also know that you 
 can purchase actual rosters on memory cards at one of the most popular web auction sites) , but 
 I would like to see real names and lifelike player qualities built into this game. However, I consider 
 that flash . I can't decide whether I like FLASH or GAME PLAY as a preference.
  You can't go wrong buying this game though, even if you already have Madden. They are somewhat 
 similar in certain aspects, but completely different in gaming enjoyment!
  I recommend it.
  
  -dewAMP88 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djvenom_ox
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 6, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game would take me away from the last gen version forever...... whoops. This game 
 did a lot of stuff right but the amount of bugs in gameplay ruins the experience. (and i still 
 dont like how the players look stiff when they run. the last-gen version looks more realistic.) 
 and if you have a steve slaton type of player its un fair at how many broken tackles you can have. 
 They have also excluded challenging, d1 AA teams, and on the fly subs. They also took out too much 
 college atmosphere and shifts in momentum. This game doesnt give me a reason to play good head 
 to head football with friends on 360. Ill stik to ps2 this year once more. better luck in 09, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohslax33
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  If you took college basketball games, college baseball games, and college football games, and ranked 
 all of them on a scale of which ones were the best in any kind of order, this would take first 
 place on all of them. In NCAA 07 we missed out on the campus legend scenerio. Not only that alot 
 of the gameplay was focused around online multiplayer. Thats good but you take a game and focus 
 all your attention on one thing then things get left out. I. E. NCAA football 07. Not only did they 
 miss the campus legend mode in 07 they...... well no thats all they missed. NCAA 08 is one of the 
 greatest football games I ever played. This is a must own. No more to say. This is the best game 
 online and offline. Ever dream of being the QB and throwing that game winning touchdown in the 
 fourth quarter with no time on the clock and your team is down by 5 points aginst your rivalry 
 teams, now you can. But becarful cause if you party to much and dont focus on school you may ride 
 the bench or not play at all. Anyways Spend the money and OWN this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boosteeohs
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  Simply put, NCAA Football 08 will satisfy anyone looking for a great college football experience 
 on the 360. The game animations have been stepped up quite considerably this year. Now as you play, 
 you will notice a few things players do in the game that you haven't seen before. And these small 
 touches do a lot to help improve the experience as a whole. Now you'll see things like gang tackles, 
 and mid-air collisions. Last year's game was definitely short on game modes, and that has been 
 pretty much taken care of this year. Starting the game, you'll have several options as to what 
 you want to do. The Dynasty mode has been improved as far as recruiting mechanics and presentation. 
 I found myself putting several hours into a dynasty and really getting a rewarding experience from 
 it. Recruiting can seem a bit tedious, but when you land that five star recruit, it can be very 
 satisfying and in the end the work pays off. The online play is great fun. As you would expect. 
 The mini-games are enjoyable, and campus legend is good as well. I noticed the game had a lot less 
 teams then in previous years which may not mean much to some, but I like to use some smaller schools 
 sometimes like Portland state, and they weren't in it this year. Though they have been in the game 
 previously. There are a few flaws with the actual gameplay itself, for example, Interceptions and 
 Fumbles seem to happen much too often, but even despite some of the games issues, NCAA Football 
 08 is a great game and it makes a considerable improvement over last year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_theopolis
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  I get the NCAA FB every year and every year some nice new features are added but at the cost of 
 screwing up something else. This year's offering has more bugs in the game play than I recall seeing 
 in any version before it. I'm talking about lock ups during play for 10 seconds at a time often 
 screwing up your game play, foot balls that eratically roll around as if a magnet was under neath 
 the field, the commentary falling way behind the action as it happens, ridiculous frequency of 
 fumbles and interceptions, and various other little graphic flaws that all point to really sloppy 
 production by EA. I'm kind of surprised the game left the assembly line in it's current state. 
 If ANY version of Halo had these kinds of performance problems you'd never hear the end of it and 
 the masses would be irate. I'm pretty tolerant of things too and keep hoping the game will get 
 better, but the problems seen in this year's release just shouldn't exist these days especially 
 at $60 a pop. I don't think it's too much to ask to just deliver the basics of game play and if 
 I were EA I'd just put all the great re-inventing ideas on the shelf for a while and just start 
 back to the basics to deliver a fundamentally solid game first, THEN try to be creative about it. 
 I just hope EA still cares about these things and haven't become a giant, profit-guzzling recycling 
 machine that the accountants bank on selling every year just because they slap the current year 
 on the title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Widow360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I'm starting to like the NCAA Football games better then the Madden games. Why? Because i like 
 the recruiting of the players better then doing a draft. I just wished you could do stadium upgrades. 
 That would be cool. The game play on 08 is sweet. The passing game is right on. So is the running 
 game. I like how you can do clips of the game. The game book is great to. I really think they did 
 a great job on the making of NCAA Football 08. If you ain't played this game you need too. Because 
 it is one of the best football games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhody1976
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  Note to self: stop buying games made by EA. There is a good reason this company is getting such 
 a bad reputation: this game is not up to next gen standards. They've taken out options from previous, 
 old x-box titles... why?? so they can keep asking us to pay full price for a 'patch' every year. 
 I'm hoping my enjoyment level will go up with this game, but so far I'm very dissapointed: games 
 like bioshock show us what is really capable graphics wise with the 360 and expose how much better 
 looking this game could be if they got innovative. Instead, I'm playing a game where they think 
 changing the control scheme around and a few other minor changes are going to convince gamers like 
 me that I'm getting a good deal. I hate the standard control scheme and it's a pain in the rear 
 to go and change everything back to the way I'm familiar with (not only that, but I'm having difficulty 
 changing some ball carrier options like the juke) The frame rate is glitchy and locks up momentarily 
 between plays, and simple things like putting your name in during create a player are annoying 
 because the stick runs through the letters too quickly. I can't say enough how badly put together 
 this game is in relation to what we used to have. EA, count me out of your future products, I'm 
 done with you until I start hearing what will have to be great things about future games at this 
 point. Update: glitches continuing (game freezes for several seconds in single player) and there 
 is no way to change the duke stick. I'm giving up on this junk; the control scheme is pathetic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobtheflounder
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  This is my first next gen EA football game, but I've played numerous versions of Madden and NCAA 
 on the PS2 and XBOX and I was expecting this game to look much better than those versions. Unfortunately, 
 I was greatly disappointed when I first put in the game. Player models look decent and you can 
 see the difference between individual crowd members, but those same players and crowd members are 
 just copy and paste versions of every other person in the game. Overall, the stadiums and fields 
 look fine, but do not convey a true college football game which is a shame considering that is 
 the main selling point of this franchise. Is it so wrong for me to ask my home field crowd to NOT 
 cheer when the other team just scored? Seriously, they jump around and cheer no matter what is 
 going on. Oh, we're losing by two scores and the other team just scored another TD... sure, go ahead 
 and cheer you lousy bunch of traitors. Basically, I was incredibly underwhelmed by the look and 
 feel of the game even though I was watching it on my new 1080i HD TV. Graphics, however, are not 
 my major concern. The gameplay in NCAA is god awful. The players feel sluggish at best. The AI 
 is stupid. Players will run in the wrong direction, try to catch a ball with their back to the 
 QB, and flat out refuse to tackle someone directly in front of them. Interceptions are also far 
 too prevalent throughout the game on both sides. The computer also seems to never be penalized 
 for anything, they never call the wrong play for whatever defense I'm calling, and they seem to 
 have a huge knack for hurting my best players including my star RB in the season opener. These 
 complaints may seem trivial, but when coupled with incredibly annoying bugs and glitches it makes 
 the entire game a huge pain in the butt to play. Before EVERY play the game freezes for just a 
 second or two while the players line up. It does this at the end of EVERY play as well. The commentators 
 are always one or two plays behind in what they are saying. For example, you might hear They're 
 lining up for the extra point in a situation where I've already kicked the extra point, kicked 
 off the ball to the other team, and am watching the other team line up for their first down play 
 (glitchy freeze and all) . I love football and have gotten much enjoyment out of previous football 
 games from EA, but if this game is representative of next gen quality in sports games I might just 
 go plug in my old PS2 and play something better instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidcommons
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This game has some solid based gameplay and and potential for many a replay, great I think as the 
 trophy case starts to fill up..... until season three and guess what, it all goes to heck, the 
 stats all start to get messed up, and worst of all your trophy case suddenly empties? this and 
 several other bugs have ruined what was the best in the series of NCAA, what a pity EA didn't do 
 any pre release game testing. It's one of the pitfalls of Xbox live that companies can now do the 
 PC Game release dance, (grab your game and throw it in the market, skip to the bank with all the 
 cash, saunter back and work on the patch) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeYankee555
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  NCAA08 is the best version for the next gen console. The graphics are a step up from last years 
 version. Gameplay is smooth with 60 fps instead of 30 yea thats you PS3. Some of the features can 
 use a little work to make the game a little more fun , such as better pass accuracy to minimize 
 interceptions which can make things frustrating. Recuriting prospects can be fun but gets old soon. 
 You can let the CPU take control of your entire recruiting prospects but you can't get the results 
 you want. Dose a great job of getting the fans and stadiums of big and some of the smaller teams. 
 If you like a challenge try a couple of the achievements like 1 to 6 stars and of course Mr. February 
 . Overall this game is fun but needs some changes but don't over do it EA. I give it a 9 out of 
 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmoney5646
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  NCAA football 08 is head and shoulders above its next-gen predecessors. This game does many things 
 right. The game play is almost perfect but still with a few flaws. One in particular keeps bothering 
 me. When I or my opponent is tackled he will sometimes continue to run ( a very nice animation) 
 but another defender steps in and in a strange glitchy way changes the direction of the tackle. 
 I know this is a small gripe but it kills me everytime I see it, especially on the goaline. Dynasty 
 mode, for the most part, is spectacular. Although I think the black and white presentation is not 
 very appealing it has much to offer. You will spend a vast amount of time on recruiting, which 
 can be entertaining if you coach a good team, if not you get almost no one of value. They also 
 need to tighten up the screws on the espn. com feature which can be lacking in important information. 
 Another thing about recruiting is that it can get redundant quickly (I wish you could see their 
 attitude before you call them) . Overall NCAA football 08 is a satisfying experience. EA Sports 
 is so very close to perfection and it will be interesting to see what they bring to the table next 
 time out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LosDaddie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  First off, if you're a fan of college football, then you'll definitely enjoy this game. NCAA Football 
 08 does a great job of getting you excited about this upcoming season.
  
  The gameplay is solid and silky smooth due to the 60 frames-per-second. The graphics are good, 
 but not great. The audio is superb if you have a surround sound system.
  
  What NCAA Football 08 lacks is that extra bit-o-polish. Clipping is everywhere. There still isn't 
 the pre-game College Gameday show that is in the last-gen version. Nor are there the user-created 
 signs that fans hold up during the game. Also, there are no animations for the teams going to the 
 line. Basically, the presentation is lacking, which isn't a surprise for an EA Sports game.
  
  Campus Legend has been added, but I haven't played it yet. I'm not interested in creating a 
 recruit. I just want to play through my Noles' season and some online games.
  
  It took me about a week (or about 7 games) to get used to the improved AI and gameplay mechanics. 
 At first, I was throwing at least 3 INTs a game and struggling to average around 100yds with my 
 RB. After the first week, I got accustomed to how the game plays and was able to go 14-0 on All 
 American in my first season.
  
  I had to switch to USC's offensive playbook, but my offense really took-off after that. Now my 
 QB is regularly the Play of the Game and my RB averages over 100yds.
  
  So, while this game still needs an extra year of coaching, it's not to be missed by any college 
 football fan. If you just want a game to play through the season with your favorite team and to 
 play a few games online, then you won't be disappointed.
  
  Here's to hoping next year will be Heisman contender we've been waiting for.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpella44
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  NCAA 08 is an improvement over the previous year's version. The gameplay and animations seem to 
 be smoothed and expanded, which help to make the actual gameplay more enjoyable. Recruiting has 
 been expanded and will be highly addictive and in-depth for those who love to go thru the recruiting 
 process every year. Visually, the game seems to be identical to the prior version... which is disappointing. 
 Yet, most of all, I think the college atmosphere is severely lacking in NCAA 08. Crowds don't respond 
 w/ that sort of college noise/enthusiasm and the pre-game commentary is stale.
  
  I think that NCAA would be a good rent.... you know, play it each day before the real games take 
 place, play a friend, etc. But as far as owning it, I can't see myself doing that, as the game 
 is not addicting enough (at this point) for me to start up a dynasty and play it nearly every day. 
 That's why I'm going to pass again on NCAA 08 this year and go with a more solid 360 game in Madden 
 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: americansolsrfr
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  a lot better then last years.... very dissappointed that there was no crowd meter. there should 
 be a section or tab for the trick plays instead of having to look through the entire play book. 
 its not as choppy as last years but still has a certain lagg to it. the graphics are good but there 
 is still a lot of room for improvement. the crowd still looks fake. i really wish that it had a 
 momentum shift and the stadium pulse would have made this game really sweet and would of got a 
 better rating from me i was just really dissapointed that they did not include that from 06. another 
 thing they could of put in the game was the player moral like how it was in 06' that is still my 
 favorite college game..... they could also include more jerseys for the teams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trekker1303
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 12:19 am PT
Review:  Once again, EA Sports has brought us the yearly incarnation of their NCAA Football series and this 
 time, its actually an IMPROVEMENT over the previous year. Being a sports fanatic and a sports game 
 maniac, I have played every version of NCAA Football since 2000 (On the PSOne of all systems) and 
 this is easily the best version.
  
  First off, the graphics have been COMPLETELY overhauled since 2007. The gameplay is a lot smoother 
 and the transitions from playcalling menu to field view is almost seamless. Player animations are 
 smooth and are diverse, not just the same character copied and pasted over and over again. The 
 environments are detailed and the crowds show a little more independence in movement but its mostly 
 a giant mob still. One unique feature this year is the connection to Weather. com to give real time 
 conditions for games. This is really cool as you could play a game at your schools stadium with 
 real weather conditions, even if you live across the country.
  
  Gameplay modes are similar from last year but have some significant improvements. The mini-games 
 are back, and again bowling is the most difficult until you figure out the best play to run 12 
 times in a row. Campus Legend mode is interesting but does not have enough meat on it to be more 
 than a quickie play. After a few seasons, you just sim the rest and move on. Dynasty is even deeper 
 this year, with the additions in the recruiting section and overall appearance. Online is easy 
 to start up and play against someone but still feels tacked on.
  
  For those Achievement Whores out there, this game is probably an easy 700-800 points if you spend 
 a weekend on it. Some of the achievements take some time (like taking a one star team to a six 
 star team) but others are so easy, you could get 5-10 in just one Play Now game alone.
  
  Overall, a great addition to the NCAA Football series but there are (as always) some areas that 
 can be upgraded for next season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_harris
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  I know there are a lot of people complaining about fumbles and turnovers. I know there are a lot 
 of people that have had to adjust sliders or send their disgruntled comments onto this forum. But 
 I think this game is worth much more than what has been warranted so far.
  
  To begin, the AI is much improved. Defensive players respond quickly to threats. Running backs 
 bounce off defenders more realistically. QB's have to see the whole field better and not force 
 throws. Ball carriers need to cover up the football better before getting hit or stripped by a 
 defender from behind. All these things make the gameplay more realistic.
  
  The extra experiences in Legend Mode (my favorite) , aren't too bad either. It can be time consuming 
 to play all the practices and evening events, but I guess it gives you a good break from the action 
 of each week's game. There should be more here though. After a couple of week's worth of practice 
 and bicycling around campus, it starts to drag. Maybe showing a dorm room or frat visually would 
 have helped, but they're not here.
  
  The sounds of the game are okay, but I concur with others who say that the whole college feel is 
 thin. There isn't much going on around campus that you see or otherwise experience. Nice touches 
 like this can take a game over the top, in my opinion.
  
  The bottom line: EA gave themselves a transfusion of gameplay detail this year to help out all 
 of us spoiled football game players. We're complaining because things got tougher for us, but we'll 
 get used to it. Unless a great sink hole suddenly appears under EA's development facility, NCAA 
 '09 should be a groundbreaker. 4 out of 5 stars easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ugel1212
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Overall, I like the game. The highlight reel is cool, the solid Dynasty of last year is improved 
 to make it great, and the gameplay is very smooth. But what is up with the Campus Legend? If that's 
 what its like to be a college football player, im quitting football right now. You practice every 
 day, and have an evening event. You get your players skills up so you can really preform well during 
 the games, then what do you find? The game is 5 minutes long, you don't get to pick the plays, 
 you're not in every play, and you can't play defense. I quit Campus Legend halfway through my first 
 game, tried to give it another chance, then quit it again. If you are going to play this game, 
 just to quick play or Dynasty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidbusters
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  First, a quick, funny, criticism of myself and EA. For the past several years, I'd say about six 
 or so, I keep telling myself I will not buy another EA NCAA Football when it comes out. This is 
 because the basic look of the game stays pretty much the same, and the small changes here and there 
 aren't usually much to write home about, let alone spend $50-60+ on. Despite this, I keep on buying 
 the game, year after year. Why? A few very important reasons that I underestimate and take for 
 granted, right up until about June of each year, and then I run out to buy the game. Here's why:
 
  
  1) Accurate team rosters, down to size (s) , weights, abilities, etc. Yes, there are errors, but 
 I'd say the accuracy is 90-95% pretty dead on.
  
  2) Accurate team plays and strategies. Not easy to do, and yet, there you go - you have the playbooks 
 in your hands. They even make updates for some famous plays from the year before, such as the three 
 trick plays run by Boise State in their bowl game last year (check the gameguide posted here on 
 gamespot to get the details) . These three plays are at your disposal in 08. Very cool indeed, and 
 again, hats off to EA for good research and attention to accuracy and detail.
  
  3) All in all, you have a great ability to see into a crystal ball for the NCAA 08 season with 
 this game. The teams match up and simulate like the real thing - what more can you ask for? I'd 
 love more goodies in the graphics, details like cheerleaders and even some marching bands. I'd 
 love for them to bring back fun stuff from 2004 like the classic and famous games you can replay 
 in the last two minutes to see if you can either repeat or change history. I'd love for the Coaches 
 Challenge to be a good thing, one way or another (too little in the past, too much now) .
  
  If you are a fan of EA NASCAR (series) , like I am as well, you can appreciate that EA NCAA Football, 
 like NASCAR, is probably best described as a sim vs. a game. People expecting a fun race game with 
 NASCAR are disappointed because of how realistic it is. Although I'd love more thrills in graphics 
 and gameplay out of NCAA Football, at the end of the day, I know what I'm paying for - accuracy 
 in the player rosters, team playbooks and realism of team matchups. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HoldMyOwn40
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  The good: The fps on this game are insane. It runs very smooth during gameplay which is why i got 
 it on the 360 in the first place. Dynasty is solid as always, and campus legend has really been 
 upgraded with the ability to play in high school and earn your way into the college recruting clipboards.
 
  
  The bad: There are way to many bugs for this to be on shelves. The depth charts are a constant 
 mess, some of the promises in recruting don't hold true also. For example, the promise of solid 
 playing time doesn't work no matter if your freshman become an all-american and plays every down 
 of the year - he will still think he didn't get enough playing time and leave. And the last, and 
 most grumbled about, is the turnover bug. The fumbles and interceptions are ridiculious in this 
 game - but the only saving grace for this is that the adjustable sliders can help make this a quick 
 fix.
  
  Overall: I know my bad column is defintely bigger in this review, but most of those complaints 
 are small things that either can be ignored or fixed through game features. It is just annoying 
 that they are there in the first place. As for the game overall though, I would recommend it because 
 Dynasty mode wont let you down when your looking for an in depth experience of college football. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: licknawson3402
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 17, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  this is the worst college football game i have ever played, and i will probably never buy any EA 
 game again!!! EA can't seem to make any other type of good game except for Madden. When i first 
 got this game i was disappointed bc the alternative jerseys were'nt on here, and not to mention 
 xbox live gameplay is just horrible. This game was fun on previous consoles such as xbox and ps2, 
 but when it came to 360 everything that was good seemed to go away, which makes this game horrible 
 and not fun to play at all. If you haven't bought this game, i would recommend u to stay that way. 
 It will save you the frustration and help you save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-SPECTRE
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  NCAA 08 is a good game but, there are too many factors keeping it form being a great game. There 
 are way too many fumbles and interceptions. The Campus Legend mode was a nice addition and I thought 
 I would have to play a few seasons to fill my Legend Meter. Wrong! I only played one season and 
 only managed to accomplish half of the tasks. I had my choices right after high-school and choose 
 the highest ranked team that would let me start. I am a quarterback and led the Arkansas Razorbacks 
 to a Conference Championship, Bowl Championship and was ranked #10 in the nation. Once I filled 
 my legend meter and got the achievement I never played Campus Legend again. Along with the commentary 
 not in-sync with the game at times, the information banners when you are trying to get to the line 
 of scrimmage, and the Pontiac Drive summary, very annoying. I still like this game over Madden 
 any day. The only difficulty I am having with achievements is turning a 1 star team into a six 
 star team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLothario
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Because of the previous quality of this series, this is an immensely disappointing product  its 
 college football without the heart. For all the talk about smoother game play frame rate, its 
 annoying to have frame hitches in between plays. The end product feels rushed, and it continues 
 to crash my 360 (trading in for Madden) . Theres no presnap match-up view, poor lob/bullet passing 
 physics, too many fumbles, no compelling player game entrances/exits, weak practice mode, shiny 
 uniforms, stiff sprinting animation, no real coaches, no multiple shifts, etc. Can this be fun? 
 Sure (when working) . Should it have been better? Definitely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: debbieandstevea
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I initially liked the game better than I do now. When playing online, you will fumble often even 
 whe protecting the ball. Key injuries seem to happen every game also. A RB cannot carry hardly 
 10 times. QB are fragile. This will often destroy yor game and ranking online. It features a lobby 
 and a quick match for ranked games. Gameplay is smooth and very little to no lag online. Dynasty 
 and legend mode are good. Names can be added to players. Rent before you buy but a must for the 
 die hard college fan. I would rate it an overall B. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lennyroger
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 15, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Graphics- The best in the series. The Quarterback annimations have been corrected. I hated the 
 fact that last year all QB's had the same throwing motion. Much better this year! The diving, one 
 handed, and tip toe catches look amazing. The running game is much improved. I can actually run 
 the ball down the middle.
  
  Features- I love being able to save the best plays of each game and seing them everytime I'm in 
 the lobby. It's great to be able to load the plays online and show your friends what awesome catch 
 or tackle you made the day before.
  
  Sound- This is where this game fails! The announcers are getting old! Everthing they say I already 
 heard on NCAA 2002. The Stadium Pulse feature is not there! This was the best feature added to 
 this game back in 2006. The crowd doesn't do the Tomahawk Chop or the Gator Chomp anymore. WHAT 
 HAPPENED TO THAT???????
  
  Overall, I love the game. I have already played three seasons and can't wait to go home and play 
 the next! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oubrett
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 14, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  It should be said from the start that EA has done a better job of enhancing gameplay and much of 
 that has been aided by the increase in the game's frame rate. But saying the game is a vast improvement 
 over 2007 is like saying a Kia is a better car than say a Yugo.
  My criticism is twofold -- presentation and the Legend mode.
  I believe there is no more exciting 
 atmosphere than the stadium of a major college football program - bands play, cheerleaders cheer 
 and media ring the sidelines trying to get the money shot. Where is that atmosphere in the EA game? 
 Where is the passion? The noise? The chants? Sadly EA has taken the world of college football and 
 reduced it down to the color beige. Sure the gameplay (which I admit is the most important point) 
 is better, but the atmosphere of Michigan vs. Ohio State or OU vs. Texas should be more interesting 
 than say UTEP vs. Panhandle State. Taking out the dynamic sound, eliminating the cheer squads and 
 posters, and slicing away the momentum meter is just plain stupid. What brain dead manager thought 
 that was a good idea? NCAA 08 is as sterile as sterile can get.
  Where is ESPN? Except for one menu and ESPN radio which can kick on at times, I see very little 
 that tells me the game has any connection.
  Why did we take Corso and Herbstreit's pick out of the pregame? Again, stupid.
  While the gameplay 
 is superior, the lack of any dynamic presentation and pitiful use of sound in the game makes NCAA 
 08 as close to representing college football world as the vector-based game Lunar Lander does at 
 reflecting an Apollo moon mission.
  My next big bone of contention is the warmed over Madden superstar mode that is rehashed here as 
 the legend mode. This is a promising mode that just dies half way through the season.
  I have always liked the Legend mode and especially liked the 07 version for the original Xbox because 
 I thought having to study and keep up with coursework was an interesting dynamic. Class work now 
 has little impact really, and you will soon find yourself playing just the position drill practices 
 in order to win the bonus points needed to boost your players attributes. The goal is simple to 
 become a starter. I did like how the game began with a high school playoff - very clever. I chose 
 to accept a running back scholarship to OU where I was put on fifth string. Obviously there would 
 seem little hope that I would ever start, but through the rather worthless improvement points program 
 I was named the starter for the annual Red River Shootout in Dallas - just five games into the 
 season. Once you are the starter, there is no reason to worry about practicing anymore. From what 
 I could tell you never have to practice again. That is very poor design.
  Also, you only play in the games where your player is supposed to be on the field. All other action 
 is simulated. While this sounds realistic and intriguing, the reality is that the computer coach 
 calls the same five or 6 plays. Fourth and 30 and teh computer coach calls an off tackle up the 
 middle. VERY POOR.
  Though there is much that irritates me about NCAA 08, let me say the Dynasty mode is great in many 
 ways. The recruiting is very interesting and the gameplay is fun. I would just wish they would 
 make the coach and contract part of it more prominent. What irritates me most is that NCAA 09 will 
 likely be just a rehash of MADDEN 08 and if that is the case, none of the issues of presentation 
 will be addressed. And that will just further erodes my confidence in EA sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CleveBROWN
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  NCAA 08 wasnt the best of college football games i have played. Sure it looked good but it didnt 
 entertain for long. I found that players missed the easy catches and made the impossible ones. 
 I have the ball go through the torso of my players straight into the opposing teams hands. The 
 game play was almost exactly the the same as last years. It was the same game with slightly better 
 graphics but without some of the stars of last season suchas Brady Quinn it seamed to lose its 
 sparkle and all its pop. I wanted some new improved controls or something to grab my attention 
 from the get go but insted of some heart pounding into i got a toutorial video... zzzzzzzzz... boring. 
 where is the big plays and the near impossible catches you want to see in an intro the the game. 
 MADDEN IS OUT SOON AND AFTER THIS GAME I NEED A PICK ME UP!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boston_College
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 11, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  So NCAA 08 is the newest college football game from ea sports. It's what you expect. It's pure 
 college football. The Stadium noise is missing wich is weird but otherwise the atmosphere is great. 
 As for in-gameplay it's really great. It's fast paced high scoreing college football. IT's solid 
 all around. Including Game modes where theres dynasty and campus legend. Dynasty is the same old 
 great dynasty u expect but addeing a really good recruting system. You can basicly look up any 
 kind of player you want. In the words of Aaron Thomas Lets make him fat . So as for the Campus 
 Legend you play as a guy in high school playoffs and get offers to schools. Then u can work you're 
 way up the deph chart unless you get a starting job. You go through 4 years of college and you 
 can then go to the pros in madden 08 wich is really cool. High Scool all the way to the Hall of 
 Fame. So all in all it's a great game but lacks some deph and ai on defence needs some tweaks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleanslate1982
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 11, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Last year's game was a total letdown for me. It had lacked a lot of the different game modes that 
 we had grown accustomed to; not to mention that the game was rough around the edges. This game 
 is much smoother, and has the game modes we so desperately missed. Gameplay is much smoother, and 
 now there is gang tackling. I think the gang tackling was kind of weak, and needs some improvement. 
 The hits need to feel more violent, or add in some more tackling animations. I want to see a guy 
 get hit high and low, causing a sick looking collision which sends the ball carrier spinning in 
 the air. I want to see a player whose jumping for a ball get flipped on his head or slammed on 
 his face.
  
  The new recruiting in Dynasty mode was a good change. It makes getting recruits a whole lot easier. 
 I don't like how they do the phone calls. I've had a pitch last over two hours, when they've lasted 
 two minutes at times. It varies, and you have to constantly cut pitches short. Campus Legend Mode 
 is pretty sweet, although it feels like it can be so much more. I wish they could give you a campus 
 dorm like they did in 06. I wish the evening events weren't so repetitive, dull, and random. The 
 game does lack a Creae-A-School option, and doesn't have Div. 2 schools either. Maybe next year, 
 but it didn't ruin the game like so many suggest. What happened to Momentum? It seems to have been 
 replaced by Motivation, which really only effects a couple guys, instead of the whole team. I wish 
 they could have had those two coincide.
  
  I find it to be a sin that GS scored this year's version of NCAA Football lower than last year's. 
 Last year's was a completely stripped game, and was really disappointing. It got an 8.2, and they 
 scored '08 an exact 8. That's criminal. It's a game that has a whole lot more replay value than 
 last year.
  
  Oh yeah, On-Line play is still laggy. They need to fix that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davids10
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  This game, as always, is incredible. Yes, I am a huge NCAA football fan so my opinion, and therefore 
 my rating, is skewed. But like I said, the only producer to ever put out a college football game 
 with a decent sports gaming experience is EA, so why bother with giving bad rating. I need 100 
 words, so: blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, NCAA!, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, NCAA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lostboy1224
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  I really enjoy playing this game, that is until my team starts fumbling the ball on every other 
 possession and my quarterback can't seem to make a scramble without losing ball 90% of the time. 
 Yeah, the defense can be tough, but there are times that make me question the game overall. Example: 
 My Fighting Irish have just pulled off a huge upset against #1 USC, or at least I thought so. I 
 have the ball on their 20 yard line with 43 seconds to go. The score is Irish 14, USC 13 and I 
 am playing in Campus Legend Mode. It is second down and USC has no more time outs. My brilliant 
 AI coach decides it would be best to run a HB Slam play instead of just taking a knee. So I run 
 the play and it works some what. My HB gets about 3 yards. Now I figure we are taking a knee on 
 this next play right! Wrong, a pass play is called! What the **** is this coach on? So I fugure 
 I will just snap the ball and take a dive right! Nope, with 23 seconds left I snap the ball, and 
 before I can even hit the dive button Mr. USC lineman blows through my offensive line like they 
 weren't even there at all and sacks my ass making my QB lose the ball for the 6th time that game, 
 and he manages to come up with the ball and out run my receivers and running back for 80 yards 
 and the game winning touchdown. And this was on Varsity. I sitting there wondering two things. 
 Why did my worthless computer coach call stupid turnover prone plays instead of just calling for 
 my team to take a knee and win the damn game? The other was how does a lineman who runs the 40 
 in about ohhh 6.7 seconds out run my three guys (who all run the 40 in about 4.3) when they were 
 right beside him when mr. USC picked up the fumble? IT is **** like this that ruins sport games 
 for me. It supposed to be so realistic, yet my coach is calling for a passing play instead of just 
 taking a knee and running out the clock. What bothers me the most is how there are endless turnovers 
 for my team but the computer only turns the ball over 0-2 a game. And we are not talking about 
 teams like USC or Florida, we are talking about Duke, Northwestern, and Purdue. They all seem to 
 have defenses that can create a fumble at will even when the ball is tucked. And thanks to my receivers 
 not going after the ball when it is in the air, I rack up numerous interceptions because the receiver 
 never comes back t o the ball or just doesn't seem to catch it when it hits him right in his damn 
 hands. But other than that the game has potential, just please fix the fumble mode, and make a 
 better AI head coach for Campus legend next year. I really liked playing through my high school 
 state tournament to get my ratings and scholarship offers. I wouldn't consider this a full review 
 but it is a plea for justice and to warn others what your getting yourself into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Last years NCAA 07 title may have been the best college football game in a few years, but it still 
 lacked that one key component to make it the truly best college experience around. While NCAA 08 
 expands the gameplay to offer deeper and richer customization options, the lack of any notable 
 changes for the on-screen options or presentation make this addition feel almost similar to last 
 years version, which is fitting on both ends of the football spectrum.
  
  The game still plays relatively the same to last years version with a few minor tweaks thrown 
 in. The play-calling moves at a much faster pace this time, and players wont stand around waiting 
 for you pick a play. The problem with NCAA 07 mainly relied on the amount of downtime you experienced 
 during each play, and NCAA 08 does a good job of organizing the menus for easier and faster movements. 
 Picking plays is easier than ever as you can arrange each section by formation, type (run or pass) , 
 and even strength (such as if it is going to be a long pass or a short pass) . This new feature 
 makes things run a lot smoother and never bogs you down with choosing a new play.
  
  Playing the game is still relatively easy for fans of the series, but newcomers may find it hard 
 to grow accustomed to all the buttons. While executing plays on the offense is quite a simple feat, 
 the AI never truly feels adequate to cater to your specific difficulty. Constantly the computer 
 will pick off throws that are impossible to catch with even four hands, let alone two. Even on 
 offense the computer exhibits almost near perfection in passing and shutting them down is literally 
 impossible. The high jump from All-American to Heisman difficulties seem rather unbalanced as well, 
 with games making veterans feel like rookies after dominating a perfect season beforehand.
  
  A new mode called Super Sim allows you to take full advantage of your time by allowing you 
 to skip through sections of the game you find irritating or tiresome. Hate trying to guard that 
 wide receiver on defense? Simply simulate over your next defensive stand to make things easier 
 for you. This new feature not only allows you to skip over series of downs, but also quarters, 
 halves, and even entire games. You can even pause the Super Sim at any moment to regain control 
 in case your team starts to play on autopilot and you need to regain composure. Utilizing Super 
 Sim correctly can turn inevitable hour-long blowouts into short twenty-minute games.
  
  NCAA 08 is definitely more hands-on than previous games as there are plenty of things to keep you 
 entertained for a good while. You can still set up a game and hike the ball any time you please, 
 but with the new ability to personally call recruits on the phone, as well as build up your own 
 custom character from the high school gridiron make replaying the game an incredibly high factor. 
 One of the best new features is called Campus Legend, in which you literally live out your college 
 fantasies through a muscle-clad football player. Starting out as a high school player, your career 
 ends during the State finals in which you play to impress scouts of various college schools. If 
 you manage to do well, you will get offers to different school at the end of the finals and how 
 well you will be positioned on their team (some higher ranked schools may make you a third string 
 player or lower) .
  
  Once you pick the college of your choosing it is up to you to gain that starting position job as 
 well as maintain a steady supply of academic knowledge. While the old clich&eacute; may see the 
 jocks as boneheads, keeping up with your schoolwork is vitally important in order to remain successful 
 in 08. If you start slacking off in class or fall behind, you will be forced to sit out games 
 until you improve your grades. Besides studying hard, you must also choose how well to spend your 
 free time, whether it be going out with friends or practicing new plays on the field. Different 
 scenarios garner different points, and as you accumulate enough points, you can ultimately gain 
 that starting position spot. Once you actually manage to play games, things will move at a much 
 faster pace since you only play when your player is on the field. Choosing plays is never up to 
 you, and although sometimes you may never get the ball or a decent play called, proving yourself 
 to your coach is what is truly important.
  
  Dynasty Mode is still well intact in NCAA 08 and a few new things make this addition better than 
 ever. Like Campus Legend, you have the chance to participate in recruiting, but instead or picking 
 a school of your choice, you set your sights on 25 various players all of which have admirations 
 of playing at your college. You can start off by sending them memos in the mail that you are interested 
 in their attendance, and if they happen to respond, you can even schedule meetings, phone calls, 
 or scrimmages with your team. Once you narrow it down to a few worthy players, you can set-up practices 
 and interviews in which you discuss campus life, such as pep rallies, games, and even girls.
  
  The amount of customization and flair that was put into Campus Legend and Dynasty Modes is 
 a welcome change, but more could have been done to the already dry formula of college football. 
 While different teams can face off to create classic showdowns (such as Rivalry Games and Grudge 
 Matches) , there isnt a whole lot of college in the overall scope. Gone are the marching bands, 
 pre-game pep rallies, mascot fights or crowd interaction. It hardly feels like a college game at 
 all, and if the faint music in the background was not playing the schools fight songs, you may 
 not be able to tell the difference anyways.
  
  The presentation seems to have taken a step down as well. While the gameplay didnt need an overhaul 
 to remain solid, the same cannot be said about the visuals. NCAA 08 shows no apparent upgrades 
 from last year and characters still look abnormally disfigured. It is nice to see characters having 
 the right size bodies for their positions this time around, but there are still occurrences of 
 300-pound linebackers chasing down wide receivers. The crowd hardly looks decent either, with no 
 apparent solidarity between any two people. Every person moves in comparison with the person next 
 to them, and movements are constrained to spastic arm movements and head turns. It only ever looks 
 approvable from afar when the different colors make it seem like everyone is doing their own thing.
 
  
  The commentary, which needless to say is terrible, is probably the worst and most annoying part 
 of the game. Constantly the bonehead commentators will be talking about plays, which happened two 
 downs prior, or even talk about things that dont even relate to football whatsoever. Lee Corso 
 is still the most annoying thing to ever happen to ESPN, and every time he talks it is always the 
 same thing- to choose his play cause its the best (which it never is) .
  
  Multiplayer is still a major selling point for the NCAA series, and although nothing has changed, 
 it still plays rather well. Lag is apparent in most cases (even in co-op) , but it only ever happens 
 during the menu screen, which is really mind-boggling. The game seemed to move faster on the Xbox 
 360 during online play but not by a fairly large margin, as both slow down occasionally to be noticeable.
 
  
  With all of the new features in NCAA 08 this version feels a lot more in depth and intuitive for 
 fans. The endless amount of customization and recruiting available allow for endless hours of replay 
 in order to build up both your character and team throughout the years. The gameplay could have 
 been enhanced a bit more, but the same great football game you have come to enjoy over the years 
 is still the best any fan can hope for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mg25lax
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  One of the best football games to date, NCAA raises the bar so much higher with this installment. 
 Little things such as My Shrine and the Highlights make the game a blast to play, trying to make 
 that big play. But besides that, the game is great. Dynasty mode has many great features, but so 
 do Campus Legend. Those are probabally my two favorite types of play because of the control you 
 get. Of course, it is still great to just pick up and play with a friend. The graphics are superb, 
 commentary is funny but sometimes repetitive, and this game just really sinks in as something really 
 worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bruce6144
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  For the past couple of years I have been playing Madden. I loved the NFL, and I never really checked 
 out how the college game of football played out. So This Year I decided to check out NCAA Football 
 2008 for the Xbox 360. I love the way college football is played, with the option, trick plays, 
 and best of all the atmosphere, one section where NCAA Football 2008 falls a little short.
  
  This being my first NCAA football game, I was looking for the differences in gameplay compared 
 to Madden. The first thing I noticed how great the animations were. The gang tackles looked really 
 awesome. The football in this game feels great. The only feature that wasn't implemented to well 
 was the Motivation feature. The Motivation feature gives your player a boost for making big plays. 
 I didn't really notice a difference in this, plus there are no meters telling you how much motivation 
 you players have. The mode I really enjoyed was the Campus Legend mode. In this mode, you create 
 a player, and you take him through his high school playoffs. So, basically, the further you make 
 it through, and how well you perform, determines what scholarships colleges from all over the US 
 offer your player. It's very similar to Madden's Superstar mode, in some sense. You take your player 
 through practice, and try to work your way up the depth chart, which isn't very hard. Practice 
 just consist of running plays and gaining points. Once you have enough points you move one position 
 up the Depth Chart, but once you have the starting position you really don't have to go back to 
 practice. I am very glad that EA fixed the camera in these third person kind of games. Because 
 in the past it was really annoying. Other than that Campus Legend is a lot of fun in game. That 
 probably the best part about it. Dynasty is there of course, and thats fun to play as well. Each 
 team has a rating based on a 6-Star System. I found that it was very fun to take a 1-Star team 
 to a 6-Star team. Recruiting has been a little more fleshed out this year. You can make promises 
 to your recruits, and pretty much have to sell them to play for your school, by telling them what 
 is exceptional about your school, such as: academics, campus life, TV exposure. Each recruit has 
 certain areas that interest them more than the others. Other than that it's same old same old play 
 games, recruit, stats, and all that.
  
  The graphics in this game are great, of course they don't look as good as Madden, but there is 
 alot of content so some sacrifices must be made I guess. The game runs at 60 frames per second, 
 which looks excellent. As I said the animations are really well done. There is also real time weather 
 effects through the Weather Channel, which is a really nice subtle feature.
  
  In the sound department the game does an okay, at best, job of recreating the college atmosphere. 
 You don't really have the rumble of the crowd, or the band, or any of those college related entities. 
 The three man commentary is great. Lee Corso, Kirk Herbstreit, and Brad Nessler do a great job 
 calling plays and adding a in depth analysis of the game.
  
  Overall NCAA is a great football game. I think it has tons of replay value due to the Online, Dynasty, 
 Campus Legends, and Mini-Games. There is also a trophy case to show off all your prestigious trophies 
 you pick up through your Dynasty and Campus Legend modes. This is most buy for any college football 
 fan, and even if you are just a football fan, its worth checking out, but overall I had a great 
 experience with NCAA Football 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nerevarine-
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 5, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  While this game promises (and delivers) 60 FPS, do you really need all those frames? Keep in mind 
 that most games (including Gears) run at an average 30 FPS. Was it really worth the grass? None 
 of the game reviewing sites have said anything about the terrible grass in this game, and after 
 comparing screenshots from both the games, it is obvious they simply sacrificed grass / field detail 
 to make their game run overly good. Take a look at the screenshots before you buy it. Mind what 
 these subjective reviewers omit.
  meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow 
 meow meow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thered0390
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  NCAA Football 08 manages to deliver the excitement of college football despite some minor flaws. 
 The improved Campus Legend mode is the best new feature of this game. Starting from the high school 
 playoffs, you work your way up to a living legend at your university as you earn post-season awards, 
 win conference championships, and take your team to a bowl game or national championship. A new 
 feature to this mode is the super sim, which allows you to skip through the game until your player 
 takes the field again. This allows you to breeze through games and concentrate on one aspect of 
 the game, though it is annoying when your offense can't seem to get a first down, or your defense 
 gives up several touchdowns. Dynasty mode has been rejuvenated with a new recruiting mode, which 
 includes a prospect search engine and database to ease the process of finding your desired recruits. 
 This mode also has the super sim feature, so you can sim as much or as little of the game as you 
 desire. The gameplay feels great, with controls remaining largely unchanged from previous iterations. 
 The new Hit Stick 2.0 allows you to hit the ball carrier either high or low, which allows some 
 of the smaller defenders to deliver big hits on bigger backs. There are a couple of smaller additions 
 to the gameplay, like gang-tackling, hitting receivers while they are in the air, and hurdling 
 over defenders who try to tackle low. These greatly add to the depth of the gameplay without making 
 it complicated. Though turnovers do seem fairly frequent, if you are throwing 4 or 5 interceptions 
 per game, the problem is most likely you, not the game. The graphics are amazing, with highly detailed 
 uniforms, huge stadiums, and great player animations. A new feature that shows off these amazing 
 graphics is My Shrine. Here you can view all the trophies you've earned and view highlights you've 
 saved from your games. However, one problem that continued to bother me was the way players would 
 sometimes warp into position to make an interception or bat down a pass. This was only occasional, 
 though, and did not hurt the overall graphics or gameplay.
  
  The sound helps deliver a great college atmosphere, with school fight songs playing while in menus, 
 and awesome commentary from Brad Nessler, Lee Corso, and Kirk Herbstreit. I do however miss the 
 roaring crowds from the last-gen versions of the series, which brought excitement and emotion to 
 the college football game.
  
  All the modes and features, the much-improved Campus Legend and Dynasty modes, and the amazing 
 gameplay, graphics, and sound contribute to an awesome college football game that should not be 
 missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigSuz77
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  Ea Sports is starting to look plain stupid when realasing their football titles and the only bright 
 spot CF 2008 has become stuck at a standstill for the 2nd concecitive year. The game play has alot 
 of potential but still plays slow it could be turned up a little bit. why not add a game slider 
 for speed? Again monopoly. Are you serious? Turnovers are a problems and god forbid you are playing 
 in the rain you will turn it over at least 4 times a game. Gang tackles are a scam beacause they 
 rarley happen and its only 2 people that can pull it off. False advertising? I thought a gang consisted 
 of more that 2 people?
  The crowd is not alive and the players dont get dirty. There is still a lot of potential and the 
 gameplay could be worse mind you it is EA. Ive been buying ea games since the start and they just 
 countinue to disapoint in the 21st century. sad. Dynasty is the same but with a ridiculusly hard 
 to control ESPN news screen, is frustrating and boring. Add a video Highlight show with scores 
 and updates with the Lee and ect.. Ea is so lazy they never go the extra distance with their features 
 to make their long list of custermers happy. We need media presentation. Halftime reports and programing 
 in the game this is the most important thing. What are you guys so scared of EA we buy your games 
 when their lacking, I guess thats our problem, theyll never change unless we boycott. Stand up like 
 a real company like Konami and make the best game you can possibly make, improvise get created. 
 Feels like a 65 year old man is making the game. Shame Shame Shame.!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nails3jesus0
Rating: 4.7
Date: Aug 4, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  it looks pretty and sounds good., but 10 interceptions a game is kind of ridiculous. Turn-overs 
 make this game an unplayable pile of bile. i hope Madden doesn't have the same issues or I am gonna 
 cry. The super sim option is nice but i found myself skipping a lot of football just because i 
 could, and because the turnovers were making it unfun. highly highly highly highly highly highly 
 highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly 
 highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly 
 highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly 
 highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly 
 highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly 
 highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly 
 highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly highly 
 highly highly highly highly highly highly highly disapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinwhite33
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Blown away.
  
  The first thing that comes to mind in the first few hours of playing NCAA Football 2008. The graphics 
 are top notch and run very smoothly. Field textures and color commentary are as good as they have 
 ever been. And the player models look nice.
  
  But the greatest accomplishment that NCAA 08 has is its new Campus Legend feature. While only playing 
 as a QB so far, its depth is phenomenal. The chance to build your legend from the High School ranks 
 in your state playoffs and become a legend at the collegiate level is the best addition to the 
 best football game.
  
  EA came with it this year, and it will be hard for them to top this years outing over the next 
 few years. But with everything they added this year, maybe they left something out for their next 
 installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 3, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  NCAA Football 2008 is a great sports game, one of the best EA has made. The graphics are pretty 
 dang good and the controls are pretty much the same, but there wasn't really a need for change 
 in either of those sections. The best part of the game is that its loaded with game play options. 
 Play now, Dynasty, superstar its all there and all very detailed. The game is a blast to play and 
 tends to become very addictive. Now I've got a couple minor issues with the game and then one major. 
 First off, the achievements for the game for the most part should have been more difficult to get, 
 as you are capable of taking 500 points pretty quickly. Second, within the Dynasty mode recruiting 
 is rather too time consuming and should had been a different way. Third, I know Defense &amp; Turnovers 
 are really exciting, but sometimes is gets rather excessive during a game. Thats all the minor 
 issues, none really bring the game done too much. The major issue I have with the game is the same 
 major Issue I had with NCAA 07 &amp; Madden 07 and thats of the fact that you can't play on the 
 same team with a friend against the computer. I could have sworn I heard they were bringing this 
 back in Madden this year, and one would figure if they were they would do the same with NCAA. If 
 it comes that Madden is the same way it definitely will only be a rental in my book. All those 
 years going way back have been capable of playing on the same team with someone, and now in the 
 Next-Gen of gaming when were supposed to get even more options we are missing out on the best part. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unbad
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 2, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  There has been something I've missed in college football and I can't put my finger on it. 08 doesn't 
 seems to grab it and I don't know if I would advise one to purchase it. The game plan is good but 
 not what I want it to be. I miss the last xbox college game. Defense seems like a waste and the 
 new sim feature allows you to dump it, which is nice. But make the game so I should want to play 
 it.... right. It is on the edge of something, but not there. I'd give it one wipe and then just 
 flush. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AddyPew
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is massively deep. When creating a Campus Legend, you start out playing in your home 
 state's 16-team bracket state finals. So you complete these playoffs and when you're done with 
 that a good amount (I had around 25) of college teams will give you offers to play at their school. 
 These offers will range from a 3rd-string spot at a good school to a 1st-string spot at a bad school. 
 Not only is the Campus Legend mode quite smooth, but the production of the game is as well. If 
 you're not in the mood to play, there is a constant stream of ESPN ON DEMAND programs for you to 
 watch. Did you miss the latest episode of Sportscenter because you were at work? Oh well. Pop in 
 NCAA 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  I have tons of fun playing this game, I really luv the Campas Legend mode. The animation is so 
 smooooooove, and the tackling is just crazy..... I look foward into playing Defense so i can just 
 pop someone. The super sim is great... and I like the fact you can go play by play, watch it or 
 do the super sim thing until your back on the field. As of now I only played a QB in Campas Legend, 
 not sure how other postions are but I'm looking forward into playing them. I just hope................. hope 
 they make Madden 2008 like this. Only thing I don't like about this is the play calling when your 
 on Campas Legend. All they call is the option plays... I mean it is coo in all but please pick another 
 play...... Dynasty mode is coo but can get a little boring when recruiting. All in all this is 
 a good game and every year when Madden comes out I always trade NCAA in for it.................. 
 but this year I just might keep it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunch_Box07
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  NCAA 08 might be the turning stone that make the NCAA series the best football series out there. 
 The gameplay that runs at 60FPS is excellent and really helps capture the flow of the college football. 
 Alot of big plays and close games I have seen and or been apart of which means that the AI is fianlly 
 tuned in this year. With the right slider set, I think that you may be able to have the most realistic 
 college football sim on your hands. The dynasty mode is back and better than ever. The only quabble 
 I have with the whole game is its presentation, and the comentary but hey it is a sports game! 
 I liked the old dynasty mode menu's and the regular start-up menus. On the other hand the graphics 
 and great gameplay truly capture ones imagination and makes this game a definite must play for 
 College Football fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 30, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I have played every Ncaa football game since its inception, and I have spent the past 8 days playing 
 this current installment online and off for about 6 hours a day so if your ready here we go...... 
 1. the graphics and sound are ok they dont stand out but dont hurt the game either. 2. There are 
 alot of game options with mini games and legend mode and the new recruting system for the dynasty 
 mode is absolutely fantastic. 3. Other than the new game modes and recruting this game is not better 
 than any other in the series. THERE IS NO NEED TO BUY THIS GAME!! HERE IS WHY..............
  1 Loading, loading, loading. youll be seeing that alot.
  2. online lag is bad and there is even 
 some lag during offline games.
  3. while online if your opponent is losing badly and quits you will not be given an outright win
 
  4. turnover after turnover after turnover!!! fumbles, interceptions are so prevelant it will frustrate 
 you to no end totally unrealistic.
  5. The biggest flaw in Ncaa and Madden football game is the offensive vs. defensive line men and 
 this game continues that flaw. For some reason an offensive line man with a 99 rating will sometimes 
 struggle with a far inferior defensive lineman and vice versus. Footbal is won in the trenches 
 and EA sports misses this aspect every year. a 99 rated offensive lineman should destroy a defensive 
 line man with a rating of lets say 70 but this does not happen. Many college and proffesional lineman 
 rarelly will give up a sack if ever. take joe thomas and jonathon ogden for example but yet in 
 these games will give up sacks will miss blocks and and not block for running plays. This is this 
 biggest oversight of all these games and needs to be corrected. Iam not a EA sports hater I play 
 both titles everyyear but they are not making any progress in advancing the games AI or playability. 
 it seems that they have become content in throwing in a new gimmick each year to the games but 
 essentially its the same game over and over again. my rating is 6/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kariyanine
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 30, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  When a new generation of console hardware gets released it is inevitable that gamers will get a 
 stripped down, featureless version of their favorite sports games. NCAA Football was no exception 
 to this rule and last years version of NCAA Football was a bare bones college football game. Luckily 
 it seems that after an extra year of transition the developers always seem to get it going and 
 deliver a good version of their game. NCAA Football 08 on the XBOX 360 is that game.
  
  The first thing you will notice about NCAA Football 08 is the amount of options available to you. 
 Play Now, Dynasty, Campus Legend, Mini Games, and Online are all there for you to choose and explore. 
 This editions version of Dynasty is fully featured and has multiple recruiting options. The depth 
 of these options isnt spectacular but it does a good job of being just deep enough for hardcore 
 players and just simple enough for more casual ones. Campus Legend has returned and is the best 
 version of it yet, coupled with the new Sim options, you can take your user created player from 
 his high school playoffs all the way to the Heisman Trophy and National Championship. There are 
 a good selection of mini games to draw your attention away from the hardcore gridiron, for those 
 that are interested, including a rather fun bowling game that substitutes pins for yards.
  
  But enough about options, because who cares about the options if the game plays bad and luckily, 
 for us, NCAA 08 does not play bad. The defense has been upgraded considerably, especially the secondary. 
 No longer does the secondary stare at balls tossed over their heads; instead they attempt to make 
 a play on the ball. Unfortunately the upgrade on defense also seems to have resulted in more turnovers 
 and not just of the interception variety, as fumbles seem to be more prevalent as well. All the 
 upgrades are not on the defensive side of the ball though as the running game has gotten a nice 
 upgrade and now you can actually run the ball with some effectiveness. Your guards will pull off 
 and come around to block, as will your receivers down field. Its quite satisfying to run the option, 
 pitch it to your back and watch the blocks develop in front of you.
  
  Graphically NCAA 08 looks very good. The player models are nice, although with the sheer amount 
 of players in the game you do seem to be looking at a lot of the same player models over the course 
 of your time with it. Some of the new animations are fantastic looking, especially receivers going 
 up for the ball and the safeties taking out their legs to make them land on their head. As good 
 as the game looks, I did not feel that the audio held up quite as well. Commentary is crisp as 
 usual but once again there are parts where they will just say something completely off the wall 
 that doesnt mesh with the play. Another part that seemed to be lacking was the school bands. As 
 everyone knows, the marching bands are a big deal in college football but for some reason the limited 
 time they do get seems to be played through a filter and sounds very far away.
  
  Speaking of far away (and I know that is a terrible segue) let me drop my one negative on the game 
 in regards to its online component. I myself do not like online football unless I am playing against 
 people I know (not necessarily people I can beat) and NCAA Football 08 does nothing to change my 
 opinion. Once again EA allows people to ruin the football experience for others. I have no problem 
 with getting trounced in an online game, as long as my opponent is sportsmanlike about it. But 
 I do have a major problem when someone who is trouncing me 21-0 in the second quarter then proceeds 
 to run a play on 4th and 3 from my 48-yard line. I also dont appreciate on 4th and 15 with less 
 than 30 seconds in the half and up by 28 points, they forgo a punt and run a play. Unfortunately, 
 and maybe it is just a run of bad luck for me, this has been my experience online since the EA 
 started their games online on the PS2. As for the online gameplay it runs smooth and I experienced 
 very little lag (just once while kicking actually and it was minimal) . The lack of an online league, 
 especially at this point in online gaming, is disappointing but par for the course with EA.
  
  Overall the game is a very polished piece of software. It has numerous new editions, including 
 the My Shrine (which I didnt touch on here but is quite cool) , and evolutions in yearly features 
 (except online) . There are a few down points but they dont detract from the overall quality of 
 the game. If you are a college football fan NCAA Football delivers a solid football experience 
 that is the best the series has seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hornfan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  If you love college football half as much as I do then you need to check this game out. To me, 
 it's not about how many mini-games and extra stuff a game has... it's all about how fun the game 
 is to play and how good it looks doing it. This game excels in that... the fluidity of the animations 
 and the solid balance of defensive and offensive skill make this the best college football game 
 yet. One minor gripe that everyone has is that it's too easy to throw interceptions and fumble 
 the ball. Well for one, quit throwing to covered receivers. The hail mary long bombs to a high 
 rated receiver are long gone... ya it still works every once and awhile.. but expect a lot of incompletions 
 and/or interceptions. As far as fumbling is concerned, just use the cover up button and you'll 
 be fine. Don't expect to run a dive up the middle and get hit by 3 LB's at one time and not fumble 
 a few times w/o at least covering up the ball. The recruiting is deeper this year and the highlight 
 saving is pretty cool too. I guess my one minor gripe about this game has to be that players celebrate 
 a little too much. You'll laugh when you see a RB celebrate like he just broke a 30 yd. run when 
 he might have gotten 1.... lol. All in all, this is a great football game and you'll have a blast 
 playing it by yourself or with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jraudia
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Great game. Amazing graphics mixed with great game play = a great game. The sound could be better, 
 but i doubt that would be you deciding factor on buying a video game. This game is the best college 
 football game yet. I really like the new motivation feature and the new campus legend mode. There 
 are some flaws, such as dynasty depth. The new recruiting tools are great, but still. Something's 
 missing. I don't like how in the games, EA took away the momentum feature. ESPN commentary make 
 a more life like feeling. All around great game. A must have for any football fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulsearch11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I kind of think EA should stop making both Madden &amp; NCAA... (but moreso, they should stop making 
 Maddens) . I have been SEVERELY disheartened and saddened by the lackluster showings that EA has 
 put up on the Next Gen . And for that reason I quit buying Live and down right threw my Madden 
 07 away. That said, NCAA 08 is a great game to me. True, I have hated EA's games up until now but 
 I also give credit where credit is due, and Im not just a blind hater nor a blind 2K fanboy (although 
 NBA 2K7 owned and NBA 2K8 will have a damn dunk contest... u really cant beat that) . But the reason 
 I say they should stop making Maddens &amp; NCAA is because A) Madden has just started to flat 
 out suck weiner, and they absolutely REFUSE to get rid of that gay ass announcer on the next gen 
 versions... The **** is just not even fun anymore nor immersive, and they overhype the game prior 
 to the shipping date to reel the same blind, narrowminded football fans into buying the same terrible, 
 cum covered, buggy game with different rosters, every year.
  
  But the reason I say that maybe they should quit making NCAA is a totally different one. EA has 
 made great in-roads towards a great game with this iteration of NCAA. I think the improvements 
 are drastic and both graphics and gameplay are more than adequate in this game... the actual game 
 itself plays smooth and virtually seemless. So in that same vein, if some people cant appreciate 
 this version of NCAA, maybe EA should just quit making the **** game... I mean, what else are these 
 people asking for that they're not getting in this game? grass in helmets?, cheerleaders? are u 
 **** kidding me?... that **** is what makes you buy a football game? ... you cant tell me NCAA 08 
 isnt fun, with a straight face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilliej1
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jul 29, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  Disapointing, Same old graphics, same old game ENOUGH will some one please tell EA to use a new 
 graphics engine please, please PLEASE also some thimes i lkke to whtch the game play while i play 
 the game you can t even let the CPU play and take controll uf the teams. , campus legend mode is 
 a waste of time. in a nut shell this is the same old crap all they do is take something away and 
 put something new to replace it i will stop spending my hard money on sports game that EA keeps 
 putting out year after year and it is the same old graphics and players. 60 bucks is hard to come 
 by and i would think that they would put out a better product because this ie mess 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coreyfinn
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 29, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  This is my first ever football experience on the Xbox 360 (but have played numerous hours on the 
 PS2) ... Like all of you i couldn't wait for this game to be released. When I first put the game 
 in, I thought that maybe I just had to play the game more to fully get the passing/running controls 
 down.
  
  At first glance, the game looks great. The crowd looks realistic and excited, the grass/turf looks 
 nice, and the players, although sometimes blocky on the sidelines, look decent as well. For those 
 of you that care, there are no ref's on the field.
  
  I then moved to the Campus Legend Mode, which seems so watered down and lacking compared to past 
 NCAA titles on the last gen. FYI: I wanted to start as a Tight End, because that is the position 
 I wanted to play in high school, but you didn't have the option. So WR it is.... VERY BORING... so 
 it was my next choice, a running back. Pretty much, you go through a couple high school games which 
 only contribute to your Caliber score (1-5 stars) and then you move on to your college of choice 
 (if you're good enough) . Next, all you have the option of doing is continuously practicing for 
 around 2 weeks to earn a starting job (seems too easy??) and participate in daily Evening Events. 
 Although interesting at first, these events lost my interest after my first season. This mode should 
 have been so much better. It was missing things like fan mail, school transfers, a dorm room design, 
 and just different components that have been seen and could have been easily implemented in the 
 mode. I got to the middle of season number 3 before this mode lost my interest (of course i gotta 
 finish it some time so i can Madden it up later) !
  
  Alright, so I then moved to the Franchise Mode. You can't create a school to take over, so that 
 was pretty disapointing. So then, I wanted to pick a team that was semi-average so i wouldn't be 
 easily picking up recruits and making the game more of a challenge, so i went with Pitt. The first 
 thing you will do will be recruiting up to 35 players who you think will eventually sign with your 
 team. There is a Create a Prospect mode, but this was very disapointing when all 5 of my created 
 prospects chose not to go with my team. To recruit a player, you must call them frequently (pretty 
 much every week) and try to pitch your schools best points. You can also send them to a game and 
 let them explore your campus (or whatever their interests want them to do) . The whole recruiting 
 aspect ,again, is interesting at first, but becomes a pain to call these multiple players frequently.
 
  
  After that, you go right into your season, where I returned to the gameplay aspect (meaning, not 
 just running the ball in Campus Legend) . The passing mechanic in this game is SO difficult to get 
 used to. You have to be absolutely still to throw a semi-accurate pass. The difficulty in this 
 comes when you have multiple faster defensive lineman on you butt as soon as you snap the ball. 
 Options (to me) are pretty difficult to run. They are also sometimes unrealistic because you will 
 frequently see an opposing quarterback get tramped by two players, and the option lateral land 
 perfectly into the running backs hands. Another fault in the gameplay is the turnovers. Everybody 
 that has reviewed this game better have said something about it. It is very common to have around 
 6 turnovers every game... just on your team. Fumbling happens frequently so you don't want to run, 
 and interceptions occur even more frequently. There are limited sliders to adjust this, but they 
 still do not get rid of the problem. Defense is sometimes pretty frustrating because the hit stick 
 (which i feel is one of the most satisfying components of EA's footbal titles) is very unresponsive 
 and tough to execute. Also, tacklers will frequently just fall off of a ball carryer. I mean, I 
 know i am running with Pittsburgh's defense but come on. Sometimes a running back will break through 
 about 3 different tacklers before he is even slowed down. Gang tackles are a great addition and 
 slightly make up for the frustrating defensive experience.
  
  As I said before, things are missing. Even simple things like displaying the word FUMBLE on the 
 screen would be nice so i'd actually know that the ball is loose and about to be picked up for 
 another turnover. Things like the Pulse Meter take away SO much meaning in being at home. Pretty 
 much, if you're at home, there is no real difference. Even if you adjusted the sound sliders to 
 make the crowd louder than anything, i still don't get that feeling of great college football.
 
  
  Another complaint about the sound is the fact that normally, NCAA titles have the best soundtracks 
 (in my opinion) because the normally get some younger, more upbeat bands. This time around, there 
 are no song tracks. Yes, you will sit there and listen to numerous school fight songs... which yes, 
 will put you in a college experience, but will also require you to take 2 Asprins every time you 
 play. Every menu you enter will have those fight songs. Enough is enough with the headaches.
  
  But hey, enough complaining. Although the game has it's faults, and there are a lot of them. 
 It is still a solid game. This game has kept my attention for quite a long time, and I have been 
 playing almost non-stop in my free time after work. The reason? If you are patient enough, you 
 will get used to the game's gameplay faults, and it will start to pull you in like a typical football 
 title. I just really hope that these gameplay and content shortcomings will NOT be seen in Madden. 
 My fear is that fact that it is EA Sports, and it is very likely to occur!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michiguy1982
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 28, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I like alot of the new animations, the new tackles. But this game just doesn't seem like they have 
 worked on it for a solid year. First off, the campus legend mode is just a port from Madden, small 
 change in the point system and stuff, but nuttin majorly different.
  
  The dynasty mde is pretty deep, fun and innovative, but is time taking.
  
  Graphics are pretty 
 much dull for 360, but gets a better rating due to smooth frame-rate.
  
  Has alot of freeze, choppy glitches. Twice in 1 day the game froze and i got fed up and turned it 
 off.
  
  Has absolutely no game atmosphere. Yeah some college mascots and great crowds, but by now they 
 should know that without atmosphere you don't get into a game.
  
  Hate the fact that you can't skip over replays. Takes a few extra seconds out of getting to the 
 next play if you aren't interested in seeing it again.
  
  Basically, it is a coin flip over this or waiting for Madden in August. Either way you should end 
 up with basically the same game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohjtbehaaave
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  So I bought NCAA 08 and 2K8 FB on the same day back in mid july... and now I only own one as I 
 flipped the other on ebaY. If you haven't figure it out... I got rid of NCAA FB 08. While it's 
 a solid game.... it just gets old quick. The recruiting stuff is fun... and the gameplay is better 
 with better AI... but ithe AI is still kind of cheap and needs work.
  
  In my FIRST Dynasty year I took my 20th ranked Rutgers team and went unbeaen 13-0 and won the National 
 Championship. I landed a ton of 4 star recruits and I'm now crushing teams in my second year of 
 Dynasty mode... when in like week 5 I say to myself... I DON'T CARE anymore!!!
  I'm BORED already with this game! I'm bored of my RB taking it 70 yards for a TD on the 'option' 
 play every game type stuff. I'm also tired of the RANDOM turnovers the CPU AI decides must happen 
 for no reason... just to make the game interesting when I'm ready to nail down a 'W'. LAME!!!
 
  
  I guess what I'm saying is that 2K8 FB is more up my alley and gives me a better FB experience. 
 I just prefer the 2K FB engine more I guess.
  
  In the end... NCAA FB 08 is an improvement for sure... but it still gives me that Been there, done 
 that feeling way to soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tre2soulja
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Great to see the trick plays back in the game. Play books are much deeper than last years, offense 
 more than defense. The graphics are awesome. Gang tackles and the new hit stick changes your strategy 
 on how to tackle, not to mention a strip button that missed last years game for some reason. It 
 seems like every move is pressure sensitive. For example, tapping the stiff arm button will flick 
 your arm out like a jab and snap the defenders head back. But pushing and holding will deliver 
 a monster stiff arm throwing the player to the ground. One of the better things are the mid-air 
 collisions that you will see in the game. You will also have to hurdle yourself, rather it be the 
 guy on the ground or the little corner going for your legs but watch out because you are not safe 
 up there. The recruiting in the game has changed drastically, for the better though. The 10 hours 
 of phone time makes you decide if you want to pursue the blue chip or go for the average player 
 waiting for that scholarship offer. The in-season recruiting you do will carry over to the off-season 
 this time around, which makes that time you spend on the phone seem worth it rather than time consuming. 
 Campus legend game play needs some work done to it, especially if you compare it to Madden 07's 
 superstar mode. Earning your starting role is fun, but after you get it practice is almost pointless. 
 Trying to get your home stadium on the toughest places to play or taking that small school to the 
 promised land, this years main focus is the dynasty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  Wow... at least All-Pro is fun. This game is not worth full price.... Here is why.....
  
  Graphics are a little better than last years.
  Sounds are exactually the same as last years.
 
  Out of the huddle, still stops acting like it loads.
  Camera views still suck when going in and out waiting on play picking. Frames still stick in and 
 out of plays too... very bad.. EA...
  Loading time are not any improvement. (All-Pro has very minimal) so what is EA's excuse?
  
  
 The only upside I found, is the players are not the walking dead as much!
  If Madden is just the NFL license of this.. boy are we in trouble.
  
  Playing someone with you 
 in the same room... well, pick your play... and I won't know what you are picking too.... how awsome 
 this that? Using audibles is a sorry joke. This game is a let down, and I usually agree with GameSpot's 
 reviews.
  
  Online play is better than last years... but missing stuff you would want like, 2K Sports leagues.... 
 The more I play this, the more pointless of spending almost $70 for this makes me feel sick, but 
 not as sick as last year.
  
  I really feel like this game's price don't justify it's self. I love sports games... and I am really 
 tired of recycled EA products. The way you can tell a game is &gt; great&lt; is buy playing it a 
 year from now. People on my frieind's list are playing this less and less.... All-Pro Football is 
 being played more and more.... you make the decision.
  
  This is a RENTAL.... just for Acievement points.... If you this was't coming out in another 11 months 
 with another version to knock the price off this one... then mabey I can see paying $70 for it.... but 
 wait a few months like every year with this EA game and you will be able to buy it cheaper. Also, 
 if the gameplay wasn't bland a boring.... I could see paying full-price.... but if you are a person 
 that has money to throw away.... and like games that will be gone in a few months, this is the game 
 for you.
  
  I really want to give games the benifit of the doubt... I just want to get value for money I put 
 out. Honestly, buying a football game should last for a good while and not played a couple times 
 and put back on the shelf. College 05 with Larry F on the cover was a great football game. It was 
 fresh and fun. I make a judgement call on this title wanting to play something fun and play it 
 from 6 months from now.... this game doesn't seem to hold to that idea. I have been called an EA 
 hater... but I purchase everyone of them no matter what. I was really hoping for a great game... and 
 this one falls short of the marker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokerhaha08
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jul 27, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  First let me say i am a big ncaa football fan . I have been playing these games every year since 
 the first one came out in 97 . Every year this franchise offers me some more exciting game options 
 and features to keep the series fresh for another year . This year however i was extremely dissapointed 
 by the game , they took away ALOT of things i have grown to like in exchange for some new features 
 that shouldve stayed on the drawing boards !! No classic teams , no created teams , campus legend 
 mode is crap now , you cant even choose your own plays !! No alternate uniforms anymore , and the 
 gameplay is WAY to slow !! I felt like i was playing online , but i wasnt !! WAY to many turnovers 
 , and cheap option plays that let the QB pitch the ball perfectly while being gang tackled . The 
 graphics looked good , but what happened to the fans holding signs after a big play ?? What happened 
 to the stadium pulse ?? I am simply tired of all this garbage they keep putting in footbal games 
 like making your player eat right and go to bed on time , that is nonsense that needs to be in 
 a different type of game !! I play ncaa football for a good football simulation , not for some 
 stupid on campus life sim !! This game is the worst ncaa football game realeased yet !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belcaster234
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the best football game that they have made so far. It has great graphics and amazing 
 gameplay. Who else would of thought of putting the campus legend starting off in the high school 
 playoff. Its just great. The way you get to save your favorite play take pictures of a cool play. 
 Its just awesome.
  
  The achievements in this game are so easy so you will just boost up your gamerscore in just a few 
 games. This is a football game college fans will never forget. Anyone want to message me go ahead 
 and send x box 360 live gamertag to me and ill tell you mine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gr71
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 26, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be the best football title out so far, for the 360 or ps3. The game play is life 
 like. The tackles and hits make the game a must have for the any football game fan. The high school 
 playoffs are great. I think it has every town that you can imagine. It has all the usual game play 
 modes. I do wish the practices were a little more in depth. Maybe next year they will work on it. 
 The game overall is highly playable. The weather effect are nice also. I just wish that you could 
 see the lines on the feel a little better when your playing in snow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nachoking2k2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  NCAA 08 consists of fantastic gameplay, good graphics, a few bugs, and some amazing A. I. Unfortunately, 
 once again this game seemed overhyped. When it came down to release time, it contained better gameplay 
 than before, decent graphics, more bugs, and A. I. that seemed cheezy. Defensive backs swat everything. 
 Lobbing a pass over someone's head is nearly impossible. The DB's will jump ten feet in the air 
 to knock it down or pick6. Bugs like throwing through your TE and the TE catches the ball, not 
 looking. Yes, EA finally brought over special plays. Try one, see if it even works, because it 
 doesn't. NCAA toned down the graphics to run at 60 FPS. However this seemed like a bad call, the 
 only thing they took away was the famous XBOX 360 Glow, which actually makes the game look more 
 realistic. Faces look better than last year and the animations are smooth and nice. Not as much 
 clipping as in previous years of NCAA or Madden. Control seems to be spot on most of the time. 
 When switching players between a play, you will still end up with a player most of the time that's 
 too far from the play. The branch animation system and gang tackling work well, but not as well 
 as promised or hyped. Gang tackling is normally just two people. CPU always seems to break your 
 first tackle. OL blocking was suppose to be superiorly improved, however it was only somewhat. 
 When my QB is sacked and the lineman standing in front of your QB makes little attempt to throw 
 a block, it defeats the purpose. So mainly the run blocking was improved somewhat to open holes 
 and block linebackers.
  
  Online is ridiculously laggy, and is almost pointless to play. Not feature rich at all online. 
 Just play and improve your record. Presentation is somewhat better than before, and so is the commentary. 
 You'll hear dialog from 5 years ago but then you'll hear new dialog. Pregame would have been nice. 
 The highlight system is a really nice touch to let you go back and relive games. It's one of those 
 things you have to actually do to appreciate it. Dynasty is possibly the best Dynasty yet. ESPNEWS 
 is a nice touch to give news and predictions and other nic-nacs. Its better than nothing, but the 
 ESPN license is still not being put to work, not like 2K did. ESPN on demand is a nice touch. I'm 
 getting off-topic. Recruiting is really different this year and there's a lot to it. Trying to 
 guess your recruits positive sides and figuring them out is pretty cool. Although all I've done 
 is in-season recruiting, I haven't touched off-season. Besides that dynasty is everything else 
 you expect.
  
  My shrine is a new concept. It's cool to see your highlight videos and pics. What's bad is if you 
 win a rivalry game against a friend or anything in exhibition, you get no trophies for it, rendering 
 it almost impossible to get every trophy in the game, if you wanted to. This game is definately 
 the best representation of next gen football to date. However, Madden is on the horizon. Madden 
 is just as hyped if not more hyped than NCAA was, so that could be a letdown as well. Putting in 
 gang tackling is something that should have been done ages ago. Gameday 99 had it on PSOne. This 
 game is definately fun though and most of these things can be looked past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeOweU1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  NCAA 08 is a great step forward from NCAA 07 for the Xbox 360, but there are some problems that 
 need to be worked out. The game has radically changed Dynasty mode, allowing more detailed aspects 
 to scouting prospects - by adding more detailed pitches and allowing promises to your prospects, 
 creating new pipeline states, and finding players to fill your rosters for the next football season. 
 The graphics are wonderful - in fact its almost like watching a college football game on TV, and 
 it is a big improvement on last year's game. Some NCAA 07 veterans will notice most of the same 
 plays in their school's play-book, as well as the mini games and the multi player aspect. The new 
 Campus Legend mode is great and feels like super star mode from Madden 07. The ability to collect 
 trophies and watch videos from your previous games gives this game a real ESPN feel. Achievements 
 are real easy, and if you set the game to freshman, you can easily rack up 200 GS in your first 
 game.
  
  On the flip-side, there are some problems with the game that EA has not been able to fix. Some 
 of the players seem to merge into each other during the after play cinematics. Some plays become 
 glitchy and the computer AI is horrible. I've never had so many turnovers by the CPU in one game. 
 Interceptions are as fake as can be, and the CPU AI seems to be almost too perfect on the plays 
 (4th and long and the computer executes either a 13 yard run or a 35 yard pass and blows through 
 your defenders like they are not there) . The computer defense has also been stepped up, as the 
 computer takes advantage of playing more blitz and rushing the QB more frequently. One thing that 
 NCAA 07 veterans will love/hate is the new controls and play book layout. The jump snap button 
 is low the left trigger, and to see the play on the field (i. e all the arrows to show where everyone 
 is going) you must press and hold the right trigger and up on the right stick. Play books now have 
 tabs, and can be frustrating when you need to find the option or special teams tab. Power moves 
 seem a little weaker, and none of the RB run quickly (making it hard to make 10 yard rushes and 
 they will get tackled quickly) . The CPU offense is so quick to get to the line and snap the football, 
 that it requires split-second timing to call defense audibles or line shifts. By the way, there 
 is absolutely NO college atmosphere with the exception to the 10 second clips of the mascots or 
 the crowd yelling the home teams name when they are winning. EA, how about adding some of the school 
 chants, or alumni chanting the Alma Mater? How about Notre Dame playing their victory march after 
 a touchdown, or the crowd doing the gator chomp after FSU makes a touchdown? It doesn't feel like 
 college until you add the college atmosphere.
  
  In all NCAA 08 is a great game with great improvements, but changes need to be made for next years 
 game. The gameplay is still worth playing, and is a must-buy for this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roll_tide_l
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jul 25, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  The worst football game I have ever played. the AI is plane stupid the game is very buggy, while 
 playing the game I noticed a lot of times my offense would be playing defense, The defensive players 
 don't react to the plays on the field, you can pretty much score at will, as with all EA games the 
 online play is buggy and choppy, on top of that the game constantly freezes and skips, Do yourself 
 a favor and skip this one all together, I sure wish i did, this will be the last time EA will ever 
 get any of my money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skihawks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  NCAA 08 is what next-gen football is about. Great graphics, deep modes and intuitive and tight 
 gameplay. EA has started over with a solid new football engine that places the gamer back in the 
 game. No longer will you get sucked into blocks, tackles and animations. Freedom is the word.
 
  
  On the 360, the game moves as a smooth and slick 60 FPS (frames per second) . If you are not certain 
 what this means, download NCAA 07 and NCAA 08 demos and try them out. It's like playing on a different 
 planet. Everything happens much faster and the hits are furious. EA has also improved blocking 
 so no longer is your RB going to get sucked into a hole that isn't there. It is reminiscent of 
 ESPN 2K5 in that you read the blocking, find the hole and ground out yardage for a gain. The pass 
 blocking is also improved. During my first two dynasty games, I was sacked 10 times. I became frustrated, 
 so I checked the replay. After further review, I realized that I had drifted my QB out of the pocket 
 (yes, pockets are in the game) and literally did not help my offensive line out.
  
  The animations this year are awesome. The hits, chop blocks, flips, and tackles are sweet. I have 
 read reviews that stated gang tackling is not effective. In this year's game, your RB has the ability 
 to break loose from a defender hanging onto his waist. Numerous times, a LB will come out of nowhere 
 clocked my RB. The gang tackle is effective and an awesome addition.
  
  As far as the visuals, it is hit and miss. From a distance, the players don't look next gen. However, 
 up close, the players look human (refer to NCAA 07 to get the point) . The uniforms are improved 
 over last year and the lighting is 200% improved. Last year, any team that wore a dark hue jersey (i. e. 
 Notre Dame or Miami) appeared black, even in afternoon games. The numbers on the jerseys this year 
 also are sharp. You will oogle over the little details.
  
  The sound is as good as it ever was. The three-man booth is excellent and the stadium sounds are 
 nice.
  
  New this year to the next-gen versions is a much deeper dynasty. Recruiting is super deep and will 
 suck time out of your day because it isn't tedious. It is a joy to obtain a recruit who didn't 
 have your school on the radar. EA has also added ESPN. com with rankings, players of the week, news 
 stories (headlines) and much deeper statistical layouts for each school.
  
  Another item that is a sweet addition is the ability to save replays, which will play in the menu 
 lobby. You can also upload them to EA's servers and share them with other players. All-in-all, 
 NCAA is proving to be an awesome experience and a must have for next-gen console owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaddenBowler10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  first of all, this game is just pure fun. its so improved over last years game that i would rather 
 have the demo version of 08 than last years full version of 07. gameplay is much deeper this year 
 and much more exciting and its a lot more smooth with the 60fps. graphics were polished up a bit 
 but not much different than last years which is somewhat of a dissapointment. the franchise mode 
 is deep and recruiting is about as good as you expected with the ability to rank them and narrow 
 down the prospects by many different things such as height weight 40 time school and etc. i have 
 yet to play campus legend mode but i plan on it and i heard its really fun. graphics- they are 
 decent, and are polished up from last year, but they arent really improved all that much overall 
 and still dont look next gen. gameplay- gang tackling, high/low hit stick 2.0, more polished passing 
 animations and better blocking schemes really have made this game so much better than last years. 
 one thing i dont like is the catching animations and deep ball aren't improved hardly at all. sideline 
 catches and a one handed catching animation have been put in but thats about it. well i guess there 
 is tackles when ur mid air but that still doesn't make the deep ball animations any better and 
 the WR and defender still dont collide together in the air and i think that should be one of their 
 focuses next year is shoring up the catching/ secondary animations. but still, overall gameplay 
 this year is really good.
  
  sound- pretty good overall and the announcers do a fantastic job. but still dont feel the college 
 atmosphere is loud enough. still no bands in sight and there are few fight songs. but overall, 
 it is still a good sounding game.
  
  misc- this where the game faulters, still no refs, no field goal nets (ball stops mid air tho) , 
 still no chain gangs, no cheerleaders, no band. EA definetely did not put any effort into the extra/misc 
 things on the field. mini games are still the same too.
  
  value- great replay value, for any football fan and college football fans will be satisfied. overall- 
 great game, room for improvement with the catching animations and misc things and the graphics 
 dont look next gen but overall, EA made huge strides with this game and its definetely work picking 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjr2682
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  I usually just buy this game every year as a warm up for madden. This years installment though 
 in my opinion is aolt better than in previous years simply for the game play alone. While there 
 are still some bugs that need to be worked out the way the players move on the feild seems smoother. 
 they don't run like they have a football lodged up they're junior jock straps. Now as for the bad 
 in the game play. For one there is ALOT of turnovers, I mean alot. I'm not sure if i'm playing with 
 a butterball or a football. I was playing a not so good team and for some reason my RB fumbled 
 the ball 3 times on 8 carries. When i played a good team i ran him 31 times and nothing. I guess 
 thats EA'S way of keeping it competitive. The passing game seems to be lacking also. the playbooks 
 need to be a little deeper. And what in the world ever happened to creating your own playbook and 
 using it in franchise mode. So i can customize my coah but i have to use someone elses system, a 
 little weird but ok? The franchise mode is fun considering thes all i'll play on it for myself. The 
 recrutingis missing something, i'm not sure what but it seems to be more of a pain to recruit than 
 it should be. The way th min and hours burn down while doing this makes u wish for more than just 
 10 hours a week if using a bad or not so good team. The sound is decent but a little more boring 
 than in years past. Graphics are really nice unless your looking at your players on the sidelines, they 
 look like they swollowed a blow fish or something which is sort of ammusing. All things a side I 
 believe this is a very good game and has enough to keep you playing it for a little while atleast. 
 If your a college football fan buy the game if your using it as a warm up for madden rent it first 
 and then make a decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo5514
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  the first thing is that this game is awesome. this game has amazing graphics and the frame rate 
 is really good. theres only one bad thing and that is that the campus legend mode is to easy. in 
 my first year as a freshmen at Oklahoma university i started out as 5th string in 2 weeks i was 
 a starter and after that you dont need to go to practice again. in one season as a running back 
 i had over 3000 yard and 56 td's which broke all school records and i won the hiesman and the maxwell 
 and some other thing. when you get to the rose bowl it get sort of harder i only got 200 yards 
 in that game. but anyway its still fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalech
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 23, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the Madden series and of course 2K sports, but had never played the 
 NCAA football game until last year. When I played the game last year I was disappointed with how 
 the XBOX360 version turned out as it seemed like a lot of features had been left off. Based on 
 my experience last year I decided to rent the game first this year and see if I liked it better.
 
  
  The improvements over last year are dramatic. Dynasty mode is much better, giving you several different 
 pitches to make to potential recruits and I love how Campus Legend has you start out in high school 
 and get offers based on your performance. It would be nice if player names could get automatically 
 done like Madden does, but I understand why that isn't possible. The game itself is much smoother 
 than last year and the stadium models look great! I also think the mini-games are terrific and 
 I wish they had some of them in Madden as well. On the downside it still doesn't feel like this 
 game is all that it could be. I would like to see a dynasty option that lets you create your own 
 college team, and try and take it to the BCS. It would also be nice to have the team ratings update 
 over the season to match more closely what happens during the regular season.
  
  Overall though I did enjoy this game, and went out and purchased it a few days after trying it 
 out via rental. I think it is a solid effort by EA and I hope the game continues to improve next 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazylegzmark
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  This years version of NCAA Football is a lot better than 07 but it still needs some much needed 
 improvements, for instance you no longer are able to direct you passes which in turns leads to 
 more interceptions, there are way to many fumbles and while playing defence against a cpu team 
 you have no time to hot route you defensive players. Other than that the game is the best next-gen 
 football game so far to date. Some may disagree but to the graphics are top notch the game runs 
 real smooth and the controls are very responsive. The game is loaded with new features such as 
 gang tackling, defensive hot route, a deep dynasty mode and also the legends mode. If you love 
 football I suggest that you buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy1978
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 22, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  NCAA Football '08 is your standard run of the mill sports game. Your going to see one every year 
 and each year there will be minor tweaks here and there. But at the end of the day when your done 
 with '08 you'll probably think and say to yourself that its very similar to '07 just a little bit 
 better.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I love the game. I think its real solidly made, but every sports game that 
 gets churned out every year is really the same. Much like Dynasty Warriors franchise we just see 
 the same things and with little tweaks. I'd reccomend you all rent the game first. And if you don't 
 have NCAA '07 or dare I say '06 then you will be in for a treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eyedrazorback
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 22, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't expecting much in the way of better graphics when I plugged in the game, but I was definitely 
 hoping they would be a lot better than 07's... horrible, at best... graphics. The gameplay was so 
 sloppy in that game. But, back to the point. I like how it opens up with a tutorial for the new 
 guys/gals to the business. The trophy room is cool and it will be nice once it gets filled up. 
 Campus Legend is a good add-in as well. The dynasty is basically the same, but with ESPN. com instead 
 of the Magazine... which isn't necessarily a bad thing. Online... admit it, EA needs better servers. 
 They've improved, but I so hate the half second or second lag that it takes when you press a button. 
 On a side note... Arkansas is ranked 10th! w00t! That's my team!
  Gameplay- Far far better than 07.
  Graphics- Mucho mucho MUCHO better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebrinker
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 22, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  The problem with this game is that people are trying to play it as last years game, and it simply 
 is not. You can't get away with spinning/juking in traffic like you could in past years, its going 
 to result in a fumble. You can't throw on the run or sprint 20 yards back and throw a bomb like 
 you could online last year. They have made the game more realistic, and by doing so, they have 
 made it harder, no doubt. If people utilize the tools given to them (tuck the ball) they will appreciate 
 it more. If you are looking for an arcade experience, find another game.
  
  If challenge is what you want, and strategy your game, pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrXcalybur32
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 21, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  I know these are 2 different games but come on, the gameplay is much better in all-pro, the creativity 
 of a team is there as well. In NCAA 08 I do like the recruiting but after every game to make sure 
 you get who you want you gotta spend 15 mins sweet talking. I came to play not court prospects. 
 Pretty much all the Madden flaws are back, the quarterback 20 yd no look pass caught by a triple 
 teamed receiver flaw is still intact. Also the computer's I can sack you but you can't sack me 
 off the line approach to offense and defense is still frustrating. The sound is a true highlight 
 of the game, not updated but still just as good. I guess all I'm saying is EA WHERE'S THE REALISM? 
 I reserved both NCAA and APF 2k8 and played NCAA first for a day then APF, after APF this gamer 
 realizes the 2k is the real EA because if it's in the game, it's in their game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZaXaStuD
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 21, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Much better than last year, espesially dynasty mode... but there is still more room for improvement... 
 cant wait for next years, should be almost perfect... There are a couple of things that need to 
 be put in for next year to make it the best ncaa experiance; and they are creat a school, refs, 
 halftime show, cheerleaders and a post game show. If EA were to add some of these features they 
 might actually be on to something for the first time in a long time. With that said if you are 
 a fan of college football its going to be a must buy, but if you looking for a perfect game your 
 prob going to have to wait till next years version... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csward
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Since most people have played this game i'm going to break it down into good and bad improvements 
 from last years version.
  
  The Good:
  
  -ESPN is actually in the game more than just the ticker and ESPN. com is kinda cool, but still not 
 as much as Sports Illistrated.
  
  -More gameplay modes
  
  -Deep routes in single coerage aren't complete 90% of the time
  
  -A TON of new stat ratings 
 for player like a juke, stiff arm, man coverage, zone coverage, spectacular catch, ect. It adds 
 a lot of depth.
  
  -Commentary better and deeper from last year.
  
  -New recruiting in Dynasty makes it a lot easier for smaller schools to get good players and add 
 much needed depth. Lots of new pitches.
  
  -Gameplay itself is still pretty solid
  
  The Bad:
  
  -Framerate is choppy as hell, sometimes it caused me to hit the A button twice 
 because there is a coulpe seconds delay from the time you press A to the snap of the the ball, 
 so i would get an interception or incomplete pass. VERY annoying.
  
  -Graphics are good, but bland and some visual elements are still missing this year like cheerleaders, 
 crazy fans, and the homefield advantage shaking of the screen and controller.
  
  -A lot of of load time for every little thing, like switching from QB to HB in depth chart. Yeah 
 it's that bad, 60 FPS, yeah right.
  
  -Interface for some menus remains clunky and unchanged from last year. Play calling menu needs 
 to go back to the old style.
  
  -Option play is way to easy to run against the AI, especially the power option.
  
  -It is way 
 too hard to throw bombs. You have to touch the buttons so gingerly it's ridiculous, but maybe EA 
 did this on purpose since last year the deep ball was impossible for the AI to defend.
  
  -Switching players on defense never seems to get you to the player you want. It always seems to 
 be the player that has no shot at making a play, just the saving tackle. -Pitches in recruiting 
 only update at the start of a new season, so you could have just won the national title with a 
 small school and the recruits could care less in the offseason.
  
  -Play reviews are ALWAYS reversed. 100% of the time. Guarenteed. If you coaches challenege anything 
 it will NOT be reversed.
  
  -Players never seem to catch the ball out of bounds or step on the sideline. they all have perfect 
 footwork by the sideline, which is fine for me, but it's unrealistic.
  
  -Still lacking some game modes, like create a school.
  
  -Can't turn QB vision off (To my knowledge 
 anyway) . Some plays it's on and some it's off. It will come on for sure if you touch the right 
 stick.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  EA, I can't understand why it takes you and your billions so long to make the best NCAA game you 
 can. Maybe it's because dopes like me buy it every year giving you the benefit of the doubt. Next 
 year will be the year EA finally puts it all together and gives us that near perfect football game 
 because i have a feeling Madden will only be marginally improved too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiken
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  First of all as I said last year, I was just about done with EAs lack of support for the 360, 
 when compared to versions on regular X-box. That is more than taken care of this year. The 360 
 was the development platform for the EA line this year. The PS3 will take over that role for next 
 year so we will see how 360 games play on the 360 then. However, that is then and this is the present 
 and the present it GREAT! I do not see how you could make a better football game; I remember in 
 89, 89, and 90 how sports games floundered on the PC. Those days are gone, these guys look so real, 
 and the game play is great. Game spot gave this game an 8.0, which is too low; I gave the game 
 a 9.5, which is probably too high. Never the less, I just dont see how you can rate this game 
 as less than average and live with your gaming soul. Do I think Madden will be better than NC2A 
 08? Yes. Do I think Madden should be better? Yes. Never the less, this is a game well worth the 
 money. The heart of the game is the Legend mode, which is back in 08 on 360. I love it, its just 
 so much fun to create a player and follow his career. The Dynasty mode took a hit; too much detail 
 on recruiting. If they would have combined last years DM and this years Legend mode it would have 
 been perfection IMHO&gt; Fumbles are problem there too many of them in any mode. All the honest 
 criticisms taken as a whole, I just think this is the best Football game to date. I cannot wait 
 till August!!
  
  9.5 ---Superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jul 23, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  NCAA Football 07 was a pretty good game. This year's installment plays a lot like last years with 
 a few tweaks added in. But, it doesn't all work as advertised. Case in point, there is something 
 new this year called Legend mode. You start taking control of a single player and then guide him 
 through his College career. Those that played Madden 07 will see some simpilarity with that game's 
 Superstar mode. Now this works pretty good in NCAA 08 but it is tidious at times. You start as 
 a High School player and you can play from the HS Championships until you graduate the College 
 you sign with. Along the way, you can Practice (run plays) for points which earn your way into 
 the starting lineup. This is fine but it gets tedious and boring if your are a 3rd string trying 
 to break into the lineup. You can sim those practices but it doesn't earn you any points so your 
 move to 1st string takes longer. Then there are the niggling little bugs in the game. There is 
 an option that allows you to save video's of the big plays . Supposedly, you can then go back and 
 look a these videos if you save them. No matter how this reviewer tried, this simply would not 
 work. Also, the each game allows you to review the videos at the end of the game. In one instance, 
 I viewed one video and then could not review any more even though I had about a dozen listed as 
 viewable . No matter what I tried, the same video would come up. Then, there was the no storage 
 device message that would randomly appear. This happened several times as I was trying to save 
 my afore mentioned Legend mode. I eventully was able to save but I had to figure out a work around. 
 I could also go on about the reduced graphics level from last years version. Or, I could mention 
 the graphics clipping issues but those seem always issues in both NCAA and Madden. With so many 
 issues, why would any company release an obviously unfinished game? Oh, that's right, it's EA...... they 
 seem to say fix it later... we need our dollars before we provide a quality product ! Stay away 
 from this one!
  **Note: I just found a bug where players disappear from both teams and then when the AI comes to 
 the line they wait for the lost player to return. When he doesn't, they get a delay of game penalty. 
 This then loops until you go quit in frustration. **Note: Found a minor glitch where lineman line 
 up on the ball at a 90 degree angle to the play. Looks strange but they sort of straighten out 
 after the ball is snapped.
  I have now rated the game DOWN based upon these additional bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jammer13
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 21, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  Another year EA puts out its great college football game. Last year was somewhat disappointing, 
 I expected more because of the next gen thing. I thought, give them a year and the game will be 
 full of features both familiar and new. Still wrong. Remember those modes, mascot mode, create-a-team, 
 and other good features? Well, still missing. This is supposed to be next gen... the only next gen 
 thing about this game is graphics and maybe the super deep dynasty mode. Heres my ratings:
  GAMEPLAY: 9
  Most important to a game like this is gameplay, and EA sticks to its typical formula 
 with a few nice touch ups. This is one thing I can count on each year to be a stable variable in 
 the game.
  GRAPHICS: 9
  Nice. Not totally up from last year, but the graphics are good. Players uniforms, shadows, and 
 stadiums look amazing. SOUND: 7
  The only reason I give this a 7 is because it's no different from '07. Pretty much same sound effects, 
 commentary, and ya know. One really disappointing thing is the atmosphere, the crowd gets only 
 so loud. College football is about atmosphere, fans, bands, can change the game. That just was 
 a missing part.
  VALUE: 8
  Football games. Replayability always.
  More stuff...
  Sometimes choppy. The photo thing is annoying after practically every play it takes a photo that 
 I never save. I do like the highlight maker, but only being able to save 5, we have a big hard 
 drive here... I've played EA's NCAA football series since NCAA 2000, yes we've come a long way, 
 but I still feel there's something missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Once again, the critics ignore the fact that an EA sports game has no presentation whatsoever, 
 and praises it for it's abundant features. When did the actual game fall second to extra modes 
 of play? I mean, when you start your game, you don't get to see players warming up, there is no 
 pregame show of any kind, you don't see things going on at the sidelines, no halftime show or postgame 
 show. Even GameSpot's review admits there are no shots of the fans, no real college atmosphere, 
 no nothing. But year after year, EA gets away with this crap. They even took out the cutscenes 
 of the quarterback walking to the line of scrimmage. Now, the gameplay is tight, that's not the 
 problem. Although interception happen at a ridiculous pace. And the college shrine is the best 
 new addition. But if you play All Pro Football and then play this, you realize how dry and nonexistant, 
 and most of all, inexusable, the presentation is with EA sports games. But I guess that doesn't 
 matter to the critics, as long as there is minigames to play and 50 play modes. Ashamed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krypton24
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 21, 2007 12:49 am PT
Review:  the game is pretty good but its missing that extra ''umph''!! The mini games are the same from 
 last year so that gets a little repettetive. Theres not much to say bad about the game because 
 theres more good than bad! The graphics are great, and you have twice as much control of the players 
 than you did in the last edition. defensive audibles have changed for the better which makes it 
 easier to adjust on the defensive side of the ball. overall, the game is great! you have way better 
 controll of the game. ''NO MORE RUNNING IN CIRCLES TO TACKLE A DEFENDER OR JUST TO TURN AROUND 
 TO GET TO THE BALL !!!'' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golfinweg
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Meh...
  
  But since the site won't let you review with less than 100 words, I'll get on my soapbox about 
 the player selection during play. Why can't we go back to the old closest to the ball choice instead 
 of what the computer deems the guy with the best chance of making a play ? I've played NCAA for 
 years now and I believe it was 2004 that changed from the old way to this way. It's still frustrating 
 even though I've logged countless hours on the new way. It's just frustrating to have the first 
 guy the computer gives you be the free safety 10 yards downfield of the reciever getting the ball 
 instead of the linebacker who is right next to, or in the path of the pass from the reciever. Ok, 
 end of soapbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eetheredge
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to the release date for two reasons. First, the release of NCAA Football 
 kinda stirs my anticipation of the upcoming season. Secondly, it gives me a chance to obtain the 
 game early enough to learn the new features without getting bogged down in attempting to actually 
 be competitve on the online version. I had the old XBOX and always enjoyed playing the NCAA Football 
 line and then I took the plunge and bought the 360. I am an avid gamer when it comes to sports 
 related games and so the NCAA Football series has always filled my sports gaming wants. This year's 
 360 version is much better than last year's, but there is still a lot of room for improvement. 
 I like the Campus Legend feature, but I already recognize a flaw in that you will not see a 1A 
 school playing a 5A school for the state championship which is what happened with me. The Dynasty 
 feature is much improved. The ability to build your program from the ground up is what I enjoy. 
 Customized schedules has always been nice. It would be nice to add the same functionality to the 
 Campus Legend feature.
  
  Online play seems to be a little more in line with the offline game. Which helps when you prepare 
 to take on some foe online.
  
  The graphics are decent, the sound is good except for listening to Lee Corso and Kirk Herbstreit 
 ramble on with the same old phrases as previous versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sroeland
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Just as fans of college football come into each season with high hopes for their alma mater, fans 
 of the NCAA Football series entered the summer of 2007 with expectations higher than ever. With 
 one season under their next-gen belt, EA Sports would surely have all features added and all issues 
 ironed out, right?
  
  Yes... and no.
  
  Features are mostly there, including Campus Legend and a robust Dynasty mode. All players in the 
 game are able to be fully edited, so HB #5 for Arkansas can be renamed Darren McFadden. Along with 
 just bringing these features onto next-gen consoles, EA has upgraded them. The Campus Legend Mode 
 now incorporates a high school playoff to determine the quality of your created prospect. The more 
 you advance in the playoffs, the better the teams will be that recruit the player. As in PS2 and 
 Xbox versions of the game, players select a position and try to get their student athlete to become 
 the big man on campus. In the 360 version, however, gamers only control their creation and are 
 allowed to super sim through parts of the game they are not involved in. Once a college is selected, 
 the freshman must keep up their grades and work hard on the practice field to move up in the depth 
 chart. At night, players are given scenarios that range from doing extra reps in the weight room 
 to deciding what to eat. All these situations are random and can yield attribute bonuses or penalties.
 
  
  In the revamped Dynasty mode, wannabe NCAA D1 coaches are given new tools and abilities to land 
 blue chip prospects through the deep recruiting. Players can search a comprehensive database for 
 players that fit their style. To persuade these youngsters to commit, coaches can call the prospects 
 and find out what is important in the school they are looking for, including playing time, TV exposure 
 and athletic facilities. When a prospect is ready, they will request a visit to campus. At the 
 visit, coaches must show off what is important to the prospect. This process is time consuming, 
 but is quite rewarding when a 5-star player signs with your school.
  
  Other new additions to 08 include the My Shrine menu, which shows off trophies and highlights of 
 a user's career, new gang tackling animations, 60 frames-per-second framerate on the 360, and Motivation 
 bonuses, which seem to have little or no actual weight in gameplay.
  
  With so many additions, it would appear that EA has the perfect college football experience. However, 
 some aspects still hold the game back from its previous domination on the PS2 and Xbox. Next gen 
 consoles still lack the Create A Team feature and are missing several stadiums and correct uniforms 
 (including alternates) . Refs are nowhere to be seen and the atmosphere at games is a bit underwhelming. 
 But the biggest issue is the amount of interceptions and fumbles. Defenders take advantage of the 
 improved defensive back AI and will pick off 2-3 passes per game... if you're lucky. Fumbles pop 
 up quite a bit as well. The final gripe with this game is the lack of penalties, even if the sliders 
 are turned way up.
  
  NCAA Football 08 resembles the Oklahoma Sooners squad last season. Fans can be satisfied with the 
 overall performance, but their team was just unable to finish. If EA can add some missing features 
 and tweak the gameplay just a bit, NCAA 09 may be something to behold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamfan14
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Well worth it - much better than last years - the recruiting is beefed up and campus legend is 
 back. The tackling (especially gang tackling) is much improved. My only wish is that they included 
 an online league or something similar which would be fun to get into. Nonetheless, the addition 
 of lead blocking (like madden has) is cool to incorporate - especially fun on a sweep or toss in 
 which you can control a fullback and take out the outside linebacker. The motivator aspect is an 
 interesting addition which I look forward to seeing how well it incorporates into the game play. 
 I've notice a few weird moments when my receiver will catch the ball, but be completely facing 
 the other way, almost as if the ball went thru his body and he somehow was able to catch. Another 
 time I scored a Touchdown, and the player was celebrating near the endzone stands, and it was as 
 if half his body was inside the railing. Little weird, but all in all - only minor complaints from 
 a thoroughly enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juliusIII
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  EA really did a number over on their Madden series. I played both Madden and NCAA football at a 
 friends house, and wasnt impressed. NCAA's first endeavor into next gen was a failure. It can be 
 compared to the Halo 3 beta, it was just testing the water. But now that it has made a second attempt, 
 I was blown away by the progress made. The Dynasty mode is amazingly deep, the Campus Legend, the 
 evolution of the Race for the Heisman, is insane. You get to take a high school senior through 
 the state playoffs, which basically serve as a tryout, you will know which school scouts are attending, 
 the caliber of performance you give is rated, and the further you go, the more you get into the 
 tryout.
  Unfortunately, my wide out that I made to play in my own Las Vegas high school fumbled the ball 
 six yards short of the winning touchdown in the state championship. I was crushed, but I was still 
 accepted into the USC program (as a 7th string) , and am on my way to not only becoming a dominating 
 player but a phenomenal student.
  The greatest treat of Campus Legend is when you first take a play , Kirk and Lee will point you 
 out and say where you came from. Its amazing!
  But the gameplay is ridiculous! In a good way of course. I played a my home state team of Rutgers 
 in a snowy New Brunswick day, playing the Texas Longhorns. The game is beautiful! The players almost 
 meshed in with the snow, the game was as long and hard as any snowy game would be, and it was all 
 so fluid.
  Some of this years gimmicks are the highlights, which I like because you can view your own highlight 
 reel from the main menu. Then there is the revamped Motivation meter, replacing momentum and making 
 regular players on an even footing with impact players.
  All in all, this game is absolutely amazing! It is the best football game of the year, and I HOPE 
 that madden can pull out a good game this year so they dont get embarrassed by its little brother, 
 cuz thats unacceptable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decessus
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 20, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to preface this review by stating that I really do enjoy playing this game. I am a huge 
 college football fan, and think that NCAA 08 does a solid job of portraying the college atmosphere. 
 If you didn't buy 07, then I think it is good enough to warrant a purchase.
  
  With that said, this game is in very bad need of polish. I'm not a football expert, so I am not 
 qualified to comment on how the actual football plays. One of the first things that I noticed when 
 I began playing however was the lack of a create a team mode. This was always one of my favorite 
 features. I loved putting a football school in my hometown, starting out at 1 star, and attempting 
 to make it a big powerhouse. This is by far for me the biggest letdown for this game.
  
  The rest of my issues with this game are, relatively speaking, incredibly minor. There are some 
 frame-rate issues that have occurred, as well as a few glitches. One involved a score summary of 
 -7 yards, while it was in fact 2 and 13 on the 30 yard line. Some of the other things that I don't 
 care for are the inability to skip past the instant replays without entering and then leaving the 
 pause menu screen and the poor ESPN presentation ( 2K set the bar fairly high ) .
  
  There are definitely some positive things that come with this game, and overall I think the positives 
 outweigh the negatives. I really enjoy the added depth that has been added to the recruiting phase 
 in Dynasty mode. The recruiting hours feature is a fairly nice touch and adds to the idea that 
 there are only so many hours in a day to do recruiting.
  
  The Legend Mode is pretty fun as well. I've played through two seasons as a quarterback for the 
 Buckeyes, and have enjoyed it quite a bit. It could use a little more fleshing out, but it definitely 
 adds a new element to the NCAA games. Again, overall I think the game is worth the money spent. 
 If you already own last years version however, I don't know that there is enough new content to 
 justify paying the sixty dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mofoneck
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  ok i havent played this, but why the **** is it taking so long for gamespot to review stuff now. 
 it used to be games got reviewd right when the game got out, or sometimes even before this game 
 has been out for 3 days and still it has no review. i think gamespot kinda sucks now. i dont give 
 a **** about what microsofts profit was in Q3. i wanna know what games are out and if they are 
 good or not. just telling you gamespot. you have more information about games that are gonna come 
 out in like a year than games that are out right now.. and that sucks. nobody wants to hear snobby 
 30 year olds talkingabout crap. so **** YOU GAMESPOT. im tired of your **** and i dont think im 
 alone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vi3tnoodles
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  Great Game! Runs very smooth. Great Improvement over the last years. New animations look great 
 such as the gang tackles and the mid air collisions. Although, all theses features will be in the 
 new Madden. Some will probably wait for it. However, fans of College Football this is a MUST BUY. 
 The Gameplay is smoother and collisions are nice. New legend mode seems more freshed also. The 
 new ESPN HIGHLIGHT feature is a great idea. Now i can put better use of my hard drive saving the 
 replays. Only gripe i got is that there are a lot of downtime during legend modes when it lodes 
 between days and such. In the end this should be a instant buy for all FOOTBALL fans unfortunately 
 some will overlook it because of Madden. There has been a lot of years NCAA FOOTBALL series has 
 been Madden. This will be determine soon. Buy Now at Circuit City and get $10 Gift Card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottk29
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  NCAA Football is better on the Xbox 360 than the playstation 3. The colors are a little more vivid 
 on the PS3 than on the Xbox 360 but the gameplay is a no brainer. PS3 - First of all on the when 
 you try and run at any time whether on offense or defense you run in a very jerky manner, and you 
 look as though you are floating on top of the grass rather than running on it. If you are using 
 the D-pad forget about it. When you are trying to run to a slight angle towards the sideline or 
 trying to squeeze between two defenders on the line of scrimmage you will undoubtedly run into 
 one of them. I'm not sure why ea did this but they took out the ability to round your running. 
 For instance if you are running up field and you turn to run left you will make an immediate 90 
 degree turn with no delay. Which although convenient when playing against another player highly 
 unrealistic and really makes for bad presentation. The menus run slow. The games frame rate is 
 way lower than the 360. Complaints about both - What is up with changing the controls every year? 
 It is not a benefit to move buttons every year. It makes picking up the game and playing it highly 
 unenjoyable. The nice thing is that you can at least map the buttons differently. Where did the 
 cheerleaders go? Why do all the players on the sidelines look like they are 350 pound beer drinking 
 football fans instead of players? And who are all the goobers in the white shirts? The stadiums 
 look good. the crowd does not. Maybe you guys need to head over to the team that does the NHL series 
 and ask them what to do. they've got it figured out. Gameplay other than that is great. Receivers 
 drop a few too many balls. WHY CAN YOU NOT JUMP ON DEFENSE TO INTERCEPT BALLS? THIS IS VERY STUPID!!!! 
 I cannot seem to figure out why they would make that a computer controlled feature. Maybe the guys 
 at EA were mad that they created the game and when the would go online they couldn't win a game. 
 Face it, people are going to figure the game out. If they can't create a computer that is unbeatable 
 at chess then you have no hope. It's like the tides, let it be. I have been a long supporter for 
 EA and the NCAA Football series. In fact I have spent over $130 to buy the game for both the PS3 
 and Xbox 360. This product is lacking severely. NCAA 2006 for the Xbox was the model for a perfect 
 game. Go back to that, I do however like the new dynasty mode and the campus legend. I have been 
 defending the series for so long against everyone just hoping that it would get better the next 
 year. I have been pleased in some areas, larger playbooks, better graphics, more animations, revamped 
 dynasty and campus legend. But some core areas and features of the game have been sacrificed. If 
 EA's goal is to do this on purpose in order to take advantage of customer loyalty they will find 
 out that eventually people will stop buying until they now it is a product that will give them 
 everything they want. I think EA needs to look long and hard at what they are putting out. Hire 
 better staff, don't fire the good staff. Fire the SH***y ones. AND LISTEN TO THE CONSUMER!!! You 
 need to read these pages, scour the internet, open forums to discuss features and make your fan 
 base apart of the production process because only we can tell you how to make the perfect game. 
 And if you do, you will have customers for life!
  
  - That is all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkimont
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  After only playing legend mode for about 10 hrs, I'm hooked on this game. Love the challenge and 
 depth of the legend mode. Have not gotten online yet, so I can't speak to the play online. Also 
 haven't even touched the dynasty or season modes, but I've enjoyed the gameplay so far.
  
  Great additions to the Legend mode are skipping drives while you're not on the field, as well as 
 having a High School Playoff to show off your sills for the scouts and get scholarships to different 
 schools. Overall, I really enjoy this game so far, and would HIGHLY recommend to anyone who is 
 a fan of football, especially if you're a college football fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigdc
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  everyone knows that ea has some major problems, the main one being good story lines. this is another 
 example of how EA games will never put YOU in the story. The gameplay is solid, but other then 
 that the game is lacking, back in the day of xbox/ps2 ncaa had espn the mag. and it was the coolest 
 thing in the world I couldnt wait until EA incorporated half time shows such as that of 2k5 where 
 you could see your likness on the screen and have the brodcasters talk about all the records you 
 have broken in your rookie season or getting a superbowl ring was guaranteed as long as you are 
 in the back field. the technology is here to make these things happen. but EA just doesnt care. 
 every year my expectaions are lowered and somehow when the game comes out im still dissappointed. 
 this year to immerse you in the game they have an emmulated website. C'mon EA how about using xbox 
 live to make a real website that we can check on our computer. just throw us a bone please. The 
 graphics are better theb last year. the modles actually look like college players insted of 35 
 year old steriod users. the gameplay has also been vastley improved. almost reminding of the flawless 
 gameplay of ncaa 07 for the xbox. Overall ncaa 08 for the 360 is a solid football game, but if 
 you thik about it all football games have been solid for about 6 or 7 years. its time to make some 
 leaps and bounds and im affraid we are going to have to wait untill this excluissive contract between 
 the ncaa and EA has come to a close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MStich
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  The bonus ESPN Radio and Video's are a great add on. The defensive audibles are the best bones 
 feature in a long time. So far they have been moving this game in the right direction. Making ties 
 with ESPN. Booting it up to 60 FPS. Upgrading the hitstick, cornors, and wide recievers also a 
 big bonus. That, and they finally brought back the option to customize your player (which was largely 
 missed last year) . The only thing there missing from the old one is the option to create a school. 
 All in all they have done much better this year. For anyone who dosan't like this or Madden you 
 can go back to All-Pro. Stop complaining about EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 20, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent profession commentating, well done graphics, Campus Legend mode is very cool, 
 Dynasty Mode still rocks, it plays at least as good as 07, if not better, shrine is cool, weather 
 is predicted in real time.
  
  The Bad: Still poor use of ESPN licence, gameplay isn't as fun as All Pro 2K8, graphical glitches, 
 gameplay freezes from time to time.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Are you ready for some Football? I am, and we've been treated to two brand new Football games on 
 the same day, kicking off gamers pigskin play-athons. The first football game released this year 
 (by a matter of a few hours) was NCAA Football 2008, the next installment in EA Sports' long running 
 College Football series. For those of you who've played the previous college football games, here 
 is what's new in 08:
  
  Campus Legend mode is basically a college version of Madden's Superstar mode. You begin by creating 
 a player, then playing in your High School's State Championship, while college scouts observe your 
 masterful presence on the field. After you complete your short return to High School, you can select 
 a scholarship from a list of schools and begin your college career. You only play as your player, 
 so have to let the computer call the plays and control all other players in the game. Luckily, 
 you can use the new fast forward feature to skip all points in the game when you are not on the 
 field, and get back into the action. There is also your shrine, where all of your trophies and 
 your own personal highlight reel is shown in all it's glory. Now, if there is a showstopping play 
 you want to watch over and over again, you can pause the game, and save a clip of this play to 
 be shown in your shrine. It's another pretty cool new feature. Although it still hasn't been implemented 
 as nicely as it was in 2K's NFL games, the ESPN Licence has been used a bit more in this year's 
 edition, but not too much more. Now, before every game of dynasty mode, you can see a news page 
 from ESPN. com displaying the latest news on your fictional season. It's a nice touch, but it can't 
 replace Chris Berman's half time shows in 2K5. One last feature, which is pointless and cool at 
 the same time, is the inclusion of the Weather Channel. If you are connected to Xbox Live, the 
 weather in game will be realistic. Basically, if it's raining in Miami in real life, and you are 
 playing a game against the Hurricanes, you will be playing in the rain. Cool, hua?
  
  The gameplay is very similar to the previous years, but it feels more polished and refined, which 
 is expected since it is the second edition to appear on the Xbox 360. The visuals are impressive, 
 but they still don't look as good as that phony pre-rendered Madden 06 trailer. It pretty much 
 plays the same as 07, but the new features make it even better. I did encounter several instances 
 of gameplay freezing up, and graphical glitches, but those are kinda expected in a football game. 
 I would have liked the freezes to stop, though.
  
  This is definately the best NCAA Football game to come out, but is it the best football game of 
 the year? You'll have to wait and see how Madden and All Pro fare before you can call off the Heisman 
 Race. All in all, NCAA Football 2008 will please college football fans with it's great college 
 feel. The new modes add more depth to the game, but I would have liked to see better presentation.
 
  
  Gameplay: New gameplay modes help make the solid traditional football action better than ever, 
 but gameplay freezes hurt the fun a tad.
  
  Graphics: It's definately the best looking football game out right now, but graphical glitches 
 hurt it's preformance.
  
  Sound: Good commentating by the usual NCAA crew, but I would have liked to see a half time show 
 hosted by Chris Berman.
  
  Value: It's worth picking up for football fans, especially those willing to shell out $60 every 
 year for the latest football game.
  
  Final Thoughts: Touchdown! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGDOGG91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  ncaa 08 is somethin else. it is by far the best football game ever released by ea. the gameplay 
 is so smooth and realistic and feels like an actual football game. the ai is also much more intelligent. 
 dynasty has returned as well as campus legend which is the funnest mode in the game to me. start 
 as a player in the high school playoffs and work to impress teams to get scholarships. then chose 
 a team and work ur way up the depth chart to get to a legend in ncaa football. the voices and calls 
 and announcers are very well done bringing the game to life before ur eyes. the graphics however 
 are a little worse then last year's addition but are still very good. overall ncaa 08 is the best 
 football game to date and ull be spending hundreds of hours on it until the next one comes out. 
 highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YourLastDay86
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 19, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  This game returns to the NCAA excellence that lacked considerable in EA's first stab at the next-gen 
 with '07. Now It is back and considerable better then ever. A revamped dynasty mode and the addition 
 of Campus Legend make the game feel more complete. Add smoother graphics and the in-game additions 
 of motivation to turn the tide in those epic rivalry games, ESPN sponsored stories and other stats, 
 and the concept of real time weather and you got yourself a game college football fans everywhere 
 will love.
  
  However, at times the commentary gets redundant and load times tend to drag at times but in my 
 opinion you hardly notice it when you're immersed in the swing of things. Take it for what it is, 
 a amazing college football sim, and you'll find yourself enjoying college football in a way that 
 is only surpassed by actually being there.
  
  Oh, and Good Old Rocky Top, Rocky Top Tennessee! Go Vols! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poi78
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  That game has some great new additions such as Campus Legend mode, which follows you from high 
 school finals to your college years. But the regular game play such as dynasty and play now, are 
 the same as always. One HUGE negative is the fact that the game randomly shuts down. Even my brand 
 new disc came up with an error in my game, which is very frustrating when you had not saved yet. 
 None the less it is a fun game, with good modes, but frustrating shut downs. It will keep you playing 
 for a good while if you enjoy the franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madden118
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Ncaa football 08 is a great game. This is hands down the best football game on the xbox 360.
  
  Graphics- The graphics in this game are sweet. The lighting effects are great. The stadiums 
 feel alive and the crowd looks amazing. This game has nice player models, and players faces looks 
 real too.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay in this game is crazy smooth. There is never slowdown in this game. The animations 
 in this game rock. Gang tackles are back and there better than ever. Passing has really improved. 
 Its so realistic now.
  
  Campus Legend Mode- Lets you create a player to dominate the high school playoffs. This determines 
 your abilities for your player going into college. The point of this mode is to take your player 
 from the high school playoffs to college and try to become a football legend.
  
  If you a college football or just looking for some good football fun then Ncaa 08 is the game for. 
 Go buy it now!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  frist off in my view ncaa 08 plays like 07. put the game in and picked ohio and mich i was ohio. 
 mich played kind of a boring game run after run i mean come on. passing was very easy, just bord 
 with the game play myself. maybe its great online i dont play online dont do me no good if it is, 
 the graphics are ok but again to me it looks like 07. football games to me has about reached there 
 limits on what they can add to the playing field, 2k8 pro football is diffrent for the old players 
 and that was a great idea freash. with ncaa looks the same plays the same save your money and buy 
 07, and i know it has a lot of modes to the game it does, but i want a diffrent playing engine 
 somthing fresh, just not diffrent modes and mini games, i hope madden 08 is better. i am at the 
 point i wont buy no more football games just to much of the same deal. buy 2k8 play the old classic 
 players it is diffrent and thats great, just my views thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportzfan8993
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This is game was a very good game for all sports fans or just videogamers in general.
  
  Graphics: all the stadium's look better than ever. For the first time, there arent any people going 
 through other players except the weird people on the sidelines. The frame rate is perfect. The 
 animations are great, also. and the fans look better than any other sports game ive had.
  
  Gameplay: For legend its pretty good but i think MY shrine isnt really that good. I mean mlb 2k7 
 had My skybook and that was the exact same. It sucks that if you are a quarterback in this mode 
 , you cant play defense or kick return (because my qb is really fast) , etc. The instant replays 
 and auto snapshots are a good edition though.
  
  Sound: The sound is very realistics. the right sound comes out of the right hit, and the crowd's 
 cheer is really good.. .
  
  Game Modes: Tug of War is decent but boring, and quite easy. It's pretty much who scores first 
 and you and the computer take turns making a play.
  Bowling is actually addicting as you try for touchdowns which resemble strikes.
  
  ea sports 
 needs to take more time making the atmosphere of the crowd more college football like. and why 
 did they take out the heisman presentations? that was pretty good. they also need to bring back 
 the crowd's noise level, and maybe make it shake the camera a bit. also the soundtrack should be 
 like 2006's version not just boring band music.
  I think this was a great but not the best ncaa football game of all the ones ive played (05, 06, 
 and 07) .
  
  this is definitely a great game, and you should buy for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBuckeyeGuy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  NCAA 08 feels much different from last years game. The dominance of scrabbling quarterbacks has 
 been toned down to make the game feel much more realistic as far as being a true simulation. The 
 game play is much smoother and the vast array of animations allows for the player to rely much 
 more on skill rather than a tackling animation that gains 5 yards. This is done with the addition 
 of gang tackling and much more realistic collisions that imitates real world factors such as speed 
 and momentum much better. The AI in NCAA 08 seems to make better decisions however after a couple 
 hours of game play its not to hard to find constant cracks in the defense that are relatively easy 
 to expose down the field. The impressive replay system is a neat little feature that saves your 
 replays from the entire game and allows you to save your favorite video and picture highlights 
 during or after the game. The stamina system seems to have been altered to allow your players to 
 be on the field longer without becoming as tired. This allows you to keep your star players on 
 the field longer and use them much more often without worrying quite as much about them getting 
 tired. Dynasty mode is the same as it has been on the current generation except with the addition 
 of a beefed up recruiting system that really only appeals to people obsessed with building their 
 team. Those of you who just want to play the game wont find much entertainment in choosing whether 
 you want to talk to a recruit about your school prestige or training facilities. I cant really 
 speak for campus legend mode because I havent played it very much. It seems to be a lot like Maddens 
 superstar mode but I cant really judge it because I have only spent less than an hour in it. Online 
 runs smoothly however a relatively rare disconnect can still be very frustrating. Overall this 
 game makes many improvements on last years game to easily be called the best in the series. If 
 youre a fan of the NCAA Football series then this year is defiantly not the year to skip out on 
 buying the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edwin03
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 19, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I donty really feel like writing much so im going to be short and simple and real.
  
  Pros : GAMEPLAY!!! the smoothest football game ever. Best Animations Ever though i think madden 
 08 will exceed that. Campus Legend is what i wish maddens superstar mode will be like. They have 
 the right thought on campus legend mode. it is actually enjoyable and it is what i only play with 
 right nnow. madden really has to take ideas from this game. dynasty is as in depth as it can get
 
  
  Cons: only thing that i dont like is that i thought i would love the fact that they got so realistic 
 and detail on the recruiting process but now that i tried it out its too much to do lol. but maybe 
 it will grow on me anyway maybe you will like that. but anyway if you need to stay busy and have 
 a game last long for you than hey there you go its a Pro for you lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer123890
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Im a huge college football fan and this game is a great buy. Campus Legend and Dynasty are great 
 and the tackling fluidity is very realistic. EA fixed most of the problems from 07 but the only 
 thing i see that still doesn't flow well is the ball carrier's direction change. It's not enough 
 to make a huge difference but the game would be almost perfect if it was just a little bit more 
 realistic. The shrine and highlight reels make it so you can always show everyone how myron rolle 
 got a pic 6 on tebow for the win. All in all, if you like college football this is the game for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodstock
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I have bought every NCAA game released EA really game through on this gam this year. I can not 
 think of how EA can ever surpass this years. The Legend mode is better than last year. Last year 
 no matter how hard you tried you could never make it to a top ranked team. This year you try hard 
 you can make it to a top ranked team. Last year I tried over 30 times to make it to a top ranked 
 team and never made it. graphics are better with frame rates increasing significant. This game 
 no longer looks like a port over from a last gen system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boris231
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  This game is just getting better. I can't stop playing it, and i love the legend and dynasty... The 
 dynasty has a lot of depth, and the legend is great with the high school addition... Also it is 
 sweet how u dont get to be a starter at all the schools, and have to work ur way up... The AI on 
 defense is really good, and makes the game a lot more challenging.. This is a must buy game, well 
 worth the $60 u will spend on it... If u really want a great football game this is definitely the 
 one to buy.. Also then u will be able to put ur guy into madden once again, and if this game is 
 amazing then u kno they will make madden a great game 2... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pigpusha
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  ok yea so what ever this review text thing is lol any way it's a great game i and all that stuff 
 eazy to control i would give it a 8.5 it doesnt take a long time to ues all the controls and stuff 
 like that im going to get the game now in 5 more days so i 'll then get some more achevemnets for 
 it i never played it on my xbox live profile i played it on my other one for some reason yea im 
 geting bord of writting why dose this review text have to be some many words lolzz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwinches
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  The football is great. Good animations, very responsive, overall top notch. However, missing alot 
 of the dynasty depth that made previous versions more fun to play (and replay) . No create a school, 
 limited dynasty options, cannot play dynasty mode with non div1a schools, season success no longer 
 dictates recruiting resources, cant create youre own coaching likeness (complete w/ beer gut and 
 bald spot) , etc. The new recruiting system is vastly more sophositicated and complex, however its 
 so much so that its often easier to religate recruiting to the AI after you've stacked your prospect 
 board. Recruiting every prospect on your list througout the season and off-season is daunting. 
 Bottom line, if you want an awesome football game you can dive right into and get great gameplay... 
 this one's for you. If you like the depth and atmosphere alot of us loved about the older xbox/ps2 
 versions you may be dissapointed. Nonetheless, few would suggest this is a bad game. It's just 
 missing some features you may expect (and love) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTANJ
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 19, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Definitely a must pick-up. If you are a football fan, get this game. The newly added EA Sports 
 Highlights makes replays more fun, and being able to share photos and videos with your friends 
 is a great addition. The newly altered Recruiting aspect is now easy to use and effective. The 
 only fault I have with this game, and the NCAA franchise in total, is the lack of effort to include 
 player names. This is not a difficult feat at all, and can be accomplished with a developer team 
 of their magnitude in less then a week. Even without player names, this game is still a must-buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cguarino
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Well, it's that time of year again where everyone begins to dissect the football games that come 
 into the market. Well, NCAA Football 2008 is a very good game, that is only hindered by a few issues 
 that really would have been nice to have addressed.
  
  First, lets go over the good things:
  
  1) Great Dynasty mode with recruiting that is more 
 intuitive and time consuming and is just plain more fun and interesting. Dynasty mode also includes 
 a newspaper feature with headlines from around the country, award contenders, the 3 major rankings, 
 etc. It is comprehensive.
  2) Good touch with the real time weather with weather channel. com
  3) The graphics are nice, 
 maybe not as good as madden 07, but they are still very good.
  4) You can auto name rosters if you dont want to deal with naming everyone or only having numbers 
 associated with people.
  5) The running game is great now. There are a bunch of moves you can do that run seamlessly together 
 so combo moves are now possible without it looking wierd. Also, the running game benefits by better 
 blocking and offensive lineman who seem smarter on the whole.
  6) The replay system, although hindered by what seems to be something that is patchable, is a very 
 good idea and, when its working, is really a nice touch to the game
  7) The stadiums look very nice and realistic
  8) The announcers are the best I have ever heard 
 in a football game. Also, when you are playing a nationally telivised game, there are 3 announcers 
 instead of two, which is cool.
  9) The game runs very nicely at 60 frames
  10) Having a couple mini games is nice and even though I have not tried it yet, the campus legend 
 mode seems like a great mode of gameplay
  11) Gang tackling is now in the game and its great to see
  12) Lots of cool animations to see 
 on both sides of the ball
  13) plays can be reversed by refs
  
  Now, the bad stuff:
  
  1) During cutscenes, picking plays, replays, etc, the game is choppy and just flat out not 
 smooth. Its not a big deal, but it just stutters and stuff during those times
  2) There are no refs on the field, no cheerleaders, no cuts to the crowd to see them, no band to 
 see... you can hear them, but not see them. nothing. The presentation is just not there. No player 
 intros, no game ending presentation. All there is is the game changing performance of the day, 
 which is boring. There could have been so much more in this area.
  3) The relpay system either works sometimes or it wont save and gives you error messages. Hopefully 
 there will be a patch on this sometime soon.
  4) There is no way to adjust sliders for injuries or fumbles. Basically, I have found that there 
 are more injuries and fumbles than there should be. Sometimes it seems there is just too much of 
 it and there is no way to change it. The sliders on the whole are lacking.
  5) The atmosphere of a college game isnt quite good enough. 6) There doesn't seem to be any way 
 to sub people in for certain formations and not others. Really there is no way to work with 2 halfbacks 
 unless you want to adjust the depth chart everytime you want to substitute.
  7) No alternate uniforms, no create a team or create a stadium
  8) Momentum, even though it is 
 there, doesn't seem to really make a difference and certainly it is difficult to gain momentum.
 
  9) Croud could be better in terms of sound and reaction to things. The crowd does react, but it 
 could be a bit better
  
  All in all, this is a very good game. Are there some tweaks that could have been done to make this 
 more polished and a all around winner? Of course. Is there enough development time to get everything 
 right and add every little thing that games want? No way! We should be glad that they seemed to 
 concentrate on gameply more that presentation and that is a good thing. If it were the other way 
 around, this game would get a 5.5 cause it would be really bad. The dynasty mode is really cool 
 and from what I have heard, so is the campus legend mode. Those 2 modes right there will give you 
 hours upon hours of fun. That is reason enough to get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creed1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  last year was the worst football game i think ever, kept if for 3 hrs before i returned it back 
 for a deposit on madden 07, so I rented NCAA 08 last night and it is prob the best foot ball game 
 I have played ever!, Game play is the best, campus mode is the best and in depth, awsome playing 
 highschool tourment, I have not messed with Dynasty mode, The graphics are the best, its just a 
 overall good game and worth the 60.00, I only wrote this review because of all the people saying 
 the graphics suck and its a horibble game,. The only bad this about this game that i would agree 
 with all the haters on this game is WHERE ARE THE REFS? CHEERLEADERS? THE MOMENTUM METTER LIKE 
 IN 06 WHERE U CAN MAKE YOUR OPP CONTROLLER SHAKE? THE FANS HOLDING SIGNS AND THE FAT DUDE DANCING 
 WHEN U SCORED, OR THE MAD FANS THAT LEAVE WHEN THEY KNOW YOUR BEAT? If it would have had these features 
 on it i would give the game a 9.7 but for now i give it a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmccrea
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  I couldnt wait to get this years NCAA, after last year's dismal performance. I can say I wasnt 
 let down. After playing thru my first year in legend mode, I love the ability to save vids and 
 pics and watch my great plays again and again. Playing in High School against some of my former 
 rival schools, sure brings back memories haha. The hits are way better this year, and everything 
 seems much more fluid. The gang tackling is a nice touch and also double blocking is awesome to 
 see.
  My few gripes though are small, but annoying. I dont know about anyone else, but in Legend mode 
 as the QB, all Im sent in for plays are the same 4-6 plays every flipping game. I mean come on... there 
 should be an entire playbook that they could choose from. This makes me call many audibles over 
 and over as the AI for the coach is not the brightest. Also, for a west coast team, I tend to use 
 my FB in almost 90% of my run plays and this makes any type of option play, which the computer 
 seems to call over and over again, very hard to successfully run. My team has 3 RBS, all with over 
 90 speed, yet time and time again its the FB I have to deal with... and with a 77 speed... thats 
 a huge drop off. Now you could argue the coach knows best, and i bet they do, but no here they 
 dont. In RL I have a hard time imagining this happening as my college team does not play like this. 
 They arent a Super team like the USC's or Florida's, but they still have good players and the AI 
 should take better advantage of that and the playbook.
  Also, on any FB trap play, it seems that the AI for my blocking is not there. Now this could be 
 just a lineman issue and maybe mine arent good, but everytime I run the play, and i mean 100% of 
 the time, I have no blocker for the defensive tackle. Ill call it and theres a hole so wide, I 
 have to turn my head not to watch the brutal hit that follows. Oh well lol!
  Other than that, the game is awesome and deep, and I cant wait to really dig into the dynasty mode 
 now.! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonlf
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  I didn't play 07 on the 360 so I can't speak on all the differences between the two games. But 
 for the most part I really like the game. The 60/fps makes the game run as smooth as butter. The 
 graphics are really good also. Would be nice to see added touches like alternate uniforms, create 
 a team. I think so far that the Campus Legend is kinda cool.
  
  Here are some things I would like to see in the future:
  
  1) Online Dynasty Mode. That would 
 be really cool and could be done.
  2) Alternate Uniforms.
  3) Create a school.
  4) Stadium upgrades when you build a strong program. One that you can design and customize with 
 specific signs/jumbotrons, etc...
  
  If you like football or college football specifically this is a pretty good game. I think it was 
 not too far from being great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lawsonm9
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  The gameplay itself is kind of difficult especially with a team lower than a 4 stars. The graphics 
 aren't that great but the the gameplay makes up for that. Recruiting is also kind of difficult 
 and takes some time to getting used to. I recommend simulating every game your first year but recruit 
 after each just to get used to it. Also go to the off-season and mess with that too. After that 
 first year quit and start a new dynasty because now you will have an idea of what is going on and 
 it will be more enjoyable. On the real though it IS worth $60 and is alot of fun. Go Michigan State 
 University!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bighou
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 23, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. For starters, ok, there is no create a school and cpu to cpu challenge. 
 Boo hoo, oh well, maybe next year, but anways...... The Gameplay is absolutely real, that it is 
 UNREAL!!! No more is the football game that actually looks like you are playing on a computer. 
 The somewhat choppy graphics are outahere. This game looks so real, it's just absolutely amazing. 
 You'll be playing games so much, that you'll probabley forget what modes or options they left out. 
 Guess what folks, I only played the demo!!! This game is an instant classic because there is no 
 other football game ever made with these kind of graphics. If Madden is even remotely close to 
 how this game looks, IT'S OVER!!! EA has got it back on lock. Great job EA!!!
  
  Ok, I'm back, I just got the full game yesterday and I sware this game is Video Crack!!! This game 
 is so highly addictive you need to schedule time to play it. Once you start playing the Legend 
 Campus mode, you are not going to want to put it down, TRUST ME! Don't pay attention to all the 
 haters out there with below 8.0 ratings. This game is a must get!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  Point blank-If you are football fan or fanatic this is the game you should be playing. This has 
 to be the best football sim game out here to date.
  
  Doesn't matter if it's NCAA/College ball or the National Football League it's still football, it's 
 still the pigskin.
  
  Greatly improved from last year's:
  
  Players are more physically aligned, offensive linemen are usually big, a little gut and slow. NCAA 
 08 you have that, their job is to protect the quarterback and push the line when they are on the 
 goal line. Don't expect anything more from these guys, you're not going to get quick and nimble.
 
  
  Defensive backs-there is a big change with them, last year the DT's were kind of on the slim side, well 
 a good majority of them. Here you have some over weight one's as well as some Urbacher-body types. Some 
 are quick, while some are as slow as molasses but if they get a sack on the quarterback, he's in 
 for a hurting.
  
  The game runs faster than last year's and there are some minor annoyances:
  
  Injured player 
 just lays on the field, where last year he got up and hobbled off.
  
  Lack of penalities unless you move the slider, holding is so apparent the ref has to be blind not 
 to see any of them. Lots of slamming players down, clotheslines and no unsportsman-like penalities 
 thrown.
  I say ---- Bring it! 
  
  First year in Dynasty will be brutal, not until you have your recruited class in place next year, prepare 
 for a whole lot of cussing at your quarterback.
  With his non-scrambling-intercepting self!!
  
  Recruiting use to be easy, now it's a pain in 
 the behind.
  You have to call the recruit, weekly than pitch why they should come to your school, blah, blah. Schedule 
 the recruit visit, offer a scholarship.
  Isn't an assistant coach suppose do this or the CPU??
  By the time you are done with this, your 
 too aggravated to play the game.
  
  But if you like football.
  Than this is a BUY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TDawg28
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  This is the best college football game ever!!!! Super Sim is the greatest feature ever put into 
 a sports game!!! Gameplay is smooth and amazing. Campus legend is amazingly good. Dynasty has been 
 improved a lot. the new highlight video and photo feature is absolutely amazing. You cna upload 
 your highlights to the internet and let others see themIt is without a doubt the best college football 
 game ever created. No other game even comes close. Anybody who is a college football fan and loves 
 playing video games and does not go out to get this game is out of their mind. Go out and buy it. 
 It is worth the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bezydagreat
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  This is the first year I bought a college football game, and I'm actually glad I picked it up ! 
 I've notice a lot of improvements in the graphics in NCAA 08 than from previous football titles 
 like Madden 07 for the 360 and the and NCAA 07, and helping out the better graphics you have awesome 
 new upgrades like hit stick 2.0 which lets you hit hard up on down low, clean new crisp running 
 animations and a lot more hard hits and group tackles ! yeaaaaaaah lol. A must play for all sport 
 game players ! And if your into Madden and your on the edge of your seat waiting for Madden 08 
 to come out this will hold and also tight'n up your Madden skills being that the controls are almost 
 identical to the controls coming out on the new Madden title next month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-of-ruckus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that I was a little skeptical about this game. Madden 07 I thought was horrible and 
 had little or no replay value. NCAA 07 was good but it wasn't anything wonderful. With those two 
 games fresh in my mind I rented this one instead of buying it. I am pleasantly surprised with EA's 
 product for this season. It has all the features you have to love in the NCAA games, such as; hit 
 stick, dynasty mode and fantastic game play. It has a few new features like recruiting, where you 
 make phone calls to your prospects and set up visits to your school. The gameplay has a few new 
 things but nothing life changing. It seems more realistic, like in the past if you lunge at someone 
 they fall down or if you tackle someone they stop right there and fall down. While that does happen 
 every once in a while, for the most part you move while being tackled and depending on your motivation 
 you can break them all together. My biggest disapointment was the control your own prospect option. 
 You start from high school and are forced to play souly as your prospect. I know some people enjoyed 
 this feature but I was not one of them. The music was also non existant. I would have liked some 
 good tracks that were present in the previous EA games. Overall I enjoyed this game and might buy 
 it, but it doesn't have enough new content for me to jump up and rush to my local game store (besides 
 EA and Game Stop because they suck) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamuja
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  The Good: I am impressed with the 60 frames per second and the graphics have improved drastically. 
 The Campus Legend is pretty good and the camera angles are perfect but there needs to be a little 
 bit bigger for the QB. The new recruiting in Dynasty mode has made major improvements.
  
  The Bad: What happened to creating your own team? Its gone. The recruiting phase is very long and 
 sometimes frustrating when wasting all of you time trying to get a 5* player and he slips out on 
 the very last day. Recruits should make up their minds quicker because thats how it is in the real 
 word.
  
  If EA improves the recruiting, the camera angles in Campus Legend, and adds a few more tidbits 
 here and there, then I think NCAA 09 will get a solid 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahb2121
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The gameplay is so addictive. Dynasty mode is very involved, especially recruiting. 
 Campus Legend mode is so fun. But there is one minor problem stopping me from giving this game 
 a perfect 10. The first is in campus legend mode. I decided to be a halfback and the camera is 
 too tight so I get tackled from guys coming from off screen because I cant see them in time to 
 juke. That gets frustrating, but it is just a minor flaw in an otherwise amazing gameplay. And 
 the fact that Madden is going to allow you to use your campus legend is awesome. Highly recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockhopper
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay and graphics are fantastic, love the updated animations, great bone crunching hits this 
 year, running game feels very smooth compared to past versions, much improved defensive AI and 
 offensive blocking. Yet the game still feels like it could use some polish. Playing as Michigan 
 State, it hard to believe that the players on the sideline almost look like they are made from 
 graphics of the 90's. I swear I can see the pixels on the helmets. Doesn't subtract from the gameplay, 
 but just looks so out of place next to the other killer graphics.
  
  Overall, I'm really enjoying this game and am very happy with the gameplay (though still having 
 troubles trying to lobb a pass, my QB's only want to throw bullet passes) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bosox2005
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 18, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that although I've never been a huge college football fan (Tarheels don't 
 exactly excel in this area... lol) I've given the last few iterations of NCAA a try. Last year didn't 
 hold my interest very long. It seemed like my ex... pretty, but overall shallow and boring. The 
 dynasty was so similar to the version I played a few years ago, I wondered what EA was doing. This 
 year, the game has improved greatly. If you were already a fan, the new animations and smoother 
 (and faster) framerate will be enough. If you are a fringe player, the features will suck you in. 
 The college legend mode is just plain fun. I loved the idea of starting as a highschool player 
 and trying to impress scouts in the State Championships. It reminded me of playing highschool football 
 with one noticable exception.... I don't suck as much in NCAA 08. The rest of Campus Legend mode 
 seems similar to last year, but the camera angles are better and some of the more tedious aspects 
 can be done for you (by the way, it's about time we got a functional quick sim feature... good job 
 EA!) . As for dynasty, I toyed around with recruiting and scouting, and it's very addictive and 
 well done. It's no longer a series of calls and visits from coach crap, that was getting tired. 
 While you still do this, it's much deeper and involves more actual feeling out of prospects. There 
 does seem to be a touch of randomness t it at times, but overall I thought it seemed solid. My 
 only gripes thus far are that while DB AI is MUCH improved, it almost seems a bit TOO improved. 
 While it's nice to get punished for throwing the ball into traffic, it just seems too easy to get 
 picks while you are playing defense. All it takes is setting your safeties back and pressing your 
 corners (Yes, you no longer have to move your entire secondary in one audible) and you can get 
 a pick about a third of the time. I also would have like to see the create-a-school make a return, 
 along with alternate uniforms and the stadium pulse feature. The atmosphere is solid, but it lacks 
 the drama and intensity of a true college football game. Rivalries just aren't as big without the 
 screen shaking IMO. Anyway, I strongly recommend this title to anyone, and as I said before, if 
 your a casual fan you'll really enjoy it (surprisingly so, IMO) , but if your a college football 
 fan, it's pretty much a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maples45
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Definitely better than last year, but several key things missing. 1. No Refs
  2. Information on who just got injured. The announcers make some comment about who just got hurt, 
 but rarely does the camera show them or do you see a pop up saying who the injured player was.
 
  3. Position substitutions. For whatever reason, my fullback is being put at WR on a trips formation, 
 would love to change this, but I can't.
  4. A way to simulate recruitment. Going through ALL 35 recruits every week can get tiresome. I 
 would be great if your assistant coaches could automate the process if you weren't interested in 
 all the details of recruiting.
  5. A way to cancel out of replays. You would think hitting back would cancle a replay, but often 
 you have to watch the whole thing in its entirety. 6. Maybe its just me and my gorilla hands... but 
 touch passing seems difficult at best. The slightest tap of a button often seems to end in a bullet 
 pass. The concept of tossing a high one up and having your receiver run under it doesn't seem to 
 exist. 7. The crowd is constantly cheering regardless if the away team just picked off a pass and 
 returned it for a TD. 8. As others have said, the grass looks awful (but the stadiums look great 
 otherwise) .
  9. The playcalling in campus legend mode is questionable at best. Hailmary on 2nd and 3?
  
 
  Email if I have something wrong as I love to know a quick fix for some of these issues. James. Connolly@gmail. com 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrycee
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  To start off ! this is the best NCAA game in all the series. Hi you have HD
  it really show its colors. The graphics is excellent and the gameplay is
  30 times better than 
 last years version. There are things missing but may
  be year by year EA plans to add them slowly but surely back into the game.
  I myself would recommend 
 this game to any football fan and gamer. Every
  one have very good and bad opinions about this game but i only vote on the positive reviews. What 
 a inprovement ! So you know Madden 08 will be very
  good this year. HOPEFULLY !!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barloc1337
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  EA realeased its new NCAA football game, and this game is one of the best EA sports games released. 
 This game is a much bigger improvement over last years game in many ways. First off the campus 
 legend mode, makes its appearance on the next-gen consoles. Structured to look kinda like the madden 
 07 superstar mode, it has the calender of your events, then you can back out of it to get to the 
 see your stats, and your position on the depth chart. But in game, unlike madden 07, the camera 
 is zoomed out so you can see whats going on. This camera upgrade hopefully is in madden, but for 
 this game, it makes this mode, fun to play.
  
  The dynasty mode has been truly thought out since the last 3 years. Although this time they have 
 redone the recruiting system. The organization could be confusing at first, but it is a unique 
 system that is easy, and adds some entertainment to signing your next superstar freshman. The games 
 hugest improvement over NCAA football 07, is the normal on field gameplay. The minute you start 
 to play, you will notice that the game is so much smoother than the last game. This part makes 
 it a bit faster, but not by much, and this improves the quality of the gameplay. The normal gameplay 
 is what you've come to expect and there is not a whole lot new, except a couple of new trick plays 
 (Statue of Liberty) and a new system called the motivation system. When you complete a huge play, 
 say a long TD pass, or a interception returned for a TD, Your players are then motivated to play 
 at the top of there game, which then makes them better. This system really doesn't come into play 
 very much, but is a neat idea, but it could be done further.
  
  The online play is exactly what you would come to expect, playing as any team you like against 
 someone else. Overall this game is noticeably better in many ways then last years game on the next-gen 
 consoles. I highly recommend that if your a college football fan, or just a fan of football in 
 general, that you buy this game, and check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostAdvenger
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I've personally never been to fond of NCAA or EA games, but I decided it was time I gave them another 
 shot. I've played NCAA 07 before and I really like how the gameplay seemed to put you into the 
 action. However, it seemed to do so less this year. Yet, the gameplay is still quite enjoyable.
 
  
  Dynasty mode is probably the best I've ever seen out of a video game. The recruiting is really 
 deep, and there are so many more candidates to recruit. Campus Legend isn't as fun however. Unless 
 your the QB, you don't get to choose the plays, and only the audibles at that. If you're any other 
 position, you have no say in the matter at all. Also, the camera is pretty much locked into your 
 character and you can hardly see much more of the field. Realistic? Kinda, but it's more of an 
 annoyance. Finally, you don't get to be on the field at all if your character isn't on. And there 
 are some features on the Xbox that aren't on the 360 which kinda irks me. Most importantly, there's 
 no mascot games, no create-a-team, and least importantly no training games, like HB attack, or 
 pocket presents, but too special. Also, Xbox has a more enjoyable Campus Legend where you don't 
 have the camera up your butt and you can play at all times. And the Xbox version seems more arcade-y 
 and taster moving than the 360.
  
  On the good side of the 360, you are allowed to save your your replays, and the game allow you 
 to view any replay throughout a game at the end of the game. Also, the dynasty mode is better than 
 the Xbox. And obviously, the animations and graphics are better than the xbox.
  
  So is this game worth your well earned or stolen $60? It depends on how much you like NCAA football 
 games. I wish I didn't buy it at the full price, but I can see why many people would, though. And 
 if you happen (for whatever reason) to like the original Xbox better than your 360, go for the 
 Xbox version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BostonSportzFAN
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Much different fromlast year, and it feels much more reactive and realistic. New animations 
 and are great and the game just feels like more than a game.
  
  Graphics - Still looks very good, but it seems it could be better
  
  Dynasty - The dynasty 
 is now much more fun and recruiting now takes deision-making and thought to get the players you're 
 after. ESPN. com feature is a cool way to follow your dynasty
  
  Campus Legend - First time on 360 and it does not disappoint. Actually playing in high school to 
 become a good player is fun. Then \just being your guy in the games is good especially with the 
 super sim.
  
  Overall=8.9
  Best entry in the series to date 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samiboi88
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This is so far the BEST football game that is currently out for the next gen systems. The gameplay 
 is very much improved as players
  move more smoothly on the field with cut backs, one handed catches, and
  sideline catches. The 
 Dynasty mode is more in dept with the inclusion of espn. com the new recruiting system. Campus Legend 
 mode is pretty cool as you actually playing as a high school player in your state championship 
 tournament. Even the main menu is ten times better than the last madden and ncaa games on the next 
 gen systems. This game is a must buy for anybody into the college game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Army4God
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  To many things are missing from this game to make it that great. Everything just feels a little 
 off. No refs, no real sideline activity, hitching between plays (especially when leaving huddle) , 
 Penalty's and replay just appear it seems since you see no refs or flags. Also is a ridiculous 
 amount of booth reviews, I have yet to have one not be reversed. No Div 1-AA schools included in 
 the game. Seems to be a lot less college atmosphere than last years regular Xbox release. The gameplay 
 isn't that great either. Although better than last year, the gameplay still seems unresponsive 
 when compared to regular XBox. It seems to me that the only reason people are giving this game 
 higher scores is because its better than last years 360 version. If this game is compared to last 
 years regular xbox version this game would be lucky to get a 6. Overall the game seems almost boring 
 for some reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superradchad13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  This is the first NCAA game i bought, mainly because it is phenomenal. Dynasty is so in depth, 
 the rival games are great, the achievements are fun to get, and the tackles are amazing. I am in 
 love with this game. It has me hooked. I played through one season of dynasty last night and went 
 undefeated and won the sec championship and the bcs bowl. Now I get to look at them in the main 
 menu in my trophy hall. It has so many teams and options. It runs amazingly smooth at 60 fps. This 
 is a force to be reckoned with. Watch out Madden, NCAA is on the rise and coming for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottyboy21203
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  If you are a college football fan then you should buy this game, period. If not, you should check 
 it out. Beginning with the opening menu, this game makes you feel like you are at your favorite 
 college team's trophy room. In fact, it is a trophy room. You're trophy room. You can track your 
 achievements on the field by gaining trophies which are put on display as well as saving your highlight 
 reel videos and photos and putting them on display. The gameplay is better than last years, with 
 player models looking incredibly realistic and each school's stadium looking authentic as well. 
 The dynasty mode is full of substance and the recruiting system should keep you busy for a while. 
 The campus legend mode is fun, as you can start as a high school prospect and work your way up 
 to the starting job but can get a little repetitive after a while because you can only play one 
 position. However it is worth a try and it is always fun to import into Madden when it comes out. 
 The only real downside of this game is the load screens are a bit slow and the game could of used 
 a little bit of streamlining, as it gets stuck sometimes for a little switching screens. Stadium 
 pulse could have been brought back and player intros could have been better but other than that 
 nothing really to worry about. Overall, this game is a good purchase and dynasty mode should keep 
 you going for a while. If not, its a fun game to play your friends and see whose school is the 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JC346
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  NCAA Football 08 is a great college football game. There isnt that many gamemodes, but the game 
 modes will keep you coming back for more. Campus Legend is by far my favorite game mode. You start 
 out as a high school football player in your state and you face actual highschools in your state. 
 You work your way up to college football and pick a team. You then practice and practice and work 
 your way up the depth charts until you are a starter. Then you play college games. Graphics are 
 good I guess. The game play is fun and the controls arent hard to learn. Every big college team 
 is in there. Online is the same. The mini games are enjoyable but wont keep you busy for long. 
 The announcers are good and know what they are talking about. The achievements are pretty easy 
 to get. Overall, NCAA Football 08 is a game that will keep you coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToughNuts74
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  This could have been the premier collegiate sports game of the next gen, but instead, its an above 
 average repeat. The graphics are beautiful, even my alma mater The University of Toledo's Glass 
 Bowl is down to a T (pun intended) . I also enjoy the campus legend mode. Starting from high school 
 and going from there is a great touch. But something is missing... Such as Create a School, which 
 has been absent since NCAA 2006. Also, let's see more outside player involvement. During Campus 
 Legend, decide if he goes to class or not, and watch cut scenes of his day. Hey, even a few mini 
 games that could help boost stats would be awesome, too. All this game needs is a little more spice 
 and it would be a top tier football title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M_Kroll
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  Played it with much anticipation. Campus Legend was my mode of choice. Ah, to be a beaming high 
 school senior ready to take his team to the state championships and, in the process, draw the eyes 
 of scouts for the college cream of the crop. So far so good. Two and a half games into the high 
 school mode (used to determine what schools you will get offers from and your eventual starting 
 depth opportunity) , it locks up. Great. I reboot, and my virtual me in high school football gear 
 is, of course, not saved. I shrug it off -- wouldn't be the first exclusive football franchise 
 title on the Xbox 360 that has occasional lock ups. Besides, I've been waiting for months for the 
 next installment and my annual football fix, and I won't let a lock up within 30 minutes of play 
 or so shake that faith. After re-creating my character, I manage to make it through the high school 
 playoffs and get a scholarship at OU as second string quarterback. I play a couple of games including 
 one that's deemed one of the ESPN Classic match-ups after a narrow double overtime roust. Now I'm 
 really starting to dig the highlight reel and snapshot feature that does a reasonable job of capturing 
 the greatest plays. At least that's what it seemed like when it was snapping pictures during my 
 high school try out phase of the game. I get curious and look into this feature further, but find 
 that not only am I unable to save any video replays -- apparently an error occurred while saving 
 but also no pictures of great moments are actually showing up or viewable. This despite OU's steady 
 surge up the conference ladder, my alter ego's entry into the Heisman race, regular plays that 
 result in shutter click sounds during replay, and receiving regular attention as player of the 
 week.
  
  I really want this game to work and want to play it, so I resort to the logical next step and call 
 EA technical support. After a few minutes wading through an automated telephone support system, 
 I finally get connected to Jennifer, -- who sounds like Jennifer is probably not her real name, 
 nor does she sound like she's anywhere on the same continent as anyone at EA that had anything 
 to do with the making of this game. Unfortunately, it turns out, she's never heard of this problem. 
 She offers that I check the disk for scratches (I just took it out of a shrink wrapped box and 
 it hasn't left my 360 since last night when I bought it, I assure her) . She suggests I should try 
 to play the game on another Xbox 360. Not having a stack sitting around here, I let her know that's 
 also not really a workable solution. She finally suggests I delete the game save file -- oh no, 
 a whole eight hours of rabid gameplay and stats production lost -- and if that fails, return the 
 product to the retailer or via EA's warranty department. Great. 
 
  All in all, the game visuals run smoothly; running and option plays seem to execute way too easily; 
 pass control is wobbly; teammates don't seem to get tired no matter how much you abuse them; stadiums 
 still seem pretty lifeless (if pretty) as players on the sideline all pretty much look like escapes 
 from the same clone factory; and the stats and ESPN. com news interface is clunky (and enjoys a 
 few typos) . The commentator dialog is actually decent --- a nice surprise since in the 360 version 
 of Madden 2007, the commentator was as lifeless as Marilyn Manson likes his/her dates, even though 
 the PSP version of the same title included Coach Madden's lovable commentary. So far from my play 
 of primarily the Campus Legend mode, NCAA Football 2008 seems to have been polished in some areas 
 -- it actually feels a lot less tedious to try and maintain your GPA now while practicing and chasing 
 that coveted college football trophy we all love and cherish, and visuals are much smoother. But, 
 very much like it's bigger cousin, the Xbox 360 version also breaks so many things that in the 
 end it seems like an above average muddle with three steps forward and two or two and a half back. 
 Were this not the only NCAA pigskin game in town, or on its first or second iteration, it would 
 be forgivable. But considering that there are so many great ideas between the two EA football franchises 
 over the years, it's sad to see them never quite get it together and make that near-perfect football 
 game on the Xbox 360. Maybe next year? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottiegUT
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  If youre looking for a good, honest, non bias review you've found the right one. The time of year 
 has come again, where we start craving the leaves to start turning colors and we can smell football 
 in the air again. EA's sophomore season is better than its freshman effort mainly for one reason, 
 Solid GAME PLAY.
  
  Whats working for the game?
  
  1. Well to start off... all the hype about the 60 Frames per second, and new animations... well it 
 lives up to it. The game runs so much faster than its previous version, and the animations this 
 year add so much more to the games over all look and realism.
  
  2. A. I.: Best A. I. I've seen in a NCAA game. The Computer makes better blocks for running plays, 
 and you can no longer always beat the Computer by the long ball. Its over all a more realistic 
 feeling game with the A. I. 3. Campus Legend Mode: This I have had a lot of fun with, where I am 
 disappointed you couldn't create your High School Uniforms or anything and chose specific colors 
 (they give you like 7 different options for color combos) , the position specific camera and the 
 quick run through plays until you are on the field is a lot of fun and very quick. The scouts watching 
 is cool, and the whole college career is cool.
  
  4. More Stadiums, where they dont have all 118 schools or whatever, what they do have looked even 
 better this year.
  
  5. Dynasty Rules again, dynasty and recruiting is so deep this year, only question is, do you have 
 the patience to do all that you can do?
  
  What is just fine, but nothing extra special?
  
  1. Online play: now this isn't a knock on online play, because it runs smooth and has great 
 connection. It just still doesn't have like an online league or dynasty like you would hope. But 
 if youre just looking for online to be able to play a friend... then have no fear, it runs great.
 
  
  2. Graphics: Graphics look wonderful. To tell you the truth though, I think last years textures/detail 
 were a lot better. Lighting is 10 times better. I have noticed that some teams pants, can be REALLY 
 too shinny. Helmets don't seem to have as much sparkle to them as last year (see Buckeyes/Notre 
 Dame Helmets compared to last year) . Uniforms do look a lot better, I haven't noticed as much grass 
 stains on uniforms. Player models are a lot better as well. I think the textures have been truly 
 simplified to help make the game run a lot faster. Game play is more important remember.
  
  Whats missing?
  
  1. Create a school
  2. Crowd Loudness Control
  3. Still needs something 
 more to give it the college feel? Maybe animations of the College Bands? Cheerleaders I haven't 
 seen in this years version? Student Section Animations? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwiwheet29
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  It is sad to see another season down the drain. The hitting system is fine. The player movement 
 and models also, but the crowed in the stadium still not team responsive the home team jump and 
 cheer for the home team. Dont you know if the grass looked like maddens grass the game would look 
 so much better. BCS time. Where are the team logos that represent who are competing for what championship 
 they are after. Next year huh!! I wait a year for the needed changes to be made and this is what 
 we get. Never perfect something always missing so we can complain. I just hope that madden superbowl 
 don't have that crap that they had in the endzones last year on this years game circus tactics 
 in the football sims are a big joke. MY email address is : qwiwheet@yahoo. com. If you need real 
 pointers for the ncaa football sim let me know because if you mock madden with the gameplay why 
 not everything else big dissapointment. Its in the game ??? I remember when I was 15 I believed 
 that, but not anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jharpst05
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  Solid. That's an easy way to describe this excellent games in an improving game franchise. The 
 gameplay is very smooth... there are some really cool tackles made by players in-game. Dynasty Mode 
 is better than ever, mostly due to the improved recruiting system. The only thing I don't like 
 is that you cannot switch views while on defense trying to block extra points (like you could for 
 last year's version on the original Xbox) . The leaders of the Heisman Trophy at the beginning of 
 the season are just as I would rank them in real life. Campus Legend mode is super fun... awesome 
 to create your own guy and get recruited by colleges. Get ready to spend hours on this sweet game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2theboogy
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  Let me preface my review by saying I always buy the College Football EA games regardless of reviews. 
 The same can't be said for the Madden series which has continuously gone down hill since it went 
 next gen.
  
  Gameplay: The number one, and possibly, the only reason this year's version is still considered 
 a good game. The gameplay is seamless, there's no catchup ai... the defensive hot routes and playcalling 
 are smoother. The actual gameplay itself is what saves this game from being awful because there 
 are a lot of things wrong with it.
  
  Sound: Awful, Lee Corso and Kirk and the gang are useless. The crowds are dull and the sound is 
 crap.
  
  Presentation: The menu is easy to get around, nothing too fancy. I love the new recruiting enhancements, 
 definitely a good addition. Again though, the college atmosphere is horrible. The stadium designs 
 are still there but there aren't any cheerleaders or crazy fans.
  
  Graphics: They look good, but again, no different from last years. Most disappointing part of the 
 game.
  
  To sum it up, I honestly think that this year's version is a step back. I give it a 7.0 and that 
 entire 7 is because of the gameplay that keeps me wanting more. If you can get past all the other 
 game and just play awesome college football then you'll have a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaosGT
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  EA tried too hard to make this a hit. If they clean this game up a little bit, next years game 
 could be perfect. But until then we will have to settle with this game. It feel like they got all 
 the big things right i. e. gang tackles, replay system, stadium, animations. But the forgot about 
 they little things. :- ( EA shame on you. You of all companies should know how the little things 
  I really thing they should 
 also look at some of the rosters and get those fixed. Hopefully thing come out with some kind of 
 update before madden comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmielnik
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  So the annual NCAA game has took flight. Unfortunately its just not the next-gen title we have 
 all been waiting for. I want to love this game so bad but its a strange love-hate relationship. 
 The graphics and commentary are great but they get bland after a while. Dynasty has greatly improved. 
 The new recruiting mode is really cool but it has its flaws. I love the way you can easily keep 
 tabs and find new recruits. But there seems to be no logical way in the recruits thought process. 
 Finding a what a recruit wants is basically like throwing darts in the dark. The gameplay has been 
 dramatically changed. For better and worse. Better in the way the game has jumped to 60 fps. This 
 is great as the speed of the game is a great change. The new animations are amazing. Almost realistic, 
 but not quite. The running game is better with the new lead blocking control and other new goodies. 
 However, the passing game has taken a huge hit. Accuracy has been greatly reduced, or seems to 
 be. But under closer examination the flaw actually lies with the receivers. Instead of making an 
 easy over the shoulder catch, the receivers decide to make dramatic jumping catches that cause 
 them to lose yardage and get creamed. Not matter how easy the throw the receiver cant just turn 
 and catch on the run. This becomes very frustrating around corners and safeties as they easily 
 intercept passes that look accurate.
  
  The worst part of the game lies within Campus Legend. Mostly with the play calling and o-line. 
 The coaching is horrible as the worst calls are made and the most important moments. Im reminded 
 of a time when I was down by 5 points against USC (i was Nebraska) with 40 seconds left in the 
 4th, the ball was on my 38 yard line. A critical situation, but a weak counter sweep was called. 
 Which was like the 10th time it was called in the game, and predictably I was nailed in the backfield. 
 Of course none of the passing plays are any good. A huge problem lies in the fact that I had one 
 play called 5 times in a row. Plus the hailmary play is called way too much sometimes on 2nd down 
 or 1st. When playing as a runningback the o-line misses critical blocks. Which is understandable 
 every once in a while but not every other play. The same problem lies when playing as a QB or receiver. 
 The QB get sacked way to often. Also the game lengths should be set and unchangeable. I made the 
 huge mistake of setting the time to 15 minutes, when actually its fine at 5 or 6. I love starting 
 out in high school. I just wish you could actually create your team instead of picking from the 
 6 or so premade team colors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldschoolplayer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 19, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I would just like to say to all the guys posting 3.5 scores give me a break. Yes this game could 
 have been better but lets not get ridiculous. I have always liked the 2K series and will most likely 
 get All Pro Football over Madden but to be honest even though this game does not have the bells 
 and whistles that make you feel like you are in the college atmosphere the gameplay is definitely 
 there. The game runs very smooth. graphics could be a bit better. Should this game be better well 
 yes. Is it a letdown NO. This game is no less than a 7 at minimum and probably no better than a 
 n 8.5. Simply put it gets the job done. No it does not blow your hair back the way 2K5 did when 
 it was released. Simply put without getting into details this game is better than average. Lets 
 be honest everyone is probably getting two football games this season. NCAA 08 and either Madden 
 or All Pro football. Was I expecting more YES. Am i disappointed NO WaY. Does it justify a $60 
 price tag YES. There is not much more I can say. It delivers but does not drop your jaw in awe. 
 This is probably the hardest game I have ever reviewed. Maybe it is just me but it perfect in so 
 many ways but leaves you longing for something more. I guess I can compare this game to a gorgeous 
 babe with no personality. Thats not so bad for one year is it?????
  
  UPDATE:
  
  played in 5.1 surround today. Feels much more like a stadium prescence with the game thundering 
 through my system. It does make a difference. I am going to bump my score from an 8.1 to and 8.3. 
 Plus I love the fact that you can call plays this year for a certain player and it lets you decide 
 between numerous plays where you can target your go to guy from either your RB to your best wideout. 
 This is what made Madden 02 so great. Time is of the essence when you are playing someone and it 
 makes it easier to get to a play for a guy you need to target for a first. Thanks for bringing 
 this back EA. I am not much good at remembering a certain play out of certain formation and this 
 really helps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Animations have definitely been improved.
  Dynasty mode is deeper than ever. The search feature is a great new touch. This is my favorite 
 part of this series and I like the changes EA made.
  
  Unfortunately, a few nags keep the game from being a ten. The lack of a create of school feature 
 is one. The second is a lack of small features from the previous generation like cheerleaders, 
 dorm rooms etc. Not dealbreakers by any means, but would have been nice additions.
  
  Overall, a fun game and worth the extra bucks. If you like to use the Dynasty mode, then don't 
 hesitate to grab this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshS24
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 15, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  After giving this game an initial 8.8 out of pure joy of just having the game, I decided to come 
 back and re-write my review. I will go through my pro's and con's of the game.
  
  Pro's: Stadiums look totally amazing, the player models and movements are second to none. The crowds 
 look decent, but lack depth. The franchise mode is much deeper as far as recruiting, its a lot 
 of work to get players on your team, but who said it would be easy? Mini games are a nice addition 
 to play w/ your friends. The Legend mode is much better, its nice not having to do all those stupid 
 classes and tests, and just making choices to up your GPA. Practicing to jump ahead on the depth 
 chart may seem like a hassle, but its SO much easier than running those drills once a week. Saves 
 a lot of time.
  
  Con's: As far as the stadiums and crowds... get real. When was the last time SMU had a sell out 
 crowd? Get the right amount of fans in the seats you lazy fools. You accomplished it in last gen 
 games, figure it out. PLAYER CHATTER would have been nice, once again you did it in a worthless 
 Madden 07, but can't pull it off in this. Game play is pretty bad. Generally you will turn the 
 ball over at least 2-3 times a game, which is so frustrating it makes you want to take the game 
 back. I had a few issues with the game locking up, which none of my other xbox games would do except 
 madden 07. The commentary is lame as usual, and some times doesn't keep up with flow of the game. 
 Franchise mode recruiting is more of a pain in the ass more than anyone. You will be surprised 
 how much time you waste doing this. It needs to be easier as you increase your integrity and team 
 prestige. And I mean much easier, you put enough time in playing a game, but then you have to spend 
 another 3 hours recruiting. No Heisman presentation in this one, as far as the legend goes.
  
  All in all, this game is a total let down. It feels like you are going no where in your dynasty 
 or legend. They really need to spice these up. EA has pretty much cornered the market and is providing 
 a total lack of service to their customers. I am not an EA hater , but its lame when we suffer 
 them having all the rights to these games. I would suggest renting or trying to steal the game 
 or something, do not waste your 60 dollars on this thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deveets1
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  NCAA 08 is a good game. Gameplay is fun and easy to pick up, and graphics are quite solid. The 
 best addition is quite noticeable from the beginning, and no it is not your highlight room which 
 tends to be forced upon you just a tad, is the animation. The games become much more life-like 
 with the branching animation and movement just seems much more fluid. The thing that is upsetting 
 however is the fact that EA seemed to leave out things that made the game experience more enjoyable. 
 Create-a-Team for instance was not included in the game and for those who liked the legend mode 
 last year for the XBOX and PS2 will find it less interesting. The one thing that EA did best to 
 make you feel like a player was putting you in the environment of a college athlete. However there 
 is no dormroom with tidbits like your girlfriend's picture hanging on a wall. There's no newspaper 
 or fan mail, and excluding playing your role in the games there's nothing to do really. They took 
 out the ability to choose what you do in your free time and instead give you odd scenario's in 
 which you have to make a choice between two options. For example, you're stuck in traffic on the 
 way to night classes (how many times does that actually happen?) what do you do? A: Wait it out 
 B: Park your car and run to class. If you selected A you're out of luck because nothing moves and 
 now you have .02 points less on your GPA. You can't select your major or take quizzes like in the 
 past and it just seems much less immersive on the whole. Dynasty Mode is still what it's been mostly 
 except for recruiting which works surprisingly well. Besides that the gameplay is pretty solid 
 and fun. If you're a college football fan, love videogames, and have enough money to buy this and 
 Madden then you should go for it. Otherwise, it's probably worth the wait to stick with Madden. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konez
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who rates this game with a low score either played 2 second of the demo or don't own the 
 game at all. This game is great. It is as smooth a football game I have ever seen. The graphics 
 are magnificant. To all those haters who give a low score, go out and actually buy the damn game 
 and play it. Games don't become one of the top ranked games by scoring a 3.0 or a 5.0. As of me 
 writing this it is ranked #3 overall and #2 on the 360. Larger playbooks, over 100 stadiums, real 
 time weather conditions thanks to the weather channel, being able to save any vid or pic from any 
 point in the game and share them online, and on top of all that I was able to get a custom cover 
 from Wal Mart with the best mascot on it, BRUTUS THE BUCKEYE!!!!! After playing this smooth operating 
 game now I really can't wait for Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdeachin33
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  To be quite honest, I've only spent maybe 10 minutes with this game. And while that is not at all 
 suitable for a game like this, I have to admit I was extremely disappointed with what I saw. It's 
 amazing how something so simple could be so sorely missed in a game. The same problem I had with 
 last year's Next Gen game was the fact that Next Gen doesn't seem to offer any co-op play? I can't 
 seam to wrap my brain around this! Why is it that there are four controllers available on the team 
 select screen but only two can actually play!? And not on the same team even! Last Gen systems 
 don't seem to have this problem and I for one don't want to wait for the fifth - sixth installment 
 of this game on Next Gen just to experience co-op play!
  
  On the plus side, the gameplay did seem to have improved and with a little more fine tuning could 
 be perfect. I didn't get the chance to play with the new Campus Legend which seemed to make the 
 leap to the Next Gen console however it looks like it has been well flushed out and I can't wait 
 to give it a try. The new additions to the Dynasty mode also look promising and I'm glad to see 
 that the off-season recruiting has been cleaned up. If you love college football and are only looking 
 to play by yourself or against others, I would recommend this. However, I'll only be renting this 
 game and waiting for the return of co-op play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRZ-numba-1
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  When I first rented the game I was excited but not so much. This game had graphics of an game that 
 came out 2 years ago. Personally this game was disappointing. When you run the ball it just feels 
 like ur gliding. I was flat. And for EA already in a corner when it comes to sports, this game 
 isn't exactly letting them out. Also these are college students not NFL players, the players models 
 look a little bit to big for a NCAA title. To me this is a love it or hate it. I mean sure, if 
 ur okay with a flat experience go ahead and waste $60 on this. Everyone made a big hype about the 
 60 frame per second the game was running on, but its not worth it if everything else is going to 
 be flat .As for me im waiting to see what Madden and 2K All-Pro Football have to bring me. But, 
 hopefully, and by hopefully I mean preying to God, that Madden has a better experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerk2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 17, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  In its second season on the 360, many of us wondered if NCAA 08 would improve upon 07. I can tell 
 you that EA has finally shown what a next-gen game is capable of.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Gameplay has been heavily worked over. For example, in years past, if you run out of the pocket 
 and head upfield with the QB, the players on your team will block the first person they come in 
 contact with, regardless of whether or not they have a chance to make a play. The problem with 
 this was that the player farthest from you, but in the best postion to make a play, would reamin 
 unblocked.
  
  This year, if such a situation occurs, your players will break off their blocks to take out the 
 guy in your way. Its a feature long overdue, but much appriciatied now that it is here.
  
  The defensive AI has been worked on as well. Scrambling is much harder, because the AI does a great 
 job of keeping the QB contained. Corners are also rarely beaten now, and you will likely find yourself 
 having many more balls dropped than normal.
  
  The new stamina system also plays a key factor: One big downfiled play after another will wear 
 out your players, and as a result, make them much slower on the field. You will need to use as 
 much of the play clock as possible in order to keep your players stamina up.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The grahpics are downgraded a bit from last season, however, this has allowed 
 for the game to run at a full 60 FPS, making everything look much smoother. The players still look 
 good, although the field is more flat then last year.
  
  Sound:
  
  Same PA guy and same announcers as always. Not that its bad, its just we heard everything they 
 had to say last year.
  
  Replay Value:
  
  With 119 teams, 3 mini-games, and 2 major gameplay modes (campus legend and dynasty) , the replay 
 value for 08 is high. You can easily find yourself starting a dynasty and taking 2 hours on the 
 recruiting alone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlengyel
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  60 frames per second?? Beautiful. I believe that the only people who are knocking this game are 
 playing it in standard definition. It looks so lifelike..
  I love the campus legend mode, too. I created a high school team from my area and took them to 
 the New York State finals at the Carrier Dome.
  I also love the ESPN radio/video highlights.
  
  My only two complaints about next gen football 
 is the crowd looks fake and can we please get halftime or week by week analysis in the game studio 
 like espn 2k5 w/chris berman??? I think that EA should put jerseys on people in the crowd and also 
 have them get up to buy a hot dog or go to the bathroom. Also, highlights from a commentator would 
 help add to the mood of the game.
  
  All in all, this is a fun game to play. I have yet to tryout the online mode and see how the 60 
 fps works out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilshortydan12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 23, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  The NCAA series has always been good. Though last years want as good on the 360. Well, NCAA 08 
 is here and its easily the best NCAA game to ever come out. The game features a host of new things. 
 The gameplay still is top notch and has always been. The player animations have been improved. 
 The gameplay has been improved. The game feels more realistic and funner than the previous ones. 
 The graphics have also been improved and look great. The players are very well detailed and look 
 really good. The sound is still good. The music and the announcers are still good. The game it 
 self sounds good. There are a few new features like the new campus legend mode which is great. 
 Also there is the new gang tackles and now there is 115 stadiums, before there was only 40, and 
 better frame rate. There is also online which is surprisingly pretty good too. There is enough 
 in this game to keep you busy for weeks if not months. If you are a fan of the NCAA fan, this game 
 will not disappoint you. There is enough improvements here to make this game as good as it is. 
 Overall NCAA 08 is not only the best game in the series but its one of the best football games 
 to release. If you want a good football game until madden releases, then this one will be it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: will477
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  NCAA 2008 makes some much needed improvements over last year's version. The physics engine is a 
 lot better, especially with the addition of group tackling. Grahpics also improved some, and the 
 game generally looks great (The game looks much better than All-pro Football 2k8, which I also 
 bought) . Play calling menues have been tweaked a bit, and I personally like the new system more. 
 One of the best improvements is that the run and pass games seem more balanced. NCAA 2007 really 
 favored the pass, especially the long passs. All you had to do was roll out (holding sprint) and 
 hit a reciever cutting to the same sideline as the QB (espcially easy if you had a fast QB, like 
 Ohio State in '07) . In 2008, it seems a bit more difficult to pull of a string of roll-out pass 
 bombs for easy first downs, which is a good thing. The new ability to take over as a blocker on 
 a running play is also great, and it really opens up the running game in comparison to the 2007 
 version. It also seems a bit more risky to try to run with QBs, since they seem more prone to fumble 
 than last year. This is also good, since it likewise makes the game more balanced and realisitic. 
 Admittedly, some QBs are good on the run, but in '07 you could send recievers deep, draw the linebackers 
 out, and then try to use the QB like a slow running back around the outside. Kinda unrealistic 
 for the amount of times you could get away with it (in terms of the play gaining big yards as well 
 as without taking a serious toll on your QB in terms of fatigue/injury if it was only a short 20 
 minute play now game, which is what I tend to do against my friends) . So, preventing players from 
 doing this too often in the current game is a good move. I am really glad that the momentum feature 
 was taken out. It's not that momentum itself was a bad concept, but in '07 it was ridiculously 
 easy to jack up a full momentum meter (basically score the first touchdown) , and then hold the 
 advantage for the whole game. Now they have a motivation system instead, but it is more of a challenge 
 to get the players motivated. It takes a bit more skill to really get one player going, and rewarding 
 skill is fair. Also, the penalties seem more balanced. Especially good is the reduction in the 
 number of pass interference penalties. In '07 I played my roomate in multiple 20 minute games, 
 during which we each got around five pass interference calls when we were not directly controlling 
 the defensive backs on our team (i. e. the CPU aparently caused the penalties) . This is my first 
 impression of NCAA Football 2008, since I have only played about a dozen games with the Play Now 
 option. Nevetheless, it is pretty obvious that this is solid football game. I havn't played out 
 a season yet, but it looks like the recruitment options are much improved, and there are some other 
 added features. All-pro Football 2k8 is great for nostalgic reasons, but all in all, I like NCAA 
 2008 better, and would say it's the best football game out right now. If you hated NCAA Football 
 2007, you probably won't like this either. The gameplay is still basically the same. In '08, the 
 play balance, graphics, animation, physics, and AI are improved, but at its core, it's still the 
 same game. If, however, you are a fan of the last game (as I am) , this game keeps what was good 
 and adds even more. There is enough new stuff to justify replacing last year's copy, and I would 
 suggest that you pick the '08 version right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgd14551
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Great gameplay, fun but minor flaws. First of all the sound could be better and second the graphics 
 did take a huge step back but all in all the game is great. The dynasty is highly addictive recruiting 
 not so easy but that is what it is in real life. The best quality of the game is the gameplay. 
 Gang tackling, authentic playbooks and the animations are great!!
  
  If your not a big college footaball fan then this is not a must have but a great pick up if your 
 looking to get your gamer score up! But for big football fans it is a must have! If anyone wants 
 to play gamertag Cptcrayon 1455 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larsenc37
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I thought the whole point of next-gen was something better? Progression? Maybe I was given an xbox 
 copy instead of the 360 the package proclaims, because this is neither progression, or anything 
 close to better than past xbox versions of the game. Let's start off with the unforgivable omission 
 of create a school. I keep hoping its like one of those easter eggs on a dvd or something and I 
 might find it somewhere on this game. The fact that EA would seriously ship this game without this 
 feature is beyond belief. Second, crowd is silent. Scored on a 60 yard TD run followed soon after 
 by an interception return for TD at home in Madison, WI. Crowd barely made a peep. Game also stalls 
 frequently. I have a brand new 360, so it's not a matter of something wrong hardware wise. EA needs 
 to recall this game and finish it right this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BKEmpire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Ncaa Football o8 finally stepped up their game on next-gen. This is by far the best college football 
 game to hit the 360. Running at 60 frames gives players a smooth feel never really fullfilled til 
 now. Great animations, gang tackling and the new motivation feature make this game the best at gameplay. 
 Yeah some of the classic modes are still missing but this game is very enjoyable. Ea Sports are 
 starting to get it together but have a little to go. This game really gives me a good feeling about 
 what to expect from Madden 08. Get this game fellow  
 exactly whats needed since Nfl season hasnt kicked off yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suliman26
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Can someone explain to me why there is no different camera angles or why you can't just let 2 cpu 
 teams go against each other. or how in god's name the last generation game is better than this piece 
 of crap. not even a simple coach mode like last gen had. it has become real clear that e. a. makes 
 crappy next-gen football games. and i use next-gen loosely. thank god i'm smart enough to rent before 
 i buy . screw e. a. sports. bring on 2k8. long live 2k sports. all i want are simple choices not 
 what the developer thinks everyone likes. last gen had choices so why should next-gen get ripped 
 off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSix6075
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Great smooth graphics and on a 70'' tv it flows so great 40+fps make it just so fun to play. Finally 
 having the abilities to choose weather LB's, Dline, or DB's blitz or play zone, being able to choose 
 which sides blitz or stay back (example: Having the LOLB blitz, while the ROLB's play zone) such 
 a great addition. Still has the QB vision for those of us that like it. Much more in-depth than 
 last year, and 1000 times better than what we saw Via Madden 06. No more Kickers that look like 
 they should be in the WWE. good achievements and just a blast to play been enjoying the past 3 
 hours setting up my schools franchise :) great job EA finally something you can be proud of ... 
 Another Hugely fun addition is the ability to up-end receivers when they go high to catch the ball 
 Stadiums sound great in DTS. Great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mculberson1973
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Still waiting for the next gen Wow factor to happen with this game, but I guess we'll have to wait 
 another year for that. It's still a great college football game and I love the Campus Legend Mode. 
 It's loads of fun, has a workable camera now, and the quick sim options are great, making it easy 
 to play what you want, and sim the rest.
  
  Most of the bells and whistles just aren't there for this game, but it's solid. Gameplay is nice, 
 and has lots of features, Love the save a highlight feature.
  
  This game won't blow you away, but it will keep you coming back for more. I'm only a little disappointed, 
 and I stress a little:, because it just doesn't wow the player just yet. Feels like a nice step 
 up from last gen stuff, but not what you'd expect from such a powerful system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GravyFlow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  One thing can be said about NCAA 08. It is fun and deep. The game runs smoother than ever before, 
 and the gameplay on the field is basically flawless, altough I still think that the kickers and 
 punters are too muscular. Another compliment is the presentation- superb. The new dynasty mode 
 is really fun and deep as well, though the new recruiting does take some getting used too. I wish 
 their was some sort of tutorial to get into it. Now for the bad part. Often times the only way 
 to get players was by making ubserd promises and then they would transfer. Also, on the field a 
 lot of details were missing. No cheerleaders, no chain gang, and none of the other details that 
 past games have had, fans with custom signs, stadium pulse, left something to be desired. But all 
 in all a great game and I recommend a purchase if you are a fan of college football in general. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callmeageeth
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  College football fans will find enough substance to make this game worthwhile and pleasurable. 
 The addition of dynasty mode (it is so deep) makes this game a winner to me. But I love this game 
 because I love college football. The gameplay itself is such a vast improvement over previous efforts. 
 Running doesn't feel like such a chore anymore. The game is fun to play. But I do feel like it 
 lacks the atmosphere of real college football. The game fails to immerse you in the action. Last 
 generation versions really made you feel (as best it could) like you were there, that every moment 
 counts and it is missing in this version. But nonetheless, true college football fans will find 
 this game a don't miss, because it is a good game of football, despite its few flaws and minor 
 complaints. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_rule
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  NCAA Football came back with a bang this year. Is a definite leap up from last years game. It runs 
 very smoothly and the graphics are amazing. They fixed the look of the player models, brought back 
 a lot of features from games past, and put in some cool new game play moves. One thing that really 
 brings it down for me is it's still missing the stadium pulse, cheerleaders (which was annoying 
 to me anyway) , team entrances, and create a team. It is definitely a much better game than last 
 year but it still lacks some of its classic features. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
