-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NCAA Football 07
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/ncaafootball07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 In a series known for its atmosphere, NCAA 07 raises the bar.
 Dynasty mode is intact.
 new animations make an impact.
 lots of achievements to unlock.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lacks much of the content of the PS2 and Xbox versions.
 occasional frame-rate hits and animation glitches.
 player models look like college athletesif the college was Steroid University.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 19, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.0, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 2,485 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Jul 18, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With compelling gameplay and college atmosphere for miles, NCAA Football 07 is a fine debut on the 
 Xbox 360. 

  Walking into a big college-football stadium for the first time is unlike any experience in big-time 
 sports. A few steps into Neyland Stadium in Knoxville or The Swamp down in Gainesville, and you're 
 overwhelmed by the color, the pageantry, and the pounding, throbbing, nonstop hum of the crowd, 
 the band, and the overhead announcer. That very first time, well, you just don't forget it. Entering 
 a virtual stadium for the first time in NCAA Football 07 for the Xbox 360 isn't exactly the same, 
 but it just might be as close as you can get to re-creating that amazingly passionate atmosphere 
 that makes college football the greatest sport in the land. NCAA Football 07 for the Xbox 360 excels 
 not just with its presentation and spectacle but also with its compelling and hard-hitting gameplay. 
 Despite its relative dearth of features, it's a fine start for the next generation of the series. 

          First and ten, do it again! EA Sports' NCAA Football series has finally arrived for the 
 Xbox 360.     

  Practically everything in NCAA 07 feels different from the same game on the Xbox or PlayStation 
 2. Take the loading screen, for example -- as a game loads, a panoramic picture of one of the 70-odd 
 stadiums found in the 360 version smoothly transitions into a rendered version of the exact same 
 stadium. All of a sudden, the still fans featured in the picture come to life, wildly cheering 
 for their team, the roar from the crowd intersecting with Brad Nessler's game introduction. Students' 
 sections are placed where they are in real life -- if you look closely, you'll even see your school 
 band blasting away on their tubas and trombones or the visiting team holed up in their little corner 
 of the stadium, all donning the colors of their team. During the high overhead shots, you might 
 find other on-campus buildings you recognize surrounding the stadium. For all intents and purposes, 
 you are there on campus and ready to take in an exciting game of college ball.  

  In essence, the college atmosphere, long one of the greatest qualities in the current-gen version 
 of the NCAA Football series, is taken to even greater heights thanks to the power of the Xbox 360. 
 Oddly enough, it isn't the players that are the real stars here -- it's the stadiums. You've seen 
 football stadiums before in sports games, but you simply haven't seen them like this -- the nuances 
 and details that give each college stadium its unique character are presented in loving detail, 
 and, when combined with impressive environmental and lighting effects, it adds up to a spectacular 
 presentation. All that's missing, it seems, is the bite of crisp fall air on your face when the 
 game kicks off.  

  The animations in NCAA 07 -- especially tackles -- pack a serious punch; you'll often wonder how your 
 ball carrier got up from the last punishing hit that brought him down. Even better, these animations 
 are context sensitive, so your quarterback won't be able to make a long, cross-field pass unless 
 he's firmly planted on his back foot, and running backs won't be making spin moves unless they've 
 got a solid base, either. Things aren't perfect, of course. There are periodic glitches when linemen 
 shift left or right (and sometimes linebackers showing blitz won't allow linemen to shift at all) . 
 You'll notice occasional clipping and collision-detection problems, and the run animation itself 
 looks sort of stiff, especially when sprinting in the open field.  

  Still, for the most part, NCAA 07 is a visual treat. Numerous broadcast cameras give you close-ups 
 as your players line up at the line of scrimmage, giving you ample time to appreciate the scuffs 
 and scratches on the helmets and the menacing scowls on the faces of the players as the they dip 
 into their stance. Certainly, there's a pretty wide gap in graphical quality when viewing the game 
 in full 720p HD, as opposed to your standard-definition television, but under no circumstances 
 is this a bad-looking game. Finally, it's probably worth pointing out that the players themselves 
 don't really look like college athletes -- but rather the kind of hulking brutes normally reserved 
 for muscle duty on  The Sopranos .  

          With dynamic crowds and impressive stadiums, he passionate college atmosphere is electric 
 in the game.     

  The controls in NCAA 07 for the Xbox 360 are slightly different than in other versions but certainly 
 won't feel alien to a series veteran. A new kicking meter uses the right analog stick primarily, 
 and it's an improvement over the old three-button system found in Madden and NCAA -- it's less dependent 
 strictly on reflexes and more like a golf swing, requiring a smooth backswing and a confident follow-through 
 to get the best kick possible. Another new feature, the jump-the-snap control, lets you get a run 
 on the quarterback (or kicker) by pressing the Y button, provided you time it just right. In its 
 defense, the computer artificial intelligence will make liberal use of the fake-snap option -- which 
 pulls back the camera to simulate the snapping of the ball -- to try and draw you offside. On the 
 plus side, the AI is canny enough to use the fake-snap camera at the right moments, such as during 
 third and short; on the down side, well, we've fallen for it far too many times for comfort. Other 
 control changes, such as moving the turbo button to the right trigger, make similar sense when 
 running the ball. Best of all, every control is fully customizable, so even if you don't like how 
 things are currently mapped, you can change things around to your liking.     

  If you played Madden NFL 06 for the Xbox 360, you'll fall right into line with the play calling 
 in NCAA 07. You can organize your plays by formation, by play type (inside handoff, outside handoff, 
 standard pass, play action, and so on) , by key player (in those moments where you want to make 
 sure your impact wide receiver is your first choice, for example) , or you can ask Lee Corso for 
 his advice on the call. Corso seems far too comfortable with zone coverage (and averse to blitzes) 
 for our liking, but then perhaps that's why he's in the commentating booth these days. While the 
 Xbox 360 version of the game doesn't feature the massive playbook upgrade featured in the current-gen 
 versions, there's still a remarkable variety of playbooks to choose from. Once you familiarize 
 yourself with the playbook of one team, playing with a different team in a different conference 
 often takes a while to get used to.  

          Unlike Brady Quinn, you won't be making a 'race for the Heisman' this season; the career-focused 
 campus legend mode isn't found in the 360 version.     

  Menus in the game have been revamped and reorganized. Navigating through many of the informational 
 screens found in the game's Dynasty mode takes some getting used to, for example. All the same 
 information you're used to -- including scouting reports, team-needs screens, pitch feedback, and 
 so on -- is there, you just get there in a slightly different manner than you might be accustomed 
 to. By holding the right trigger in the in-season recruiting screen, for example, you scroll through 
 vertical menu items such as targeted players, in-state prospects, and so on. To filter specific 
 positions (such as looking only at quarterbacks) , you have to hold the trigger down and move the 
 stick right to access a second menu, then move again vertically to filter each position. It's not 
 intuitive, but you'll get used to it quickly enough. Despite the reorganized menus, little touches 
 such as a quicksave button (accessed by pressing the L3 button) are handy.  

  Considering Dynasty mode is the heart and soul of the NCAA series, it's good news indeed that the 
 mode is playable in the Xbox 360 version of NCAA 07. It plays similarly to the Xbox or PS2 version -- the 
 inclusion of a semi-3D map of the United States for use during recruiting and the lack of the spring 
 practice games and drills notwithstanding -- so you'll be spending your regular season battling it 
 out on the gridiron and your off-season battling it out on the road as you vie for five-star recruits 
 to fill up your roster. While the mode is just as compelling as always, we're hoping that future 
 installments in the next-gen versions of the game feature an overhauled Dynasty mode at some point. 
 The five-week recruitment period during the off-season -- for some folks, the most exciting feature 
 found in the mode -- has plenty of opportunities for greater depth and more excitement. Here's hoping 
 this year's game is only the first step for great Dynasty-mode happenings ahead.  

  If you make a circus catch or ridiculous runback, you can take a snapshot of it in the replay tool 
 and save it to your hard drive for perusal later on. Important game information will even be kept 
 on the flip side of the virtual photo, so you'll always have some context for that small slice 
 of your collegiate career -- it's just too bad you can't share these photos with your friends (and 
 foes) via Xbox Live. Another cool detail: Once you've chosen your favorite team in the game, the 
 background menus of your game will present shots from your team or campus to really get you in 
 the mood for some football.  

  From a sound standpoint, Nessler, Kirk Herbstreit, and Lee Corso continue to provide amusing and 
 often insightful commentary to the action on the field, with Corso and Herbstreit fulfilling the 
 color roles and Nessler taking play-by-play duties. The trio records new lines every year, and 
 NCAA 07 is no exception; still, you shouldn't be surprised if you hear some repeats every once 
 in a while, especially from the motor-mouthed Corso. Crowd noise is rarely subdued in the game, 
 but never overwhelms the gameplay, and the uninspired EA Trax audio garbage that infests previous 
 versions of the game is nowhere to be found here -- instead, you'll be humming along to the well-known 
 fight songs that are music to every college-football fan's ears.  

  Where NCAA 07 falls short, at least in comparison to the current-gen versions of the game, is in 
 sheer quantity of content. The game's single-player experience is limited to quick pickup games, 
 the aforementioned Dynasty mode, and a trio of minigames -- bowling, tug of war, and option dash -- which 
 are pretty forgettable. There's no create-a-school option, and things such as the spring drills 
 and scrimmage modes, which are also part of the current-gen versions, aren't here either. Campus 
 Legend -- the career mode found in the Xbox and PS2 version -- didn't make it into this version of 
 the game, but honestly, if it came down to Campus Legend and Dynasty mode, EA Sports made the right 
 call. In all, if you're looking for a mature and full-featured game of college football, you're 
 better off to simply stick with the Xbox or PS2 version of the game.  

          Whether you take the reigns of a struggling program like SMU or a great one like USC, dynasty 
 mode is sure to keep you busy.     

  Playing online in NCAA 07 doesn't always match up to the experience in the single-player game -- the 
 game is considerably slower, which is especially frustrating in the kicking game. That said, you 
 have the option of creating ranked or unranked matches, and the ability to get into games with 
 folks at or around your skill level in custom matches means you'll usually be able to find a good 
 game online (provided you're willing to put up with the occasional cheeser) . The game also features 
 a ton of Xbox Live achievements to unlock, many of which are quite easy to unlock. Don't be surprised 
 if, during the first game you play, you earn somewhere north of 10 achievements.  

  Though not having an entry in the NCAA series on the 360 last year was a bummer, it gave the development 
 team time to create a game that is certainly heading in the right direction this year. Though NCAA 
 Football 07 isn't as full-featured as the same game on older consoles, the game that is there is 
 a fun and potent mix of responsive controls, challenging gameplay, and, of course, that good old-fashioned 
 college spirit.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (221 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LatinG187
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  My favorite football game was NCAA Football 06 on the xbox. I has so much fun with that game and 
 the gameplay was excellent I never stopped playing it. Even now I still throw in 06 every once 
 in a while to play a game or two.
  
  Now I wasn't expecting 07 to be head and shoulders better than last year's game since they were 
 making NCAA from scratch for the 360. NCAA 07 is a very nice debut but there are some things that 
 need to be changed. Not being able to edit your player's equipment kinda sucks especially after 
 you get a few years into Dynasty. Also not having alternate uniforms from the get go was weird. 
 The gameplay, which is what really matters is actually pretty good and you actually get that college 
 feel from the stadiums, the graphics look real nice. The dynasty is pretty fun to play and I got 
 through about 6 or 7 years without getting tired of it.
  
  Overall NCAA Football 07 is a solid game, but it's missing a lot of those small key features that 
 was in NCAA 06 that EA needs to put back in. NCAA 07 is a way better debut on the 360 than Madden 
 06 was. This game is actually playable and fun to play against your buddies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmsaareagles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  I know this game is old now, that there are newer verions of NCAA football, but you still should 
 pick the game up. Its only $3 and it is a great deal. The graphics are good but the players faces 
 dont differ to mutch. The mini games are fun and add a couple hours of gameplay. The main feature 
 in this game is the Dynasty. This game has one of the best dynasty modes i have ever played in 
 any sports game. You first pick your team. Every team is in this game and they all play differently. 
 One team could be great at running the option when another could stink but be good at throwing 
 the ball. Each team differs and it makes for a great AI. Once you pick your team you get to do 
 recruiting, red-shirting, custum sheduals and depth charts. The gameplay is great and packs a big 
 punch. The hit-stick is great and can really make you feel right in the game. The option is easy 
 to run and everything feels nice and smooth. Once you finish the season you get to totally change 
 to outlook of your team for the nest few seasons with a great recruiting system, transfers, walk 
 on, and a bunch more. If you just sit back and do whatever doing the offseason, your team will 
 reflect that in the future. But if you recruit good players and make smart moves, you will be rewared 
 with a great team. This is a great game and is a lot of fun. The achievements work great and can 
 be a lot of fun. For $3 this is a must buy for any sports fan, or someone that wants to test out 
 a college football game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Xbox 360-NCAA Football 07
  
  Review 148
  
  Released: July 18, 2006
  Publisher: EA Sports
  Game Genre: Football Sim
  ESRB Rating: E for Everyone
  
  Opening 
 Thoughts:
  NCAA Football 07 is the debut NCAA title on the Xbox 360.
  
  Gameplay: 50%
  Graphics: 30%
  Durability: 20%
  
  Gameplay (10/10)
  Anytime you see me say 'wow' in a review 
 you know I'm impressed. So here it comeswowthe change from the gameplay in the Xbox releases 
 compared to this is breathtaking. Even the 08 games on the PS2 and the Xbox are not up to par with 
 this.
  
  The game has gotten much more realistic with the next-gen system. Unlike previous NCAA football 
 titles, small things (like the invincible hit stick) have improved greatly. For instance, a halfback 
 that is 95 overall will no longer break every single tackle that the hit stick is used in. Instead, 
 the hit stick can only be used once per play, and even then, it is no longer guaranteed that the 
 back will break the tackle.
  
  Small things like that create a great realistic atmosphere for the game. 
  
  As if that wasn't 
 enough, the Dynasty mode is even more in-depth now, with improved menus and more options.
  
  Graphics (8/10)
  The graphics are great but not breathtaking. When a football game can have 
 graphics that do not lag, I will give it a ten.
  
  Durability (10/10)
  The game will last the user quite some time, whether it is religiously played or just picked up 
 out of boredom.
  
  Overall Score (9.4/10)
  Rounded Score (9.5/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  I bought this game for 6 dollars used. In my opinion, seeing as how I am a poor 
 college student, it would be much more worth it to buy this game for 6 dollars used than to spend 
 60 bucks (plus tax) on the new 09 games. It's a very solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 12:33 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 8
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 8
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  NCAA Football 2007 is the first of its series to hit the next-generation consoles and it is a 
 great college football sim. It has solid gameplay, with many fun but mostly easy achievements to 
 unlock. The graphics are fine, players look good, some rather bigger compared to real life and 
 the stadiums are nicely designed. As for the audio, it has good "college football" music and the 
 commentary is well executed. Overall, NCAA Football 2007, which was my first NCAA Football game, 
 it seems to be a great addition to its series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leeman911
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Ncaa 07 is good with great football music and they did a good job with the annoncers. This game 
 has good graphics and a solid selection of charecters and teams. It has alot of achievments but 
 there kind of easy to get and it has alot of stradgey to win and it has a dynisty mode and it has 
 a miny game mode with bowling, and option dash. If you like football you will love this game and 
 you can select your favorite team but there sadley no old or legendary teams which ther is old 
 teams in o5 for the ps2 so no escuses. So go buy this game. o o o o o o o o o o o o oo o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo o o o ooooooooooooo 
 ooooooooo oooooooooooo oooooooo oooooooooooo oooooooooo ooooooooooo oooooooo ooooooooooooo ooooooooooo 
 ooooooooooooooooo ooooo oooooooooo oooooooooooo oooooooo oooooooooooooooo oooooooooo ooooo ooooooooooooooo 
 ooo oooooooo oooooooooo oooo ooooooooo oooooooooo ooooooooo ooooooooo ooooooooo oooooooooooo ooooooooo 
 oooooooooooo ooooooo ooooooooooooo oooooooooo oooooooooo ooooooooooooooooo oooooooo ooooooooo oooo 
 ooooooo ooooooo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MUSCLED-HAMJENA
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  So this game is the 2006 seasong of College Football. I'll have to say that it's breathtaking achievements 
 and innovative gameplay make it a necessity for all football lovers who just happen to own an Xbox 
 360 or some other console that allows this game to be played upon. It has EVERY team known to man, 
 you got Ohio State, Michigan, LSU, Oregon, and every other team who's names I do not know. So let 
 me talk a little about the Dynasty Mode (Career) . You start off obviously choosing a team, if you 
 can figure it out (I thought it was easy) how to change your schedule to all the hardest teams 
 so you'd actually receive a difficult season, or you could make it so easy you shutout every team. 
 Personally, I think the hardest, yet fun, challenging addition to the game was the new mini games. 
 Like bowling, I've had this game for almost a year (although I play it like..................... once 
 every 2 weeks) and I still don't have the achievement for aceing the whole game. 
  
  I also enjoy the fact that you have an easier, and more talented selection of substitutes. In it's 
 predecessors, you didn't have as many different efficient, clever young guys who are truly experienced 
 enough to compete at the college division. 
  
  Happy gamin!!!!!!
  
  - MUSCLEDHAMJENA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  NCAA 07 is a great experience, and it features Reggie Bush on the cover. The gameplay is good and 
 so are the graphics. The team selection is great and the Online is awsome. I love playing this 
 game. Even though I dont own the game it is a very enjoyable experience. I just love playing the 
 game. The game to me is very easy and I recomend this game to any die hard football fan. The game 
 is very cheap and even though its old its still a good game so get your butt off the computer and 
 head to your local gamestore and pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseyaaron13
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 3:43 am PT
Review:  This game will satisfy any real football fan, the grafics are amazing all the way up to the details 
 of the shoes and the ball, But not just grafics are up to date the moves and ai is very real and 
 simulates as if they were real, Campus Legend is there new feature where you start as your high 
 school and build up your rep by choosing the things you do in practice and how you use your time 
 and adventually try to reach maximum legend meter and then help your team win the National Championship, 
 and try to make your guy win the heismen, well what are you waiting for go get your copy today 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigmick07
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  For the first iteration of the ncaa football series on the xbox 360, ncaa 07 is surprisingly good. 
 Every year Ea releases a new ncaa football game, and each year each game is only a little bit better 
 than the last one. But the step up to next gen, really does make the game look a million times 
 better. The animations, are sometimes flawed and you will see a guy get tackled by a tackler, and 
 the tackler is 5 yards away from the ball carrier, this doesn't happen often but if your really 
 particular about this stuff then.... The game plays perfectly, and fits very well to the 360 contoller. 
 I figured out how to play in on my first 4 downs witht eh football. Its a good buy, especially, 
 because i picked it up for only 15 dollars, used, a couple of days ago, and have already gotton 
 500+ achievment points, and most of them can be achieved in 2-3 five minute games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrt20
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 6, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  The games pretty basic and lacks diversity. On the 360 version you can't do formation substitutions, 
 which can be very useful. There is no team creations or custom uniforms. It would be A LOT MORE 
 FUN in Dynasty mode if you had the option of choosing Play-offs in the Post-Season or to just keep 
 the same BCS.
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first timeyou may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bronxrsj
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jun 16, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Total total let down. what was gamespot thinking giving this game a 8.2. I mean were they playing 
 a different version? First off graphically this game is horrible. The players have jagged edges, 
 there are serious frame rate issues and it just looks nasty. The cut scenes look great but when 
 they are over its back to looking at the garbage. When the players tackle each other they dont 
 even make contact. This game is waaay to easy. I ran the table with idaho state on all-star. Its 
 is also missing several game modes avaliable on other platforms, one of the best modes was the 
 race for the heisman mode for ps2 but its non-existent. BOOOOO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: egomez3
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  NCAA 07 on the 360 is a pretty good game. It left a lot of things out from the current gen versions 
 but I was satisfied. Gameplay wasn't horrible like Madden. It felt more like football which Madden 
 just lacked horribly. I loved playing through dynasties and rising up the ranks... even with a 
 small unknown school. Recruiting isn't bad either. The two mini-games were okay but were kind of 
 corny and I really just didn't understand their purpose. What I wish EA would do is go back to 
 the Madden 2005 style of game with like mini camp drills and stuff. Those were way more fun. I 
 hear NCAA 08 will have Campus Legend which adds a lot to the game. But overall NCAA 07 is fun and 
 playable a lot more times than Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sengfire
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This game, by far, has taken over as the best sports game to ever hit next gen. The NCAA francise 
 hit an all-time high with this one. Though dissapointed with create-a-team, since it was not in 
 it, its deliverence with everything else made this the game to beat. The season could have more 
 to it, but for the first NCAA game on next gen, it has got great potential for next year. Unlike 
 its counterpart, the Madden francise, it came out popping. Where Madden 06 felt like a failure, 
 this game picks it up. With the great customization of your favorite teams, it is the best. By 
 far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DawgcityClev
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 5, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  1.) Worst animations in Sports gaming to date. Madden a close second. These animations are horrible. 
 You almost HAVE TO deal with them. They suck you right out of 1 animation into another. No fluidity 
 from 1 to the other. It's either this or that. 2.) Worst A. I. in Sports gaming to date. The A. I. 
 performs in this game cluelessly. What's worst, is you have to deal with those horrible animations 
 while playing amongst horrible A. I. ex: Your CB/S is closing in on a deep ball. You take control 
 of him so you can USER INT. Well, in comes that animation that makes him look like he's intercepting 
 the pass 3 yards away from the WR who catches it and runs for a score. (insert cursing here)
  
  3.) 1 play offenses. 1 play defense. Offenses consist of either QB's turning, running the opposite 
 direction, then hurling completions 40 yds downfield. Or simply chucking the ball deep into double 
 and triple coverage for completions. Defenses consists of: Whomever you play against online will 
 use the same defense the entire game. What's sad, is no matter who it is, your offense just can't 
 work. Play against 5 defense online using your offensive schemes, they won't work. The A. I. overpowers 
 everything defensivley, UNLESS, you chuck it deep. Then it's hope for hope. 4.) Same pathetic graphics, 
 even on 360. Player models look like crap. 5.) Computer cheats still. Unrealistic gameplay when 
 losing big, or behind and needs 1st downs, or a stop. You're guaranteed to fumble 90% of the time. 
 6.) Entirely too many dropped passes by Impact WR's. It's all out ridiculous. 7.) Home team players 
 lose rating points before the freakin kickoffs!! Where does EA come up with this foolishness?!?!?
 
  
  EA, just stop making Sports games!! You are a joke, and the laughing stock of the videogaming Industry. 
 All of your games are set for 6 year old kids. Hardcore gamers don't want any part of this trash. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndYOU
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  NCAA 07 is the first college football game on the Xbox 360, and I think it's off to a great start 
 already. The controls are awesome, and the gameplay doesn't bore me to tears when I play, which 
 is a good thing for me. I don't really get to watch many college football games on TV every Saturday, 
 but this game truly makes me feel like I'm in attendance at every game, every week. This game will 
 be the start of a great series on the 360, and I'll be looking for it's release date every year. If 
 you have an Xbox 360 and crave superb sports games, you should get NCAA 07, whether you're a hardcore 
 or casual gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XHuskersX26
Rating: 4.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  You cant edit players apperence, you cant do subs, like who goes on kickoffs and punts. You can 
 take pictures but cant save replays? Also Sometimes you cant even challenge a play. Graphics are 
 better but I still dont see why the last gen games could not handle them. Snow and rain look just 
 like it did on the last gen systems. Instead of bowling and tug of war why not put in spring drills. 
 Corso, Herbstreet say the same old crap. I know some people are gonna saying wait tell next year, 
 but for me I am fed up with hearing that. EA is just too damn lazy. No competition means more crap 
 from EA. But I guess there is always next years game!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Capthemfoos
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 17, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  Who could give this game an 8.2? It is simply amazing. Despite the fact that it has to live in 
 Madden's shadow, the gameplay is great. The control layout is perfect, you can sprint while juking 
 unlike in Madden. Thay only name the players in dynasty, but that doesn't really matter unless 
 you are a die hard football fan. The juke stick is great; you have an option between a small one 
 or big. The passing is actually realistic! Players catch the ball in tight situations (im not talking 
 about momentum) and short passes are very dominant. Overall, this game is great and I think the 
 gameplay exceeds that of Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGShacker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 13, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game.
  wow... i never thought it would be as good as it is but heres what i think...
  The graphics are 
 soo good.
  The game itself is soo fun.
  It doesnt really have a story because its a football game.
  has really fun mini games like tug 
 o war and bowling.
  Awesome jukes and fakes (better than madden 07) .
  Just a realy pleasure to play.
  Also its very fun just to watch.
  This game is very fun to 
 play on Xbox live (if you have it) .
  If you love football this is the game you want.
  GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloHunter202
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 26, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  I like this game, its real on the xbox 360. Its like my 5th favorite game i have. I'm sure you 
 will like it if you do not have it, its a really fun sport game. I have to say, the graphics are 
 good, the sound is good, everthing is good!! if you think you are the biggest football fan, you 
 need this game to see how well you do with the challenges, the difficulties like Heismen. Thats 
 real fun stuff, and once you keep playin it, you will not get off it, thats how fun it is. Its 
 is pretty good on Xbox Live i hear, so then you can really meet your challenge their, and if you 
 do, i wish you all LUCK!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 10, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Solid Visuals, superb football gameplay, much improved presentation, has several extras 
 that are worth checking out, lots of easy achievements to earn.
  
  The Bad: Lacks a few features that the Xbox version has, presentation could be better, ESPN is 
 underused.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  In my humble oppinion, College Football is more exciting than pro. In college football, one loss 
 can cost you the championship, while a several loss team can make it to the superbowl. College 
 has more intense rivalries, tradition and personality than the pro game has as well. This difference 
 is shown is NCAA Football 2007, a football game that plays second fiddle to Madden, but is actually 
 a better game in a number of ways. First off, everything you love about college football is in 
 this game. Every single Division 1-A school is here, along with fight songs, cheerleaders, bowl 
 games, recruiting, Lee Corso and much more. Of course, the best mode to play in this game is the 
 Dynasty mode. Choose your favorite school and win your way to the top of the BCS and hopefully 
 a national title. You also need to focus on recruiting tallented young players to your school, 
 getting a player on your team to win the Heisman Trophy and rivalry games fueled by momentum. For 
 starters, the gameplay is top notch. It plays almost identically to Madden, with a few tweaks to 
 make it feel more like the college game. There's also the momentum meter, which measures how much 
 the crowd is for or against your team. Use the momentum wisely and play well, and you should cruise 
 to a national title or two. In addition to dynasty mode, there are also several mini-games such 
 as Bowling and Tug-O-war to be a short destraction from the meat of this game. Also featured is 
 an online mode where you can take on your friends online.
  
  The graphics and sound effects are both very well done, but not quite the best the 360 has seen. 
 The biggest downfalls of NCAA 2007 are missing features such as the NCAA equivilent to superstar 
 mode and create a team, but there's still enough gameplay in Dynasty to keep you busy for a while. 
 2007 is the first year NCAA Football has used ESPN, but this is underused compared to the ESPN 
 2K games. The commentary is good, but the lack of a half-time show, pre-game or post game show 
 and Sportscenter really don't let this game feel much different from previous editions as far as 
 presentation. Overall, NCAA Football 2007 is an excellent game that is better than Madden.
  
  Gameplay: It's missing a few features, but NCAA Football 2007 is a solid football experience 
 for the Xbox 360.
  
  Graphics: Solid visuals, but not the best the 360 has seen.
  
  Sound: Outstanding sound effects and decent comentary by ESPN's commentators.
  
  Value: It's 
 coming down in price, so grab it while it's dropping.
  
  Final Thoughts: BCS, here I come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofable16
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 9, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  NCAA Football 07 is a fantastic college football game, but doesnt feel as good as 06. The gameplay 
 is great but doesnt offer any significant improvements to make it feel entirely fresh. The dynasty 
 mode is great as always, but feels like a small downgrade compared to last year's. The new minigames 
 are fantastic, tug-of-war is very fun and can almost be as fun as playing a game sometimes. The 
 menu screens just like in Madden NFL 07 can be very confusing at first. The commentary is great 
 as it has always been in this series, but some of the lines are repeated way too much throughout 
 the games. I like the fact that they dumped using liscened music and play the school band songs 
 at the menu screens. The graphics are nice but not as good as in Madden. My biggest complaint is 
 that the kickers look like godzilla, now why is this? but anyways if your looking for a college 
 football game for Xbox 360 then give this game a try.
  
  P. S. GO NORTH CAROLINA TAR HEELS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mconstancio
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 1, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  The graphics attracted me to the 360 version, but then I bought it and tried playing it. Where 
 are the features? I liked editing my players equipment, I liked having my own profile with playbook, 
 and I loved playing fellow players. NCAA 07 360 was made for live and LIVE only. You don't have 
 a option of hiding your plays, so when I play a friend of mine I have to look down so I won't see 
 his play. WHY?! Let's talk about ESPN the magazine. I loved looking at the pictures and seeing 
 my team on the cover. Ever week was exciting to me cause I would wait to see if I'd make the cover. 
 NO ESPN the magazine. I personally get into the seasons on my own, I love the competition and I 
 don't like being forced into playing live. I'll stick to X-box and YOU should save your money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conqueror569
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 28, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games every football fan got to have ( r you ca just even play it, however 
 you like) . It got all the teams of the NCAA, it got a better gameplay, it has more playbooks, it 
 has better graphics, it has a better franchise, ..... so what are you waiting to buy it?!?!? it 
 is one of the best football games I have ever played, it is just so cool. You get to see more animations, 
 better commentaries better games, better way to choose plays. It has all what you would like a 
 football game to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  This game offers so much it is hard not to love it. You can recruit players, rename every player 
 in the NCAA and change numbers on their jerseys to match, change HT and WT, or just create a player. 
 This just offers a ton of replay since you can keep updating the roster. I entered all the real 
 players and drafted them in Madden 07. It was a lot of fun seeing who would be drafted then playing 
 them in Madden. If you compare the game to Madden I think Madden has a little bit better graphics 
 and the gameplay was just slightly better, but NCAA definitly has much better commentating adding 
 the the realism. You can also create your own schedule to give yourself a better chance at the 
 national title and get a contract extention or get offered another job at a different university. 
 The customization in NCAA is what gives it a better value then Madden. They are both great games, 
 you should own them both!
  
  Overall, NCAA Football 07 is a must own game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surid
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 19, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  This is my first time actually owning EA's NCAA football game. I actually played the 2k series 
 for the Gamecube. It was an excellent game with a lot of content. . NCAA football 07 however is 
 not the kind of game that will keep you busy for months. Apart from the dynasty mode and a couple 
 of fun mini-games there isnt much to do. But that is enough to make any collage football fanatic 
 to enjoy this game. The game does a good job of creating a beliveable collage atmosphere. The stadiums 
 look very realistic. But for some reason, EA felt lazy to make stadiums for every team. Keep in 
 mind that NCAA football 2k3 for Gamecube which i played already had all the stadiums. Even for 
 lesser known teams like Easter Michigan or Northern Texas. This is a big dissapointment. The gameplay 
 makes up for it though. Every team feels different. One thing that i found out to be surprising 
 about the game was how easy it is the beat big name teams. I had no problem beating Ohio state 
 with teams like Eastern Michigan. Even in Al-American difficulty. Playing the game online sucks. 
 It is never smooth, even when u have a good connection. At the end of the day, NCAA football is 
 still a good collage football game. There still isnt all the content found in other versions of 
 the game, but what is there will be enough to please any sport fan with an xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpg
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  top notch in most avenues. Has some flaws which should be expected for the first ideration of this 
 generation. Will definitely improve in quality no doubt. I will play endlessly as I believe any 
 sports lover should purchase this great game and put some time into it. The graphics are great 
 and stadiums look gorgeous. Get it now . You will not be dissappointed in ea this time around because 
 this is what college football is and should be about. I look for ea to up the annie from here on 
 out. Can it improve to a higher level, Yes it can and wil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pologamer223
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 4, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for solid gridiron football for the PSP, look no further than NCAA Football 07. 
 For such a tiny system, NCAA 07 looks great graphically. With 07 comes new features, such as the 
 slow-mo cam, 3rd Person View, and a new kicking system. The slow-mo cam is really cool. though 
 it can get really annoying on a deep pass, since the cornerback can bump the receiver easily, causing 
 him to miss the ball. The 3rd Person VIew comes into place when the other team punts the ball, 
 kicks a field goal, or your team causes an interception. This view is really cool because u get 
 tp feel what its like to be a defender.
  
  The major problem in NCAA 07 is when you run the ball, if you try to run up the middle the runningback 
 just gets stuck behind blockers and runs absolutely nowhere. This seriosuly hurts the running experience 
 which is preventing me from giving this game a rating in the 9's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  &middot; The graphics and the stadiums look great. I don't really know what else to say since it's 
 basically Madden 07 in a college uniform. They're nice. Trust me.
  &middot; If you have a good sound system, the tackles can not only be heard, but you can feel them. 
 The audio department did a terrific job at delivering a good listening-feel to the game.
  &middot; When you finally figure out the rules (for those who don't know anything about college 
 football) and moves, the game becomes an amazing work and not just another run-of-the-mill football 
 game.
  &middot; If at first you suck (like I did) , there's these mini-games, such as bowling, that basically 
 train you without you knowing it. They're not only fun, they're educational!
  
  :Bad Idea:
  &middot; Characters look like 30-40 year old men out there playing. Also, they look 
 more juiced than wreslters.
  &middot; A few really crazy glitches that can make or break the game. They only appear rarely, 
 but still, they didn't really do a good job in the beta testing room. Randomly you'll encounter 
 tackles that are obviously too far away to actually touch you and touchdowns that turn into 1st 
 and goal, just to name a few
  &middot; Commentary randomly overlaps itself and not enough variety.
  &middot; A few graphical 
 glitches, but I honestly can't stand 2D looking crowds anymore. The pixelated edges on the crowds 
 just looking pretty poor compared to Madden.
  
  :Overall:
  &middot; NCAA proves that EA Sports still knows a little bit about what they're doing, but they 
 just choose not to go with it. Besides some glitches, this is a terrific game, even for someone 
 like me that could care less about college football.
  
  -----------------------------------
  Achievement Obtainment
  -----------------------------------
 
  &middot; They're pretty easy. The thing that sucks is you don't unlock any by playing a 2-player 
 game. The hardest one in the game that I saw was block a punt. There's one that's block a field 
 goal, but I got that the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanX1013
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  The first college football game on the Xbox 360 does not disappoint. Like any other first game 
 on a new console, it will have glitches, and not all the features of the current-gen games. That 
 is why the value is an 8.
  
  The dynasty does not, has not, and never will get old. It is amazing like every year. The only 
 real feature is dynasty, so its good that its so much fun. It is missing campus legend which really 
 stinks, but it can be worked around. Although the dynasty mode has great replay, if you dont like 
 it, too bad.
  
  The living stadiums are awesome. The crowd is sitting and depressed in the 4th quarter as your 
 are losing by a field goal. You set for your play, and BOOM you intercept. The second that ball 
 hits your hands, the crowed seamlessly jumps up and screams. It is very neat and for what stadiums 
 have it, it is fun to use. But, most stadiums dont have a stadium. EA got lazy and made a generic 
 stadium and used it for the smaller teams. You will notice Montana State and FAMU have the same 
 stadium. After a bit of guesswork, you are realize how EA has ripped you off if you are a fan of 
 one of those teams.
  
  There are a few glitches, none major, but they are still annoying. Bouncing off tacklers, falling 
 to the ground and all of a sudden jumping back up instantly and making the tackle. Like I said, 
 these aren't huge, just weird.
  
  There are three new mini games. Bowling, Tug-of-War, and Option Dash. Bowling is where you start 
 on the 10 yard line. You get two chances to score. Score on the first, you get a strike. On the 
 second you get a spare. Fun and creative. My favorite is Tug-of-War. You start on the 50 and you 
 switch off offense then defense then offense again. You must move down the field play by play. 
 Then they get a chance to go towards their endzone. It is literally like tug of war. It is very 
 entertaining.
  
  This is a great debut for a new console even with the bugs. Graphics are amazing, what stadiums 
 they have really come to life, and the game is so addicting. Anybody who likes football, college 
 or not, should purchase this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGDOGG91
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  ncaa07 is a fine debut to the 360. with a great dynasty and awesome gameplay it is the ultimate 
 football game for the 360. the dynasty mode is far improved and features a new momentum bar which 
 swings as plays are made by each team. the ultimate goal is to win the bcs championship, win the 
 heisman and crush ur opponents right. the gameplay is similair to that of the previous entries 
 not many changes. the graphics are amazing and look realistic. the college fight songs are all 
 hear and are great to hear. overall ncaa 07 is pheonominal and i highly recommend it to any football 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicShadowBat
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  If you are a college football fan and you need a football game here is the game for you. The first 
 NCAA football game for the Xbox 360 is a mix of good and bad. The graphics are the best I have 
 seen in a football game beside the 2006 madden. The players look real and they keep their good 
 animation even when you tackle someone. The sound is also really good. You can hear the sound of 
 the players getting tackled and the qurterback calling out the plays. The frame rate never has 
 problems so that meens that the players never look wierd. The jerseys also look like their real 
 counter-parts. The stadiums also look exactally like their real counter-parts. Even with all these 
 good things there are some problems here and there. The announcers start to repeat themselves when 
 you get close to the end of the game, so you start to feel like you should mute the t. v. There 
 are not that many different game modes. There are only quick game and dinasty mode so that stinks. 
 Over all this a good game for football fans and gamers waiting for to get the new madden game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KASEYKAHNE9
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  EVERYTHING ON THIS GAME IS AWSOME THE GAME GOES INTO GREAT DEPTH AND IT ACTUALLY MAKES THE PLAYER 
 FEEL LIKES IT IS REAL THIS GAME GOES WAY DEEPER AND DIGS IN MORE THAN ANY OF THE OTHER COLLEGE 
 FOOOTBALL GAMES I HAVE EVER PLAYED I GIVE THIS GAME A PERFECT SCORE 10.0 OUT OF 10.0 GAMEPLAY- 
 MAKES PLAYERS FEEL LIKE IT IS REAL LIKE YOU ARE REALLY ON THE FIELD
  
  GRAPHICS- AWSOME!!!!!!!!! WHEN SOMETHING HAPPENS IN THE GAME YOU SURE CAN SEE IT THAT IS NO LIE 
 SOUND- #1 FEEL LIKE I AM REALLY AT THE STADIUM WHEN EVER A BIG HIT HAPPENS OR THE CROWD GETS PUMPED 
 UP YOU SURE CAN HEAR IT
  
  VALUE- THE BEST GAME OVERALL I HAVE PLAYED IN A LONG TIME
  
  PEACE- OUT
  
  GO GATORS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 21, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This game really isn't good. It is way overrated. The gameplay is bad. The graphics are average, 
 and it just another bad NCAA game. I don't know why I keep buying these games. Maybe its because 
 I'm just hoping that some day one will be good. Its not that hard either. The reason I havn't played 
 it alot is because it is bad. Its just the same as every other boring NCAA game ever made. The 
 sound is nothing special. I can't believe that the crowd looks so bad to. I meen look at madden. 
 How the hell can they mess up a new game for a new system so badly. This game is way overrated. 
 If you really like football________never mind even if you do like football don't get this game. 
 It really is horrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dajo128
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  I think the game is a good buy for a person looking to get away from the Madden or to add to you 
 football collection. The game has several good things about it, but for the most part its just 
 a replay of last years last gen console version, but with better graphics. I think if you love 
 college football the game meets the expectations your looking for..... ..... .. .. . .. . . . . 
 . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. 
 . . . . . . . . .. . . .. ..... .. .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. 
 . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . .. .SOOOO BUY 
 IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 12, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  NCAA 2007 is a great game. The college atmosphere is brilliant, chants yells and the momentum meter 
 are all nice touch's. What's most fun is building up programs. I have won national championships 
 with UCONN Houston and Rutgers. With all the features and flashy things you can do this game is 
 a ton of fun. One of my favorite features is the lateral button, by pressing the left trigger your 
 ball carrier laterals the ball to the closest player behind him. These come in handy right before 
 your going to be tackled ex: a catch up the middle, lateral it behind you turns into a score. On 
 KR'S this comes in handy as well. This is a great game and should be picked up by college or pro 
 football fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EscoDaddy14
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 11, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  NCAA makes its debut for 360 in the form of a solid football game. *The graphics for NCAA are outstanding. 
 The player faces are very detailed, and the lighting for the game is great. The stadium reflects 
 beautifully off player helmets, and the stadium is very detailed as well. The crowd isnt just generic 
 paper models, but moving people decorated in your school colors.
  
  *The sound is amazing. In a sound system with a sub woofer, the tackles are booming. The crowd 
 shouts and screams along with their home team, and gives you a perfect feeling of immersion. The 
 commentators are alright, but I dont appreciate the trying to be cool phrases coming out of Corso's 
 mouth, like Yo after most statements.
  
  *The gameplay is great as well, any veteran pf the series with be right at home. Their is the hit 
 stick, which allows for back breaking hits, and the impact stick for offense, which allows for 
 ankle busting moves. There are some occasional glitches though. Sometimes your QB might not get 
 a handoff right to the QB, and he ends up running in a backwards slant, which is unavoidable. Sometimes 
 your players will simply run into each other, and wont stop doing it either.
  
  ** There are other problems with this solid game. There is an absence of 1AA teams, which is typical 
 of EA as of late, constantly stripping their next gen games. There is also no way of editing your 
 players equipment, which takes out like 40% of Create-A-Player. The only modes in here are Dynasty, 
 Online, and Play Now.
  
  Overall its a great game that deserves a spot in every college football fans collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FastrBlastr
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 5, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  The NCAA Football series has been increasingly better year after year, in my opinion, but there 
 was always something lacking from each game: the true college aspect. Sure, you had all of the 
 119 main NCAA 1A teams, their mascots, stadiums, logos, etc., but when it came right down to it, 
 you still didn't feel like you were completely immersed in that college atmosphere. At least I 
 didn't.
  
  Until this year. With the release of NCAA Football 07, I finally feel that true college atmosphere 
 when I start up a game. With the input of the brilliant Momentum Meter, along with the introduction 
 of the new Smart Fans, this finally starts to truly feel like college football. Sure, it's almost 
 impossible for any game to be perfect, and, as with many games, there are still some minor issues 
 that can be improved upon in the release of NCAA 08. But, when comparing this year's release to 
 the previous games in this series, I can say, without a doubt, that NCAA Football 07 was worth 
 the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaach11687
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Since i could remember playing NCAA Football, the gameplay was always the best feature. 
 Going up against your friends and bragging/talking trash. The good ole days... Madden 06 had to 
 be the worst football i had ever played. But the gamplay was good.... Isn't that all that matter? 
 Well you need some features right? Thank goodness NCAA Football 07 has more features for its debut 
 of the 360 then Madden had. You got your Dynasty and such, you got your online play, and some new 
 mini games. But this game just doesn't bring me in like it did last year and the year before that.
 
  
  Graphics: Beautiful stadiums and players. Thats all the good. I first got down on this game when 
 i started up my first game and the frame rate was god awful. This automatically made the gameplay 
 experience disappointing. Glitches also plagued the gameplay with some players just freezing. Even 
 some of the animations the players made were king of histarical. But overall the graphics on a 
 HDTV were amazing.
  
  Sound: Aberage sound like always.
  
  Value: There really isn't that many things to do in this game. The dynasty is medicore, those mini 
 games get old after yo unlock the achievements for them, and the online lag is just horrible. Damn 
 you EA. Damn you to hell....
  
  Tilt: i love college football but after playing this game and reallizing what it could have been, 
 i just find my self counting the days until next year around fall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svostang85
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 24, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  Whether you are playing single player dynasty mode or multi-player with a friend this game is a 
 lot of fun. I like the improvements over 06, especially the ability of your corners to stop the 
 long bomb. Most of my time is spent in dynasty mode building up my alma mater team. When I started 
 with them they were ranked somewhere around 60th in the nation. Over 5 years of dynasty play I 
 have taken them from a relatively poor team to 3 times national champions. At times this game feels 
 more like an RPG than a football game. Building up your players abilities and improving your team 
 overall is very addicting. I would recommend this game to anyone that likes sports games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samuelljackson1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 22, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  I like this game a whole lot. I play as U of L and have a good time playing the Dynasty Mode. Very 
 Good for a Football game. If you're a college football fan, go get this game, its out for pretty 
 much all the systems right now.
  It takes about 45 minutes to play a regualtion game in the dynasty mode, so sometimes when Im waiting 
 to go somewhere or just bored , I'll sit down and play a game, although I have yet to experience 
 all the aspects of this game, I can already say its one of my favorites. You can play as any college 
 football teams in the country, even the really really bad ones. UofL is the best though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 30, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  Last year's EA sports lineup for the 360 was a disappointment, to say the least. Most of the games 
 were basically bare-bones versions of their current-gen cousins with fancy graphics. EA decided 
 not to put out a NCAA Football game, for whatever reason. Luckily this year they did not make the 
 same decision. And while I just finsihed playing this game for hours &amp; hours, NCAA Football 
 '07 has to be looked at as a minor disappointment. Thankfully the most important gameplay feature 
 from the current-gen games is here: the dynasty mode. Pros: Still has the best 'dynasty mode' in 
 all of the sports games; the stadiums look gorgeous; the game is bursting with that college football 
 atmosphere; still the best audio commentary team in the biz; still a very fun game to play; player 
 models animate great; the game definately looks a lot better than current-gen; playing on Xbox 
 Live can be fun; Achievements are distributed well and are fun to get; it's still fun to change 
 the names &amp; import that draft class into Madden. Cons: Other than the great 'dynasty mode', 
 there is nothing here as far as features go; no historic rosters; no create-a-school; no 'Race 
 For The Heisman'; needs more online features, as well; the three mini-games (bowling, option dash, 
 &amp; tug-of-war) aren't very good; player models look like last year's version in HD; annoying 
 new EA menu system needs to go; the AI in the game still needs some work; although I still love 
 the 'dynasty mode', it could use a fresh coat of paint . After playing this game for awhile, you 
 will realize that you really are being screwed here. The problem is that the 'dynasty mode' is 
 so much fun that you won't care. Last year's version had a lot of different features that I wish 
 were included here, but I never liked the 'Race For The Heisman' mode anyway. This is still a very 
 fun football game and once you start recruiting players and throwing TD's to Dwayne Jarrett (go 
 USC!!!) , you will forget about the fact that the game has hardly anything else to offer you. Just 
 make sure you go into it knowing that you are paying $60 to play the dynasty mode in better graphics. 
 If that doesn't sound good to you, then I would take a pass on this year's game and wait for next 
 season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyra9
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 15, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is fun to play, but it seems when you play online the collision detection is worse 
 than Tecmo Bowl. I can't stand it when one play my player falls over when a whoosh of air hits 
 him, and the opposing player's RB can shuck off 1200 lbs of defensive players with nary a stumble. 
 Also, I don't know anyone who can intercept a pass when they are literally 2 feet in from of a 
 QB whilst he throws a line drive rocket! Then the next play a loopy airy 40-yard pass bounces of 
 one of the best defenders in the game when my 5 year old cousin could catch it one handed. FIX 
 THIS CRAP EA! VERY FRUSTRATING!!! I DON'T CARE ABOUT STUPID MASCOTS!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snwbrdr13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 9, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, I like everything about it. The graphics are extremely good when it comes 
 to football. The action is great along with the AI. There are some ways you can figure A. I. will 
 always do things but good for the most part. Controls are good and easy to figure out. If you don't 
 know a certain move you can access the menu and find it out quickly. One problem with the controls 
 is I found myself sometimes during the action accidentally pressing the start button when I was 
 trying to dive. Other than that it's good to go.
  
  Online play was online play for the 360 I'm not a big sports online fan so it wasn't anything special 
 to me. Don't get me wrong this game was still great online just not a big fan.
  
  Overall this game is awesom, addicting, play for hours, good mulitplayer. You really couldn't ask 
 for much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apoc112
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Any football game is really a stock sports game, so here's a stock review to go with it:
  
  Gameplay
  As expected with any EA game, the gameplay is solid as ever. I really like the new 
 kicking system (similar to the swing in tiger woods) and i'm glad they brought the QB vision over 
 to the NCAA franchise. The impact stick adds a nice dimension to the offensive side, while the 
 defense remains virtually unchanged - a good choice.
  
  Graphics
  Certainly as good as Madden 06 - maybe slightly under the bar of 07, but for what it is, it's more 
 than impressive. My only complaint is that the players are all a little too muscle-bound. I've 
 seen my fair share of college athletes in person and i have yet to see one that is quite as ripped 
 as even the kickers in this game (who are equally physically built as the QBs and WR's) .
  
  Sound
  Great! Not too many games are without 5.1, but few do it as well as this one. The sound 
 really adds to the atmosphere and it's hard to resist cranking the stereo up when you're playing 
 at home and have the other team on the ropes. The hits are the best i've seen in any game to date 
 - often requiring replays at full speed just to see their heads snap when you hear the bone-jarring 
 crashes.
  
  Overall
  This was a no-brainer for me... my friends and i are all into football and we all perfer college 
 to professional. There's so much more passion about the teams and the schools... i mean, i don't 
 hate any pro team, but when i'm playing against Michigan, ND, USC, or FS, few things in this world 
 make my blood boil like letting up a touchdown to any of those douchebags.
  
  WE ARE.... PENN STATE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteelersDJM
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I usually buy Madden every year, but this year I decided to rent it. After playing Madden for eleven 
 days I was beginning to get that typical Madden feeling you get after several games (boredom) . 
 iMy local game stop was running a deal. You could trade in any 2 xbox 360 games and get 1 for $10. 
 So I thought what the heck I have to finish my season I started, but thought to myself why put 
 yourself thru the pain.
  
  Instead of getting Madden 07 I decide to give Saints Row a shot. Well unfortunetly they were all 
 out of it. So then I picked up Madden and headed toward the counter. When I got to the counter 
 something stopped me and said give NCAA a shot. Since I've never bought the college game and always 
 went with Madden, and Madden has been putting a bad taste in my mouth for several years now. I 
 must say that I enjoy the College game much more than Madden. The gameplay in my opinion is much 
 better. The pace of the game is much better. The animations are outstanding, and the feeling you 
 get from the stadium surroundings really makes you feel like your a part of that college. I love 
 recruiting and redshirting. I haven't been this fired up about a football game in a long time. 
 After playing a few games on the next to the hardest difficulty to get the feel for a realistic 
 quarter length and penalty settings I'm ready to go.
  
  I can't wait to get off work tonite and get ready to take ND on a legendery collegiant run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerminalEcho
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I've long been a fan of EA Sports, and of the college football franchise they put out yearly. They've 
 done some major things to shape the world of college football in video games, and while due to 
 the exclusive liscence, they've had no competition since 2002 (2K sports) . But that hasn't stopped 
 EA from putting out some good quality college ball year after year.
  With that being said, I expected no different from EA this year, as they made their first attempt 
 at NCAA football on a next-gen system. And I am happy to say that they did not dissapoint this 
 long time fan of the series. Sure this game has it's flaws, but I dare anyone to show me one sports 
 title that was perfect on it's first attempt on a new console.
  Graphically the game is very sharp, and well up to par with other sports titles that have had a 
 go on the 360; I am also very happy to see that the small visual flaws madden had last year are 
 nowhere to be found in this one. While the frame rate can be obnoxiously annoying, the game impresses 
 on about every level, from the absolutely perfect stadiums, to the player models, to the lighting 
 effects, and to the great motion capture moves; NCAA does not let you down.
  The gameplay is also in the plus column in my book, as the running game is the best it maybe has 
 ever been in the series. The new impact stick greatly helps you in the open field, and the jukes 
 are so real you might fall for it yourself. Blocking is good other than a few AI glitches, and 
 that greatly helps in not only the running game, but also in the passing game. One of my only complaints 
 about the game is the superman ability of the corners and safeties. They can be extremely dumb 
 due to more AI flaws, but they can also close at un-human speeds, and jump higher than I've ever 
 seen a person jump. So help yourself out, and make damn sure the receiver is wide open before you 
 release it... Otherwise you might have to make a tackle with your pretty-boy QB.
  Defensively, the new pre-play options are a good addition, and the ability to jump the snap is 
 also a great new tool. Overall I think the ability to pass rush on your end can be a little too 
 difficult, but the moves to get around the big uglies do work in the right situations.
  Game modes are slim, and that has to be the biggest letdown of any EA football title thus far on 
 the 360. Other than the Dynasty and single player Heisman run, there's slim pickens for other things 
 to in this one.
  The bottom line for this game is, if you're a big football fan that loves the pure rush of the 
 game, pick this one up and it won't let you down; but if you're looking for a game that will pull 
 you into football, the lack of modes might be just enough to steer you away. A solid game, none 
 the less, and I look forward to next years edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgfanr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 10, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a college football fan..... I'm just a fan of football. It was a great hold-over until Madden 
 07 came out. The game lacks the in depth dynasty mode.... like when it shows your room (like the 
 ps2 and xbox versions) and all that little fluff. Actually .. I really wanted my created player 
 to go to the NFL draft after the 4 years were up.. so I could transfer him over to madden 07. This 
 game is pretty easy to get the hang of ... if you play EA based football games. I say that because 
 they also made that "Arena Football" which is also a descent game.
  Anyway this game is very fun and I think if you don't have Madden then a least get NCAA, if you 
 call yourself a "Football Fan" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S1asher614
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 10, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Another good NCAA football title, but falls a little short of its predecessors. What the heck happen 
 to the race for the heisman mode which was easily the best thing on NCAA 06 and yet they get rid 
 of it what is this crap. Theres nothing really all that special on this edition unless you want 
 to count the mini games and those aren't even all that fun. But overall its fun just like every 
 other NCAA football. I mean the dynasty mode doesn't even have anything all that new in it and 
 of course no more reggie bush. blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racinherby
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great addition to any college football lover's collection, but online play is spotty 
 at best. Try again EA. I love the atmospher of college football, and NCAA 07 does a great job of 
 capturing that. Momentum plays a big role, as it should, and it's implemented pretty well here, 
 but could be done a little better.
  
  Playing against the computer or with a friend on the same 360 is just how every football game should 
 be. However, online play has been horribly slow and choppy for me. It is really bad that I can't 
 hook up with a friend on Live and play a quick game of football with them. That's the main reason 
 I bought this game on day of release, and that's the biggest complaint I have now. Very disappointing 
 indeed.
  
  The mini-games are great and are a good distraction from the regular game. It's a neat little addition 
 that helps round the game out.
  
  If you aren't going to play online, then go for it. Otherwise, don't worry about playing online 
 and enjoy a pretty good football game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gouldsc
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 3, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I suppose I can only fault myself for not researching this game better before buying it. I was 
 expecting 1AA ball to be in this year (like all previous years) , I was pretty bummed to discover 
 that not only had they not expanded/improved upon the 1AA features (like including their fight 
 songs and mascots etc) , but that they were removed entirely. A MAJOR step backward. This game has 
 devolved (and I don't consider the "momentum-meter" an innovation) , much like last year's Tiger 
 Wood's series had -- dropping down to only 6 courses. If EA can't put out a release that is at least 
 on par with the previous year's, new console generation or not, they ought not release it at all. 
 It does look pretty, but good looks won't make up for the lack of features and poor menu organization/navigation. 
 I will be returning this for store credit. I also think Gamespot is being generous with their rating 
 of this game, a C- in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: den1233
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Personaly I never put NCAA game in high graces before but this game was a plesent and enjoyable 
 experiance. Gameplay is fun and should last a fan of football many long nights of staying up till 
 dawn. graphics are great and full of little special effects and cutsceans of players and crowds. 
 the stadiums are by far the strongest point of the grapics section as they are more life like then 
 ever. if one was to look back from a far at the stadiums they would have trouble figuring out that 
 it is fake. sound was great with the inclusion of bands. along with the crazy crowds made it really 
 seem like a collage football experiance. now all they need is cheerleaders. Oh yea got to have 
 those cheerleaders. may be next year. as far as overall value of the game the dynasty mode will 
 keep you playing for hours on end along with the achevments. still trying for the 60 year. only 
 like 3% there though. if you get board of that theres always online. yes online. what you think 
 i forgot. well its good and all like any other online sports game. ESPN comes to use with the ticker 
 on the bottom which gives you not only dynasty info but if you want real world info provided you 
 have XboX live. so thats my review and i hope it convinces someone out there to get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 28, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that is nice is the visuals in the game. However, I have a Sony projection HDTV 
 and it looked 10x better on my buddies 72 inch DLP. The game is basically your same college game 
 with updated rosters (expected) , new voicing (expected) and new rankings of teams (expected) . The 
 new "hit stick" and "action stick" is a cool feature that I use quite often and it is very easy 
 to pick up on it. Cool new endzone and pre-endzone dances, moves, dives makes it fun to rub in 
 a long score on your friend or to cap off an amazing drive. Yet another solid installment to the 
 NCAA Football frachise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BladeCrow762
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  With the exception of the loss of Race for the Heisman mode, which won't be missed by everyone, 
 this game is a fine addition to your collection. It looks great, the gameplay is smooth, and it 
 sounds good as well. Kudos to the EA people for making college franchise mode fun again, as well 
 as making it sensible. That aside, it is practically a 360 version of last year's NCAA, but the 
 next-gen Xbox's graphical capabilities and the addition of some more depth in the playbooks result 
 in a game worth buying, although I would wait until the price drops from the full $59.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evvy3000
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 24, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  After playing NCAA 2007 a few times through the Dynasty Franchise I feel a bit empty on what I 
 am actually playing. While there are the awesome graphics and animations, there is a lack of fun 
 when those are the main highlights of the game. I have NCAA 2004 for my Xbox that I have played 
 year after year and enjoyed making my own teams and playing around with stadiums and watching the 
 Sports Illustrated pages as my team would be presented on different pages ranging from Heisman 
 Trophie runner to the Player of the Week. Making my own team has been my biggest draw to the game 
 because of the fun of making players of how I want. Now with NCAA 2007 that addition is gone. Another 
 missing thing that was either loved or hated by people alike were the cheerleaders. This is college 
 football right? I know if felt weird watching male guys do jumps and cartwheels, but this is college 
 after all. These are not pros that play on the field, they are like all college students, having 
 fun and partying their life out while they are living the best years of their lives. College is 
 a staple of growing up and without catching that energy, its lost and this game shows that college 
 football can be boring. At the same time, there are the small number of Minigames that are fun 
 to play but are too few to make a difference. I will get my share of gridiron glory through the 
 season as I play on but I wish that future versions bring on new additions such as the original 
 create a team feature. Oh and if EA doesnt want to add it next year, the add the game onto the 
 Xbox backwards compatibility because 2004 is still more fun than 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FossilMan23
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 21, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  
  NCAA Football 2007 for the XBox 360 is pretty much what I expected: it's the same solid college 
 gridiron action with a little more flash. It's far from perfect, and it's obvious that the developers 
 need to make a more concerted effort at achieving that next-gen feel next year, but for now we've 
 got ourselves a winner.
  
  Highlights: the mini-games are fun diversions, the online play seems to be hitch-free so far, and 
 the controls are logically mapped to the buttons/sticks. I'm particularly impressed with some of 
 the player animations. The dynasty mode is deep, and some of the gimmicky stuff (i. e., last year's 
 "Race for the Heisman" mode) has been pared down.
  
  Lowlights: literally, the game seems dark to me even with my TV settings adjusted, and overall 
 the visuals don't make a real quantum leap from the XBox or PS2; the music and commentary needs 
 a major overhaul; and the flavor of the college game needs to be recaptured (just showing the occasional 
 fan, mascot, or cheerleader doesn't seem to do it) .
  
  I could be more impressed, but since this game is pretty steady from year to year, I'd rather see 
 a solid product than one that whores itself out to wholesale changes that ultimately "fix what 
 ain't broke." NCAA Football 2007 scores as usual, and brings promise of something even greater 
 next season. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SK64killer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  when i first got the xbox 360, i got this game first, and i played it on and on but it never gets 
 old because its online play, and let me tell you good graghics are its great a reccomend this game 
 to any football lovers because this game is great in graghics, gameplay, sound, and value i still 
 play this game today and well you will see me a lot ( gamertag x Posterchild x ) so well thats 
 all i have to say about this great game! and yes i think all football lovers and gamers should 
 get this game and no its not a waste of money so, thats it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666_NOTB
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  NCAA is the first installment on the next generation consoles. If this is what is to come, then 
 you will have me signed up for the next 4 games. Overall the game earns a solid 8, slightly better 
 than Madden 06. It does have some set backs or cuts from the current generation versions, but it's 
 still an overall fun game to go out and play.
  
  Gameplay - 8 - I liked the gameplay in this game. It does suffer from a few set backs from the 
 current generation games, though. Some areas leave a little to be desired.
  
  Graphics - 8 - Slightly worse than Madden 06. Hopefully they improve next year.
  
  Sound - 
 8 - Nothing way out there. 
  
  Value - If you absolutely love football, then get this game. It's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  NCAA Football 07 is a good start to the nex gen era and for the xbox 360. from the gameplay to 
 the mini games they deliver a solid game.
  
  gameplay - loading time is slim and gives you enough time to enjoy the scene of the authentic stadium 
 they decided to provide us this year. a new addition to the game is the ability to jump the snap 
 and hopefully get a quick sack. very hard to predict since the AI oh hiesman changes up from 7 
 to 2 seconds all the time. defense wise they havent change much with good solid coverages and 
 man to man defenses. when picking you playbook you have a variety of different defenses to pick 
 from 4-3 to 3-3-1.
  
  sound - once again the college atmosphere saves the game. who doesn't love college football. great 
 sound during a game.
  
  online - not many play online. there are enough people to have a game or so, but those are the 
 true college fans.
  
  overall - while hte game is very good, this is the first year I had to transition from the sony 
 corp. to the Microsoft corp. needless to say i wasn't enough. i found my self trading the game 
 in for store credit. but for those xboxer's this game is good to go like taco bell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oubrett
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 19, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  I bought this for my brand new 360 even though I already owned it for my current gen xbox. I was 
 a little concerned because of all the screaming about how it was sooooo bad. Come back from the 
 edge boys. Its not that bad.
  There are definately some missing features - there is really no ESPN influence, the pregame show 
 is now just a voice over and campus legend is not present. Those are definitely mistakes by EA, 
 which has of late kind of fumbled its sports games by reducing instead of increasing features. 
 That being said, there is a lot to like here. The game is very pretty and the game play is more 
 run and gun , wide open. I am having a great time and in the end that is what a good game is to 
 me. Yes, next year I will expect more and will be eyeing this year's Madden to see what I can expect 
 next year. EA definately needs to pull the truck up and really dump a lot of bell and whistles 
 as well as improved gameplay into next year's edition. Until then, I have two versions and a lot 
 of time to enjoy myself. Overall, this game is a must buy for college sports fans. Boomer Sooner 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbonetrav18
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Overall, this is a game worth playing. The graphics are good, but not great. There are frame rate 
 issues that occur. The dynasty mode is pretty plain. There is no way to improve weak areas of the 
 team during the season. I haven't played the game on live yet. The game sounds great. Fight songs 
 as menu music, and when you score. I changed the sounds so the crowd and the PA are the only thing 
 that can be heard. The physics are good about 90% of the time. You will get tackled once on a while 
 without the player models colliding. Also there are a few dropped balls that should be caught. 
 They have made the D-backs play better. I would like to see the receivers drop the ball more often 
 when they get hit as soon as they catch it. There also seems to be a lot of turnovers. But overall, 
 If you love college football, buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chanester
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 18, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  
  To be honest, I had a tough time deciding on wheather or not I was actually going to buy this game, 
 and when I first got it, I wasn't that impressed. But here's the thing, if you play the game on 
 freshman difficulty, it's not going to be that fun, and you're not going to get all of the new 
 things that was put into this game. If you want the full effect, play it on a harder difficult, 
 it's amazing, and you don't beat your opponenet 100-0! 
  
  Overall, it's a great looking game, and the way the players react, tackle, and look, is sooo real. 
 What I love about it, is that it's not the same old NCAA game that comes out every year, that hardly 
 changes. This is almost a complete different game, and don't be afraid by that, because in my opinion... it's 
 the BEST in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEIIP
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to what this game has to offer, but when your being tackled, and the 
 guy tackling you is 5-6 yards away, then that's when I started to realize hmmm.... another rushed 
 EA sports game? We'll, there is next season, right? C'mon EA, let's get it right this time. Just 
 don't forget to add the missing ingredients this time. Like, "RACE FOR THE HEISMAN," and adding 
 back the little features of the game, that made it so great before.
  Even the tiny details, of showing off the Captains' during the coin toss. Here's an idea, what 
 about when you take your dynasty team and go all the way to become National Champions, and have 
 a banner of that in their stadium for every time they win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacomagnet
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 15, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  How do we let these companies get away with fleecing us out of our hard earned dollars?
  
  They raise the price to $60 for 360 games, then even in the official critic reviews it tells how 
 the xbox and ps2 versions are better and more complete.
  
  Is there any lawyers out there who can put together a class action lawsuit for this kind of bungjuice?
 
  
  This game may look great but it plays like it was put together by rent-a-programmers.
  
  Some serious questions:
  
  Did they throw a bone to their interns at EA to throw the 360 
 version together for them?
  
  Do they not keep one programmer around that remembers what they did right the years before?
  
 
  Do they not own a pen and paper to write down what needs to be included in every football game? 
 
  
  It's unbelievable the things this title does not have.
  
  -It's hard to tell when you score a touchdown, nothing really happens when you do.
  -X360 power? 
 The endzone pylons don't even move! Your at the 2 yard line on the sideline, you dive for the endzone, 
 right over the corner........ Did I score, did I go out of bounds?????... uhhhh wait and see if you 
 get to choose extra point for your next play, then you'll know you scored.... come on!
  -Dynasty mode is worthless... Do they not realize this is what makes sports games? Kludge interface, 
 no practice mode, no custom playbooks (come on!) , oh did I say kludge interface...
  -You can't practice in Dynasty mode!... You want to run some plays with that new stud QB you just 
 got signed? TOO BAD!... come on!
  
  This is about all I could get through before I turned the thing off and thanked God that I rented 
 it online before I decided to buy it.
  
  Hey developers,
  Let's sit down and figure out everything that needs to be in the game first before you try to figure 
 out the next best thing to add into it that will inevitable hit the cutting room floor the next 
 year... oh and pick a font you can read for all your menus and stats..... come on!
  Back to basics boys!... I wonder if my copy of Super Tecmo Bowl still works.... I hope so!
  
 
  I implore everyone to save your money and hopefully one day they will put something out that is 
 worth their price gouged $60
  
  Hope this helps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stealthjett
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Okay, let's just say, I LOVED playing this game. Sadly, as much as I love the gameplay, the Dynasty 
 Mode (which, other than online is the only mode anyone truly cares about) leaves MUCH to be desired.
 
  
  For starters, it lacks record keeping. So you may hear the announcers talking about you "possibly 
 breaking the single game record for 'whatever'", but you won't ever break anything. Because they 
 aren't in there. I rushed for 500 yards and the above comment was all that was said during the 
 game.
  
  It's quite sad, as this would have been THE football game to have if it just had more beef to the 
 dynasty mode. Another complaint (though one that may just be personal preference and in no way 
 detracts from the enjoyment of the game) is navigating the recruiting and in game menus. It sucks.
 
  
  I also found no way to do formation substitutions. If it's in there, I couldn't find it. It seems 
 as though for every cool thing they put in, they changed something that wasn't really broken. I 
 realize they rushed to get this out being that it was on a new hardware generation, but still, 
 I just felt underwhelmed between and sometimes during games.
  
  I really love the new stadiums. It really adds to the immersion factor, though the Momentum meter 
 is a joke as I could not tell ANY difference that it made.
  
  Here's hoping that next year, EA has added ALL the features of the current gen systems and EXPANDS 
 GREATLY upon all the record and stat keeping that's in this years crop. The gameplay is pretty 
 good, I could find little to argue about with that, but I just expect all the bells and whistles 
 in a dynasty mode, not leaving out things to whet my appetite for next year's release.
  
  Anyone who just wants a college football game to play, or an average fan would not go wrong with 
 this. But those diehard players who thrive on breaking Barry Sanders rushing record with one game 
 left, well, stick to the current gen. And cross your fingers for next years game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicenpancakes
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 14, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  There are many good things about this game, but for the NCAA franchise loyal, there are many letdowns.
 
  
  First and foremost, this game has some of the best (if not the best) graphics on any 360 game that 
 are currently available.
  
  The on-field gaming is amazing. The first time you are on either the giving end or on the receiving 
 end of one of the bone-crushing hits, you are undoubtedly going to be impressed. 
  
  The AI is the greatest it has ever been. When one of your lineman is down, laying on the ground, 
 and a linebacker is coming for you, he smoothly jumps over the lineman and proceeds to the backfield 
 (as opposed to running straight into him thus not letting the linebacker get to the backfield until 
 he magically runs through the body of the lineman) . 
  
  And as always, the length of physics-defying space between a hand and a batted ball is getting 
 smaller. If you prevent the receiver from catching a ball and knock it down... your hand actually 
 hits the ball!!!
  
  Many other on-field gaming features that you will notice: the ability to pitch the ball as you 
 are being tackled and your knee almost touching the ground (a BIG plus for those of us who like 
 the option) =*= the variety of tackles that you will encounter =*= and you can actually block kicks 
 on a somewhat regular basis (too often sometimes) . The analog kicking isn't for everyone, but it 
 isn't bad by any means.
  
  In-Game: The play-by-play and input from the booth (including good ol' Corso) is as good as ever 
 =*= the sheer depth of the playbooks, speaking of playbooks I LOVE the 5 different selections you 
 have to choose plays. 
  
  And as stated earlier, possibly the best part of the game -- the graphics. 
  The stadiums, the 
 players, the coaches, the mascots, even the choppy 3D fans who react accordingly to the game is 
 unbelievable. It truly does feel like a college football atmosphere.
  
  The Dynasty takes some getting used to with the new analog-oriented scrolling. But after you get 
 used to it, I assure you that you will enjoy taking your team through all of the regulars of the 
 Dynasty and the Off-Season, including the new "Spring Game" feature. Big positive - the loading 
 times is done away with, you go right from the Dynasty menu to the beginning menu.
  
  The mini-games (albeit not many) are very enjoyable. Option Dash returns, and again, the ability 
 to pitch as you are being tackled helps a ton, and makes this mini-game very enjoyable. Bowling 
 has its ups and downs. It's very fun until you find out the few plays that you are guaranteed to 
 get a "strike" every time. Tug-Of-War is my personal favorite. This should be one of the first, 
 if not the first thing that you do when you get this game. You can find yourself playing for hours. 
 You might win on one play. Or you can end up having a 57 minute Tug-Of-War match like I had. And 
 it was honestly just as fun as a last-second-deciding game. In my opinion the only big negative 
 regarding the mini-games is the absence of Pass Skeleton.
  
  My own personal let-downs.
  
  Now, I know that the NCAA Football franchise loyalists will agree with me on these points. 
 Others may think I'm nit-picking.
  
  --The Dynasty's simulation time. My absolutely favorite thing about NCAA 03-05 is taking teams 
 and doing the Off-Season things and then simulating the season. But in 06, and especially the SLLLLOOOOOWWWW 
 07, it is unthinkable to do this, and in-season recruiting kind of messes it up too, but the simulation 
 speed is unbearable.
  
  --Ghost tackles. Now I haven't had too many of these, but when happens when your going for it on 
 fourth down late in the game and well... the air seems to tackle you, it's just a tad-bit frustrating.
 
  
  --NO RANDOM PLAY IN PRACTICE MODE. See? Some might think I'm nit-picking, but in 03-06, I would 
 just take two teams, and be the offense, and do "random play all formations" for both offense and 
 defense. I would then play for a loooong time. But in 07, all you do is the same play over and 
 over and over and over.
  
  --NO OVERHEAD CAMERA!!!! Well there is only one camera view, but I don't think I had ever played 
 a non-overhead camera game until I played NCAA 07. (it's not terrible with this one camera view, 
 but it would just be better to have options)
  
  --No 1AA teams, All-American teams, or Historic teams. This is a HUGE NEGATIVE. You don't even 
 want me to get started on this.
  
  --The absence of the Campus Legend Mode. I really liked Race for the Heisman (almost the same thing 
 as the Campus Legend Mode) , so I am contemplating getting 07 for PS2 just for this, but it's just 
 frustrating that I can't have it on 360.
  
  Now, i could go on and on about all of the little things that are missing or flawed like the weird 
 running style =*= or when you catch the ball while running across the middle of the field, you 
 then catch it and stop, then keep running again (as opposed to catching it on the run and continuing 
 running) =*= or the momentum meter, which was hyped like crazy, and I'm convinced it doesn't do 
 anything =*= or the size of muscle on everyone, (check out the Marshall kicker, you'll thank me 
 later) ....... Now, i could go on and on about all of the little things that are missing, but you 
 know, I just don't want to do that.
  
  The big thing is, I understand that this is the first installment on a next-gen console for the 
 NCAA franchise, so I know that EA Sports will fix these things, and I am certain that next year's 
 game will be the best ever in every aspect for EA Sports' NCAA Football.
  
  If you have made it through my whole review, wow, thank you, and go take a break, you deserve it.
 
  
  NCAA Football 2008!!!! I can't wait!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lezdeppelin1249
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 13, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game the graphics is really nice alot of plays to choose from great looking 
 menu great looking players the crowd is very realistc with there colors (such as if you pick Oregon 
 Ducks the crowd most of the crowd will be green and yell) but not perfect though, very limited 
 features in this version (theres only sesoin mode and three mini games which are kinda boring) 
 what the hell happend to all the teams in the previos versoin, you cant do anything in "creat a 
 player mode"; you can only choose how good it is and what its face looks like no helmet picking 
 no glove picking or anything, ESPN is barley notice able other then all of that a that, a very 
 good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3rev
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 11, 2006 12:02 am PT
Review:  Some people keep complaining that the 360 version is missing alot of features as it is and that 
 creat a player sucks and it does and there is no creat a school and there aint but that does not 
 make this game suck this is by far my favorite ncaa to date. If you love to actually play the games 
 then yes this is for you if your a simulator then yes this is still great. the graphics to me are 
 good the animations are fun to watch the nice spins the hurddles its all so good. the recruting 
 in this game is what really makes this one of the best games up to date well as long as ur team 
 is good if there not then you aint going to be able to recruit anyone. the sounds on the game are 
 pretty good not the best but there ok. there is one thing that is really dumb about this game and 
 its the way the refs call pentalties they suck at it just buy this game and you know what im talking 
 about. i would say if your a really big college football fan then this game is a must must buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrycee
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  I cant believe how some gamers judge this game. I think its one of the best Collage Football games 
 out there. Just cause some parts of the game is missing, doesnt make it a bad game. I really think 
 some of the gamers that judge this game is retards. Cant wait for Madden. I just guess thats gonna 
 be judge poorly also. I think if ur not a sports gamer than you shouldnt judge sports games. The 
 Graphics, Gameplay of this game are very good ,even like the Stadiums are beautiful . Next years 
 NCAA will be awesome u wait and see ,its only building to its ability 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godigoshin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 9, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  This year's NCAA Football game is nothing like the older games for xbox, playstation 2, or gamecube. 
 Its a downgrade in everything, as many features were stripped away from this version. Isn't the 
 xbox 360 suppose to be better?
  
  Gameplay/Controls - In game controls have the same core as last year's game, but the changes that 
 were made are a definite downgrade. Calling plays now requires to move directly over the play and 
 press A, making your play clear to anyone who is playing with you in person. Play calling takes 
 much more time than it used to and there are lots of delay of games. Calling hot routes is near 
 impossible for wide receivers. you need to switch all the way over to the receiver you want to 
 change a route, pressing b every time, making that receiver visible to a human opponent. The problem 
 is, you can't even see the wide-outs! the camera doesn't zoom out enough and there is no way to 
 know which wide-out is getting the hot route. 
  
  Graphics - Very choppy, especially online. Frame rate is not good in this game even though stand 
 still pics might look good. Also, tackling the opponent sometimes doesn't look like a tackle at 
 all. Your defensive guy dives and seemingly misses a tackle and a second later the QB falls for 
 no apparent reason. 
  
  Sound - Sound is good. Game has all the fight songs and the announcers do a good job, probably 
 a better job that last years game. 
  
  Value - Not much in this game. Quick game, online, and dynasty, thats it! Wheres create team, race 
 for heisman, all the other things from older games? Taken away so that we can watch good graphics 
 with bad frame rate.
  
  Tilt- I was expecting far more from this game especially since all games, 2003-2006 were pretty 
 much my favorites from their years. Online experience is horrible. The frame rate makes it almost 
 unplayable. It is too bad about this years game, hopefully next year they will get it right again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halomaster1211
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  EA Sports should have taken another couple of weeks to finish refining this game. It is just my 
 opinion, but EA can scrap the whole Race for the Heisman, Big Man on Campus, and Create a Superstar 
 mode. So, having to give up that feature for the 360 is no loss to me. However, I spent over $300 
 for a Next-Gen gaming console and I feel like I am playing games that are 2 or 3 years old, but 
 with good graphics. 
  
  How many losses should I have to accept at the cost of better graphics? Let me tell you what you 
 are not going to get if you buy the 360 version of NCAA 2007:
  1. As mentioned aboveno Big Man on Campus mode 
  2. No Defensive hot routes! (You can still 
 shift you line, linebackers or change up the coverage of your DBs, but you can NOT tell a specific 
 LB or DB to blitz, spy, or cover zone) . 
  3. No substituting players by formation, what the heck EA?! Why would you NOT have this?
  4. 
 No Div I-AA schools nor will you be able to create a school. (You can still create a player though) .
 
  5. No ESPN magazine covers or articles (in all fairness you can still see the Coca-Cola P. O. T. W., 
 who is leading in the Heisman race, conference standings, and BCS standings) .
  6. No unlocking pennants, cheats, historic or mascot teams. (I could care less about these features, 
 I would rather they save the memory and time to make the college fight songs sound better) .
  7. No player discipline problems as there were in NCAA 2006. 
  8. No rivalry game trophies (UGA 
 vs. Florida is still called the Worlds Biggest Cocktail Party, but there is no graphic for the 
 Battle of the Jeweled Shillelagh) .
  9. No Create a Sign. (If you have a mascot, say Harry Dawg, youll see him do pushups, dance, 
 etc, but the crowd at UGA is pretty lifeless. Sometimes the fans on NCAA 2006 got on my nerves, 
 but I must admit they did add to the atmosphere of the college experience. I havent played FSU 
 or UF, but I hear the fans do the Tomahawk Chop and the Gator Chomp respectively) .
  10. No extreme player celebrations or user controlled celebrations. 
  11. Only 2 players can 
 play at once and loading multiple profiles (if you have a several user dynasty) is a pain in the 
 arse.
  12. No custom playbook! ! !
  13. You can NOT coach individual units during a time out.
  14. No player composure (the green 
 and red meter that showed if your players were composed or rattled) . 
  15. No in game stat boost or drops. As far as I know, you 89 overall rated QB can throw 15 interceptions 
 and still be rated an 89 the whole game. 
  
  Things I like:
  1. The 360 version does have the trick plays and the Pistol formation. Huge playbooks (maybe 
 even a little overwhelming) . 
  2. Graphics are good. Stadiums look great, but I think some of the player motions look funny.
 
  3. I like the multiple ways of calling a play: by formation, key player, or type of play. BUT, 
 if you are playing against a cheesy opponent, who looks at your play calling screen, you will have 
 to bluff the play call EVERYTIME. 
  4. In Season recruiting seems much the same so far.
  5. Players now have a plethora of more stats. Elusiveness, BC Vision (I dont know what this does 
 though?) , trucking, kick/punt return, and many others. 
  
  Overall, it is a good game in my opinion, but I would have been MUCH HAPPIER if EA had taken more 
 time to add, the ESPN magazine, the ability to sub a player by formation, defensive hot routes, 
 custom playbooks, and made the passing hot routes easier. You have to cycle to the player whose 
 route you want to change, press Y, and then select of 1 of 8 hot routes. 
  
  For me, it is imperative that EA add all of the above features by the 2008 version and they can 
 scrap all the mini-games for all I care, they are crap. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sazreal
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 7, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game since the first day it was released, at least one game a day. Currently 
 I am in my 5th Dynasty season, and I have to say it has me hooked. The recruiting can suck you 
 in, it is the treasure you hunt for in RPG's in a sense, and the fact that you can recruit during 
 the season is even better (although I did not use this feature until season 2, which hurt my recruiting 
 class) . Now onto the game mechanics.
  
  The most impressive feature for this game right off the bat... the stadiums, they look absolutely 
 amazing and you can almost feel the crowd being there throughout the whole game. You can see a 
 little stutter here and there when they are panning out, but through the actual game you won't 
 notice it at all. The only bad thing about the crowd, is that it does not seem to affect the game 
 at all, so you can have a large roaring crowd and not be affected by the snap not being heard by 
 players or anything like that. It's a edge that you don't get, but overall not important. If you 
 need the crowd to win the game, you need more practice. 
  
  With that being said, at first I thought this game was finally realistic in the scoring sense. 
 I only averaged 20-30 points a game and the competition was never far behind, but then you start 
 to find plays that the CPU just can't win against. There's a route in the aces formation, where 
 your inside wide receiver runs a down and out, and the outside receiver crosses and runs accross 
 the middle that the defense always seems baffled on. Out of my 4000 yard passing season, I think 
 I had 2500 yards off that play alone, because the inside receiver (should be your fastest guy) will 
 be inside and usually outside of any zone coverage that the game has, yet if they are in man he 
 can outrun them. Kind of sucks for strategy sake, but good to get out of a bind.
  
  You can also apparently export your graduates into Madden '07, so that'd be an interesting twist 
 to the Madden game to see if you can get your star players in the drafts and build on to your career 
 in that game, because there are players that you wish you just had more that 4 years to have on 
 your team.
  
  Other aspects of the game are in similar fashion, running up the middle has some gratification 
 if you juke at first to slide into the hole, most of the time it's your own blockers that stop 
 you and give the defense time to catch up to you... which is a MAJOR issue I have with this game, 
 as soon as you clip your own playrs you stop, yet if you run into a defender you have a good chance 
 of bouncing off them, running through them, etc. Yet if you hit your own guy you stop dead until 
 you change direction. I even had two defenders chasing down a WR after a catch, and the faster 
 defender came from behind the other one and was fairly obvious he was going to catch the receiver, 
 but then the defender clipped the other defender's shoulder and the both went to a "walk" pace 
 and the WR ran for a touchdown. The other issues stem from defenders apparently taking a play off 
 and just standing there, to the usual gripe of you trying to switch players to try and sack the 
 QB to find out they gave you the defender on the receiver that the QB is "planning" to throw to 
 and thus breaking the man coverage. The other issue is when you can magically get tackled from 
 a guy about 4-5 yards away and physically no where close to you. I had a guy that broke off my 
 tackle and sacked me while he was on the line of scrimmage yet I had a 5-step drop back.
  
  You can adjust the AI behaviors, so as far as the defense taking a play off I'm sure you can fix 
 that, but the clipping and some of the tackling animations are off. Other than those gripes (which 
 the CPU needs sometimes just to be able to score) it is a really fun game. If you can get a team 
 together that is solid, it is a joy to watch them eat up the field against the competition. This 
 last season I played it was almost as if I had the Nebraska Blackshirts of '95 back, reminded me 
 so much of them that I am getting pumped up for the coming season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob101
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 6, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  This game make some great improvements over past years and is an solid game overall, it makes use 
 of the 360 versions Madden playbook which I feel was one of the best improvements to the EA football 
 lineup it makes it easy to navigate the play packages and offers several ways to look for plays 
 using you key players. I would deffinently recommend that anyone who gets the game get a datel 
 transfer kit to download the rosters though because it makes the game even better.
  
  The graphic are also vastly improved on the next gen console, and the tackles and hits look better 
 then ever, the motion is also very fluid and the frame rate is quite high. The running has also 
 received a boost with the added skill stick and impact moves, that resembles what 2K's running 
 used to be like.
  
  The announcing however has not improved that much and many of the same phrases have been recycled, 
 the presentation is also improved with the loss of the pre-game show, no more Lee Corso with mascot 
 heads which was a winning pick.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HoboOnASubway
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  After playing NCAA 06 for xbox and doing the Race for the Heisman mode I was excited about getting 
 07 and being able to create another player and export him to Madden 07. After getting the game 
 and realizing you dont really get to Race for the Heisman the way you did in 06 by creating and 
 player and such I was disappointed. The graphics are the best things about this game I think; the 
 game play is okay nothing special. I believe this version went backwards from the 06 version in 
 being able to do more then just play Dynasty mode and Mini Games only having really these two things 
 reminds me of Madden 2006 for 360. The mini games are alright they are fun to play a couple of 
 times. The next best thing about this game after the graphics is watching the Madden 07 preview. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TmAc23o2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 6, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  Its not what i thought it would be. You should rent it first. It has good graphics. The gameplay 
 is pretty good. I liked the impact stick. But its a little hard to play defense aganist the pass. 
 The sound is good. I like all of the crowd chants. There wasn't that much extras. The mini games 
 are cool, but get boring after awhile. The dyansty mode is not that good. Theres not that much 
 to do in dyansty mode. They didn't add hesiman mode. The create a player isnt that good either. 
 You cant do alot in the create a player mode. You cant edit what he wears. But other than that 
 it is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydrolite
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 6, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what it is about college football that sends chills down my spine. There is such a 
 charisma around the bands and school pride that any other sport cannot touch. I am I die-hard fan 
 of college football along with EA's long running series. When I heard that it was making it's debut 
 on the Xbox 360 I was already getting my body paint on and cranking up my college fight song. In 
 comparison to the other consoles it only made a high school sized debut but with all the great 
 gameplay you've come to exspect from this series.
  
  EA's college football series has become noted for it's great gameplay and it holds true in this 
 game. You can exspect to have the same hard hitting action as before, but thats the problem, it's 
 the same. I don't know whether this falls under the "not broke don't fix itcategory or rather 
 it needs to be updated. The passing controls are usually rather inaccurate if you wish to be really 
 precise with the delivery, which can make it very hard to throw the fade route over a shallow defender. 
 Blocking which is one of the biggest chinks in the armor of this game has not been helped at all. 
 Sometimes you will get the blocks and sometimes you won't. This puts a lot of pressure on your 
 running abilities as a lot of times you will be somewhat on your on. However the defensive side 
 of the ball is perfect and really needs no fix up what so ever. The biggest deturent in this game 
 is the horribly small amount of content in comparison to the other consoles. Notoriously absent 
 is the excellent Race for the Heismen mode featured in previous installments and in the others 
 console's versions. Instead it has been replaced by a rather shallow dynasty mode. This mode allows 
 you to build your favorite school into a dynasty of sorts but only revolves around recruiting and 
 playing. Other than that it is a lot of meaningless and shallow tasks that can easily be skipped 
 over.
  
  The graphics show only slightly better on the Xbox 360 console. Majority of the time the game is 
 zoomed out and you cannot see the graphics upgrade but when the game is zoomed in you will see 
 a slight difference. The player animations are top knotch and easily believable, even though there 
 are a few odd occurances it is easily forgivable. Thenew momentum system is a good idea but will 
 need some fine tuning before it is ready for next year. The affects of momentum is not as noticable 
 as it should be and really dosen't have any affect on gameplay. The crowd has gotten a much needed 
 update and will show school traditions, most notably Florida's gator bite and Florida States Tomahawk. 
 This adds a little bit more believability but is held back by some sound related issues.
  
  While the on the field sounds are as strong as ever there are many presentation related sound issues 
 that really hold back the true college exsperience. The fight songs are so quiet and unnoticable 
 that I'm not even sure why they are in the game. You almost have to turn everything else down to 
 zero to even hear a faint note of a fight song in game. The crowd is as loud as ever and sound 
 very realistic to a real life stadium. They react accordingly to a stupid idea like going for a 
 4th and long and for the big momentum turning play. As stated previously the on the field sounds 
 are done very well and offer very crisp tackling and other game related sound effects.
  
  While it may curb your appetite for college football until next year it is only a half way decent 
 attempt at bringing this franchise even further than it has already come. While the series has 
 nailed the realistic gameplay it only half way captures the spirit of college football. Also we 
 are exspected to pay twenty dollars more for less of a game is just unacceptable. This game is 
 great if you are going solely next gen but you would be much better off getting this game for the 
 current gen console of your choice.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 5, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  I have played football games going as far back as playing in an arcade using a roller ball to make 
 the runner run down field on a bache style arcade machine. I'm 40, so cut me a break. If you grew 
 up in that time, you would appreciate the quality of some games that are released in this day and 
 age.
  
  As far as NCAA, what is wrong with this game? 
  Everyone is complaining about PETTY features that are left out of the game such as "Heismen", etc. 
 C'mon.... did you buy this game to play football or trade players?
  
  Good Game, not great Game 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mm_casino
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 5, 2006 3:06 am PT
Review:  This game is a solid first try but all the eights and nines getting thrown around are ridiculous. 
 Graphics are very good but player models arent great. they look nice but to me they dont represent 
 player at their position well. Especially QBs, kickers and punters. The player movements are herky 
 jerky. The collision detection is pathetic. AI is so-so. Sometimes it looks to be ok and other 
 times it seems like there are morons on the field. Especially the DB play. Corner routes are almost 
 always money.
  
  Presentation is terrible. Especially for the bowl games. There is absolutely nothing special about 
 playing in the bowl games. Guess what happens when you win the national title? NOTHING! IT ENDS 
 LIKE ANY OTHER GAME. 
  
  This game is a bare-bones game just like the rest of the first EAsports titles on 360. Although 
 its the best barebones since you have most of the features for dynasty mode. Save yourself $10 
 and get it for xbox or ps2.
  
  Maybe next year they will nail it, but im guessing it will be at least 2 years before this game 
 is where current gen is. Im glad I still have my xbox. Im loving this game on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MessyMarv
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 4, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Im a huge football fan and have played / followed EA since the Madden 02 days. NCAA 07 is a immersive, 
 highly enjoyable football game for fans of all types and ranges. EA does a tremendous job in capturing 
 stadiums, teams, and school spirit and player models are excellent. The game does a great job in 
 conveying the stadiums, school, students, and teams. Little nuances such as team specific mascots, 
 sections, seating and more add just another touch and depth that arent lost on me. 
  
  Gameplay in NCAA 07 reminds me a lot of Madden 06, which is both good and bad. Good in that the 
 new textures, player models, collision physics and graphics are all top notch and look great, especially 
 in HD. Bad is there are still gltches and weird things that will happen from time to time, making 
 the game seem unpolished or unfinished in certain aspects. This certainly does not go well with 
 the otherwise stellar package that is NCAA 07. I would highly recommend this game for anyone who 
 is a college football fan, or even if you like football period, as Im sure Madden has a lot in 
 common with NCAA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppGuy32
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 4, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  Okkkkkkkk not very good, Although the graphics are solid, its just too stripped down, Dynasty mode 
 is interesting, but not enought things too keep you going on it, heismen mode has been taken out 
 which sucks because hesimen was a very enjoyable style. The gameplay is okay, they do have corso 
 in the booth, but the Announcers sometimes say the same thing 3-5 times in one game, i put the 
 NPCs level up but i still beat them easily All this game has is dynasty mode, online, and play 
 now...... Very disappointing... Dont buy maybe a rental for a good night of football, save your 
 money for madden 2007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: proudcubeowner7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 3, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying, this is an amazing college football game. It has an amazing college 
 atmosphere and it actually feels like your really in a college football game. Grpahics are great 
 and the crowd sounds are fantastic. The crowds look realsitc too. So like I said, if you think 
 this is going to be the same as Madden 06 was for the Xbox 360, you're wrong. This game scores 
 a touchdown.
  
  The gameplay in this game is awesome, with a great dynasty mode, mini-games, the online is great 
 too, though it can be laggy depending on how good your connection is, and it's a great multiplayer 
 game. One mode that is missing from the PS2 and Xbox versions of the game, is the Heisman mode. 
 It's also missing spring training. And if I had any problem with this game, it would be that. But 
 it's still a great game and the dynasty mode will last you years. You can also import your draft 
 class to Madden 07, which is pretty cool, because that means your heisman winner can be the first 
 pick in the draft. 
  
  The graphics are amazing in this game. They are pretty much flawless. The players look great and 
 their faces look good. When you're looking at the instant replay, it looks amazing when you go 
 up close to the players and you look at the crowd in the background. It made me say "Wow." To sum 
 it all up, this is what the next-generation of video games should look like.
  
  The sound is amazing. The best part about the sound is the way the crowd sounds. Like when the 
 team is kicking a field goal or kicking a punt, the crowd would chant, "Block that kick! Block 
 that kick!" Or when you're returning a kick, they would chant, "Run it in! Run it in!" It's great. 
 And the songs that the bands for the different teams play sound awesome. They sound like an actual 
 band playing in a real college football game. The announcers are great as well. It's mixed with 
 football facts and jokes and humor. It goes well with the college atmosphere. The players sound 
 fantastic as well. So all in all, the sound is perfect for a college football game.
  
  The value will last you a year or two because of the great dynasty mode and the online features. 
 It will also last you long because of all the acheivements. So if you think that this game wouldn't 
 last you long, you're wrong because the awesome dynasty mode never gets old.
  
  So all in all, this is an amazing game of college football and a must buy. Playing this makes me 
 want to pre-order NCAA Football 08. I can't believe how underrated this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 3, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  In America, despite the protests of baseball, football has become the national pastime. Pro or 
 college, the rabid fans are there. College however seems to touch more passion, more prestige, 
 more hopes and dreams of the common man. Afterall, it is the growing process of boys into men, 
 playing with their hearts rather then for the money.
  
  NCAA07 is the first step for college football on the 360. And while I am not an EA fanboy and wish 
 they hadn't gotten the NCAA or NFL liscenes as exclusive (competition only makes you better) , at 
 least they are good at what they do.
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is solid, but nothing spectacular. I am one of those strange ones that 
 actually has more fun with the recruiting and pre/post season stuff then the actual playing the 
 game. The depth of the out of game stuff is amazing.
  
  Graphics - The players are people, and the fans really do react to what is going on. It's great 
 to watch even on the sim games.
  
  Sound - Picture yourself in the middle of a college game field - marching bands playing, crowds 
 cheering, helmet's cracking.... Now listen to the game... you are there!
  
  Value - My favorite game so far on the 360.... now to see what happens with Madden and Saint's Row 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jergernice
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 3, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  I play sports games for the experience during the game, nothing else. superstar mode, recruiting 
 players all that stuff is fluff and for jobless, girlfriendless, rpg lovers. a bit harsh, but just 
 saying the gameplay is 99% for me.. 
  Graphics:
  This game has awsome graphics, i would think that on xbox 360 on 3 different technology hd displays, 
 a crt 1080i pioneer, a 720p samsung dlp, and a 1080p toshiba the flickering in the stadiums would 
 be gone, but not. Otherwise perfect. 
  Gameplay:
  Passing: Very Good, but Quinn is too good, i turned down the qb accuracy and that helps. also, 
 could they please figure out a way so you cant simply take any so so running qb and roll out for 
 1st down. either the accuracy has to be more dreadful on roll outs or they need make the transition 
 from passing mode to running a bit longer. 
  Receiving: Perfect
  Running: Good as can be expected. i still think ea is way off on how to make running fun. you need 
 to be able to juke with the analog stick, like you used to in the old maddens or tecmo, but alas 
 ea loves its magic juke buttons, which i think are skill less and merely button mashing. Its amazing 
 running on 360 is more like running on 10 yard fight. seriously get to the defender nearest you 
 quickly push a button shed him so you can try to shed the next. if you run away from 1st defender 
 you might get 3 more yards but you will never have time to shed him before 2nd tackler gets you. 
 the big flaw with ea. i am a true believer that they lack in analytical talent, and programmers 
 have no clue, they work from the ground up not the other way around. very few software companies 
 have top down thinkers, many in management and design have moved up in the ranks, thinking still 
 the same. And how many of these people really know sports, and how many sport gurus know programming. 
 if they have the talent there is a big communication gap. enough of my rant.
  Defense: solid, way too many def interernce penalties by default.
  kicking. the new kicking meter 
 is a welcome change. especially if you crank down the accuracy to below 20. awesome. im sure madden 
 will still make you wish extra points were just given to you. blocked kicks actually happen occasionaly.
 
  
  overall very nice.
  
  heres is another thing i ordered a custom roster with names. i noticed the play by play calls the 
 florida quarterback by name wetherford. nice. but havent noticed anyone else as of yet.
  
  the only way this series or any football by ea will get better for me is for ea to employ me, and 
 that is not going to happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx_photo
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 17, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  Knowing EA would release a game for the 360 as soon as the 360 was thought of, I'm wondering why 
 (after skipping the first year) the game is still missing key features that have been developed 
 in recent years.
  
  The game is completely devoid of any news media during the season that features the top games and 
 players, there is no trophy room, and there is no individual focus like the campus legend mode.
 
  
  Create a player is almost there, but create a fan, create a team, and create a stadium are gone. 
 Create a player is decent, but you do not get to choose the look of the player. I've found some 
 of the computer-generated accessories change, though it's usually a small change - my quarterback's 
 play-calling wristband has switched from arm to arm from game to game.
  
  Only about half the stadiums have been included, and the schools that were left out were given 
 what seems to be an 80,000 fan stadium. It doesn't seem that realistic for schools like any of 
 the Sun Belt Conference teams. I wish they would have kept the bone structure of the stadiums in 
 the old systems and upgraded the texture maps.
  
  The gameplay is fairly solid with the only major flaw being the phantom tackles - where an occasional 
 tackle will be made with the defensive players being a couple yards away from the ball carrier. 
 
  
  EA also added a snapshot feature to instant replay that allows you to take a photo of a key tackle, 
 TD, INT, etc., to show off to friends. It's somewhat like the greatest game photos of last year 
 in that it records the stats to review later on along with the photo. With the power of the 360 
 and the hard drive feature though, I'm disappointed that you can only save a photo and not a replay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 2, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, the gameplay is almost perfect and I usually hate Madden. The dynasty mode 
 is sweet and the graphics are top notch. there are no glitchs or graphic hipcups that I have seen 
 so far. Everything about this game is great, not like that dissapointing NCAA College Basketball 
 that game was awful looked even worse than the PS2 version.
  
  has hundreds of teams and u can bring up low level teams to greatness.. i brought UConn huskies 
 from one of the worst teams in 5 years to be as good as the Irish.. this game is great
  
  The online mode is sweet, and I have not experienced any lag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackbandit36
Rating: 1.3
Date: Aug 2, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The game play is no good...
  Keys to Failure:
  1. DB will not go for the INT
  2. Runners trip over each other
  3. WR will let the ball hit them in the head and will not try 
 to catch the ball
  4. DL will look for the RB that is right next to them 
  5. LB will go in for the sack and go straight for the OL blocking and not the QA
  6. QA will 
 ... to much
  7. Play selection is hard to find. Plays move around in your play book.
  and I ran out of characters... Bring back ESPN, please! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdeachin33
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 2, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Upon playing NCAA Football 07, I was immediately impressed with the outstanding graphics and overall 
 presentation of the the game. The new character models and animations are very well done with some 
 devastating looking new tackles. The single player aspect of the game is very fun satisfying, complete 
 with a rather well rounded dynasty mode. Some small details from the dynasty mode are left out, 
 (no Sports Illustrated?) overall, this is the best part of the game. From there, this game pretty 
 much goes downhill.
  
  The mini-games are fun, but you won't spend a whole lot of time playing them. Just long enough 
 to get your achievement points. These mini-games would have been better off if they were somehow 
 incorporated into improving player stats in say, the dynasty mode off-season.
  
  You can still create a player but no teams. The player creation is also pretty bare bones. You 
 still have the name, height, weight, and number but there is no customizing the look of your player.
 
  
  Lastly, multi-player co-op play. Or should I say lack there of! You will notice that at the team 
 selection screen there are outlines for four controllers. Yet, you can only play two players at 
 a time and only against one another! My personal favorite part of the previous seasons was the 
 ability to play with a friend on the same team and stomp the crap out of the CPU. Now there is 
 no co-op play in either an exhibition or a dynasty game. 
  
  If you're an avid college football fan and don't mind playing this game alone, by all means, pick 
 this one up. Otherwise, rent it first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fixrox
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  360 fans once again bite the bullet in another weak football installment compared to NCAA's current 
 gen counterparts. The menu system is confusing, the hit detection is mediocre, and although the 
 textures are a step-up, there's still so much room for improvement. On a next-gen system, it seems 
 that field/uniform weathering during the game, especially in rain, is a given, but don't assume 
 anything with this title. Furthermore, the animations look great unless you disregard your wide-receiver 
 blowing his route because he's stuck to his defender. The commentating is also superb, unless you 
 dislike reptetiveness and unfunny jokes. All in all, I'd say get this on gamefly and ship it back 
 when 07 comes out. The graphics aren't up to par, the gameplay isn't up to par, and this is a poor 
 excuse for a football game from the EA franchises especially considering that this wasn't a rushed 
 launch title. Shame on EA for once again shafting 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swamptick
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 1, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  If there is any sports title primed for the next generation, it's NCAA Football 07. Last year, 
 the franchise surpassed everything we could have hoped for with NCAA 06. The tight gameplay, addictive 
 Race for the Heisman mode and immersive college football atmosphere pushed the franchise so far 
 ahead that it already bordered on next-gen, so much so that NCAA 06 landed the Xbox game of the 
 year award.
  
  
  We all waited in anticipation. With a more powerful console and plenty of development time, there 
 would be no launch-title excuse this time around. The emails streamed in with one question: Where 
 was EA taking NCAA Football 07 on the 360?
  
  The answer, sadly, is backward. While it's still a good, fun college football experience, there 
 are so many features missing from the 360 version that the game should be packaged on the back 
 of a milk carton. Race for the Heisman. Campus Legend. Defensive hot routes. Spring game. Drills. 
 Create-a-school. Stadium Pulse. ESPN Magazine. Where did all of it go?
  
  On the field, NCAA 07 utilizes a tightened-up version of the Madden 06 game engine with good results. 
 The collision-detection issues have been cleaned up and you'll see some of the finest football 
 animations around, on both sides of the ball. From jarring de-cleaters to one-handed grabs, highlights 
 abound. EA also added in a some college-specific animations, best defined as having the extra "hustle" 
 that NCAA players are known for. My personal favorite is a back, pumping his legs through an arm 
 tackle, fighting for every inch of real estate.
  
  Another bright spot in NCAA 07 is the control layout itself, which mimics the Madden 06 layout 
 and adds a pitch button. Sprinting feels natural on the right trigger, allowing your thumb the 
 freedom to flick that right analog stick for hat-between-the-numbers hits or, on offense, an ankle-breaking 
 SportsCenter highlight. When you go back to the current-gen setup, it feels awkward, especially 
 on the already-awkward Xbox controller with the ill-placed black and white buttons. 
  
  The default difficulty, Varsity, is altogether too easy for anyone that's played NCAA Football 
 before, so the jump to All-American or even Heisman will offer a welcome challenge. Money-plays 
 like the power option and deep corner routes are quickly nullified on the higher levels. Still, 
 there are plenty of AI gaffes that will leave you head-scratching. Occasionally linemen will run 
 right by their assignment or running backs will cut the wrong way on an option during a pitch, 
 allowing the ball to fall precariously to the turf. Then again, there are a lot of instances of 
 great computer AI as well, especially in the realm of down-the-field blocking.
  
  Also, the catching game is very intuitive and well-implemented. Gone are the days of letting a 
 CPU-controlled receiver make a catch for fear of messing up the route or dropping a pass. Once 
 the ball is in the air, I love switching to the receiver to go get the ball, especially on deep 
 passes. On defense, too, controlling defensive backs and breaking on the ball for a user-pick feels 
 good, and you'll make a lot more of your own interceptions than in other EA football titles of 
 the past.
  
  All in all, despite some setbacks, this is a very good game with tons of room for improvemnet. 
 Go get it and have fun. Just remember one thing........
  
  while there may be some features missing out of this version.... the physics are still far better 
 than any other iteration. Simply put, in between the goal posts.... this game is as good as it gets. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keno004
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 31, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  In previous years Madden held its place as being the number 1 football game and with that respect 
 all EA sports games were known to be the best sports games out. That is until it finally had a 
 challenge with the NFL 2k franchise, they showed how much games like Live and madden were missing 
 thus taking down maddens sales as well as beating madden in Review scores after NFL2k4. This prompted 
 EA to go out and buy the rights to the NFL Licensing, this is why all of the EA Sports football 
 games will suck from now on. EA Sports now has no competition to make football games against, and 
 they think that people are too dumb to realise that Madden football has been the same game it was 
 since 2001. All they seem to do is add a couple of crap features that really do nothing for the 
 game itself. If you have like 5 bucks go out and buy NFL 2k5 and you will see what I am talking 
 about, they have half time shows, real good commentary, amazing gang tackling and graphics.
  
  NCAA however wasnt all that bad I just know it could be much better but EA is cheap and care 
 more about money than they do thier own product. 
  
  This is not a problem with the 360 and doesnt make the PS3 look like a better buy, its EA sports 
 that makes this game less than what it could be, and there is no reason why the Xbox and Ps2 version 
 have more content than the fact that EA is a terrible company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avsrule
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 31, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  NCAA Football 07 looks pretty good, plays o. k but many glitches keep the gameplay from being fluid 
 and fun to play. In about 3-4 different plays the quarterback either doesnt hand it off or decides 
 to stop moving and theres nothing u can do until u get sacked. I attempted these plays several 
 times and it happened everytime. The animations are pretty good but one of the animations where 
 the defender takes the runner down from behind shows a problem. The tackler is actually a good 
 4-6 feet away from him when doing it so it looks rediculous, the player is hanging on to nothing 
 and the runner jlooks like he ust falls down for no reason.
  The games presentation is rather weak. Nothing really happens to keep you interested and its really 
 the same thing everytime. Showing the mascot and or the players which you can not skip so you have 
 to watch them everytime. The commentary isnt bad however another glitch arisses sometimes where 
 the commentary wont be there. It will be turned on but no one will talkso the game sounds really 
 boring without it.
  The overall gameplay, modes and menus all play and work well. The added mini-games add a nice little 
 side game for when people get bored or something different to do with some friends. The Franchise 
 mode could use a little tweaking however. During the offseason you have to recruit players, well 
 if you really want one particular player be prepared to be disapointed because you hardly ever 
 get who you really want. There is also no "superstar mode" or the NCAA equivalent of the madden 
 mode which is disapointing as well.
  Overall this game is worth atleast a rent. If your a big college football fan then i'd recomend 
 this game but for NFL fans or madden fans its a bit of a let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rradune
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  Although this game is playable and serves its purpose until Madden 07, I can not recommend it. 
 The primary reason for this is all of the game play glitches. Why are my receivers not open you 
 ask? Oh yeah, there they are stuck together and running in place mid field. Occasionally Ill be 
 rushing the ball through the pack and after a screen burp my HB is face down on the turf about 
 10 feet away. Sometimes the AI controlled players manage to pull off moves that could only be performed 
 on Mars in a lesser gravity. Im not sure what EA was thinking when letting this one go out the 
 door as is, it could have been a great game with just a little work. Fortunately, my local game 
 store is giving $30 trade in when picking up Madden 07. Lets hope they can do a better job on that 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nepis
Rating: 5.9
Date: Aug 2, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  Looks like EA really focused on the PS2 and XBOX versions this year. After playing about 24 games 
 on the 360 version, I went back and played last years PS2 version. I have more fun with last years!!! 
 I've never been able to say that, and I've had every copy since 1994! I am terribly disappointed. 
 I will never buy it on the first day again because of this half a$$ed effort. The play calling 
 screens aren't user friendly. Hot routes are cumbersome. Its a chore to send someone in motion. 
 Why does the play clock run so fast? Don't know how this made it out of development. Oh yeah EA 
 wants more money. If any other company had been able to make a college football game I would have 
 traded in this junk for their game. Guess I can always go buy 07 on the PS2 or XBOX but I probably 
 won't. Please do not buy this game. Save $10 and buy one of the other versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ou661
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 30, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  THis game is ok and way better on the ps2 and xbox so i wasted 60 bucks besides exporting draft 
 classes 2 madden this game is really no good!
  
  Dynasty: The dynasty the only thing new is the scouting players map u dont even c the espn magaizen 
 or any magaizen it suks.
  
  Play now: The kick meter is ok jsut hard 2 kick from the sides i didnt really like the momentum 
 thing and now slowmotion for imact player jukes and stuff or pass thing
  
  Mini games: i didnt really c the point of the mini games and they suked.
  
  campus legend: it 
 was great i never would have thought ea could pull this off they must of had no sleep for weeks 
 sike wtf no 1 go ez on ea this game suked they said they replaced the 5 min never play agian mini 
 games with the play for weeks campus legend
  
  over all: the game suked and they jaked my 60 dollars i want a FUl {en refund 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DWolford32
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 30, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  I Bought This game because i had played the demo on XBL and the gameplay and graphics were stunning. 
 After playing through a few dynasty years and playing a game on XBL i am dissapointed in the overall 
 package but i like the gameplay and there is definatly something to work with for next year. The 
 gameplay in solid and i like the new controls espically the option controls but there are points 
 like when your fullback gets stuck behind your offensive line and then you get taken down in the 
 backfield or when the DB and Safety stick and the receiver gets a free pass to the endzone. The 
 Graphics are also good except the players are quite big and look like they either spend all day 
 working out or are taking roids. Also the dynasty is good but i would like a mode like madden's 
 superstar or another mode to play. The one game i played online was alot slower than a local game 
 and this is one of those games where online may accually be bad for the game which is unusual for 
 most sports games. Local multiplayer is good though. Next year should be better but it won't surprise 
 me if it isn't becasue they have nothing to work for because they own the NCAA license just like 
 Madden owns the NFL. I would wait to buy it when the price comes down unless you have a lot of 
 friends to play it with at your house or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdbthexboxgamr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 30, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  After seeing all the negative reviews for the first Madden that was on the Xbox 360 I sort of had 
 my doubts when I dove into the NCAA 07 waters when it came out on July 18th. I am proud to say 
 however that my worries were put to rest once I started my first game.
  First I will mention that this title does not have all of the features of the Xbox/PS2 versions 
 but it does include an awesome dynasty mode which is for me at least plenty. Also included is Xbox 
 Live play and mini games which round out the game modes package nicely.
  Graphics wise this game is stunning, especially in 720p,1080i, put the game in replay mode and you 
 can zoom in so far on the players that you can really read the warning label on the players helmets 
 as well as the instuctions on inflation on the football, EA spared no expense in detail, this is 
 easily the best looking football game ever so far! Lighting is real time, if you start a game in 
 the afternoon it will be evening when the game ends. Weather effects are also truly great such 
 as when it rains puddles (with reflections) will form on the field. The stadiums are truly a sight 
 to behold, they are modeled so very accurately to their real life counterparts and the crowd is 
 in full 3D.
  Gameplay is also top notch, players run with momentum and the physics are awesome!, if your halfback 
 is reral strong and a small secondary player tries to tackle him one on one, the secondary player 
 is gonna get ran over!. Gameplay is very realistic, there will be more fumbles on the field when 
 it rains and snows so this will affect your gameplay calling depending on the weather.
  My only complaints with this title would be that it needs to run smoother overall. The frame rate 
 has slight issues during stadium camera pans and during gameplay the game hiccups every now and 
 then, if those issues could be smoothed out for next years game this game would be a 10 in my book 
 without a doubt.
  I highly recommend NCAA Football 07 for the Xbox 360. It truly has the graphics and gameplay of 
 a next gen football sim, aside of missing a few of the current gen features and a few frame rate 
 problems this game is top notch!. If you dont have it whats wrong?!, go get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjautry
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  It takes some getting used to... but it's not a bad game by any means. The diamond in the rough 
 is that EVERY play works, football aficionados rejoice. Where once a screen play was just a trash, 
 it's now a cornerstone to any real offense. The play doesn't work every time, but when it does 
 work your opponent will be dazed and amazed at your crafty 1st down pick up. The play calling takes 
 some getting used to... but it's actually better than previous generation play calling. For those 
 that like to gaze at your plays, beware; the play can be picked without any signals... and it looks 
 like your still looking after you've picked the play.
  
  The Jump snap feature is by far the most valuable of all the features. You can turn a star defensive 
 lineman into a NIGHTMARE. If your opponent isn't confident in his cadence, take advantage of that 
 weakness. Any NFL or NCAA player will tell you that the snap is highly undervaluedbut its the 
 most important thingjust like the timing and a handoff. I actually love this feature so much that 
 I prefer NCAA 07 on the 360 over Madden 06 on the XBOX solely to use that feature.
  
  Here's a list of the bad though: glitch tackles, excessive pass interference calling (I had to 
 turn it down to 30% to actually get to a realistic level) , online connection glitches, recycled 
 playbooks (every playbook is damn near identical... except for the number of pass standard vs. spread 
 pass formations) , defensive AI is poor at best, no superstar mode (I really could care less because 
 I've already made several heisman trophy winners in the previous version on the XBOX) , and players 
 run goofy (I can live with it though) . Graphically this game is barely next generation. I wasnt 
 amazed at the gamebut its a step up from the previous generation. This is a good starting place.
 
  
  Only because I understand how fanatic EA Sports employees are about NCAAIll let some of the bad 
 stuff slide and still give this product of yours an 8. Dont try this stuff next yearcause it 
 will completely ruin your reputation as an innovatornot to mention all the other problems with 
 EAbut thats another topic.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tempest91
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 29, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  When I buy an EA sports game i am immediately skeptical because of my long-standing disappointment 
 with their football and basketball series games. After Fight Night though, EA Sports had my confidence 
 back. I bought NCAA Football with no hesitation, being that I'm a huge college football fan, and 
 seeing that there are no other options. And again I am stuck with a game that is plagued with things 
 that bother me very much. On the positive side, the atmosphere of the game is incredible, the stadiums, 
 the graphics and the fans are awesome. These are the reasons I enjoy college football on TV as 
 well. I don't even really care that campus legend is out because I really just want a good dynasty 
 mode, which 07 offers. Honestly before EA makes their football games RPG's, i'm already shaking 
 my head at Maddens bloated superstar gamemode, they need to fix the game play and player animation 
 issues. The players look great sometimes, but running animations are awkward, throwing is better 
 but not great. Tackling is very awkward at times and catching is atrocious. I can't understand 
 what went wrong in 2003 but EA has never recovered. I would pay $80 for a 2k sports game. As much 
 as I like certain things in this game, when the skill level is turned up momentum is worthless. 
 The opposing team gets all momentum for a field goal and I get none for a following 75 yard touchdown 
 on a third down conversion. I can double the score and not have momentum making fourth quarters 
 impossible to close out without an A ranked team. The A. I. does not even improve in these cases, 
 your teammates just get terrible with no pass or run blocking and no pass coverage. EA has a good 
 game hidden somewhere and are keeping it there locked up along with their ridiculous monopoly on 
 football licensing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt_Apollo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I just wanted to say that I really joined this game because I really like college football. Football 
 fans will love this game and people on the fence might enjoy this game even if there are some bad 
 review around. I just decided to make a list instead of a full story.
  
  Pros:
  Great graphics
  Enjoyable Dynasty Mode
  Create a Player
  Fun to play
  Living Stadiums
 
  New control configuration works well
  Photo album
  
  Cons:
  Only divison I teams
  Not all the stadiums
  Still waiting for the downloadable jerseys
  No campus ledgend mode
 
  
  Finally if you want to play football, NCAA 07 is a great choice. If you just want something to 
 hold you over to Madden this is a good game for that. Even though it might not attract that many 
 new users, it is still a worthy football title.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjr8898
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Okay lets face it, 360 is making most of their games for 360 live. With the few exceptions oblivion 
 and such. But come on this is just garbage, madden on the 360 sucks, this sucks, their basketball 
 games arn't great either. Thank god I only rented it because I would be very very very upset if 
 I spent the 60 bucks on this piece of junk. The graphics are amazing of course, but game play lacks, 
 momentum is pretty much pointless. On top of that no heisman mode, get out of here. That was one 
 of the biggest features on 06. They really need to step it up with their games in general, otherwise 
 i'm trading mine in towards a ps3 when it comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Physicsblkman
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 28, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Ladies and gentlemen I must submit this review with a feeling of bitter sweet sorrow. NCAA 07 had 
 the potential to be a wonderful game, but it like Madden 06 it left me wanting for more. I actually 
 understood that EA had to rush to get Madden 06 to market and they put together something that 
 was entertaining but mostly to the diehard fans. It was only my optimism that kept me enjoying 
 Madden 07 because I felt confident that EA must have been embarrassed by the number of people that 
 thought Madden 06 for the Xbox 360 was crap, and was determined to give the public what they wanted 
 next go round. It seems that my optimism was misplaced. 
  
  So that I may end on a good note let me get the complaints out of the way first. First off, what 
 they offered as a complete game is dismally unfulfilling. The lack of the omission of Div I AA 
 teams really let me down. Not to mention the omission of the cameos of Different schools. There 
 is a strong sense of pride one feels by seeing their Alma-Ata at the beginning of the game. Be 
 it that I myself attended Grambling State University, seeing the HBCUs (Historically Black Colleges 
 & Universities) it was so good to feel all inclusive.
  
  Now knowing that the XBOX and PS2 do have the Div I AA schools makes that much more annoying. Some 
 people say, and very ignorantly I might add, Well just buy the XBOX version. So tell me what 
 I just wasted $400 plus bucks on a 360. I feel very jaded by EA by telling me I have to sacrifice 
 a quality game for better graphics. I think it has been shown long ago in Gaming 101 that grate 
 graphics is not substitute for good gaming. 
  
  Now since I brought up game play, let me discuss the problems I have with that. The graphics glitches 
 are somewhat annoying to say the least. I was playing my best friend in a knock down drag out battle 
 just to hold him a 4th and 14 and he went for it. I put up a great zone defense that had a man 
 right there to make the interception and how was I rewarded. The ball went right THROUGH the defenders 
 head! Yes! Through his head into the waiting hands of an eager receiver that went in for a subsequent 
 TD. If you are going to burn me, dont make me think I did it right and you simply stick it to 
 me and go ha! Take that and like it! This is in my opinion disrespectful to loyal fans. Just 
 because you are the only people with the NCAA football license does not excuse you from turning 
 out a quality product. 
  
  Speaking of omission, I am upset that the drills were left out of the game as well. This is what 
 gives a game longevity. The ability to switch it up and do something different from time to time, 
 much less hone your skills. YOU GETTING THIS EA! I find this somewhat ironic seeing that EA Sports 
 boasts If its in the game, its in the game. Well, not if you have a XBOX 360! More like, If 
 its in the game, might be in here! I would also like to know what is up with leaving out the 
 rivalry! I am so upset that my standing tradition of playing Grambling vs. Southern e. g. Bayou 
 Classic, fresh out of the box has come to an abrupt end. 
  
  Now lets discuss penalties. Particularly, PASS INTERFERANCE! I know you all know what I am talking 
 about. It amazes me how the computer controlled defender can literally impede my progress with 
 no subsequent retribution but if I so much as breathe on the receiver I am flagged every time. 
 I would also like to say if you like to see other penalties you want see them here. Statistically 
 you might see a holding penalty (Called on YOU) in the game or maybe a false start. Other that 
 YOU getting a roughing the passer or running into the kicker, nothing! No other penalties are likely 
 to be called. Oh, and you can forget about offensive pass interference. You might have a better 
 shot of heading up to ole Lock Ness and trying to find some large creature that is rumored to swim 
 there from time to time.
  
  Lastly, I thought they would get the line shifting right after the Madden fiasco. I played football 
 and we never (unless we ran sprints immediately after) bobbled around the file getting caught up 
 with each other while shifting on the line. Hey geniuses, that is getting people out of position 
 to cover there assignments. You know that thing that causes offenses to score. Kinda bad when you 
 are on defense. 
  
  Now that I have vented, let me discuss what is right with the game. Everything else. The graphics 
 are stupendous. The animations are top notch. I was stunned to have a goal line stand and see my 
 opponent vault over the line to score. Very realistic. I wish they could have modeled the surge 
 of an offensive line on a quarter back sneak. Any football player from high school to pro will 
 tell you that a quarterback never runs through a gap on QB sneak. The line lunges forward shoulder 
 to shoulder and the QB follows the surge hopefully for the first down. I know you feel me fans 
 out there. 
  
  By the by, I am sick of my players getting hung up on a defender or fellow team mate on contact. 
 That just does not happen. They bounce off or surge with the pile forward. 
  
  The blocking A. I. is wonderful. If you are patient you can see holes open up in front of you. Here 
 is a tip. It is not always good to hit a hole holding hard run. The defender seems know you cant 
 maneuver as well and sheds his block just in time to stuff you. Just run forward being very mindful 
 of the way the linemen is going the run the other way. If you do it right, he wont have time to 
 recover or he will spin to you just to get a great taste of your dust! You can break one for big 
 gains on screens, runs up the middle, punt returns and kick offs. I love it! 
  
  I also enjoy the Steal the Momentum feature. Very innovative. The jump the snap isnt bad either. 
 
  
  All I can say is this great is really good but fell short of great. It really makes me doubtful 
 that Madden 07 will be much better. If they did not learn for their mistakes on this why should 
 I believe they learned on the Madden release? All I can say is you fumble on the one yard line 
 on this one. This should have been an easy score for EA. If this goes on much longer I am going 
 to say give your licenses to Saga and the 2K series, and lets see if they can do better. 
  
  I truly hope EA is contemplating a patch for this. They are making a tone of money of their 
 fans. The least they can do is give them the same quality that the XBOX and PS2 are getting. 
 
  
  Kent Wallace
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwijiibo
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 28, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I think everyone has there own opinion on which collage football game is the best. I chose NCAA 
 06 on the XBOX and it is still my favorite. Now with the newest installment people wonder which 
 version to get, spend $50 on the Original XBOX, or pay $60 to by the XBOX360 version.......... 
 Sadly, I have to say, go buy the Original XBOX version for 3 reasons: 1) Has Heisman Mode. 2) Saves 
 you $10. 3) Overall it is just more fun with cool new mini-games and such.
  
  Now for the +'s and -'s.
  
  + Great Graphics
  + Fun Dynasty Mode
  + New photo feature
 
  + Great new kick meter (using right analog)
  
  - No Race For Heisman 
  - Moumentum meter feels heedlessly tacked on with no real use
  - Create-A-Player sucks (you can't 
 edit the equipment! WTF?)
  - Original XBOX version has everything on the 360 version and more
  - Ya spend $10 extra dollars 
 for something that lacks gameplay and features.
  
  I really wanted to say that the 360 version was better but sadly it isn't. This isn't a bad game 
 but it just seems dumb to spend more money on the 360 version that isn't as good as the Original 
 XBOX version.
  
  PS: Sorry I said "version" so many times! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topcrusher
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 28, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  NCAA was a good game but could have been better the fact that it didnt include campus legend was 
 a big let down, i played that in a current gen console and it is very addictin and very fun. Graphics 
 were the biggest improvent but the way some of the players ran was a little funky. Also the fact 
 that you could not edit a players equipment was one thing that was also dissapointing... we saw 
 ea incorporate the create a player feature but it was very basic and not very entretaining. Dynasty 
 was also very basic and lacked features but it could be entretaining for die hard collage football 
 fans. The momentum part of the game didnt affect anything which was the main stand point of this 
 years version. This seem slike a good stepping stone for EA to develop their collage football game 
 into a powerhouse in the next gen consoles. Hopefully next year EA will reward us with more feautures 
 and meaby and hopefully a Campus legend mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kutmen55
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 28, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  well, i first played this on PS2 and yes the graphics sucked and all but campus legend was cool 
 as poop. I spent around 5 hours just creating and recreating myself in different positions. Then 
 i rented it for my 360 hoping to do the same but i couldn't. you wanna know why? because it's not 
 in there!
  I hate that! it ended up being just like Madden 06. it pissed me off a lot. But after a while i 
 cooled down and just created a character through the roster for Mizzou. Actually I pretty much 
 recreated my high school football team from this year and then did 4 seasons and ended up being 
 ranked # 1. Then all of my good players left so i dont play anymore. The graphics hit me as sorta 
 funky at first but are pretty cool. sound is awsome. i dont think it's worth 60 bucks but then 
 again i didnt buy it. But i dont get why they never put in the very feature that made me love madden 
 and this on the other platforms, superstar mode and campus legend. AAAAAAAAAAHHHHHH!!!!! the next 
 NCAA for the 360 better have campus legend and Madden 07 better have superstar mode or i just wont.......... rent 
 them!!!! But nevertheless, it's a fun game and should be played by atleast 2 people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viktory2008
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 27, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Good game. The absence of a "race for the heismen" or "campus legend" mode hurts this game. If 
 you're looking for a college football simulation that delivers the college experience that you 
 are already accustomed to, then this is your game. If you aren't a die-hard college football fanatic, 
 and you're looking for a game that makes you feel good about owning an Xbox 360 (no matter what 
 the game is) then this game isn't quite that. 
  
  The graphics are ok, (I have an HD TV) , but not spectacular. The sound and gameplay are pretty 
 decent. But there isn't anything about this game that would cause me to rave. It's a run of the 
 mill EA football title with a few more polygons to spare.
  
  Solid Experience. But if you aren't a CF fanatic, wait until it's 39 bucks or less... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giflow
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 27, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay :The bad stuff is that the game has a whole lot of bugs and glitches in it ,especially 
 collision detection, the most annoying is when you sack the the qb on his left side it seems to 
 be and almost and 3 yards distance between the qb and defender and its going into a tackling animation, how 
 could the developers miss that ,the collision detection is very inconsistent and thats one of the 
 most important gameplay issues in a FOOTBALL GAME!!. The good is the responsiveness of the controls 
 and the very effective jukes and impact stick , think the momentum bar is to much of a factor in 
 the gameplay.
  Graphics: The graphics went down a level compared to madden 06, the field goal kickers are stragely 
 huge (and its not the camera angle) but the animations are the best ive seen in a football game yet, there 
 are tons of animations which in my opinion the best thing about the graphics.
  Sound: The sound is overrated ,my biggest gripe is the commentating. For example you'll have the 
 ball driving ,you just completed a 30 yard pass and next thing you know, end of the first half. The 
 commentators are lifeless not giving you and awareness of the clock and scenario most of the time 
 definitely not next gen sound i hear same old commentating and effects all the way back in the 
 dreamcast days they need to step it up in the commentating. But overall its a good game not great 
 game that needs alot of repair in future games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 27, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  NCAA football 07 is the next release from ea sports and to me the game felt refreshing i am huge 
 football fan and me having to have the honor to play the college football game is just awesome, 
 i had been for this for a long time and let me tell you it is worth the wait, as always you get 
 the high-def graphics that you expect from the game and the gameplay seems to do well overall the 
 biggest improvement in the game is probably gameplay and the season mode Practically everything 
 in NCAA 07 feels different from the same game on the Xbox or PlayStation 2. EA has outdone it self 
 with this authentic release, so if you are a college football freak obsessed about reggie bush 
 then go get the game you will surely thank me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcmonroe2004
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 27, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  The Good
  1. games looks great in most points and areas, no to many glitches
  2. good graphical start for franchise on xbox 360
  The Bad
  1. I cant seem to save my audibles 
 for gameplay no matter how i try
  2. no pregame show for televised games
  3. no other award race that gets followed other than the Heisman
  4. No toggle button to cycle 
 'back" through the defensive players
  5. why did they change the hot route set-up at all, it worked great on 2006 'B" then 'Y" then direction 
 eats up clock when there aint much to begin with.
  6. playbooks are WAY watered down, if they want to water down then they ought to have a creat a 
 play feature.
  7. cant see all your players when the screen pulls back for audibles or hot routes, really messes 
 up time and clock management
  
  The Ugly
  1. i cant hard count during field goal/XP attempts but the computer does it at will.
  2. no kind 
 o f newspaper or magazine articles after games, part of college football fun is hype and most of 
 all upsets in the tabloids and the TV.
  3. what happened to the Pass Heavy/ Pass Balanced custom playbooks, the Spread aint quite cutting 
 it.
  4. how is it that i can hype the crowd on d as the visiting team, i could see getting booed for 
 doing it as a visitor but the crowd gets pumped whn i do it whether at home or away...
  5. How is it that in the game that says its in the game, that formation substitutions ar position 
 changes are not a real option, this is college, are you kidding me?
  6. How do we pay 10 bucks more for for eye candy and a butload less on features? get it together 
 EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 27, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - This one features all the features of previous NCAA games and more - it's very fast 
 paced like the recent ones - and it's very good simulation style football type game , but the presentation 
 is still very basic with no camera angles and barley any replays (basic as the replays are)
  
  Graphics - The graphics suffer in this game , you are zoomed out most of the time and when 
 you are the players have jaggy edges - but when you are zoomed in on them they look good
  
  Sound - I'm pretty sure this one features announcers
  
  Value - The online has major slowdown 
 - after playing single player , it's unplayable online - it's horribly slow - making it unplayable
 
  
  Good Tilt - It's the only fun football game out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtvance
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  NCAA 2007 makes a pretty decent debut onto the XBOX 360... and as long as you don't buy this game 
 for anything more than online play, or playing against your friends, your good to go.
  
  The dynasty mode is good, but it lacks some of the options of the current generation's version 
 of the game. I am also beginning to grow tired of my friends talking about how cool the Campus 
 Legend mode and Create-A-Team modes are, and since I AM the only person I know with a 360, I am 
 left without these features... at least until next year. 
  
  By the looks of it, EA's second offerings on the 360 are looking to be much better than last year's 
 initial ones. Madden 07 is looking really good, as is Tiger Woods 07. Let's just hope that when 
 next year comes around, I don't have to listen to all my friends talk about things that I can't 
 do in NCAA 2008, because then I will truly feel ripped off. At least for now I can enjoy the amazing 
 visuals, but next year, it's gonna take more than that to warrant another $60 purchase on my part. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClockworkAV
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 26, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  So, I just want to write my thoughts on the game... Been thirsting for a good football game since 
 I purchased this bloody system. Madden 2006 tore my heart out. I'm almost sure everyone else felt 
 fairly the same. After spending 13 hours over-night to score the system and game at a Chicago best 
 buy, I was as white as a ghost. That wasnt from the frigid over-night temperatures. Even those 
 Madden buffs, who saw the package and immediately bowed to their knees, couldn't help cursing 
 under their breath. Then after a seemingly endless time of frustration... NCAA drops onto the market.
 
  
  Not bad. Actually I am very happy with this product. The more agile and sensitive movement immediately 
 gained my regard. Madden 06 failed completely in the stiffness of the player control. NCAA 07 rebounded 
 very nicely.
  
  Love the cut-aways to the quarterback walking the team to the line. Mainly because of NCAA 07's 
 embracing of the TV-style perspective for those "in the action" cuts. They do get repetitive though. 
 But the look is clean and polished.
  
  I am completely aghast at the lack of pre-game, halftime, and post game... uh... nothingness. How 
 about a TV booth guys? What happened to having ESPN? I'm sure we can be more creative with an opportunity 
 like that. Talk about the games of the week... Let's see Lee Corso's mug... Show some other game 
 highlights at half time? Did football game designers take anything away from the TV style presentation 
 of NBA 2K6? I, personally, thought a "bar" was set with that one. The appearance of sideline reporters, 
 a studio, and an "at-game" booth would be an exciting feature for most Dynasty gamers to feast 
 on. Use that ESPN feature. 
  
  No more magazine covers, thats a bummer. That didn't need to go. No radio show. 
  
  EA designers 
 simply must get those players to be fully customizable build equipment and accessories then 
 lets talk hair, tattoos, various jerseys...
  
  Stone age guys... please catch up.
  
  OK, wrap it up... So I find myself bashing... and that's all right. I still love the game. Though 
 I suffered minor backlash... this game will serve me till next year. I am very pleased with it's 
 toned down muscles, sleek helmets, detailed environments, smooth action, player faces, player and 
 number editing, standard off-season recruiting options, and great crowds and again the TV style 
 look of NCAA 07's in-game cut-aways.
  
  EA still needs to punch it up another step. In some aspects they need to catch up with the past. 
 Though NCAA 07 is a great football game. There still appears to be a rather considerable step to 
 climb.
  
  Go Buckeyes.
  ClockworkAV
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: keendawg11
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 26, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Sure the graphics and game play are better and on the rise, but taking out elements that the original 
 consoles have is ridiculous. I want to create an awesome looking player on the next-gen console 
 and see him in high-def, but can't because they take that feature out. Are you telling me i have 
 to go out and get the same old features but on my old xbox console? Where the graphics are and 
 no new exciting graphics are available in high def? You guys should be ashamed of yourselves. It's 
 almost as if they rushed it out again like they did with madden 06. Next years better have all 
 the same game modes and options as the others consoles do otherwise don't even waste your time 
 with coming out with NCAA 08 because there will be no difference with its predecessors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davids10
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 26, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  It is a good entry to the Xbox 360. However, there are several downfalls that EA spent several 
 years tweaking for just the PS2 & Xbox versions. Example:
  Running into your own linemen or getting stuck on them when running the ball. I hate that! I am 
 already anxious to see what they are able to do for next year's version. It is also noticeable 
 that certain things within the dynasty mode have been left out in comparison to the dynasty mode 
 on PS2. When I first started playing it on 360, it took me 30 minutes just to get accustomed to 
 the screens and all of the mass chaos learning what button does what. Example: Editing Players. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlimFrom303
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 25, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  For once EA is a step closer on gameplay. I love the gameplay to an extent but for a game with 
 extra development time it could've been better. My main beef with this game is that it doesn't 
 put you into the game like it should. For one the lack of a true crowd prescence that was so prominent 
 in 06 is missing. Also, the default camera view is not as appealing because it doesn't give you 
 a chance to enjoy the graphics around you. When the game first started I was extemely disappointed 
 for the simple fact that this game looked like it came straight off the xbox racks and they added 
 the 360 on the end. Yes this game is okay graphically but maybe I was expecting maybe AT LEAST 
 madden's graphics because they were great. I honestly don't understand the graphical decline. Also 
 the presentation is horrible. There is no warm-ups or general hype when it's time to play. EA needs 
 to step this up on both games because it doesn't add any excitement to the game. This is not what 
 I would call a decent debut but to each his own! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: audix2359
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 25, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  First off, Im not an Xbox or PS2 convert to the 360; I went from PS One to PC games to a 360 so 
 I had not played NCAA football in a while prior to playing NCAA 07. I have not experience with 
 the Campus Legend mode or the Race for the Heisman or the Trophy Room. Now you know my point 
 of view for the review.
  
  Graphics = B+. Graphically, this is the best sports game I have ever seen. Graphics during normal 
 play are excellent as are the replays and close-ups. During the beginning of each game, the stadium 
 fly-ins are excellent as well. Players uniforms and helmets get worn and scuffed as the game goes 
 on and the lighting in the stadium changes as day turns to night. The one problem area is the adverse 
 weather (rain and snow) . Its not very realistic and the quality does not match the other graphics. 
 Given the engine of the 360, this could be much better.
  
  Game play = B. Im a HUGE college football fan but this game doesnt hold my interest like I thought 
 it would. I cant put my finger on exactly what it is, but somethings just not quite right. I 
 know that a lot of other people are basically addicted to this game but I have to almost force 
 myself to play it over a lot of my other games. Everything seems pretty realistic though and there 
 are plenty of sliders to adjust the CPU and Human effectiveness so that anyone should be able to 
 set the difficulty to a level that is just right for them. The controller buttons are logical and 
 easy to use and as long as you keep the default settings there is a constant help screen up for 
 you for alignment adjustments during the game. At higher levels of difficulty, the CPU does not 
 appear to be able to cheat like I am used to. For example, if your receiver is faster than any 
 of the other teams DBs, they will not get caught from behind on a sprint to the end zone on higher 
 levels of difficulty.
  
  Features = D. Im not rating this low because of no Campus Legend, etc. Im rating this low because 
 of 3 things. 1) There are only about 70 authentic stadiums included in the game. There is no reason 
 EA could not have put ALL of the 1A stadiums in the game. EA did not build the entire game from 
 the ground up as some people think. They took the game engine from Madden 06 and tweaked it. Thats 
 not from the ground up. To me, there is no excuse to give the majority of the 1A teams generic 
 stadiums. It would have been more acceptable to have ~ 70 High Res 1A stadiums and the rest in 
 Low Res than to have High Res generic stadiums for most of the teams. It really takes the fun out 
 of using Idaho for a dynasty when in the game they play in a huge open air stadium while in real 
 life they play in a cozy dome. 2) The dynasty mode is lacking for me. Recruiting needs to be completely 
 redone. Yes, there is in-season recruiting but its a shell of what it could or SHOULD be. 2K sports 
 has recruiting nailed in NCAA Hoops 2K6 and EA should look to adopt this type of an approach. 3) 
 No 1AA teams. This is not a really big deal but it is annoying to see 1AA West, 1AA South on teams 
 schedules. As with stadiums, I think 1AA teams could have been ported as is and would have provided 
 a better option.
  
  Overall = C+/B-. Im quite sure that NCAA 08 will be feature all 1A stadiums and probably 1AA 
 schools. This fact is annoying as EA had plenty of development time to get this stuff into the 
 07 game. By not doing so, it will certainly create a lot of interest in the 08 game and will 
 make the 08 version very attractive to everyone who purchased 07, thus creating repeat business. 
 Whether by accident or on purpose, its not the way to develop happy customers (although they may 
 be loyal be default) . 
  
  If youre only interested in playing big named schools on-line or via dynasty then you should be 
 completely happy with this game. If you like using a smaller school and building them up, you may 
 be left wanting more. Either way, if youre a college football fan and the only gaming system you 
 own is an Xbox 360, you have exactly 1 option. Given this fact, it should be pretty easy to part 
 with $60.00 for this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slipper_Qc
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I could not wait for the game to come out but it disappointed me. Like all games, it has its own 
 good and bad points.
  
  Gameplay: I have to say that its pretty good, definately an improvement over Madden 06, but nothing 
 major. There's some collision detection problems, sometimes you make hits and think how the guy 
 who you just hit, didn't leave in ambulance? I really like the new kicking and punting system, 
 it takes some time to learn how to do everything right, but its worth it. The gameplay is definately 
 a step in the right direction, but minor problems mentioned above sometimes get annoying.
  
  Graphics: The stadiums are beautiful, players models are great. Everything is top notch except 
 framerate problems that this game has.
  
  Sound: The sound is great, when playing, you feel the atmosphere, you have an impression being 
 inside that stadium. Nothing to say here, top notch.
  
  Value: This is where this game really fails. Everybody knows that it misses ALOT of features from 
 Current generation versions. The only thing you can do in the game is practice, play a quick game 
 or play a mediocre Dynasty mode where all you do is..... just play games. Sure, there's some scouting 
 to do, but thats ALL. I mean the Dynasty is so basic, theres ABSOLUTELY nothing to do here except 
 playing matches.
  
  So, if all you want to do is play matches, you dont care about mediocre Dynasty mode, go ahead, 
 this game is pretty good, but i suggest rent it first. There are chance you will love it, but it 
 all comes to personal preferences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtnhl11
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 25, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Ncaa 07 for the xbox 360 is a very good game overall. Ncaa 07 is lacking some key features including 
 create a team. Varsity mode is easy and the first time i played a game i got 9 achievements the 
 second 5 and the third 4. The controls are very good and like madden 06. The graphics are very 
 good but the rain goes through the people. One thing for sound is that there is no soundtrack besides 
 the marching band people for your school. I think you should get this game if you love sports games 
 or if you love any game in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 26, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  This question on one of the forums pretty much sums up NCAA07 
  
  "I cant find where to do spring drills..." Poster says.
  
  "Thats because its not on the 360 
 version, its only on PS2 and Xbox" Someone replies.
  
  Yes, that feature and just about every other feature you have come to expect and love from EA's 
 NCAA franchise is not there. Yes, we saw the bare bones edition of Madden when the 360 launched 
 with the disclaimer being that they were rebuilding the game from scratch. However, NCAA07 appears 
 now, some 10 months after launch, built off a modified last years 360 Madden engine and what do 
 we get? Just football, albeit very well polished football and three mini-games. That's it! 
  
  So let's make sure we have this straight. They already had the Madden engine which just needed 
 to be tweaked. They needed to redo the stadiums for which they did a really nice job. They replaced 
 logos of the NFL with the NCAA. Added in some new animations. Then wrapped up the game to send 
 off with a full blown price tag. 
  
  Now let's back up for a second to analyze things a little more. First, the football engine is better 
 than Madden's 06 was no doubt about that. However, while Madden did not drip with atmosphere it 
 still was a little more gooey than what NCAA06 offers. They tell you about the living stadiums 
 with student, alumni and vistors sections. I have looked closely at the audience and for the life 
 of me I cannot tell what they are doing. You would expect a lot of crowd interaction and cutscenes 
 but there are none except the mascot appearing now and then for touchdowns. The college atmosphere 
 that has been ramping up in the current gen NCAA series is what has been making NCAA stand on its 
 own and step out of the shadow of its big brother. Its almost completely devoid here.
  
  Graphically, speaking the cutscenes are as sharp as they were in Madden using High Definition and 
 the environment reflects nicely off of the helmets. That's nice but once you get on the field to 
 .. uhm.. actually play the game it doesn't quite resemble the same game. Jagged edges around the 
 players from aliasing are noticable on the players which was not the case on Madden. The audience 
 and even stadiums do not look as sharp as well. It gets worse from there. Rain is just little annoying 
 lines that looks more like rain you would expect from a PSone title. Snow falls and doesn't even 
 cover the entire ground. Maybe EA thought you would be blinded by the pretty flashy helmets and 
 not notice the rest. The aspects that only really impressed me is the animations and that there 
 was a noticable improvement in collision detection.
  
  Okay but is it fun? Definitely yes! If you are looking for just one thing and one thing only in 
 your NCAA football gaming experience and that is the actual football then you will not be disappointed. 
 The controls are tight, the players responsive and the gameplay smooth. I never noticed any of 
 the framerate issues that other reviewers have mentioned while even running the game at 720p and 
 1080i. The game is smooth and solid whether you are offline or online. So if you think all the 
 other features of NCAA found on the current gen are just fluff or you want the improved graphics 
 including shiny helmets then this game is for you.
  
  Overall, I think that NCAA07 is a much better choice this year on the current gen because of all 
 the missing features on the 360. Having to pay extra for less is like a slap in the face. We gamers 
 may have been forgiving for EA's launch titles because we were so hungry for 360 games but I think 
 that time has passed and we should be a little more demanding. However, if you only have a 360 
 and love college football it certainly is better than nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topflight281976
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 25, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  As a true fan of the whole college sports thing. I must say that this is a solid game. Don't get 
 me wrong in does not have throwback teams but yet it is still fun playing against others. Until 
 something else comes along that can top it . It's number one in my book. Great graphics and easy 
 to control moves make for hours of great fun. Hard hits and breaking game changing tackles are 
 key to the game with standing all the bad talk about it. 
  Just picture this your down by 5 and your on your own 35 yard line with 2 minutes to go in your 
 final college game of your career and your playing for the National Championship. I don't know 
 about you but I dream about that all of the time. With this game you can feel the pressure. Buy 
 it ,like it ,love it. Be a CHAMPION. NCAA COLLEGE FOOTBALL 2007 Ea Sports it's in the game. Trust 
 me.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rumstocker
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 25, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying, some people will never fully get college football. I promise you, there 
 is something to get, and it's not just the football. College football is about emotion, love, and 
 getting hammered before the game. It's about the pride of the school, the national recognition 
 of your small town or state, and the amazingly brilliant ideas that students imagine and follow 
 through with to sneak some form of alcohol into the game. There is something in college football 
 that you will never see at the pro level, the spirit.
  
  I grew up in a college town, Morgantown, WV, home of the West Virginia Mountaineers. I'm currently 
 a junior at WVU and I promise you the college games are just so much different than any Pro game 
 I have ever attended. You may recognize from the past few years. Big East Football champions for 
 three straight years, Back to back Sweet 16 trips in the NCAA Men Basketball tournament, maybe 
 the win in the Sugar Bowl last year verse Georgia ending the season ranked number five in the country, 
 you might even recognize them from being ranked in every poll this year in the top 10, most in 
 the top 5, and Pat Forde of ESPN picking them #1... ok ok ok, I'll stop... did I mention that the 
 NBA Logo man, Jerry West, went to WVU... anyways... I obviously have a lot of pride for my school 
 recent success, but even in the past when my school hasn't been the best, I loved winning the National 
 Championship with WVU in video games.
  
  With all of this being said, NCAA 2007's graphics are just awesome. I've been going to the stadium 
 my whole life and it just looks great. Although some items are a little bit unclear (I'm playing 
 on a standard TV, this maybe why) , everything looks spectacular. The graphics are worth the price 
 alone, period.
  
  The gameplay is sweet. In my opinion, better than it's ever been.
  
  The sound is good. The thing that I HATE most about this game is the fact that they took out the 
 stadium pulse reading. This is so vital in college football and I almost went with a different 
 version simplay for this reason.
  
  The value is pretty solid. If you have a 360 this is a great way to show it off because so many 
 have been to college and would love to play at their home stadium. The game features momentum shift 
 which really doesn't shift as much as it should. If I'm up 14-0 and then throw an interception 
 at an unranked away teams home, they should gain tons of momentum because they are ready to start 
 driving on a top ranked team. The underdog should always be able to get momentum faster than the 
 ranked team.
  
  My tilt... buy the game if you have any connection to college football. Wait for Madden if you 
 have more pride for pro. Or if you live in football country like me, buy them both!!! 
  
  WVU 2006 Sugar Bowl Champs
  Steelers 2006 Super Bowl Champs
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: songsohia
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 25, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  If football is a metaphor for war, NCAA 07 for the Xbox 360 is a metaphor for football. Let us 
 refine this syllogism. Do you remember the last game of American Football you watched on television? 
 Let us specify further, as many of us watch games in noisy bars - do you remember the last game 
 of American Football you HEARD on television or radio? Invariably, the play-by-play and color guys 
 frequently invoked the images and symbols of armed conflict - coaches are generals, linemen struggle 
 in the trenches, quarterbacks hit their targets with pinpoint accuracy, linemen crush running backs 
 with brutal tackles. It's not just the announcers, of course. The players are just as steeped in 
 the vocabularies and cadences of military conflict: Kellen Winslow Jr. infamously declared himself 
 a [bleeping] soldier! while attending University of Miami (or the U ) a college many people mistakenly 
 believe is a state penitentiary. Better, less annoying players express the same sentiment in more 
 articulate, less terrifying ways. Recently, with the esprit de corps of a veteran platoon, Ricky 
 Manning Jr. and a handful of UCLA players attacked some dude with a laptop at a Denny's. This group 
 of players - a band of brothers, if you will - brutally pummeled this guy because they believed 
 he engaged in nerd activities that greatly offended their code of honor. Or something like that. 
 The whole incident was pretty surreal. But I am not trying to scare you away from NCAA '07 by suggesting 
 that Ricky Manning Jr. will hunt you down and pummel you for playing games - although you never 
 know. I'm trying to make a point. Athletic competition has always been linked with military conflict, 
 from the Athenian Olympics to Celebrity Fit Club - where the physical trainer is himself a former 
 drill sergeant. The best soldiers on the battlefield usually possess the same skills as the best 
 football players: raw athletic ability, a knack for making quick decisions, loyalty to comrades, 
 respect for the chain of command, and a quixotic sense of honor and duty. Men of this sort would 
 be superfluous, even dangerous, during the brief period of unipolar American supremacy if it were 
 not for the glories of the gridiron - which are now, ironically, substantially greater than the 
 glories available to them on the battlefield. This is the important thing to realize: football 
 is an abstraction of war. Which makes NCAA 07 an abstraction of an abstraction. Creative people 
 would use this opportunity to explore the inherent tension in any videogame of a real sport; look 
 to Japan, where the best-selling baseball simulations star a race of obese, deformed men with gigantic 
 heads. And these are licensed games, too: imagine an American basketball game, licensed by the 
 NBA, in which LeBron James looked like a generic Bobblehead Doll all the time. You get the idea. 
 EA Sports is working in the opposite direction, valiantly striving towards photorealistic players 
 and flawless recreations of all the Division I football stadiums in the country. They are striving 
 to develop a perfectly accurate physics engine. They are striving to re-create every aspect, from 
 recruiting to discipline to realistic practice, that a college head coach must deal with every 
 week. They haven't stopped to wonder if this is actually a good idea. Now, don't get me wrong, 
 there should be realistic football games on the market - games that both look and feel like real 
 football games, if only to satisfy the onanistic joy of telling real people how to play the real 
 game. EA Sports, in my opinion, isn't the company to do it, simply because the conventions and 
 rules of the Madden gaming experience have become so entrenched that change seems heretical (see 
 the backlash the realistic passing cone generated in Madden '06) . But, while we are nearing a time 
 when every EA football player will look EXACTLY like the real deal, we're stuck in the Uncanny 
 Valley with this edition.
  
  What is the Uncanny Valley? To give you an idea of what I mean, let me tell you a story about Sensible 
 Soccer. There is a series of soccer games popular in Britain called Sensible Soccer. In one of 
 the earlier games in the series, a collection of pixels meant to represent a famous black footballer 
 appeared more like a white midget with a grotesquely large ginger colored afro. That is comedy. 
 If this same gaffe were to happen today, it would be tragic.
  
  Although EA does at least get the race correct for all the college football stars, and in some 
 cases went to considerable effort to make the in-game models appear just like the real players, 
 the result is just as outlandish as the old Sensible Soccer scenario. Each player has a detailed 
 face and a few different expressions, but none of the faces look natural. A sacked quarterback 
 looks almost exactly like a frowning clown. Cornerbacks follow the arc of a pass with the cold, 
 lifeless eyes of a shark. No one quite moves their jaw. We are getting close enough to photorealistic 
 graphics that the unrealistic flaws actually make this game look WORSE than the PS2/Xbox versions. 
 The inconsistency of the frame rate doesn't help matters any. The game plays pretty much exactly 
 like last year's Xbox game, although the button mapping has changed significantly (resulting in 
 numerous unintended juke moves, in my experience) . That is to say, if you like the quasi-sim arcade 
 game that Madden has become, you'll enjoy playing this game. The passing game still doesn't feel 
 right, and running still feels too easy to me, even when facing 8 defenders in the box. Screen 
 passing seems more effective than last year. The kick meter has adopted the Tiger Woods analog 
 golf swing approach, and works fine. Jumping offsides is easier than ever, thanks to a jump snap 
 button. The audible system has been overhauled, for the better. The stadium pulse has been replaced 
 with a momentum bar, an awkward and heavy-handed way to introduce old man mo into the game. Spending 
 the ten extra dollars for the Xbox 360 version gives you an opportunity to complain to your friends 
 about all the missing features, including create-a-school, career mode, et al. A friend of mine 
 is very talented at NCAA 06 without knowing the first thing about football. He couldn't tell you 
 what an inside handoff is. He couldn't tell you the difference between a 3-4 and a 4-3 defensive 
 set. But he has played so many snaps over the years, selected so many plays, that he just knows 
 which ones will work. - not by name or formation, but simply by the number of buttons he has to 
 press to select them. He likes to make fictional teams with names like the America's Next Top Model 
 Community College Poor Sports and beat up on the graduate schools that rejected him. He doesn't 
 pretend that any of these NCAA football games re-create the actual game of college football with 
 any accuracy, and he is happier because of it. When we played our first game of NCAA 07, he was 
 furious the layout of the playbook had been changed. You gotta know something about football to 
 play this, he said. After a half of play, he had gotten his bearings and came roaring back. The 
 final score was a close one. He won. So let's make a school, he said. Can't. Feature isn't in there. 
 I said. Can we return this and get the Xbox one? This is just so depressing. We now have what are 
 essentially supercomputers lying on our living room carpets, and EA Sports cannot think of anything 
 better to do with all this power. The things I hate about all the Madden engine games from the 
 PS2 onward feel like they've entered into the hallowed canon of great game design. I think that, 
 with a few minor tweaks to the player models, EA could rename the game Inertia Truck Football War 
 and no one would be the wiser. The (wonderful) Temco Bowl for the NES is closer to NCAA 07 than 
 NCAA 07 is to accurately recreating the experience of watching (or playing in) a real college football 
 game. But there isn't anything wrong with abstraction. At least there isn't anything inherently 
 wrong with abstraction. I would rather have the abstraction of football to tide my thirst for violence 
 than the cold reality of war. But don't pretend football and war are the same thing - and don't 
 pretend NCAA 07 and a real college football game are the same thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarheelman247
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Well, I got NCAA for the 360 last week and after a few days with it, its alright. I can't complain 
 about the modes its missing because I never used them to begin with. What I can complain about 
 is some bugs it has. For instance, on a kickoff, the stadium scoreboard says its 1st and 65. WTF. 
 Also, the weather such as snow and rain look about as fake as Pamela Anderson's breasts. The momentum 
 is, in the words of Lee Corso, "a great play, but poor execution." It seems to be very unresponsive 
 to what is going on on the field and never really seems to make any difference. But besides those 
 few gripes, it plays great. The guys at EA have finally nailed the atmosphere in a college football 
 game. As a student at UNC, I know Kenan Memorial and, apparently, so does EA. The seats look like 
 a wave of baby blue and the band, student section, and opposing fans are all in the correct spot. 
 Also, UNC Hospitals can be seen in the distance. It seems all of my gripes had to do with something 
 other than gameplay. That must mean that it's probably pretty good and it is, besides the fact 
 that occasionally easy tackles are never made by the computer and a few other things, but they 
 are easily worked through. The new mini games are pretty fun and make a lot of sense. Tug of War 
 is a great one to play with friends because its short and both players have to use all facets of 
 the game to win. All in all, the game is pretty good, but leaves some things to be desired for 
 next year.
  
  Rating: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geaux321
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 24, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Being the college football nut that I am I haven't missed this game since it first came out on 
 the Xbox. Each year things change and well starting off on the 360 had a lot of high expectations, 
 almost too high. I feel that this version gets this great game off to a great start.
  
  I start off in Dynasty mode with Auburn, of course. This was my first opportunity to see the accurate 
 version of Jordan-Hare. They did a very good job with it as the stadium sparkles with orange and 
 blue. The in-season recruiting is still there and runs the same as last years version, you scout 
 about 15 players and you distribute 100 points among them. The announcers are still the same trio 
 of Brad Nessler, Kirk Herbstreit and Lee Corso, they have some new lines, but you still have some 
 of the old ones in there.
  
  As far as gameplay goes it seems very fluid and smooth. The spin moves don't seem jagged and quick 
 as in the past versions, the spins are much more smooth as they should be. The new impact stick 
 works great. You can juke with it or you can push it forward and see something different happen, 
 at times your player trucks the player in front and bounces off, or if a player dives your guy 
 hurdles right over him. The passing game is much improved and the wide recievers catch a lot of 
 balls, it has to be a bad pass for the guy to drop it.
  
  As for the defensive side of the ball the cornerbacks seem to be lost a lot. The hit stick has 
 been improved and you no longer have to hit it three steps before the guy gets to you. There are 
 plenty of new tackle animations, which were much needed.
  
  I finished my first season and there wasn't a big celebration after I won the National Title which 
 was dissapointing. The recruiting seemed about the same as last years, the only difference would 
 be the new 3-d map. I did find that it was a little bit tougher to attract the big-name recruits, 
 but I managed to finish 3rd overall.
  
  The mini-games are fun to play for a little while. My favorite is Tug-of-War. You go back and forth 
 alternating every play and you try and score, very fast paced. Bowling is good, I just don't find 
 playing at the 10-yard line fun, it limits your plays. Option Dash, well it's what the title says, 
 you run the option over and over until your 2 minutes is up.
  
  The achievements are in here and I wonder sometimes why I don't get some of them. It seems to be 
 one of those unsolved mysteries.
  
  The ESPN Ticker is a good addition, especially during recruiting where you are in the menu for 
 a while.
  
  I don't have anything to say about the Online play because I hate playing with those stupid cheezers, 
 so I just enjoy myself in Dynasty mode.
  
  Bottom line, this game is still plenty of fun. If the trend from the Xbox applies then next year's 
 version should be amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stlrain95
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 24, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I must start this review by discussing some of the early reviews of this game. I had already pre-ordered 
 the game and was in step to buying, just had to get to the store. 
  
  First, let it be known that all in all.... this is a tremendous acheivement and wonderful game. 
 Just for the fun and the sensation of college football. I went to Texas A&M and can tell you, KYLE 
 FIELD is dead on!! 
  (Still waiting for EA to add Yell Leaders, but I digress)
  
  Second, they have added some subtle features to the DYNASTY mode. And me likey!! I remember in 
 the past few years, I could go from 30th to 1st in a matter of 5 weeks.... NO MORE my friend. More 
 realistic. 
  
  All the awards are still there.... despite somone stating the opposite!! You just have to know where 
 to look man!! 
  
  Bottom Line, this is a well put out game. 
  
  NOW, for the shortfalls or gaps.
  
  Sure it might not have all the functionality of last years 
 game or this years PS2 and/or XBOX version..... but who really played the HEISMAN thangy anyway??? 
 It makes up for it more than enough with the Bowling and other mini-games!! I got addicted!! 
 
  
  Another area needing improvement..... the menu screens. Wow, they are nice and have a flare (who 
 doesn't love flare) , but can really be cumbersome to get around in. I really had to look around 
 at first to find things!! 
  
  Otherwise.... great investment and one I won't be trading in anytime soon. 
  
  BRING ON MADDEN!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 24, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Not sure how anyone could give this game less then a 9.0 rating. Personally have played about every 
 football game out there in the last 5 years and this has to be one of the top two. The presentation 
 is spectacular! The game play is riveting. Bottom line ---it is just plain fun! Let's put it this 
 way, I was absolutely blown away when the AI was driving and at a 3rd and 1 situation. They did 
 a Half-back Smash up the middle which I thought I was defending against. The HB did a high dive 
 over my front line. Wow! Rarely have I seen this in a game. And, on 4th down while behind, I have 
 seen the AI actually go for the 1st down. Something that rarely happened in older versions of this 
 vary game. 
  
  If you are looking for the excitement that a college football game can offer then this IS the game! 
 You can't go wrong!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonage007
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 24, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing EA's football games for a long time and the thing that lasts all through the 
 years is the quality of fun that the game brings. The acheivements this year r better than ever 
 and give some people reason to enjoy this game with a competitive feel. The play now mode is awesome 
 to do with friends and have a game with ur favorite college teams. Dynasty mode is awesome and 
 has tons of features that will motivate u to go through 60 seasons. Online is an ok thing. nothing 
 too much to discuss about it cause its laggy and not very solid. Graphics r decent but im surprised 
 they didnt meet up to madden 07 since its made by the same developers. its a definite buy for anyone 
 looing for a new sports game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowfox231
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  I would say that this game is perfect. Even though its missing some features, I find that I would 
 play Dynasty the most anyway. Graphically, the game is amazing. The game I think is better than 
 Madden 2006. Even though the players may look a bit like they are on steroids... oh well, that doesn't 
 affect my opinion on it. The game is very addictive, and I havn't really had any problems playing 
 it in all the time I have spent so far. I think, personally, that this is a must buy for any football 
 fan, and anyone who enjoys playing these types of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 26, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  NCAA Football comes back in its 2007 season. This time, it makes an appearance for the Xbox 360 
 instead of just for the Xbox and the Playstation 2 (as well for the PSP, too) . That means more 
 college football! Right? Er... here's my review:
  
  Gameplay: Overall, NCAA Football '07 is a simple football game with its ups and downs. Dynasty 
 mode is, to put it simply, a college football season (said to be similar to NCAA Football '98) 
 where you can choose which teams to play as, and can recruit fellow college football players (I 
 could only do it before you actually start playing) . Other special modes include online (where 
 you can play football, get some neat football and gamertag info, and... er... play football) and 
 mini-games (Bowling, Tug-of-War, and Options Dash) . Other than practices, a regular college football 
 play through, and a history-esque mode where you can look back at your statistics and what not, 
 that's it. The Xbox 360 version has less features and content than the Xbox and PS2 versions, such 
 as no Campus Legend mode, or special camera perspectives (or whatever you call it) . In a way, though, 
 it is a little expected, for this was the same fate that Madden NFL '06 had had before as well, 
 but still, it is a little bit of a disappointment. As for gameplay, however, has a sunnier side. 
 Now, despite this being just college football, it is still fun. For some reason, I am quite emotional 
 while playing Dynasty mode (I get excited when I get a touchdown, and get angry when I screw up 
 or the other team gets a better score than me) . Anyways, during gameplay, you have a momentum system, 
 which supposedly lets you play better depending on how well you play or how much your winning (if 
 the other team gets the upper-hand, however, then they will supposedly become better.) Another 
 new tweak to the '360 version is a new kick control (now you have to aim with the left analog stick, 
 push the right analog stick to start the kick, and then push it forward to stop where you want 
 the power of your kick to be in.) , and is actually a bit more realistic or interactive (or something 
 like that) . Oh, and alot of achievements that are just fun enough to unlock is good thing, too. 
 Other than some controls that took me a little while to memorize and some sometimes stupid AI, 
 this is fun, simple football that is somewhat enjoyable, even though the current-gen versions are 
 better.
  
  Graphics: The close-ups are great. I've never thought that I would be so much appealed to shiny 
 helmets until now. That, and the game has a great lighting effect. The crowds don't look that bad 
 either, as well as the actual gameplay graphics. Nice animations with the physics and what not, 
 too. If anything, what hurts the game's look is a choppy, "putt-putt" framerate. That, and an all-around 
 improvement for the physics and the gameplay graphics, and not so much collision could have been 
 nice. Oh, and some cheap-looking whether effect (just doesn't fell like rain nor snow for me...) . 
 But really, the game mainly looks great.
  
  Sound: Not bad at all. You have college-themed band music, which feels a bit cheery. Mainly, though, 
 it's about the commentary. And the commentary is great, telling you some indirect advice, and such. 
 Crowds definately sound like crowds, I just wish that the audience didn't have to cheer for everything. 
 Speaking of more "negatives", the commentary can tend to be a bit repetitive. Other than that, 
 nothing from the usual.
  
  Value: NCAA's replay value is average at best. Dynasty mode's not going to take you that long, 
 and it's nothing much to go back for to play. Mini-games are fun, but nothing to keep your attention 
 forever. You can play against bots if you want to, but it won't be anything to last forever, as 
 well. The game has online, which was okay, but it is kind of laggy alot of times. Offline, however, 
 is still NCAA Football fun, but seriously, both offline and online, you can have the same thing 
 if you get the other versions, and then some. But still, is good to play through as a rent.
  
  Tilt: No doubt about it; NCAA Football '07 is the best football game on the Xbox 360, however, 
 sadly, that isn't saying too much. If compared to the current-gen versions, it'd be a better choice 
 to buy the current-gen versions if you had to choose, for it has more and all-around better content 
 than the '360 version. Even if you really wanted to get the Xbox 360 version or if all you have 
 is a '360, I'd still recommend a rental. Sorry, but this football game at best is worth to try 
 out, but it'd be better to just get the Xbox or PS2 version. Just wait. There'll be a must-buy 
 football game soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sosajunior21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 24, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  Game play: The whole point of football games is the game play and is so realistic it's kinda scary......... but 
 mostly fun!!!! The game play has nearly tripled since last years X360 game Madden 06!
  
  Graphics: They are simple. Simply amazing. It isnt a huge improvment from some of the othere games 
 and i think they could have been better but still never less amazing!
  
  Sound: The sounds are very realistic even though some times you hear grunts a couple seconds after 
 the hit but hey nothing can be perfect!
  
  Value: I bought this the day it came out. I would spend another 60 dollares for it just because 
 i LOVE football but if you dont you wouldnt want to spend this much money on it and i think that 
 it should be more like 50 dollares!
  
  I give it a 9.2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TylerDurdenXP
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 24, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Once you get used to the button config, its still awkward for a while. The speed burst is the trigger 
 as opposed to the "A" button. I find my self pressing the "A" button, witch is the the juke button 
 when I want a speed burst and getting tackled.
  
  It would be nice if left trigger = left Juke
  right trigger = right juke
  "A" = speed burst
 
  pitch = left bumper
  fake pitch = right bumper
  all other button would be the same
  
  Graphics:
  
  Its an xbox 360 on a HD television..... nuff said
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound 
 is great and EA did a great job at getting the individual fight songs, chants, and traditions for 
 each school in the game. All the bands in the game are on point.
  
  Value
  
  I never give a football game more value than 5. This is because its only good for a year, so how 
 valuable is it. But.. I won't give it a zero value because I HAVE TO HAVE IT!!!!
  
  Overall
  
  Its a great game, missing some teams that the ps2 and xbox versions have, not to 
 mention some of the features. But you will get over that pretty quick 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgeorge36
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 23, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  I will be honest. I was a little skeptical after reading that the 360 version of NCAA 2007 did 
 not have some of the features, and not all of the playbooks that the other console versions have. 
 After actually playing it, personally, I say who cares!!! For the most part, people tend to stick 
 with the Dynasty mode. Yes, maybe the campus legend mode is kind of fun, but honestly, most people 
 just want to take their school, and dominate the next who knows how many years an win championship 
 after championship. It would have been nice for EA to include the Create-A-School option as well, 
 as this is usually my favorite part of the dynasty. I would like the opportunity to try the spring 
 scrimmage as well, as in real college football, there are some surprises that come out of that 
 game, and there is a real opprotunity for them to capitalize on that aspect here as well. 
  Honestly, the main reason that most of the people are buying this version is because of the visual 
 upgrades for the 360. I can tell you, you will not be dissapointed in any way. On the 360 (obviosly 
 with the proper HDTV and setup) , the game looks amazing. Yes, some of the players look like steroid 
 freeks, but the game looks great, as well as the stadiums. Having never been to any of the stadiums 
 that are incorporated into the game, and only watching them on tv every week, EA did a great job 
 of doing the major staduims justice.
  One thing that you do have to get used to however, is the same play calling screen from Madden 
 06. If you are playing by yourself, its no problem, but if you are playing with a friend, then 
 either honesty comes into play, or you need to remember the buttons for the fake play call and 
 everything else. 
  Still, if you are a college football fan, and own a 360, the game is definetly worth the price. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandmasterjey
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 23, 2006 3:26 am PT
Review:  O. k. now that I have your uninvited attention, lets talk about football. No, not your beloved Madden, 
 NFL loving football game. That won't come out until late August ( August 22, 2006. Mark it on your 
 calender) , I'm talking about NCAA Football 07 for the 360. 
  
  EA's NCAA Football francise makes its debut on the Xbox 360, and I have to say it was pretty much 
 what I expected it to be, in a good way, of course. Everything from the player models to the atmosphere 
 of the crowd, it looks and feels good from a gameplay point of view. However, there are a few glitchy 
 moments in the game, but those are only miner. The sound is awesome as usual, the comentary team 
 sounds like they don't miss a beat or something, anyway, best comentary in the bussiness ( though 
 I wish that Lee Corso wouldn't b**** whenever I run up score. god, He needs to get laid once in 
 a while, ya know) . The roar of the is pretty nice, as well as hearing the band from the back round 
 whenever you score a touchdown or on the menu screen. The stadiums look jaw dropping ( at least 
 to me it did) , the looks so ... alive, they don't look like no freaking 12 year old finger pianting 
 or something. Like I siad before the stadiums look very good, and detailed, they didn't half-a** 
 it like they usaully do in EA sports games. 
  
  As far as features goes, there are three new mini-games added as a little fun distraction. There 
 is tug of war, which you start off at the 50 yard line , and try to get closer to the goal line 
 as posible, your opponent will try to do the same. Who ever scores first , wins, yes, if only if 
 it was that simple. Then there is bowling. Where you start off at the ten yard line and you pretty 
 much have score every time. For example: If I score a touchdown in the first play, then its a strike. 
 But, if I get a completion or some loss yardege, then its a gutter ball. Yeah, it sounds like what 
 it is.... bowling. and finaly there is the option dash, where you run nothing but option plays 
 from your own 20 yard line. The dynasty is still intact, you have your usaul stuff like in season 
 recriuting, team stats, team schedule all that fun and games you know and love are still there (and 
 a hot plate) . The points are really smart in this game, thats a good thing. I don't have much to 
 say about the online stuff becuase I haven't been on it, so.....
  
  Overall, NCAA 07 for the 360 pretty good for its debut, and die-hard fans will get a kick out it. 
 I'm glad that EA didn't develop this game like if they were wiping thier a**es, becuase if they 
 did, then it would've look like madden all over agian. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameweirdo11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Dang, a lot of people say that they don't like it. But im lovin this game! What the freak is a 
 learning curve? LOL, just playin, but man i cant stop playin this game! My main thing about tha 
 game is the multiplayer, gameplay, and the school legend or what ever you want to call it! My dood 
 kills i think he has the fastest you can get him and the strongest, and im still tryin to get the 
 run power up, so i can run over everybody that comes in my way! But thats all i got to say about 
 tha game, its the bomb! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcumaniac
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 22, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  The game deffinately isnt worth $60.. ea should hav taken an extra month or 2 get evrything down. 
 It is the 1st release on the 360 but that still isnt an excuse for so many stadiums bein incorrect! 
 Game gets boring very very fast. Franchise mode is very lame. Ea deffinately did the bare minimum 
 for this game... i could go on forever listing things that are left out but ill just tell you everything 
 you would expect 2 be on a nxt gen game isnt there! Very disapointing game.. Graphics are great 
 but i still will get tackled by a player 5 ft away so they didnt get it down all the way.. i was 
 really lookin forward 2 this game but u shouldnt have 2 giv up so much just for bettr graphics! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BabyCrrl8821
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  I thought that this game improved on what Madden did in its first installment on the 360, but it 
 didn't quite live up to what I expected. The main cons I have with this game are the glitches with 
 the collisions. A guy will tackle you and he appears to be tackling air and you fall down. I also 
 don't like how you pick plays as much as I did in previous years. Some pros of the game are the 
 mini games such as tug of war and bowling, they are really fun and you should check them out when 
 you have a chance. The graphics in this game remind me of Madden 06 for the 360 and those I thought 
 were pretty good. Overall this is a great game but there are a few elements missing especially 
 no qb rating in the stats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: utvols4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  The 360 version of this game doesnt have all the little mini stuff to it, but it has 10 times better 
 graphics and i think it has better gameplay than the ps2 and xbox version. No matter what system 
 u buy this game on football fans will like it. now the video game geeks may not like it, but thats 
 not the point. I have been spending hours and hours playing this game don't believe the other reviews. 
 This game is great!
  
  i say again do not beleive all the bad things people have said about the 360 version who cares 
 about the little things im just glad it has great gameplay and graphics. Go buy this game if u 
 already havent. I recommend the xbox 360 version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zath5
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 22, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  In NCAA 07 for the Xbox 360 there are many vital things missing that take away from the game to 
 an extreme extent.
  
  Let's talk about defense first:
  -in many situations the defensive player will either have the ball hit him directly in the hands 
 or go right past you even when you press the catch button.
  -secondly there are plays in the playbook, speaking mostly about crossing patterns, where the defense 
 almost has no chance to guard the WR.
  -there are also situations where one player is about to get gang tackled by multiple players and 
 the ball carrier jukes one person and the other players some how take a bad angle and do not tackle 
 the ball carrier and watch him as he runs to the endzone
  -being more specific either with troy smith or pat white you can run the exact same play where 
 you scramble out to one side when you have crossing patterns running in the same direction and 
 you either pass to the crosser or run for the first down depending on the situation. (this works 
 every time!!)
  -when on defense sometimes you will run at the ball carrier and if there is a blocker nearby when 
 you are about to tackle the ball carrier your defensive player may engage with blocker instead 
 of tackling the ball carrier.
  
  Now for offense:
  -when running the ball the RB may get "caught up" on defensive linemen leaving them hopeless and 
 bound to get tackled
  -also the CB have endless amounts of speed in some situations allowing them to zoom over and swat 
 a ball down when he was not near the WR to begin with
  
  In reality this is not even a complete review because NCAA 07 didnt even include ANY of the fun 
 modes that Xbox (a lesser system than the 360) had. These modes are campus legend and race for 
 the heisman.
  
  The pros of this game are great graphics as they should be and a very good recruiting system nearly 
 the same as last year. This game is jjust plain college football and since there arent any other 
 college football games out it will do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diggsdo
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 22, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  First of all the dynasty mode sucks, I only by these games to play the dynasty or career modes 
 so I feel completely robbed.
  
  Here are the small things that are missing:
  
  1. Trophy Room (how are you supposed to know what championships or player awards you have won without 
 it, I guess we are supposed to write it down)
  
  2. Breaking School or NCAA records (Imagine this, you run for 2500 yards and break the school and 
 NCAA rushing record but you would never know because they removed it from the 360 version)
  
  3. Heisman Trophy Presentation (What happened to the player accepting his trophy on the stage)
 
  
  4. Any acknowledgement of any trophy or bowl game won (other than you actually going into the awards 
 and checking to see if your player won a specific award, there is no way to know. Maybe you could 
 check the trophy room but it does not exist anymore)
  
  5. Celebrations (although small, what happened to the players celebrating after a win or carrying 
 around the sears trophy after a national championship win)
  
  6. Off-Season point allotment (Last year you could attribute points to discipline, recruiting and 
 player progression all gone this year. Players no longer get into trouble this year, what happened 
 did all of the players become angels. When you recruit a player, why does it matter whether his 
 discipline level is excellent or poor if they do not get into trouble. 
  
  7. SI Cover (Just gone, nothing else to say)
  
  8. When can we get the In Game Save Feature!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 22, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  -------
  Atmospheric atmosphere (you heard me!) , lot's of achievements with a good ammount of GP for each 
 one, graphics are much better than the PS2 and XBOX versions.
  
  Cons:
  --------
  Basically Madden NFL, glitchy animations, player models do not look like college students (more 
 like grown, bulky men) .
  
  Even though American Football (that's right, and it's not even football! And soccer is not the 
 name for real football! WHAT IS WRONG WITH THE AMERICAN LANGUAGE!?!?!) ... anyway, even though 
 American Foottball isn't even that good, Madden NFL 06 captured the mood perfectly, and NCAA has 
 come and made a younger replica, based around college football. Although the game isn't much in 
 the way of next-gen, it is still a good game to play, whether you are English or American. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevLar1980
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  We all know if you want the best gameplay, play this game and Madden on playstation. But with that 
 said, the gameplay is not that bad. 
  
  Positives:
  -Graphics A+ (besides some oversized players)
  -Animations are on point
  -Passing is fun
 
  -Dynasty is in depth like always
  -Challenge Plays
  -Commentary
  -and more...
  
  Negatives:
  -The players run like robots, their mechanics are all off (they actually look like 
 a person running on other consoles stride for stride)
  -Where's the crew at for pregame and halftime
  -Players get tackled too easy (sometimes they 
 don't get touched)
  -Running is not as fun as on other consoles
  -The special moves are not a factor (spin & jukes to slow) , but maybe I just need to work on my 
 timing.
  
  NCAA 07 on 360 is missing simple things just like Madden 06 (field gold net, presentation, etc...) 
 but is still a good game. It could have been better, but could have been worse also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hilldd
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Counted down the seconds at the store so midnight would hit to get the game.. Had to be one of 
 the first to get it.. After 7 seasons in dynasty mode, I have to say I am somewhat dissappointed..
 
  
  Graphics: No comparison with anything else out there.. Other systems lacking big time.. However, 
 I have noticed that some mascots are not close when compared to the actual.. It looks like they 
 just used a standard one for all on some..
  
  Sound: Key up your favorite team and play that fight song one more time.. The sound of a major 
 collision of the field can rock the speakers.. 
  
  Gameplay: New addition are the three mini-games.. they are okay.. It dynasty mode it is football 
 as usual, with some key factors missing.. At the start of the game no more highlights of the key 
 players.. Gone.. 
  
  ooohhh and the cover has a blurb about "The Living Stadium" Go get your favorite color of tape 
 and place it over this section.. I can tell no difference in crowd than other platforms.. There 
 is no crowd effect now either.. It must have been left out as well.. What would be nice is crowd 
 effect be added BACK and somehow be able to climb the list of the Ten toughest places to play.. 
 Maybe after winning a National Championship with a no-name school being able to add onto the stadium.. 
 Like TN or FL did..
  
  My biggest pet pev is this.. Where are the college records..? They are not in the game.. How can 
 you leave this out..? Why would you leave this out..? If I work with a guy and keep him health 
 for four year working on a great running program, there is no satifaction of accomplishment.. You 
 have to add the records..!
  
  To tell the truth I like the last verison on PS2 and Xbox better.. I am off to sell this verison 
 and go back to previous.. Yeah it has some really cool stuff, but I don't think that it worth the 
 money.. Rent it.. Play it.. Return it.. 
  
  I don't know what happened, but EA and 2k need to compete agaisn't one another and release their 
 own verision of each game.. Not to mention give us consumers a break with the pricing.. $60 for 
 a game is alot, and since the release few games have been worthy of this price tag..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTAWATER
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 21, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is just as bad as Madden if not worse. Xbox and PS2 get all the good stuff and were stuck 
 with some chopped down version. The gameplay is good and the graphics are alroght but the lack 
 of all the options that NCAA usually gives us is just to much for me. I would rather then just 
 ported the same game like Activision did w/ THUG and Gun b/c NCAA flat out sucks. I would rather 
 play Blazing Angels than this $60.00 pice of junk. Please, if you buy NCAA every year and you havent 
 gotten it yet, DON'T! You won't regret it. Don't give EA your money for some chopped down version. 
 Before you know it, it'll be $30.00 and Madden 07 will be out. Madden 06 is even better than this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhuls
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 21, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  NCAA Football 06 for the Xbox 360 is a great start to a series to continue on a next gen console. 
 
  
  Obviously the most noticable feature of NCAA Football 06 on the Xbox 360 is the graphics. The helmets 
 are my favorite graphic effect of the whole game. The helmets glow in light and dim in the shade. 
 Also with the graphics is the rain. The rain has a couple of speeds.
  
  Alongside the graphics, gameplay is also great. Yes, there are a few frame problems during the 
 game, but they will be worked out as this is the first game of the series on a new console. There 
 is also the Coach Challenge feature. A unique feature that can help in your favor.
  
  The Dynasty mode is very deep and has control of many stats. The mode that debuted in last year's 
 game, where you create a player and manage him through their college career, is not in the Xbox 
 360 version of the game, but it is in the other versions.
  
  My Rating: 9/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 5, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  If you paid for this game... you and me are really blind. I have come to notice I have paid for 
 a advertisements... ALOT of em. This game has truly kept me away from purchasing MADDEN... and possibly 
 anymore EA SPORTS games. I am really tired of seeing things I do not want to see. NOW TO THE GAME 
 REVIEW. WOW... This game after trying it online alot... and due to being a football fan... is driving 
 me away from enjoying this. This game likes to stop and go... and stop.. and stop again. The people 
 I played online have a great connection... due to play the ORIGINAL XBOX and 2K5 NFL... that game 
 runs like a dream. VISUAL CONCEPTS made a "next-generation" experience with that game. Anyway.... This 
 NCAA 07 game "brought to you by EA Sports" which you will hear ALOT... was thought to be a good 
 game when I 1st wrote a review. I am very sorry I paid over $29.99. This game had promise... but 
 lies in the end. After you get the ACHIEVEMENTS... you might find yourself asking... WHY DID I PAY 
 FULL PRICE? I'm sorry football fans... I am a football watching fool... and LOVE ESPN 2K5... and I 
 even think MADDEN 2003 with Faulk and PS2 online enabled... but EA is very money hungry and you 
 will see why. I was hoping I would enjoy this game... but due to buy -out -rights and EA wanting 
 it all for the next few years... they are not making games with their hearts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauibuilt_41
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 21, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  Well what can I say? While it looks nice there is just way too much missing for it to be considered 
 a good game. No create-a-school, you cant edit your players, and a dynasty mode taht mirrors NCAA 
 2002. If it werent for the graphics, I would think this game was made originally for the PS1. The 
 frame rate problems also suck. The game can be running smooth, then all of a sudden start skipping. 
 I honestly dont know what the heck EA games was thinking when they decided to make this game. Ususally 
 with next you take a giant leap forward not backwad. I guess I'll have to trade in this version 
 for the PS2 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffdiver1982
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  For those of you who treat buying video games like buying a car, researching this game this game 
 you would know that a lot of content which was included on the PS2, XBOX, and GC versions. Those 
 of us who live busy lives, and will not have time to research it, will find the 360 version to 
 all glamour and no show. With all it's minus's there are some pluses. The game finally incorporated 
 the use of extra ratings; such as: Power Moves, Finesse Moves, Pursuit, Elusiveness, just to name 
 a few. This gives the game a little more depth. The animations are great, and the physics are about 
 as close enough to real as I have seen. Players show balance, and can be fully manipulated by their 
 environment. If they get hit just right they could be flung across the field, gain an extra ten 
 yards while trying to regain balance, or sent spinning through the air when hit below the legs. 
 The Momentum shift feature proves to be unrealistic and annoying to boot. If you score the first 
 touchdown of the game, your almost guaranteed to win, because you get a full blast of momentum, 
 which takes forever for the team to shift their way, and that requires much luck. You will also 
 notice that at time momentum plays little to know effect. You can be playing with Powerhouse program 
 vs. a Cupcake school, with full momentum, and they will still smack around your QB at will and 
 be able to run and throw on you at will. In real life, Interceptions returned for touchdowns, recovered 
 on-side kicks, converting or snuffing a fourth down play, long touchdown plays, and block kicks 
 all create huge momentum shifts; but not in this game. They give the ever slightest shift, and 
 on the occassion, can even give momentum to the team you are pummeling (glitch perhaps?) . They 
 took out the stadium noise, and the home-field advantage. Recruiting I find to be annoying, I have 
 won the National Championship every year but can't seem to sign the home state players, even if 
 you need them to fill in holes in your roster. The crew says most of the same things, with few 
 new phrases, and at times their comments don't coincide with what just happened on the field. There 
 is no Race for the Heisman, or student athlete mode, which is the other versions. Dynasty mode 
 also has the budget removed, and you don't hand out discipline and suspensions anymore, so I guess 
 all collegiate players are saints. The 360 version is a rental at best, for a game that ""should" 
 be a no brain buy for die-hard fans. EA worried more about the flash than the bang, which really 
 disappointed me. They also took out the points and the pennants, which you can buy with said points. 
 This game took huge strides forward with looks, but fell backwards for miles when it game to game 
 content. The only reason I am still playing is because one of my final achievements is "Complete 
 60 years of Dynasty", while the other seems impossible and it's to block a punt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drumguru1
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  I was so excited when NCAA 07' came out. I skipped my summer classes for the day, and wen't to 
 pick it up as soon as the store opened. When I played the first game I was furious because I figured 
 out you can't quick sub QB's (meaning you cant sub in a wide-out for a run play.) I also noticed 
 that the players don't get better as the game continues and, there is no crowd meter. These are 
 essential to this franchise. What a disapointment and let down. I will however continue to play 
 the game considering I am a college student and love college football. (Texas Tech) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nygiants1080
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  "The 2007 edition of EA's college pigskin franchise. NCAA Football 07 is all about turning the 
 tide and features an all-new momentum system where big plays, defensive stops, and special teams 
 keep you in constant struggle for momentum and can change the game at any time. Unprecedented graphics 
 produce living stadiums that capture every moment in complete detail, including the authentic stadiums, 
 mascots, and marching bands."
  
  NCAA Football 07 is an amazing football that has hit shelves today and for any one that knows me 
 they know I picked this game up the day it came out. NCAA Football has a great college feel and 
 really gets you into the game. With the Xbox 360 version have an advance crowd type system it looks 
 like your at the stadium. The graphics are great and the players look real and the college enviorment 
 is deffinatly there. The game has dynasty and it also has online and three mini games.
  
  The graphics in the game are stunning and can really make you feel in the game. Anything from the 
 college atmosphere of the stadium and crowd to the ankle breaking jukes from the tips of your fingers 
 its a great experience.
  
  The dynasty mode is in-depth and fun to play. With red shirting players, scouting, watching for 
 heisman and more you can feel like your the coach of a college football team. This mode really 
 lets you take advantage of your favorite college team and try to get them to the top and win a 
 bowl game. Theres several things you can do in it and it really keeps you updated on the players 
 that are avalible to join your team (prospects) . The mini-games are Tug of war, bowling and option 
 dash.
  
  "Option dash is a one-player game where you have two minutes to drive down the field from the 20 
 using only option plays. Bonus points are awarded for special moves, while negative points are 
 slapped down for fumbles. Score a touchdown and start over from the 20.
  
  Tug of War might be the best of the bunch, however, as this one or two player game can be maddening 
 (in a good way) . One player has the ball and starts at the 50 while the other player is on defense. 
 You have one play to gain as many yards as you can, and wherever you are tackled, that's where 
 your opponent takes over headed the opposite direction. First team with a touchdown wins. Think 
 about it, you can be winning the whole game, driving the ball down to the 10, and then watch as 
 the next play your opponent pulls off is a 90 yard score for the W. Crazy. The only bad thing is 
 while all of these mini-games seem like perfect fits online but it is not avalible over XBL.
  
  In Bowling, you start on offense from the 10 yard line. Score a touchdown to get a strike. 
 Gain one yard for one point, two yards for two points, and so on. In the second frame, score from 
 where you left off to pick up the spare or don't score and collect points for every yard you gain. 
 Points are added up just like a real bowling match, with 300 being a perfect score. What adds to 
 the appeal of Bowling is playing the mode with two-players. While one side is on offense trying 
 to score, the other player is on defense trying to prevent a score. If you're defensive minded, 
 you can achieve perfection by holding your opponent to zero."
  
  The game features a ton of achievements as well, 50 thats right 50 achievements. Things like block 
 a punt, pass for 4 tds, rush for 200 yards and many more. Overall NCAA is a must buy for football 
 fans.
  
  (This review is for the Xbox 360 version, some material from ign. com)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jd7904
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  It's 4th down, 5 yards to go, only seconds on the clock. You line up, SET, HIKE! But the other 
 team has left the field because they were paid by the NCAA (who was paid by EA) to leave the field 
 because we don't want a competitive game , we want to tell you who the winner is. The winner for 
 best College football game this year goes to NCAA 2007. It's not hard to be "the #1 selling NCAA 
 football franchise" when your the only one that can can make said game. I was expecting a better 
 outing from last years Madden , but sadly it was not to be. Madden '06 seems to at least look better 
 than this game. The graphics look like they could have been done on the original X Box. It seems 
 to still have all the same Voice Acting from the last 3 versions of NCAA. Lee Corso still has the 
 same stupid "Maddenisms" from last generation. 
  This isn't necessarily a terrible game, those looking for some football action don't have much 
 for choices these days so it will have to suffice, that said EA could use a healthy dose of competition, 
 they don't have to make the best product to sell it , because it's the only product. This is probably 
 the reason most licenced games aren't as good as they could be based on specific intellectual properties. 
 No competition means no reason to change your product for the better and it's really beginning 
 to show in EA's football entries for the 360. (What happened to the Montana Grizzlies anyway ?) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoonToBeT2k7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Alright. I read the reviews before I bought this game and I must not have bought the same game 
 as most of you.
  
  This game (being that it is a first entry in the Xbox 360 series) is a very dependable buy. I don't 
 feel as if anyone should be disappointed by forking out the green to buy this. This game doesn't 
 fall short in any regard, with the exception of a few stupid things (ie.) editing a player's appearance 
 and stuff like that) . This game is a very solid edition to its very well-known NCAA series. 
  
  Now, having said that.
  
  I just got the game today but Ive played it the past few days 
 at my friend's house. The game starts off great with the pick favorite team question. I picked 
 Miami and immediately the background became completed Caned' Out. Cheerleaders, the stadium, fans, 
 etc. Next, I went to Online and got my ESPN ticker working so I could see the score of the Yankees 
 game (very cool bonus) . Anyways, next I hit Play Now to get the game rolling on my HDTV. (Ive 
 played this game in SD and HD and if you have a Standard Definition TV, I cant say that I recommend 
 this game) . The game starts with very stunning visuals of Miami's stadium. Then the coin toss etc. 
 The thing that really caught my eye about this game were the pre-snap animations. I expected the 
 same as Madden 06 with the QB adjusting his chin strap every single play. But I was completely 
 surprised with them showing the QB briefly, then the O-Line, and then the WRs, and then back to 
 the QB. Very good cut scenes. The gameplay is as solid as its ever been, with great hits, reliable 
 controls, high response times, and higher reaction times with the players (in Madden 06 it would 
 take the receiver like 4 steps to turn around, that bug was fixed in this game) . The mini-games 
 were a very pleasant surprise (if you have a few friends over that is) . The Tug-of-War game really 
 got me going and would be a great game to bet on with your friends. Very fast-paced and exciting. 
 Overall this game is an excellent representation of college football in my opinion. Its a very 
 fun multi-player game and it seems as if it will surprise you with new hits, jukes, and better 
 moves. I definitely recommend this buy and I dont believe anyone should be disappointed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shortman20_2002
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 20, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Yeah it is a fun game and everything but to me it just feels like the old one with better graphics.. 
 Nothing reall to exciting about it.. I still like it though cuz im a football nut but EA could 
 have done better with this one....
  so unless you just love football i dont see any reason why you should buy it. rent it instead. 
 Oh and i dont think this version is worth 59 dollars really.. nothing really special... 
  
  I really got my hopes up to 
 much on this game.. i was hoping that they would have done something great with this game and showed 
 us stuff never done before... but like ea they willo probably add the old stuff next year then say 
 they add lots of new features...... I was expecting way more ... Is it fun? Yes... is it worth 60 
 dollars.. not really ..... you may be better off getting the ps2 or xbox versions.... i mean it 
 is not worth just buying an xbox 360 for like i have heard some say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze0506
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  First of all, we all know about the lack of the Raise to the Heisman mode. But, also, none of the 
 AA teams are included anymore. While some may not care about that, I purchased the past NCAA games 
 based on the fact that I wanted to play with my AA school. Still, this is not a big issue taken 
 alone. But the issue is that if I am paying $59 for a game, why charge that much if it has half 
 the features we are used to? I just think that a resolution increase, a new momentum feature and 
 various other things is not enough to justify it costing over $49 if it is lacking in other features. 
 Put in the old features and then take what we have now then, yes, it would be worth $59.
  
  One thing I found to be ugly on my HDTV was the fact that, for what ever reason, they decided not 
 to blur distant objects like the crowd. If you play FIFA the crowd looks outstanding mainly because 
 they are blurred with distance so it prevents you from focusing on a pixellated member of the crowd. 
 What they should have done is taken the same approach. Model the crowed up close then blur their 
 pixellated sprites at distant. Again, not a big complaint but it adds up.
  
  The official review mentioned this one as well, but the players look like the Incredible Hulk. 
 Why EA must make the players appear so in humanly ripped like they just shot up on some 'roids 
 is beyond me. They have ALWAYS had problems with making realisitc looking players. In the past 
 they had humongous heads. Now they look like a juiced up WWF wrestler. Speaking of heads, some 
 of the players (mainly quarterbacks) have alien heads. It is hard to explain but when people see 
 it they will know. It just seems like these few players have eyes where their cheeks should be 
 and their helmets look like watermelons rhines covering a head that must enclose a brain the size 
 of a basketball.
  
  Another problem is the difficulty. If you leave the difficulty at default, varsity level then you 
 will quickly find yourself winning games by 50 points or more. If you bump it up one setting then 
 it suddenly becomes impossible to win. There is no real in between, which is notorious for all 
 of EA Sports titles.
  
  Take all of these as a whole and it makes me wish I had just bought it used or rented it. I suggest 
 that people rent it first and then, if they like it, purchase it used to save some cash. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cornhusker_Fan9
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 20, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, it gets me so excited for NCAA FOOTBALL 2008. The graphics are very good, but 
 as always.. they can get better. The gameplay is solid, and the Dynasty mode is great. Impact players 
 are way toned down, they aren't completely unstoppable like last years. One thing that can get 
 on your nerves is recruiting. One time I had 2 CBs with Nebraska (me) on top of their list, I wanted 
 to seal the deal so I sent the house on both of them and the next week they went somewhere else. 
 But I kinda like that I guess, now I won't get like 10-20 5 star prospects in a year. Overall this 
 game is a must have and worth the $60.00. Best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akuya32
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 20, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  The game looks great and with an HDTV it takes it to another level. The gameplay isn't up tp par 
 if this game was on the psone. Yes I know this game should never be on par with Madden (with last 
 years madden on the 360 that should be a a good thing) , but at least be in the same neighborhood. 
 You can't tell me they don't have audibles for each formation like they do in the Pros, as well 
 line adjustments. Don't let me get started with a linebacker covering a wr when they run trips 
 to one side and you are using a nickel defense. Some of this is just common sense. 
  If your into great graphics and presentation then this is the game for you. If your into gameplay 
 then i suggest you take the route I took last year and skip NCAA. (I must of been reaching when 
 I went out to buy this game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rod50
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 20, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  The game looks great, but that's about it.
  The gameplay is good but it's been the same for years now. (Sidebar: Why hasn't EA employed the 
 running controls of NFL2K5, with the tapping speed burst, the power move and the stiff arm? So 
 intuitive, responsive, excilarating, and rewarding, it's the best running system ever created for 
 a video football game. Oh I know why, they don't give a **** if their running backs handle like 
 a bumper car in molasses. The "Momentum Meter" is, as usual, a completely inconsequential feature. 
 The game itself is soul-less. It is bare bones, from the menu to the game, to the interminably 
 repetitive cut scenes between plays, you dont' get the sense of the peripheral exicitement and 
 personality of the older games and find yourself by the end of a game barely moved just as disconnected 
 from your team and the experience as you hadn't even played. 
  
  This is the first version of NCAA that has made me conscious of being seated on my sofa playing 
 a videogame. This game should not only be graphically more stunning but should be chock-a-block 
 of new and old features. What happened to the SI covers? Why can't I edit the look of players? 
 Why can't I choose more than two different uniforms? What happened to the homefield advantage, 
 etc.? EA didn't just forget to put this stuff in! They can't put it in! Especially when they have 
 to make the visuals try and match some unreal and as yet unattainable target renders from E3 two 
 years ago. 
  
  Worst of all they don't care if the product they provide is wholly inferior, they have no scrupples. 
 They don't care about serious or loyal gamers, they want to go after tweeners and dimwits every 
 year with their BS features and waterdowned gameplay. I'm a grown-ass man! I'm not putting up with 
 this anymore. Last year I quit that glorified cut scene of a game, Madden, this year I quit NCAA. 
 I'm tired of having to pay 60 bucks with a big middle finger in my face. It's sad to see these 
 two perennial franchise fall to "rent first" status but it's their own doing. I'm off to update 
 my rosters in NFL 2K5. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VolcanoMan001
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  The game is decent in the sense that how bad can you screw up the core "football" substance of 
 it. It is not likely that will be done so we have to look beyond that at the actual, underlying 
 material. So, rather than focus on the good like most reviews do, I choose to focus on the little 
 details that bug me since I dropped some serious coin out of my pocket on it.
  
  First of all, we all know about the lack of the Raise to the Heisman mode. But, also, none of the 
 AA teams are included anymore. While some may not care about that, I purchased the past NCAA games 
 based on the fact that I wanted to play with my AA school. Still, this is not a big issue taken 
 alone. But the issue is that if I am paying $59 for a game, why charge that much if it has half 
 the features we are used to? I just think that a resolution increase, a new momentum feature and 
 various other things is not enough to justify it costing over $49 if it is lacking in other features. 
 Put in the old features and then take what we have now then, yes, it would be worth $59.
  
  One thing I found to be ugly on my HDTV was the fact that, for what ever reason, they decided not 
 to blur distant objects like the crowd. If you play FIFA the crowd looks outstanding mainly because 
 they are blurred with distance so it prevents you from focusing on a pixellated member of the crowd. 
 What they should have done is taken the same approach. Model the crowed up close then blur their 
 pixellated sprites at distant. Again, not a big complaint but it adds up.
  
  The official review mentioned this one as well, but the players look like the Incredible Hulk. 
 Why EA must make the players appear so in humanly ripped like they just shot up on some 'roids 
 is beyond me. They have ALWAYS had problems with making realisitc looking players. In the past 
 they had humongous heads. Now they look like a juiced up WWF wrestler. Speaking of heads, some 
 of the players (mainly quarterbacks) have alien heads. It is hard to explain but when people see 
 it they will know. It just seems like these few players have eyes where their cheeks should be 
 and their helmets look like watermelons rhines covering a head that must enclose a brain the size 
 of a basketball.
  
  Another problem is the difficulty. If you leave the difficulty at default, varsity level then you 
 will quickly find yourself winning games by 50 points or more. If you bump it up one setting then 
 it suddenly becomes impossible to win. There is no real in between, which is notorious for all 
 of EA Sports titles.
  
  And Finally, my personal pet peeve with the game is with the running game. When you perform a running 
 play and run the HB or FB *anywhere* near an offensive lineman you will get stuck right behind 
 them running in place. Needless to say that you will then quickly tacked for a loss or no gain 
 in yardage. I get so angry everytime this happens. It is enough to make you want to snap the disc 
 in half. Is it too much to ask to have the running back push the lineman or bounce off of him rather 
 than freeze him in place?.
  
  Take all of these as a whole and it makes me wish I had just bought it used or rented it. I suggest 
 that people rent it first and then, if they like it, purchase it used to save some cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuzzdog20
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 20, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  This game is very impressive from the menu to the actual game-play. I played my first game and 
 actually block a field goal from the corner. I have not blocked a field goal since the 2002 verison 
 of this game. To my surpise I blocked another one maybe 5 games later on Xbox Live!! If I was VT 
 I would call that Bremer Ball. This is a great new feeling and a total game changer.
  
  There are a bit too many fumbles which plagued Madden 06 for the 360. 
  Also, the game has a 
 few lagging moments with the replay and end of play change of screen. Load times are very quick!! 
 The visuals are stunning with the tackling, running, Catching, and Stadiums. 
  
  I was never a huge fan of the Legend mode last year, so I am ok with that being exluded. Dynasty 
 is where this game is made or broke. Having only played a few seasons I have to say it doesn't 
 reinvent the wheel, but still gives you hours of gameplay. I think this is a very impressive first 
 step for EA on the next gen. I recommend any with the 360 to by this game!!
  
  Fuzzy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveku27
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 20, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  When I first read that the Xbox 360 version of this game was not going to have race for the heismen 
 mode, I was to say the least, a bit dissappointed. Not that this mode makes or breaks the game, 
 but it was a fun take on the college experience. However, this years game is a major step forward 
 compared to the ps2 version for several reasons. 1. It is graphically a huge improvement (DUH) . 
 2. The AI in this game are much, much smarter and react to plays much more realistically then in 
 past installments. Gone are the days of passing for 90 yard bombs over a dumb and slow defender. 
 3. Tackleing has been giving a nice improvement visually as well (and the new animation when diving 
 for a ball that is behind you is awesome) ! However, my problem with this game is its lack of depth. 
 Sure the dynasty mode is deep and solid just like in years past. But thats pretty much where the 
 depth ends. I know this is EAs first go at the college football game, and I comend them on a job 
 pretty well done. But for me, I need some of the other modes that the ps2 and xbox have (like race 
 for the heismen) . I could honestly care less about the tug of war and bowling mini games. Give 
 me the cool game modes because I really enjoyed making myself in last years game and then taking 
 my college experience to madden. Hopefully next year EA will re-introduce this feature or something 
 similar. In my opinion, the lack of depth kept this game from being truely great. But it is a good 
 game that I would recommend to anyone who needs to fill the football void until madden 07! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madden118
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 version of NCAA Football is a great game that gives you that college football feel. 
 Lets start with the graphics in this game. The graphics in this game are great. The players, stadiums, 
 and the fans look great. The stadiums are so realistic its like your looking at the real thing. 
 Everything in this game is so detailed that you wont be disappointed in the graphics at all. You 
 all are wondering how's the gameplay. The gameplay in this game is so realistic. This game has 
 great tackle and run animations. The passing in this game is great. The running in this game is 
 fun and very addictive. There's everything you need in Dynasty mode. The sound in this game is 
 amazing in 5.1. The only bad thing in this game is the lack of content.
  
  
  Overall this game is a great college football experience and should be bought buy any college football 
 fan who owns a 360.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WCOFF3219
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 19, 2006 11:16 pm PT
Review:  I payed more for a game that has less game features than the PS2 or X box versions just for better 
 graphics. Does EA think all we care about is better graphics and think its ok to give us scaled 
 down game thinking we will forget all gust to put a shine on a game that is not as good as 2 or 
 3 years ago's game play. I could not wait for football on 360 and Madden 06 on PS2 was a much better 
 game. I thought hay they rushed the game for football season and forgave them, but they had enough 
 time to not put out a watered down game. If this is the future of sports on the 360; I wil sell 
 it and get a NCAA football on PS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skihawks
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  NCAA Football 2007 is a game I have been waiting to play since it was announced that it would be 
 on the 360 this year. I was certain that with EA's increased knowledge of the 360 hardware that 
 NCAA Football would storm onto the system. Let me tell you, NCAA Football may not be perfect but 
 it is friggin fun. However, the game didn't come without disappointments.
  
  Let me hit what I perceive as the negatives first:
  1) Weather effects are weak
  2) Framerate 
 -- 30 FPS on a next-gen system????? CHOPPY at times
  3) Presentation -- Where are the stadium intros (Miami running through the fog, ND exiting the 
 tunnel ... This was in NCAA 2003... Where is Corso, Herbstreit and Nessler??)
  4) Lack of jersey options (Current gen has all jerseys, next-gen not)
  --Interested to see what 
 jerseys will be available on the Marketplace and how much more money we will have to pay to get 
 them??
  --Will Marketplace offer just updated uniforms or will it have alternate uniforms (i. e. Notre Dame's 
 green, Miami's orange) see #9 on postive list
  --Will this also include alternate pants (Miami's orange, Florida's blue, etc.)
  5) Minor (Yes, 
 very minor) issues with tackling animations
  6) Clumsy A. I. in some situations (Overall, challenging)
  7) Player models were once major leaguers 
 ... HGH
  8) No ESPN Magazine articles .. Boooooooooooooooooo
  9) Lack of abilty to edit player's equipment (WHAT?)
  
  Now on to the positives:
  1) Gameplay 
 is still as solid as ever
  2) Graphics are sick -- The helmets are as realistic as it gets -- AWESOME
  3) Ability to take 
 pictures -- You can get real close to the players and see all the details
  4) Animations -- Unreal....
  5) Menu and playcalling screens ported from Madden work real well
 
  6) Pride stickers are back -- YES
  7) Fans doing the tomahawk chop and Gator chomp....
  8) Online play is excellent
  9) Ability to obtain uniforms from the XBL Marketplace... Please 
 let EA release ND's green jerseys (free, free, free, free, free)
  10) ESPN integration -- Not as much as I would like but its there
  11) Ability to edit player 
 names (see #9 on negative list)
  
  All-in-all, I am pleased with this year's effort. Although I feel the game could have contained 
 more due to the development time EA had, the gameplay is solid and still the best around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixrebirth
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying this game is WAY better then madden '06. Gameplay is good. The tackles, 
 and the run game is very good. Not so simple to just tackle a running back. Have to work a little 
 to do it. The steriods comment. the gamespot review mentioned... dude have u seen todays college 
 football players? lol. Least the character models arent as over exaggerated like in Live 2006. 
 oh lord. lol. Ok but the game is good. Yea there are a few framerate issues, and a few graphical 
 glitches but its not that serious that u'd take the disc out the 360 and return it the same day. 
 It is disappointing that they didnt put all of the features that appear in the ps2, or xbox versions. 
 Campus mode should of been in this version. Dont understand why it wasnt. Memory space issues? 
 That cant be it. Anyways to sum it up the gameplay , and graphics are good. If u hung up on the 
 lil flaws about the game then u really dont need to be playing this game. To bad too. U'd be missing 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sethschroeder07
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  The NCAA Football serise has long been one of the most uninspiring football game there was. The 
 crowd always seemed non-exsistent and the gameplay was more like High School instead of college. 
 Those days are over though with the lastest release of NCAA Football 2007.
  
  This years version of NCAA has come a long ways from the last gen versions that are still on the 
 market. Although the cost is the created player mode, you gain alot of graphical edge in its place. 
 The graphics that are presented with the stadiums and players are by far some of the best on the 
 360. They extend the realism of the stadium with a full array of fans from students to the pep 
 band you swear its a real game going on. Not only are the fans in 3-D they also react seperatly 
 to the same play so the visitors will let it be known when the score a touchdown although not as 
 loudly as the hometown squad.
  
  The play calling is pretty similar to that of Madden 360 with a choice of how you view the play 
 calling screen which is a welcome change from the past. The plays for most teams at least have 
 been well scouted and you find all sorts of different formations and plays to pull out with any 
 team you play with.
  
  While the game is running you'll probably jump into a dynasty or two also. This has not been touched 
 from the previous versions and is as fun to play as ever. You'll be working to get your team on 
 top and keep them there, as if you want to unlock all the acheivements you'll need to have back 
 to back to back national championships.
  
  Wrapping up this review there is only two words to describe it, "Instant Classic." As long as you 
 can get by with a great playing football game and a dynasty mode you'll do great with this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_Iic
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Before I got this game, I looked it up on the internet, both versions. I saw the 360 version and 
 the original xbox and ps2 versions. I wanted the better graphics, and what I ,would expect, better 
 gameplay, which is to some extent better. I just don't get why I am paying 10 extra dollars to 
 see better graphics, and have some of the funnest things about NCAA football taken out. Why would 
 they make the xbox version with the create your character and go through school with him, and then 
 just make plain football in the 360 version? 
  Before I go on with this review I would like to say that I gave this game a good rating because 
 I thought overall it was fun. I don't exactly buy football games just for the extras, I buy them 
 for good football experiences. So it is deffinately fun, but a little less than what I expected. 
 The new things like bowling and tug-of-war and fun, and I could spend lots of time doing those. 
 I noticed that this game reminds me more of an NFL game instead of college. The dynasty mode is 
 pretty cool, but not if your team is the best one. 
  Overall I'd say get this game for the 360 if you want better graphics and on-field play. But get 
 the xbox or ps2 version if you really want the old versions of NCAA football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 02EclipseGT
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 22, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  At first I was lost on this game. It felt nothing like the last one. The button paterns I was used 
 to pushing were all changed. But after playing a while I found out that most of the changes that 
 frustrated me for a good 8 games or so. Were actually for the better. 
  
  Let me say about some of the new features. Im Playing the legend mode. Now last year this mode 
 was just ok. But I jumped back over to Dynasty mode after a short go at it. This year its got some 
 great new stuff. And im hooked on Legend mode. You take classes, you have to balance out a major. 
 And take little tests. You can be not just a All star on the field. But yu can work on becoming 
 one of the best Academic athlete all stars. But the football part of this is all the better to. 
 You have cool drills you can do to add points to your attributes every week. And your everyday 
 practice. All of which slowly add to your abilities. So its not done to fast. You have to work 
 just to get like 2 or so Attribute points a week. All and all the Legend mode works this year, 
 and is one of the best parts of the New NCAA football. 
  
  Now to the game play. Their are a few hit and misses here. But their is also some good new stuff. 
 First a few misses. One really annoying thing is the big hit tackles. I don't mind the slow motion 
 stuff. I actually like that. But the fact that the hit is like a superman dive to the head every 
 time looks just sorta stupid. It looks more like some dumb tackle you would make in NFL street, 
 than a real hard hit. Also the QB's have gotten a tad to Maddenish. Meaning the ball speed physics 
 have speed up to a sorta unrealistic speed. Making it hard to cover. Even with a super Corner or 
 Defensive back. So how do you stop this? QB pressure is how. Now this is one of the better new 
 add on's. Jumping the snap is better than it sounds. If you can do this, even if you don't get 
 a sack the super QB's will start to throw some bad pass's. 
  
  A few other new good add on's. Are the Computer running game has seemed to pic it up. So with the 
 combo of a better Computer QB and now a better Running game for them. The challenge has indeed 
 picked up from last year. You will find yourself not playing the Pass all day long. And the computer 
 will take advantage of you playing a 3 deep Dime all day long. They will run on you. But the plus 
 is you have a lot more Defensive and Offensive sets to get miss matches or whatever. And the stuff 
 you can do before snap is a tad odd at first. But is for the better once you learn it all. 
  
  Ok About the momentum thing. Its not as bad as I thought it was gonna be. It is a problem when 
 a team does get momentum and you cant stop them. But the good part is. You can change the momentum 
 over vary quick in your favor. So if your down by quite a bit, you still can get back momentum. 
 Its not easy. but one or two big plays and your guys are gonna be playing great. And your set up 
 for the big comeback, if you perform well. So overall it does work pretty well. And does not go 
 over the top with one team becoming super human. But if you are down and you do get it. It will 
 give you that extra you just might need to make a possible comeback. 
  
  Graphics, well were in a year were we have the 360, we don't have the PS3 yet. And so developers 
 are still sorta porting from the currant gen machines. Once the PS3 is out I think that will change. 
 Thus I bought it on the Xbox. Knowing it had all the stuff in the game, a few things missing in 
 the 360 version still. And their still good. Much the same as last year. And unfortunate enough 
 we still get the same animations or 3D celebrations after a game as last year. I think they could 
 have at least changed those. 
  
  Overall the game is a lot of the same, but with quite a bit new to keep it fresh. More so the single 
 player game play is a whole new ball game as far difficulty. And the Legend mode is the biggest 
 overhaul in the game. And its good and works. Last year it did not. So it may look the same, "well 
 not if you have a 360.". But it plays different. Heck I'm playing with Ohio State "Im not a bandwagon 
 fan, I live in Ohio lol" And as good as they are on the game, I do notice the change in challenge. 
 I cant imagine playing with a small school Like I like to do a lot. And will do eventually. Its 
 gonna be interesting to se If I can take Ohio U Bobcats to a Championship, on this years version. 
 As over a few years it was possible on last years version. 
  
  Overall its a good game with some new stuff that's not a gimmick and works. Is it worth it if you 
 have 06. Yea the changes are enough to get it. but expect to be a tad confused at first, and frustrated. 
 But once you figure it out, you'll see its all for the better. 
  
  My mistake I thought this was the XBXO version no the 360 version. but euither way Ill still score 
 it. Its noone of the same, but looks better. But in the ned really blows compared to the PS2 and 
 Xbox versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  OK, so I've read what some critics are saying about the lack of depth. And there are certainly 
 plenty of issues beyond depth that must be fixed in future releases by this franchise. All that 
 is true. And normally, I am right there saying the same things and complaining about this and that.
 
  But let's talk football, shall we? The release of NCAA Football ushers in the new year of football 
 to come, as far as I'm concerned. And after going through months of playing video game baseball, 
 let me just say how excited I am to be playing video game football again! 
  So what's most impressive? I'll never forget the first time I saw the beautiful stadiums. I mean, 
 this doesn't get any better. Second, the animations are leaps and bounds better than the previous 
 Madden for the 360. I see a new animation with each game I play. Third, the menu screens are very 
 pretty. Finally, and most importantly, the momentum meter is a wonderful way to swing games, allowing 
 for big comebacks and unpredictable games. At the same time, it doesn't control the entire game, 
 as you can still win momentum back with a couple big plays.
  I was beating Arizona (unranked) with LSU (#5) 14-0 at the half. Early second half, Arizona swung 
 the momentum. Add to that I was playing casually and not really concentrating, and what you get 
 is an Arizona comeback, beating the fifth ranked tigers (and me) 28-14.
  So, yeah, it lacks more features. And yeah, the collision detection still needs work. And I'm not 
 happy that not ALL real stadiums are in the game, only 70 or so. All this is true. But football's 
 back, this game is light years ahead of Madden for 360, and I am finally proud to own my 360. 'Cause 
 all you PS2 and XBOX owners can have your extra features. What good do they do you if the game 
 looks like crap? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 19, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Last year's Madden for the 360 left me feeling as if I wasn't even playing a Madden game. It looked 
 nice and all, but it just wasn't as fluid as other versions on current gen consoles. Couple that 
 with too many missing game modes and it all added up to 360 owning football fans feeling left out.
 
  EA Sports has taken a lot of criticism on many a message board and I, myself, agree with much 
 of what has been said. I'm like a host of other gamers out there that grew up on EA sports games 
 and have been confused by what appears to have been phoned-in efforts on somed of it's long running 
 franchises, particularly on Xbox360.
  
  When I opened my copy of NCAA '07 today, I was hopeful that my fvorite EA franchise would finally 
 deliver me from my 360 football void. After 3 games, I'm glad to say that EA Sports has finally 
 managed to start heading back toward good graces with this one. It myay not be spot-on flawless, 
 but it is definitely worth checking out.
  
  Graphically it looks a lot like Madden '06, but I've noticed things in actual gameplay that stand 
 out like the physics of a solid collision or a celebration by a player who was just involved in 
 some kind of big play. The stadiums look really nice, even if the crowds aren't that convincing... (that's 
 probably a bit nit-picky anyway) . All in all, the graphics aren't a 10, but they do look awful 
 nice in HD.
  
  I absolutely love the fact that you can customize your own button layouts. If you don't like the 
 defaults, you can switch it to however you feel most comfortable. That alone makes this game worth 
 it.
  
  It was also nice to see the mini-games and practice modes that made it in. Madden lost my interest 
 by noy having the extra content available on xbox or ps2. There are some cool little games you 
 can play that aren't just fun, they can teach you things about the game and bolster your achievement 
 points. 
  
  Overall, This game will take some getting used to for long time fans, but by that same token the 
 reward is that it feels like EA Sports NCAA football... not just a graphically amped up rush job 
 short on content and released just to make a buck. This one is worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiken
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  First let me cover the negatives, and there are a few. Gone are the Legend mode, which I really 
 liked, and it should have stayed. Moreover, the Sports Illustrated version of updating each weeks 
 event was shelved, and was replaced by a ticker from ESPN. I don't like it as well but the alliance 
 between EA and ESPN will pay off with better games in the long run. The controls change every year 
 which is getting nauseating, fortunately they allow you to change them around. Also gone is the 
 right to create a superstar and then draft him each year. 
  However, the basic granite block that makes this series a great one are still there. The graphics 
 are unreal, I felt I was at Husky, Autzen, or ND Stadiums; the players looked real, yes they were 
 "beefed up" but they looked great. The game play was still good, as was the Dynasty and Coaches 
 mode which is still the heart of the game. 
  All in all this is one of the best sports games for the 360 out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brentjm22
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is a little bit better than I thought it would be. I knew it would be good but with the 
 lack of features I thought it would be kind of like madden 06 and I was wrong. This game blows 
 that game out of the water. The gameplay is great. It's really quick and very realistic. Graphics 
 are amazing. Of course it's not a perfect game but no game is. But if you are really looking for 
 something to nag about it would be some framerate problems. It only happens when the camera is 
 going around the stadium. It's not really a big problem. Celebrations are fluid. Tackling animations 
 are great only wish they had gang tackles but again not a big deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axeldoom05
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Well the games great..... its really fun just playing All American Football.... but there are positives 
 and their are certainly negatives..... lets start the positvies
  
  POSITIVES: 1) Great gameplay, there not many glitches, The tackles look realistic, Player movement 
 is smooth.
  2) Dynasty is pretty good better than '06
  3) Graphics are amazing, Very detailed
  4) Enjoyable for any football fan
  
  NEGATIVES: 1) 
 NO CAMPUS MODE!!!!!!!!
  2) When the players run it looks weird
  3) Need more game modes
  4) Dynasty good, But boring after a couple hours
  5) Again NO CAMPUS MODE!!!
  
  The game has 
 everything to be a great football game besides that one mode that entices you to purchase the game... and 
 that's why i rented it.. This game is strictly for HARDCORE college football fans which im not so 
 i didnt enjoy it as much as '06 because '06 had Campus Mode which i really liked... Because then 
 when i graduate my player then transfer my player to madden '06 and enter the draft... i loved it 
 and now i cant do it.... Well in my eyes this game is scored 7.9 almost great but not... to others 
 they loved it, but then again im really speaking for the people who enjoyed Campus mode and wanted 
 it to return.........
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 19, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I could not wait for this game. When I finally got it I was happy but a little disappointed. 
 
  
  It was disappointing to me because it has less teams on it than the 2005 XBOX version did (the 
 last one I purchased) . I liked playing with the small school teams like Harvard, Yale, Dartmouth, Cornell 
 etc etc. I can't anymore, they don't exist in the 2007 version.
  
  After getting over that, I settled into the Dynasty mode which thus far is very good and enjoyable. 
 I have not noticed anything odd at all, things play like they should. Much to my surprise the game 
 announcers don't annoy me either! 
  
  One thing that does seem odd is that you are no longer allowed to have the computer play itself. 
 I used to like doing this while I was eating dinner or compare the results to a real world match.
 
  
  Everything considered, I don't regret buying it but the price should of been a lot less since the 
 content is less. The improved graphics were not that stunning to justify the price increase over 
 the standard xbox version.
  
  I will be comparing the 360 and Xbox versions of Madden 2007, if the 360 version isn't significantly 
 better I will buy the standard Xbox version for less.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Before I picked up this game I was still HURTING from Madden 06 (360) . So you can say I was still 
 recovering. Now Dont take this review as Im forgetting what EA did to us back in November with 
 Madden. I urge all gamers to NEVER FORGET the disaster that was Madden 06. Message to EA Sports 
 "We Will Never Forget". That being said its time to move on. And to better things at that. NCAA 
 07 is a treat for our sore football hearts. Im sure you all know the huge amount of features are 
 not there but what casual and i say casual not hardcore, what casual football gamer needs "Race 
 for the Heisman" anyway, we just want to play some NCAA Football damn it. Plus my review is in 
 no way based on the current gens offerings. We are in TWO different generations. As is NCAA 07 
 my review is built from the ground up. First off I want to say that the Graphics are amazing, thow 
 a small glich in the snow offering but other than that the graphics are flawless, you will never 
 see (until next year) a better looking football game. Your eyes will have a beutiful feast and 
 you will have fun looking as well as playing on graphics alone. The animations are crisp and thow 
 not flawless but they are right on the money with animations popping at you like youve never seen 
 before. The stadiums are top notch and the fields are a thing of beauty. The gameplay is the best 
 to date. There is no NCAA football game out there now or in the past that plays better than this, 
 believe it. The momemtum meter could have used some work but is a nice touch. The controls are 
 different in a way you will never go back to past control setups. The sounds is top notch, esp. 
 turned way up, see for yourself, its great! I have to say the more real the football game, the 
 better. On the 'real' factor this game is an 11 out of 10. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruggdog
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  My first game - I got the error from my 360 - unable to read disc? Its brand new. restarted and 
 played a game. Visuals look good but player movements are sometimes choppy. I thought this would 
 be corrected with a next Gen console. 
  Sound is nice and the stadiums look geat. the crown looks like cardbord cutouts - as ussual. Its 
 cool to see the environment change during a game. 
  Its a good game but if you ever played ESPN NFL 2K5 you know how good and smooth that game played 
 ... why does it that EA sports so long to catch up? 
  ESPN 2k5 football ---still has EA sports beat in so many ways. 
  
  Don't get me wrong this 
 is a nice game - I will love playing the game. I don't need alot of extra things like a super deep 
 recruiting mode. I just expected more from a "next gen game" Its a little frustrating and not worth 
 60 dollars. 
  
  I would say this is the 2nd best football game to date the best is still ESPN 2k5 football for 
 Xbox.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAm-Jeff
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 19, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I like the game so far. The stadiums aren't very impressive and the crowd looks like crap but the 
 gameplay is solid. I like the GP much better than Madden 06. I like the addition of real time stats 
 via ESPN through xbox live on the ticker. That's pretty cool, although I haven't tried it yet to 
 see if it really works.
  
  Speaking of things that work, I've already found 6 achievments that don't work. I've gotten 18 
 so far so I'm not sure why some of them aren't working.
  
  The mini games are pretty fun but at first but it doesn't last. Bowling is pretty difficult unless 
 you find a play that allows you to score on every play and trust me, you can find one. Tug-of-war 
 is good concept but I won the match on the 1st play with a touchdown. I think it was mostly a fluke 
 because the defender fell down going for the ball. The option game is pretty hard to get 15k points 
 on but it can be done with a good RB. I fouhd that after I got the achievments for these I had 
 no desire to play them. They might be fun playing with a real person on the computer though.
  
  I'm having fun with this game but to me, it feels like they took short cuts and concentrated 
 on Madden, which is probably what really happened. Pretty sad too seeing as this was the 1st for 
 the franchise on the 360 and they had 8 months to get it right. This feels like a launch game that 
 they didn't finish. I'll still play the hell out of it though.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terps
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  This is a decent game, but is it worth $60? I think so. For all you college football fans out thier 
 who are wondering whether or not to get this game... you should. It has very good gameplay and will 
 make you want to keep playing, especially a dynasty with your favorite team. Other than that though, 
 there isnt much you can do. They left out alot of the exciting features that were in NCAA 06. The 
 graphics are mediocre ( I dont own an HDTV :- ( .) It seems kind of dark. The reason I would pay 
 $60 for this game is because i love college football and its fun to play a dynast with my favorite 
 team, the terps! This is also a great game to play with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonpareil
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  NCAA Football for the X360 is a waste of $60. Buy the PS2 or XBOX versions.
  
  The games graphics, other than the stadiums and players helmets, are quite poor. There are quite 
 a few collision problems to be found when trying to run the ball towards the middle, you will hit 
 defenders when you least expect it, because they were not there.
  
  The gameplay is OK, it seems like there is less you can do than in previous versions, for instance 
 if your are on the D-line you can't jump to block a QBs pass. Many things are just bad.
  
  Sound is quite good. good commentary and effects when tackling and what not. Definate plus! Too 
 bad it's all that shines in this game.
  
  Value is no longer there. There is a skeleton of a dynasty mode. Forget about the fun that recruiting 
 once was, or even creating your own school. 
  
  The menu's to get through to areas in the game are good looking, but quite muddled and confusing.
 
  
  STICK WITH THE PS2 AND XBOX VERSIONS OF THIS GAME, just some friendly advice from a disappointed 
 NCAA series fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dat_Boi_SiLo
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  You can say NCAA Football 07 is the 1st next-gen football game to finally push the bar higher on 
 how games on the next-gen systems must look. The AI, is darn good, i mean it does have its bumps 
 and so do humans so, it feels like your playing against another person. This game is great the 
 momentum shift is great, and can really change the game's pase, the crowd is alot smarter too, 
 it knows when to cheer and when to shutup, which is good. This game is great, and well worth the 
 next-gen price tag. I don't have Xbox Live so can't write about online so you'll have to read someone 
 elses review for that. But as far as gameplay this game is solid, college football has never been 
 so fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarsonS
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  This is short and sweet. The gameplay is very smooth , the framerate drops quite a bit when their 
 are alot of stuff on the screen. The sound is the same old thing. Crowd noice and atmosphere are 
 awesome. Anouncers come up with some new comments. NO DEPTH what so ever. There is no customizing 
 your players with wrist bands, collers, visors, ect. No sports illustrated, nothing. This was very 
 dissappointing and wish I would have bought it on the regular xbox. If you are just in to playing 
 the football aspect of it, then this is the game for you. If you like the depth of previous games, 
 then I suggest either buying it for you xbox1 or waiting till the price comes down a notch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TiTaNsFaN690
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  Last year when Madden 06' rushed into a release for the 360 it was understandable that the game 
 would lack a lot of the features of its last gen console brethern, as it was built from the ground 
 work in a very short time. However, it has been one year and although EA has shown that its current 
 Madden 07' game for the the 360 will be up to par with the other versions this years NCAA game 
 has been stripped down leaving us wondering if EA just procrastinated to get this game into development 
 or if it did this on purpose so that the 08' release is merely the same game with the features 
 promised in the previous version. 
  
  The game itself looks beautiful, (except for the weather) and everyone can agree that on an HDTV 
 this is the best looking football game to date. The sound is about equally as good, except for 
 the audience. Gameplay-wise nothing here has changed much if at all from the previous incarnation 
 of NCAA 06 on the Xbox and PS2. There are added plays and the in game action feels a lot more inclusive, 
 (you'll now want to work every position sometimes not just the QB) and every option is detailed. 
 However besides the actual on field time the game suffers many blows, missing campus legend mode, 
 spring training and other features included in the last gen consoles. 
  
  If you're a hardcore NCAA veteran who only cares about the franchise mode or on field time or are 
 new to the NCAA series then this is the game for you. If your a casual football game fan who played 
 last years NCAA for the Xbox or PS2 you may find yourself dissapointed and even bored with this 
 bare-boned presentation from EA, in which you may want to wait until Madden 07 for the 360 comes 
 out or play a last gen version of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: engion3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 19, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  The fact that EA felt the need to change the controls so drastically as well as change the play 
 calling menu is beyond me. The play calling in 06 was perfect, none of this i have to actually 
 cursor over the play. I also felt the control scheme in 06 was flawless and there was no need to 
 completely redo it. These might seem like minor complaints but I feel it interrupts the flow of 
 the game. Other than that the gameplay is fine, graphics are great (as they should be on the 360) , 
 and everything else in the game appears to be up to par. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ptizzle2323
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  i guess EA decided to slightly change everything up for their first next gen NCAA game such as 
 their different colored menus. the thing is most NCAA fans, like me, dont want teh gameplay to 
 change all that much. EA made the necessary additions to the gameplay bringing it one step closer 
 to perfection. It has a few less game modes than its current gen counter parts but 360 sure has 
 awesome graphics. Do not pay attention to anything else i write i jsut need to meet the 100 word 
 minimum. The new momentum feature is "neat" in that it changes based on the events that take place 
 during the game but i have yet to see a benefit of having the momentum on your side besides the 
 obvious effects 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawgpound83
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  The best game yet for NCAA I think. The stadiums are great. Sure not all the stadiums are done 
 and we are missing refs and sideline markers plus alternate uniforms and other small things. But 
 at least we got a main function of the game, the football part. LOL. I am not complaining bout 
 missing stuff because I figure EA could have held off NCAA this year for the 360 and we wouldn't 
 have any college football unless you own another console and defiantly no football till August 
 22 when Madden comes out. So I am thankful for at least having the main core of the game and already 
 drooling for NCAA 08. Go WVU!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howard23
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  I am not going to write a rant here because, by now I think that most points have been addressed. 
 What I am going to say is that I am surprised that EA would put out another football game that 
 is lacking features that were present in the previous year's game. You would have thought that 
 they would have learned their lesson with the poor reception that Madden received last year. Guess 
 not. Considering that this is a next Gen game, I would think it would have all the features from 
 last year and then some. Can someone from EA explain to me why better graphics equals less features.
 
  With all of that said, I am still having a fun time playing this game. The graphics are great 
 and the game play is nice. I am really liking the impact stick. I've seen a few complaints about 
 the button configuration. I am the first person to harp on drastic button changes, but I have to 
 say this configuration is not hard to learn and once you have it down, it makes for a great experience. 
 
  The play books on both sides are really good. Lots of plays to choose from. My only complaint is 
 it would be nice if they were team specific. 
  In summary, although I can feel their pain, the game is not as bad as some reviews you will read 
 on this site. It's also not the best football game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eightup4kb
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  Being an avid fan of college football and owner of the last several years' worth of the NCAA series 
 I was looking forward to the 360 version with much anticipation. I could not wait to be wowed by 
 the graphics, the presentation, and the extra goodies that one would expect on a next-gen system. 
 While the graphics are nice and the gameplay is fun, the overall experience is underwhelming, especially 
 when compared to the past few games on regular Xbox.
  The game begins as with most EA Sports games, allowing you to select instant action, dynasty mode, 
 mini-games, options and extras. So far, so good. So I select my favorite (and local) team, the 
 Louisville Cardinals, a team that has been in the AP Top 25 consistently for the past several seasons 
 and is ranked #10 in the game itself. My screen backdrop changes to familiar views of U of L cheerleaders. 
 the band, the mascot and all is right with the world. I fiddle with some of the recreuiting options, 
 then jump into the schedule.
  To say I was disappointed would be an understatement. Instead of the expected Papa John's Cardinal 
 stadium, I get a generic bowl. Funny, it's been fully rendered every year for the past 4 that I 
 know of, but ok..... so you are greeted with the usual pregame blather, but without benefit of 
 any TV-style overlays, players to watch, etc. No active crowd, just poorly animated masses of fans 
 colored to match the team, with a small spattering of away-team colors. The game opens with a camera 
 'in the stands and slowly (very choppy) pans to the field. There's the coin-toss and the teams 
 finally take the field.
  The on-field graphics are generally very good. The players and uniforms look very sharp, the animations 
 are decent, and the game features a number of ways to select a play - by formation, by 'featured 
 player', Lee Corso's 'pick' and more. The AI is smart and plays pretty well on both sides of the 
 ball, and so far I haven't found any 'money plays' but my experience is still somewhat limited. 
 The gameplay is fun, but really fails to draw you into the spirit of the college game unless you 
 play one of the very high-profile teams. Sure, the Swamp looks great, the fans do the Gator Chomp 
 ands all, but the overall presentation wrapped around the gameplay is little more than advertising. 
 I'd like full-screen replays of big plays, I'd like highlights and insight bits during halftime, 
 I'd like the occasional momentary focis on the fans and team bench/mascot. Nope. The 360 gives 
 you none of that, but is sure to let you know that Old Spice sponsors the Red Zone, and you'll 
 hear about Pontiac and Coca-Cola too.... how about in-game updates from other Top25 games? How 
 about a little more atmosphere, school chants, better fight songs, some kind of 'halftime update' 
 instead of what is essentially the pause menu? Many of these things were here last year, the fans 
 were a bigger part, we had all of the stadiums, Division 2 teams, and much more. I can't imagine 
 that this is a 'limitation' of the 360 so much as some idiot at EA insisting on a simultaneous 
 release for all platforms. I understand that EA plans 'updates' va Xbox live, but to pay $59 for 
 a game with nowhere near the same features as the $49 version for PS2 and Xbox is a travesty. BOOOO 
 EA........ now, if I can find a way to return this heap for credit and buy the Xbox version I'd 
 be happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  Before I get started, 2 things, first I hate reviewing a game this quickly after release, because 
 Im almost always regretful of doing so later, second, Ive never played any version of this series, 
 so like others, I cant complain about not having features that the other version had.
  I thought I would never say this, but I think EA Sports and the group at Tiburon finally done it 
 right. This game put everything together in a nice, very clean package, that is a joy to look at.
 
  Gameplay
  The game really makes it very easy for anyone to play, you have 4 or 5 levels that you can play 
 with, and arsenal of features and help screens to help you learn the controller options. This has 
 been one of the easiest sports game to get into, within a few minutes of opening the box, I was 
 in a playing. The menus are very beautiful and easy to use, though they seem somewhat small for 
 the screen size. The play on the field is fast, but with a little practice you can get down the 
 plays quickly. On easy its very easy to past and catch the ball. Nice thing is that on harder 
 levels you can feel the pressure you are under to get the ball out of your hands, because the D 
 Line is coming, and coming quickly.
  Graphics
  The graphics are some of the best Ive seen so far in the 360. The stadiums are rendered in spectacular 
 details; Camp Randall looks amazingly like the real place. The fans are all well detailed and seem 
 to be independently moving, so its a blast to see the fans get excited, because the whole stadiums 
 seem to be moving. The atmosphere of the game is amazingly detail, with the team mascot on the 
 sideline cheering on his team.
  Sound
  Sound in the game is again, well done, and the fight songs for each teams are there and are very 
 well done. The stadium seems to explored when a huge play is made, with cheers and banter. The 
 commentators seem to be on key and follow the game pretty well. Ive heard enough from others that 
 its the same as last year, but again I never played previous version so. The menu music is also 
 well done, and this has to be the first game in recent memories that I didnt turn off the menu 
 music. I really hate menu music.
  Value
  Well this is a tough thing, because Ive always said that I think Microsoft is nuts to charge this 
 much for a game. If you price a game like this at $39 or maybe $45, everyone would want to buy 
 it, but at $59 only the people that truly love football or college sports would even try this game. 
 Its just greed in the computer gaming industry, and Microsoft has made a bad mistake wanting to 
 corner the video game market and charging this much and any game. With that said, I think if you 
 are a football fan or a college sports fan this is without a doubt a must have. There are a few 
 things missing in the games, but most of them I never bother with anyway, the play on the field 
 is the only thing I care for, and it is so well done, that it ALMOST made up for Madden 360 last 
 year. That game still leaves a scare!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guythomas76
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  I love college football and playing is even better. The Graphics are better but the little things 
 that make it more than a football game are not there. Nothing major just things that make you think, 
I liked that". Forr example the magazine cover each week , The pre game shows, not a lot of info 
 on each player personally, the controll on how much to spend on recruiting, disipline, and training. 
 If you never played the game before you would have some difficulty because E. A is saving trees, 
 evidentily, the instructions short and do not explain everything. But in my opinion i loved it 
 overall, only because I love College Football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pup55
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  Its been awhile since I bought a game for my 360. Most of the games that I want come out this fall 
 and beyond but I was really looking forward to this game because it starts the list of games I 
 wanted. I guess with so much anticipation I expected more but got way less. Here are a few things 
 that I just didn't get.....
  
  Ok first things first the intro to a game, why is it so choppy? Well its just an intro so I will 
 let that one go, I shouldn't because this is "Next Gen" but hey the world is not perfect. Second 
 why are men getting stuck on each other? I never seen this in any madden or NCAA game in the past 
 are they still trying to work out the bugs in this new madden engine or are these some Brokeback 
 Mountain football players who just want to hold hands with each other? This doesn't happen often 
 but it really gets on my nerves because I like to run alot of crossing patterns and this is where 
 it happens the most. Why do the current gen games have more content and trick plays than this game? 
 Although I do not play these other modes I would like for them to be on the game considering I 
 paid 60 bucks for it. There may be some other things that people don't like about the game but 
 thats all I could come up with. Only played it for 3 hrs so that all I had to gripe about.
  
  Now the good things, wasn't expecting that one huh? When the game is firing on all cylinders 
 it looks and plays great. the impact stick is a great feature if you have a good running back and 
 crowd noise is on point with the action on the field. I play with Florida State and all the authintic 
 chants are there. My cousin kept complaining about seeing the same cut scenes after every other 
 play but if you sit and watch those there is a good chance for a delay of game penalty against 
 you.
  
  Well I'm going to cut this short and get back to playing this game later this evening before I 
 go online and get my tail kicked. NCAA is a solid football game that will hold you until madden 
 comes out it you don't care for it that much ( who knows what madden will hold scary) but I will 
 probably keep this game anyway ( I need the draft class) so have fun and there is always next year.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FellfromGrace
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 21, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  
  
  Gameplay - This will be the hardest catagory for me to review b/c well I am torn. The collison 
 system in this game is horrible. Way to many "ghost tackles" and way to many "what just happened, 
 how did he fall down" situations. The controlls b/c of this sometimes seem kind of sluggish. I 
 dont really think they are though, I think its just the way the collisions happen that throw it 
 off. Now all this sounds bad so far, BUT the AI in this game is simply incredible. I feel as if 
 the AI in this football game far exceeds that of past games. For example the secondary finally 
 plays in the game with the rest of the defense ! What I mean by this is no longer can you just 
 lob the ball to your reciever 50 yards down field and just watch it sail over the defenders hear, 
 oh no. He will jump up for that ball. 
  So all in all I am going to have to give the gameplay a 5, right in the middle. You have great 
 AI, but ya got terrible movement. **** 5 ****
  
  Graphics - This game looks realllllly sweet ! Well if nothing is moving on your screen anyway. 
 Most people think this thing is just the best looking thing ever. So take this persons opinion 
 with a grain of salt if you will. But I dont think its amazing at all. But its also not bad. I 
 give it a solid **** 7 ****
  
  Sound - Well this is a football game, and to make this short and sweet EA did a great job of nailing 
 the sounds of a college game **** 9 ****
  
  Value - Haha, this is where it falls apart. I will not even bother wasting time typing all the 
 elements that are missing from the 360 version of NCAA '07. I'm sure most of you allready know 
 or have read about it on the forums. Just to name a couple, no trophies and no Race for the Heisman. 
 The fact is folks, EA expects us to pay $10.00 more for this version than what people pay for the 
 Xbox or the PS2 version. AND that one is fully loaded with features. To make matters worse EA intends 
 on releasing new material for this game later over the XBL Market Place. So in other words, if 
 you want the complete game your going to spend more then the orinal 60 bucks which is allready 
 to much. EA fails miserably in the Value catagory once again. However b/c the gameplay itseld does 
 hold some merrit, I cant give it a 1 so I'll give it a **** 3 ****
  
  Reviewers tilt - Sorry But I personally cannot recomend this game. There is simply to much missing 
 and I feel as if EA does not care about its loyal customers anymore. I hope I am proved wrong with 
 next years edition. I give my tilt a **** 3 ****
  
  Conclusion - Why Ea, why? When ya first pop this game in and take you it for a spin and ya load 
 of your first game your thinking "Yes, this looks great" and ya play for a few minutes and you 
 start seing things, or I guess I should say NOT seing things, that you KNOW should be there. Its 
 just a total letdown. I ask EA why b/c I really think the thingd they did good in this game are 
 amazing (like the AI) but the things they did bad or only b/c they purposly left them out or didnt 
 try. And so your left with "why" This game could have been BEAUTIFUL, but instead your left with 
 a piss poor cheap immitation. I guess I should be used to this from EA by now.
  
  4.8 - possibly a rental if you really are a NCAA Football fanatic. Otherwise stay away, if you 
 must buy, buy the Xbox or PS2 version
  
  ***
  Note Edited on 07/21/06
  After finally being able to get onto EA's online servers and play a few online games I realised 
 this game deserves another point to its value and tilt. doesnt do much but does successfully knock 
 this game from bad to mediocre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_roebuck
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of this series since 2001 when my buddies and I started college and I was working 
 for Colorado State Football, proud to be a ram. The series has made some major advancements over 
 the years, 2005 and 2006 being the most noticeable for me. I bought my X-360 specifically for this 
 game and the beautiful graphics. Being down on the field for regualr season games and bowl games 
 I very much remember what it sounded and felt like because it was one of the coolest experiences 
 I have ever had in my life. The Rocky Mountain Showdown of 2003 in front of a sold out crowd at 
 Invesco Field was one of the most amazing things I have ever experienced. The way the crowd would 
 sound when their team did something great or terrible and how the last few minutes of the game 
 were when Van-Pelt tied it up and the game was post-poned for a few minutes because of rain. 2006 
 came the closes to providing this atmosphere, understanding no game will ever come close, 2006 
 was the best. Now I have 2007, man does it look awesome, but there is just something missing. The 
 games dont seem as exciting, in certain areas the game seems to drag along and in others it seems 
 like it moves to fast for the time needed. I have played half a season already with Colorado State, 
 of course, and I know it is the Mountain West but for me it might as well be the Big Twelve or 
 SEC. The plays seem to be either really easy to set up or pure luck happens. I have tried both 
 All-American and Heisman and didnt see much of a difference. I love the game the way it looks, 
 but I hope the graphics didnt set us back a few years in the series. I am really looking forward 
 to next years improvements. I miss the way 2006 made the final minutes of the game feel when you 
 worked your @$$ off to hold onto that lead or get back in position for the perfect 2 minute drill. 
 This game is worth buying I believe, but I would have felt better about it if it were $40. It is 
 still a blast on multiplayer though, AI can never match another player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: screwy_matt
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  NCAA 2007 is undoubtedly the best looking game of the series. Some even say the best playing game 
 of the series. So far this is the most realistic football game I've played. We can point out all 
 the things left out or we can realize this is the first game they have made for the next-gen consoles 
 and not ride it so harshly. The current-gen consoles have had 5-6 years of games to build and perfect 
 on. 
  
  I refuse to hold this game to those standards, new console, new generation, new game. But the i 
 will admit i miss the race for the Heisman. All in all i was in no way let down by the game over 
 all and this just makes me even more excited to see what comes out next year. See you guys in January. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickthegreat87
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  NCAA 07 gameplay and graphics are great but once agian the xbox 360 version has a terrible dynasty 
 mode and these other following problems:
  
  1. Depth chart is harder to view for no reason
  2. Recruiting is harder and not as fun then it 
 was in the past
  3. No create a school or player and importing them into dynasty mode
  4. Menu screen is small and same screened with everything else and isnt even on a new screen witch 
 i liked b/c it felt like being in a actual dynasty mode
  5. No changing the uniforms
  6. No camera shots of fans up-close or the band or cheering
  7. No stadium beat so every stadium 
 is the same sounding fan cheers
  8. No camera changing vison
  9. No race for the heisman mode
  10. No intros before the game of the impact players
  11. No 
 SI magazine for dynasty mode witch I loved
  12. Some ncaa divsions are missing and some stadiums are identical
  13. yes there is 60 years 
 of dynasty mode but its hard to recruit and the depth chart is hard to view for absolutely no reason 
 and no celeabrations for the heisman or the national football title
  14. and the new addition of the espn bottom line doesnt and even work properly
  
  madden 07 
 better not have these non problems in the fanchise mode like:
  1. hard to view depth chart and season stats
  2. small screen and same screened as rest of game 
 modes
  3. very hard to draft players and scout them
  4. no celebrations for super bowl win
  5. no intros before the game of the players
  6. no radio 
 or newspapers 
  7. hard to sign contracts for thr players
  8. no create a team or player and import them into fanchise mode
  9. no player of the game like 
 in the past maddens
  10. hard to view stats and awards of the season
  11. no building new stadiums or upgrades of the stadiums
  12. no coach contracts
  13. no mini 
 camp in the offseason
  14. no report cards on owning your team and fan support and no owners mode like: no setting tickets, 
 food, parking, and ads
  
  14 problems that ea better fix by simply restoring some features so ea sporting series can return 
 to greatest! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdot28
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  My review:
  
  Before I start, let me first say that the main thing I want is a great playing football game. I'm 
 not into "race for the heisman", because honestly, I'd rather just take my created player thru 
 the first 4 years of my dynasty mode. Im not knocking RFTH, just letting those know that if your 
 really into it, your probably not going to agree with my review... second thing to know is that 
 I hate Madden, I hate NBA Live, and other than Fight Night, I really cant stand EA Sports... well, 
 I did like MVP Baseball, but thats gone now...
  
  That said, honestly, I'd give this game about a 8.5 or so.
  
  
  Graphics: 8.5
  Absolutely 
 beautiful to me. The stadiums and players are gorgeous. To actually see the real reflection of 
 the stadium off the helmets and not just some generic lighting is something that is just incredible. 
 The way the sun shines on the players at 12:30 pm at the start of the game, and the way it changes 
 throughout the game is great. The animations are a great addition. Defensive backs are cocky !$%holes 
 after making big plays, Linebackers give the Degeneration X "Suck It" after climbing off a sacked 
 QB. Wr's and RB's constantly look behind as they streak down the field with the ball, checking 
 for defenders, celebrations after big plays, perfect TD celebrations... an example, my slot receiver 
 did an out and up and my flanker did a deep post route... the Saftey went for the Slot receiver 
 leaving my flanker wide open for a 46 yard touchdown... he caught the ball in the endzone and just 
 walked about 5 steps forward almost skipping like it was easy.
  
  Cons:
  The crowd is ugly, and there are clipping issues... I wanted to take some snap shots of my RB diving 
 over the Goal Line, but the ball was clipping all the way into his forearm (looks like his hand 
 was coming out of the tip of the ball) so i didnt take the shot. The QB sometimes gets sacked without 
 actually getting hit, even tho he would have anyway. There is slow down when they pan around the 
 stadium... I dont really mind it tho cause it lets me marvel at the stadium and weather.
  
  Sound: 9
  Pros:
  Crowd Chants "Hey Hey Hey, Goodbye", or when I was up by 17 against #23 Clemson 
 with my Unranked BC Eagles... 2 minutes left, nothing but chants of "Overrated". Tackles sound 
 great with my suround sound.
  
  Cons:
  Same commentary we've been haring for the last 2 years
  
  Gameplay: 8.5
  Pros: 
  But gone 
 are the days of the Offensive line's horrible "blocking"... gone are the days of your lead back 
 running right by the Linebacker leaving you to be crushed. The Passing game is very similar to 
 last year's game. Except the Defensive Backs play the ball a whole lot better. I have yet to see 
 my Defensive Back backpedalling with his back to the QB... sometimes they swat the ball when it 
 could have been an easy Interception, but I'm guessing thats to keep the stats a little more realistic.
 
  
  Cons:
  I never thought EA could pull of making a Football game play as good as this does, but there are 
 a few errors... obviously the sacks where you dont even make contact... and they seemed to have 
 back tracked to older Madden's in that you have to use the Dive button to make a tackle... (normally 
 u can run into the ball carrier and it would go into a tackle animation, now u just kinda run into 
 the guy) ... and everyone knows the first day of practice on Defense, your taught to drive off your 
 feet... not completely dive. 
  
  The AI is much improved, but there is one thing that they still havent really fixed... the computer 
 really doesnt attack ur weaknesses. Playing as Boston College, my DBs are almost like in prevent... 
 even if they are in a Cover 2 Man... (meaning they give up a lot of 5-12 yard passes) yet playing 
 Clemson, midway thru the 3rd, their QB had only attempted 9 passes (5 min quarters) ... and they 
 were pretty much content on 3 yard runs... I would have liked the computer to have tried to exploit 
 my defense a little more... make me have to correct my playcalling.
  
  Overall: 8.5
  
  I just think its a great game of football... it doesnt have the race for heisman, but like I said, 
 I didn't care for RPG football, and with the improvements theyve made in On Field Gameplay, Im 
 more than happy with my purchase. If your like me, and actually care about what happens between 
 the goal lines, then I recommend this game for you. If your more into taking History Tests and 
 clicking on a button that reads "Social Event" and moving to the next day of a calendar, then I 
 wouldnt recommend getting this game. Its the first version of the game for the 360, and its not 
 a port... therefore the non football features didnt make it in this year... but the gameplay is 
 there, the graphics and animations are there, the stadium feel is there, everything is there except 
 GPAs and Campus Popularity.
  
  Get this game if you like football.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LakersFan427
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  The NCAA Football series has been increasingly better year after year, in my opinion, but there 
 was always something lacking from each game: the true "college" aspect. Sure, you had all of the 
 119 main NCAA 1A teams, their mascots, stadiums, logos, etc., but when it came right down to it, 
 you still didn't feel like you were completely immersed in that college atmosphere. At least I 
 didn't.
  
  Until this year. With the release of NCAA Football 07, I finally feel that true college atmosphere 
 when I start up a game. With the input of the brilliant Momentum Meter, along with the introduction 
 of the new "Smart Fans," this finally starts to truly feel like college football. The "Authentic 
 College Atmosphere," as EA Sports put it, can definitely be felt in this game.
  
  Sure, it's almost impossible for any game to be perfect, and, as with many games, there are still 
 some minor issues that can be improved upon in the release of NCAA 08. But, when comparing this 
 year's release to the previous games in this series, I can say, without a doubt, that NCAA Football 
 07 was worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Ice
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  One would think for a next generation game that this would have everything. Well if you like to 
 fully edit your player you better get the PS2 OR xbox VERSIONS. The gameplay is excellent (AI IS 
 FANTASTIC) Playbooks are good. Not the same ole stuff. I just hope they fixed Madden this year 
 and I hope this is not a preview of the Madden game... If you like a good challenge, the game is 
 for you, graphics are first class, and gameplay is first rate. So who cares if you can't fully 
 edit the player. Gameplay is what it's all about. But their are some secret options so I will be 
 very cautious on saying what the game doesn't have. For instance on the online option their is 
 a uniform download which might be what we think the game lacks.. It might just be a whole can of 
 great worms, so lets just wait and see what some of the unlockables are before we give it the kiss 
 of death for missing some features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MountainDew77
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I was skeptical at first to buy this game, only because NCAA 07 is the series debut on the 360. 
 And we all know how Madden's debut went... = (
  But, after playing the demo, I realized that this game might actually be fun.
  I was correct. 
 
  
  Usually in sports games, I never play exhibitions, except when I first get the game... But this 
 game was different... I actually am excited to take my Volunteers, and pummel Florida for a 3rd 
 straight time! Well, I wouldn't exactly call it pummeling, but that is what I hope the end result 
 is. The only reason I dont destroy Florida is the AI in the game. They adapt after every play and 
 that makes it tougher, and tougher to beat the rivals. 
  
  Also, 1 key thing in this game is the atmosphere of the games. Every time a make a big hit, the 
 crowd roars in excitement... Everytime my opponent catches an interception, the crowd gets quiet, 
 or boos. (not sure if they boo me or the opponent =D ) It really gets your Adrenaline pumping!
 
  
  Overall, this is a fun game that you can't afford to miss... GO pick it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EastsideMafia
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  First off, let just say that NCAA 07 is a welcome addition to the 360 library after the disaster 
 that was Madden 06. With that being said, it still comes across as a great game that could have 
 been the defining entry in the series. It has the graphics that you'd expect, the stadium atmosphere 
 is welcome (although I still believe that it doesn't match the stadium atmosphere of 2006 Fifa 
 WC, but I digress) , The gameplay moves at a more realistic pace, and the animations have been improved 
 over last years.
  What keeps NCAA 07 from being close to perfect is the fact that so much of the new additions that 
 were a welcome inclusion in previous versions are missing on the 360. No more college career mode 
 (Big Man on Campus mode) , no more formation subs (wasn't that a staple since the 98 version?) , 
 no more coaching up players and exploiting rattled and less talented players, no more multiple 
 position awards, no more historic teams or create a school; basically, it feels like EA once again 
 short changed the 360 version of one of their most successful franchises. 
  For those that want a simple game of college football, then NCAA 07 360 is a great game, however, 
 if you're looking for the familiar strategic elements that you've gotten used to, along with the 
 expected bells and whistles of a nexgen title, then you may be dissappointed. If you still own 
 your PS2 or XBOX, buy that version instead. You may find that you actually get more value for your 
 dollar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nitsujlsu
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  The kick is deep; he catches it at his own 4 yard line. He makes it to the 10, the 15, the 20, 
 and down at the 22. Time to pick a play. Wait, what happened to the playbook. Ok pick a pass play. 
 Change a route. Change player... Change player... DELAY OF GAME. 
  
  Unfortunately this happened to me 5 times on my first drive. The plays in the book are difficult 
 to make out. There are different categories of plays to choose from such as formation, player, 
 and thankfully still Ask Corso. Once you pick a categorie you have to pick the plays individually 
 (Blitz style) instead of the normal 3 button approach. Then to send anyone in motion or change 
 a hot route you have to manually select the player. All this while the play clock moves slightly 
 faster than normal and bam; Five yard penalty.
  
  Well I guess this is more of a gripe than a review. Other than this and all the missing features 
 such as campus legend and the boost pennants this is still a pretty good game.
  The one thing that would really make this game for me (on the off chance that an EA developer should 
 happen to see this) would be more band moments. First down songs, second down, three and out. I 
 am a huge LSU fan and would love to hear The Pregame song while the team is running out on the 
 field or Chinese Bandits after a stop on 3rd down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paynehos
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Well Ive played through 5 games so far and this game is a very big disappointment. OUt of the first 
 5 games ive played only Jordan Hare is there nothing for Texas Tech, TCU, Troy, and so forth. I 
 would recommend buying the XboX or PS2 version since its cheaper and you get more stadiums the 
 Div 2 teams and create a player. Dont waste your time or money on this load of junk EA has put 
 out. Ive seen places where my guy would be 4 yards away from someone who was pancaked and that 
 person ends up getting the tackle and ruins what would of been a good run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_otter
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  EA Sports should have taken another couple of weeks to finish refining this game. It is just my 
 opinion, but EA can scrap the whole Race for the Heisman, Big Man on Campus, and Create a Superstar 
 mode. So, having to give up that feature for the 360 is no loss to me. However, I spent over $300 
 for a Next-Gen gaming console and I feel like I am playing games that are 2 or 3 years old, but 
 with good graphics. 
  
  How many losses should I have to accept at the cost of better graphics? Let me tell you what you 
 are not going to get if you buy the 360 version of NCAA 2007:
  1. As mentioned aboveno Big Man on Campus mode 
  2. No Defensive hot routes! (You can still 
 shift you line, linebackers or change up the coverage of your DBs, but you can NOT tell a specific 
 LB or DB to blitz, spy, or cover zone) . 
  3. No substituting players by formation, what the heck EA?! Why would you NOT have this?
  4. 
 No Div I-AA schools nor will you be able to create a school. (You can still create a player though) .
 
  5. No ESPN magazine covers or articles (in all fairness you can still see the Coca-Cola P. O. T. W., 
 who is leading in the Heisman race, conference standings, and BCS standings) .
  6. No unlocking pennants, cheats, historic or mascot teams. (I could care less about these features, 
 I would rather they save the memory and time to make the college fight songs sound better) .
  7. No player discipline problems as there were in NCAA 2006. 
  8. No rivalry game trophies (UGA 
 vs. Florida is still called the Worlds Biggest Cocktail Party, but there is no graphic for the 
 Battle of the Jeweled Shillelagh) .
  9. No Create a Sign. (If you have a mascot, say Harry Dawg, youll see him do pushups, dance, 
 etc, but the crowd at UGA is pretty lifeless. Sometimes the fans on NCAA 2006 got on my nerves, 
 but I must admit they did add to the atmosphere of the college experience. I havent played FSU 
 or UF, but I hear the fans do the Tomahawk Chop and the Gator Chomp respectively) .
  10. No extreme player celebrations or user controlled celebrations. 
  11. Only 2 players can 
 play at once and loading multiple profiles (if you have a several user dynasty) is a pain in the 
 arse.
  12. No custom playbook! ! !
  13. You can NOT coach individual units during a time out.
  14. No player composure (the green 
 and red meter that showed if your players were composed or rattled) . 
  15. No in game stat boost or drops. As far as I know, you 89 overall rated QB can throw 15 interceptions 
 and still be rated an 89 the whole game. 
  
  Things I like:
  1. The 360 version does have the trick plays and the Pistol formation. Huge playbooks (maybe 
 even a little overwhelming) . 
  2. Graphics are good. Stadiums look great, but I think some of the player motions look funny.
 
  3. I like the multiple ways of calling a play: by formation, key player, or type of play. BUT, 
 if you are playing against a cheesy opponent, who looks at your play calling screen, you will have 
 to bluff the play call EVERYTIME. 
  4. In Season recruiting seems much the same so far.
  5. Players now have a plethora of more stats. Elusiveness, BC Vision (I dont know what this does 
 though?) , trucking, kick/punt return, and many others. 
  
  Overall, it is a good game in my opinion, but I would have been MUCH HAPPIER if EA had taken more 
 time to add, the ESPN magazine, the ability to sub a player by formation, defensive hot routes, 
 custom playbooks, and made the passing hot routes easier. You have to cycle to the player whose 
 route you want to change, press Y, and then select of 1 of 8 hot routes. 
  
  For me, it is imperative that EA add all of the above features by the 2008 version and they can 
 scrap all the mini-games for all I care, they are crap. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Streetballfan21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 18, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best NCAA Football ever. the game is set up with great gameplay great graphics 
 and it seems they did everything right. But the only problem is they cut the race for the heisman. 
 the gameplay is the best i have ever seen. it's so realistic. everything looks fantastic in the 
 game. this is a must get for football fans and it's great practice for madden when it comes. sound 
 is good to. they say alot of things they you feel they are actually stuck in the game. some value 
 in the the game not alot because madden is coming but for hardcore Ncca fans it's best best thing 
 that hapeen since the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bentleylax2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so the features arent the same as the current gen, but frankly i dont miss them at all. 
 The graphics are good, the gameplay is the best its been in years, and for once ea has put out 
 a decent next gen game. I am UCONN fan and they have a bunch of the things for them. I havent played 
 as anyone else, but im sure they are probably even more accurate. Running in the game is a complete 
 joy, and i have found my self in shocked silence at some of the plays you can do, reggie bush plays 
 are now possible. The games are realistic, and its not that easy to blow anyone out, the pace and 
 motion of the game in general is nice. Graphically, there are some jaggies here and there, and 
 some times the characters get caught on one another... the game would have benefited from another 
 couple weeks of cleaning up. but the game looks good anyway. 
  The weather effects are kinda cool. The snow accumulates, but not that much (nfl fever had the 
 best) . Puddles form on the field when it rains hard, and the sun sets to night during the game. 
 That to me is the coolest, cuz you watch the shadows creep across the stadium and watch the lights 
 turn on.
  The game play is tight. it is as smooth as current gen, but up to next gen in looks and smoothness 
 of motion. Player animations arent anything to write home about, but they add to the feel. The 
 fans in the stadium are cool, and get excited at the right times and look great.
  overall i would say that this game is worth anyone's money. Even if you arent a big football fan, 
 there is enough here to keep you entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nachoking2k2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 18, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game hyped for a while. Yes it's missing features and it does hurt the score in my 
 opinion. There are stadiums in this game that should not be in it, and then important ones missing. 
 I understand that will take time to get each stadium down. The thing that hurts this game the most 
 to me is the annoying frame rate bogdown during cut scenes and at the beginning. If your going 
 to portray the "college football atmosphere", having sluggish video isn't going to help that. Gameplay 
 wise the game plays better than current gen in my opinion, also better than Madden. Screens work 
 for once, haven't had a problem with that. Running game varies on who you play with. I couldn't 
 do squat with FSU, but i played as OSU, I could run up the middle better. FSU doesn't have that 
 great of a line going into this year. The game is fundamentally sound. Players do tend to skate 
 though which can also be annoying. Blocking kicks is actually allowed. Interceptions feel right. 
 I like having a DB back in coverage, seeing him read the pass and being able to step up and make 
 a smooth transition on the interception. I like to actually see the FB pick up a blitzing LB as 
 well. Blocking is better on this game. I do wish there were more full screen replays, I don't like 
 to squint. I like the menu interface. I haven't gotten into franchise yet because i'm waiting on 
 my rosters to arrive and I have to have my xbox replaced. The crowd could have also have been better. 
 ESPN integration is basically nonexistant. If I wanted to see what was going on in the "real world" 
 I would look on the internet or watch sportscenter. I don't like how EA is playing everyone and 
 not including features in the game. They don't have to focus on current gen, they release the same 
 game every year. Overall though I do like playing this game and it looks good and on the field 
 you get a good feeling playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notoriousmatty
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 18, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Best NCAA football game of all time! Great Gameplay and pace that still manages to be fun for people 
 that know how to play the game of football like it should be played. Rarely will somebody run "through" 
 another players body and balls dont go through heads and hands anymore. The animations couldnt 
 be any better from throwing off your back foot and on the the run to shoe string tackles. The graphics 
 could of used a little more work on the grass and stadiums (anti-alising problems) , maybe madden 
 07s 3d grass would of come in to make this a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mossthefreak
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I cant hate this game. I cant. Its... just so cute!
  
  Sorry but its true! EA's latest installment is nothing more then good, and thats fine with me. 
 Just like alot of you out there, I got rid of all my systems to make way for the 360. Madden 2006 
 was sucha huge disappointment... so huge I traded it in. Since then I havnt played a football game... and 
 I've been goin crazy. EA has done a ok job tweaking the controls every year. At first I hated this 
 new kicking system 07 has. As you play it more, it grows on you, and you become good at it. The 
 depth of NCAAF has always been its heart. If your a DIE hard fan of NCAA then you might not like 
 the 360 version... but if you can settle for a DEEP dynasty mode and some other goodies... you'll 
 find this game just fine. Lets get to the point... should YOU buy it? Yes. I'm gonna be honest... its 
 not amazing... but it shows whats to come from EA in the future! (I. E. Madden 07) The controls are 
 on point... feeling differnt, but feeling solid. The create a player is toned down. You cant do 
 much more then fill out your info, and select your height and weight. But honestly it holds me 
 over, the player modles you can choose from are awesome. The stadiums are beautiful, you really 
 get that college game day feel. If your on the fence about this game, hop over and buy it.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robnliz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I got this game at midnight and it was worth every penny the gameplay is great it is so realistic 
 memorial stadium (for you husker fans) looks amazing The ability to jump a snap to try and get 
 an advantage over the offensive line is fun. i played the mini game bowling thats really fun. EA 
 really did a good job with this game dont listen to the naysayers if you love football you will 
 love this game. the only reason that i couldnt give it a 10 was because the announcers have the 
 same lines for the most part as last year. the only thing missing is the home teams fight song 
 after a score but other than that this game is fantastic a must buy for all fans of college football.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbyar
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game for 4 hours after picking it up at midnight I am going in tommarrow and 
 trading it in for something else. The xbox version of NCAA 06 was the greatest football game to 
 come out last year and I was drooling at the mouth for this game. Now I am foaming at the mouth 
 at how much has changed for the worst.
  
  A - Calling a Hot Route is now HORRIBLE
  B- The crowd is pointless (The crowd was such a big factor of 06 and now they are just backgorunds)
 
  C- Where did all the teams go???
  D- No race for the hiesman.
  E- Mini Games are fun the first couple of times but after that no thanks 
  F- Menu screens suck
 
  G- Ok I get it you have wonderful stadiums not stop shoving them in my face.
  H- The kicking system is bad
  
  ETC....
  
  I am so glad I kept my Xbox and my NCAA 06. 
 After playing this game I have now taken my name off the pre-order for Madden 07 untill I have 
 played more then just the demo.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSix6075
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Great game for people who know how to play...... Another good game, personally im glad ea bought 
 out all the rights in football games, go by % of good reviews not a few people who can't play it.. 
 I think Madden will be even better, worth 60$ for people who can play games most of these bad reviews 
 are from, Disgruntled players, lol anyone can bash something they arent good at.... neways check 
 it out if you want a step up from ps2 and xbox... only thing they could ahve done better is keep 
 all 3 games exactly the same... ENJOY great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets1240
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 18, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing NCAA Football games from 2003 on when Joey Harrington was on the cover. I own 
 every one. This one, now with cover boy Reggie Bush was supposed to be a letdown. When i bought 
 it i thought that it would cuz people were saying no features blah blah blah. They might have lost 
 a few features, but the gameplay and graphics step up and are the best sports graphics i have ever 
 seen, period. I started out playing as Brady Quinn and the mighty Norte Dame Fighting Irish. I 
 went through the first season easily. Going undefeated and Quinn won the Heisman. Dynasty mode 
 is great as usual. One big letdown was no SI Covers. I used to love seeing my star player on the 
 cover of it. The Stadium deatail is amazing. It feels like you are there with the cutscenes and 
 chanting of the fans. I also liked the commentary as it is every year, by Brad, Lee and Kirk. This 
 game is a must buy! I cant wait till madden comes out so i can get my exported players and put 
 them in madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kloudwalker
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for a few hours now and I do plan on keeping it. The only issues 
 I noticed that were annoying was the collision detection ie., players running through other players 
 and the announcer saying things like "Number 11 with the tackle and number 8 with the reception" 
 when number 11 is actually the receiver and number 8 is the tackler. A small gripe but you do notice 
 it. This really is a good game and I'm sure I'll be playing it for awhile probably even after Madden 
 comes out. I've always liked the college games. Looking forward to March Madness whenever that 
 may be, UNLV is my team, being from Las Vegas, now living in Kansas. Let's Go Rebels! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerboy1414
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Like many gamers i was checking the forum to see what was the intial impression about the game 
 for gamers who were lucky enough to recieve the game earlier than EA planned, and most of the time 
 i was dissapointed with what i say. Let me say that after playing it, i am a happy man. The graphics, 
 player models, and stadiums are so beautiful and the gameplay feels right, and now you can actually 
 block FG's. I watch a lot of football and i think that the graphics and gameplay make it seem as 
 realistic as ever. Also i really like the new kicking feature, its really easy to pick up, and 
 they now have seperate buttons for a hard (flick R stick) and soft juke (the A button) which make 
 cutting through holes even easier. The running game is much more realistic, and is made funner 
 and more rewarding with the seperate juke buttons. 
  The menus are a little confusing at first but after 20min youll get use to them, and not even notice. 
 The announcinfg is good, but i dont care for it instead i play music. May people are complaining 
 about the lack of Race for the Heisman and Campus legend mode, but i dont care because i never 
 liked playing them; all i care about is a solid dynasty, and it is present. I To sum it all up, 
 i have a PS2 and an xbox360 and i love college football (have bought it since 2002 when i was 11) , 
 after playing both i bought the xbox360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesserulz233
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Let me first say that I am a huge college football fan so this was a must-buy for me. The graphics 
 in this game are unreal. Everything from the reflections in the helmets to the sweat on the arms 
 is just amazing. The jerseys look so real that i forget that this is just a game. The gameplay 
 is the real selling point. I love when you are the running back and you break a defenders ankels 
 by faking them out with a juke or makeing them land on there face when you spin in the other direction. 
 I love the new kicking system. The only problem is the small stutter in the framerate when scanning 
 the crowd. The sound is amazing. I love when you bust out a 20-30 yard run and the crowd erupts 
 or when your on defense and its 3rd down and the crowd is going crazy. The announcing team isn't 
 the best but it is not bad. All in all this is best college if not best football game ever!! PERIOD. 
 I recommend you pick this game and I promise you will not be able to stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stratospaly
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I started as Arkansas, because of there great recruiting this year. First game of the season USC 
 vs. Arkansas. I was up 21-7 after the first Q, 28-10 at the half. From there on the AI caught wind 
 of my strategy and totally shut me down, as it should have!
  
  I was mainly testing the game to see if past "$ plays" worked and to my surprise... no, 3/4 of 
 the time it was a sack or fumble, of corse this was past the first quarter of using these strategies 
 and scoring 3 TDs. 
  
  Playing agents USC, I did not expect to win, but eeked out a 25-28 upset by blocking a FG with 
 .18 left on the clock!!
  
  I do not like to lose, I love stats and making my stars look like all-time-gods of the game.. but 
 the suspense of the close game, and knowing the AI would not give me anything with cheap plays, 
 was oddly refreshing. No more hailmary + run with the QB plays when its 4th and 4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bundesligaBM
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 18, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  The Madden Game engine of last year has gotten some tweaks and is looking pretty good this year. 
 The game is beautiful with a lot of new animations.. you can't really go wrong by looking at this 
 game. The gameplay is solid although I've noticed some of the old passing AI bugs back, those out 
 routes are easier to complete again. The Xbox version has the newier formations like the Shotgun 
 love Meyer gives the Flordia Gators, which is missing from the 360 version as well. I'm not to 
 sure why "next generation" lacks anything that the old system offers but it does. If you can forget 
 about that you can enjoy a very good football game... at least until Madden arrives.
  
  Where are the helmet stickers? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skwurlking
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 18, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  This game is solid. I just want to say that before the rest of my review. I enjoy the game. However, 
 there are too many technical issues that slipped past EA to warrant this game getting a higher 
 review. Collision detection is horrible. In the first game I played last night, I saw 3 faulty 
 collision detection glitches. Tackles were made from more than 3 yards away without the defender 
 ever touching the ball carrier. Not only that, but the frame rate at some points is terrible. These 
 are all issues that should have been worked out prior to release. On the positive side, I really 
 like the new kick system. It works similar to the golf swing mechanic on Tiger Woods, and it was 
 a nice addition to the gameplay. Also, once again EA has dropped the ball on features for the next 
 gen machines. You'll be paying 60 plus dollars on the game just for the prettier graphics and less 
 substance. Overall, if you're a college football fan like me, you'll enjoy the game if you can 
 overlook all the glaring technical issues and lack of features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 18, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  NCAA Football 2007 for the XBox 360 is pretty much what I expected: it's the same solid college 
 gridiron action with a little more flash. It's far from perfect, and it's obvious that the developers 
 need to make a more concerted effort at achieving that next-gen feel next year, but for now we've 
 got ourselves a winner.
  
  Highlights: the mini-games are fun diversions, the online play seems to be hitch-free so far, and 
 the controls are logically mapped to the buttons/sticks. I'm particularly impressed with some of 
 the player animations. The dynasty mode is deep, and some of the gimmicky stuff (i. e., last year's 
 "Race for the Heisman" mode) has been pared down.
  
  Lowlights: literally, the game seems dark to me even with my TV settings adjusted, and overall 
 the visuals don't make a real quantum leap from the XBox or PS2; the music and commentary needs 
 a major overhaul; and the flavor of the college game needs to be recaptured (just showing the occasional 
 fan, mascot, or cheerleader doesn't seem to do it) .
  
  I could be more impressed, but since this game is pretty steady from year to year, I'd rather see 
 a solid product than one that whores itself out to wholesale changes that ultimately "fix what 
 ain't broke." NCAA Football 2007 scores as usual, and brings promise of something even greater 
 next season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmielnik
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  First off ive been waiting for a NCAA football game for about 2 years (Ex-owner of a Nintendo Gaycube) 
 and it was worth every second! This game is the sh*t! If you are even moderatly interested in football 
 than this is the game for you! This is perhaps the best game out for the 360. It beats Oblivion 
 in my book.
  
  Now the game. In my first game I played Tennesse against my Gators. On my first possesion I was 
 22 yards from scoring. I handed the ball off to DeShawn Wynn. I ran straight through line dodging 
 tacklers and jumping over DL's. The FS wrapped me up but I burst through using the "new" power 
 button! I had actually made a realisitc looking run! I was almost real! I was beating Tennesse 
 49-35. My Gators stopped them on their 23 yard line. They lined up to kick the ball. Perfect snap. 
 Perfect hold. But. My star DT burst through the line and swated the ball from the air. I BLOCKED 
 A KICK! I hadnt done that since NCAA 2003! Has it really been 4 years? I couldnt believe it! In 
 the 4th period Tennesse lined up for a desperation FG. They needed to score fast. I lead 56-49. 
 The snap.... away from the holder! They messed up the snap! Holy Jamalama! THis game is actually 
 real!
  
  The tackles are realistic! Everything looks real. This game plays and feels like a actual football 
 game! If you like football than there is no excuse! You must get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g_hart
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  I read the reviews of people that bought this game early and I was a little unsure of how good 
 the game will actually be to me. I'll have to say that I was pleasantly surprised. I expected it 
 to be more like Madden 06 because it was the first NCAA Football game on 360, but obviously EA 
 put a little more time into this one. Even with the missing features, I would have to say that 
 this is the best game of the series. Graphics are great. AI is better. The overall game is just 
 a lot better than I expected. 
  
  There may be people who rate this game higher than me and there may be some that are lower, but 
 don't listen to anyone who says this game is terrible because they'll never be happy with football 
 until NFL 2K is back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeminus
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  "NCAA" has always been a really fun series, and this year's version for the Xbox 360 is really 
 fun, too. But I've gotta ask: Am I the only one who expected a little bit more than that?
  
  At what point do we start demanding more from the 360? As a so-called "next-generation" gaming 
 console, what is it exactly that defines this generation? The ability to generate high-definition 
 visuals?
  
  When did this turn into a beauty pageant? Great graphics do not great games make.
  
  We've 
 yet to see a title on the Xbox 360 that, in terms of its gameplay, could not have existed on the 
 original Xbox or even the PlayStation 2. "NCAA 07" is no exception.
  
  Despite some occasionally spotty frame rates, the game looks absolutely *fantastic* -- especially 
 on an HD set. Seriously, if I wanted to be as fair as possible, I'd spend the next 10 minutes mopping 
 up puddles of my own drool over how great this game looks compared to what you get on PS2 or Xbox. 
 For instance, the lighting effects are stunning -- especially when you're playing an evening game 
 and the sun goes down during the course of the action, and the entire complexion of the field changes 
 with it. And what about when it's raining and the field gets muddy and your players' uniforms start 
 to pick up stains  is that cool or what? I mean, go ahead and invite your friends over right now 
 and pop it in. They'll be amazed. They'll be floored. They'll be so excited they might need a diaper.
 
  
  Until they pick up the controller, that is.
  
  You might reasonably expect that a brand new, bleeding-edge machine with unparalleled power under 
 its hood would be capable of more than its technological predecessors. But if you used "NCAA 07" 
 as your yardstick, you'd be profoundly disappointed.
  
  The game not only does less than this year's Xbox and PS2 versions, it arguably does less than 
 "NCAA 05" did two years ago.
  
  This is probably where I should mention that I've always been a huge fan of the "NCAA" series and 
 of EA Sports in general. This game won't change my loyalty to either one. I fully expect next year's 
 "NCAA" for the Xbox 360 to be great. But this year's, well, that's a different story. This year's 
 is a pretty sad excuse for next-gen gaming.
  
  Perhaps the reason that's so obvious to me is this: I've also played the PS2, Xbox and PSP versions 
 of this year's game. And surprisingly enough (to me, anyway) , I prefer PS2 or Xbox. No, they don't 
 look nearly as good, but they might the best ever in the series in terms of the overall gameplay 
 experience.
  
  Look at it this way: When the game was released for the first time on the PS2 five years ago, did 
 you ever once even *consider* that the PSX version might be better? Of course you didn't.
  
  So why is it such a prevalent question this time around? Well, quite frankly, it's because 
 the industry isn't ready for a next generation of consoles yet. There's no revolutionary step taking 
 place here (until Wii comes out, anyway) . In fact, in the case of "NCAA 07," the only steps being 
 taken are backwards.
  
  The differences between what you get on the Xbox/PS2 and what you get on the 360 are pretty glaring.
 
  
  Most obviously, threre's no "Campus Legend" mode on the 360 version. Like the "Race for the Heisman" 
 mode in previous years, "Campus Legend" provides an over-arching, almost RPG-like context to your 
 gameplay. To some of the youngsters on the GameSpot message board, this would qualify only as a 
 "gay feature" that's unnecessary, because, you know, they're hardcore and all that matters is the 
 gameplay. To those posters, I would simply ask, "If all that matters is the gameplay, why do you 
 buy the same game every year?"
  
  But whatever. I believe God is in the details. I believe that little things can often add up to 
 big things. I think features are oftentimes the difference between good games and great games. 
 
  
  Apparently that makes me gay. Fine.
  
  In any case, "feature-rich" is not a description one would likely apply to this game. It's got 
 all the necessary stuff, and almost nothing more. Customized playbooks? Nope. Standing formation 
 substitutions? Sorry. Create-a-school? Forget about it. Alternate uniforms? No dice. Classic teams? 
 Yeah, right. On-the-field matchup comparisons? Puh-leeze.
  
  Hell, you can't even change the camera angle from the default setting. Welcome back to 1995.
 
  
  This game also doesn't have a jump/hurdle button for when you're running the ball. On defense, 
 you can't consciously attempt to strip the ball  you just have to go for a big hit and hope for 
 the best.
  
  We're also missing player introductions along with any other pre-game or post-game activity to 
 speak of. Each game starts with a virtual coin toss (not on the field with actual players) and 
 ends with a whistle and the abrupt display of a front-end menu. (Perhaps they couldn't do a real 
 on-field coin toss, because officiating crews don't exist in the 360 universe  they don't appear 
 during gameplay, either; for comparison's sake, "Madden" has had that feature since at least 1998.) 
 Most, if not all (I can't be certain) , team mascots eventually show up after scores, but that's 
 about all we get as far as the "pageantry" of college football is concerned. Heck, half the teams 
 play in generic stadiums that bear no resemblance whatsoever to their actual home field.
  
  Oh, and there are bugs. Some are mostly inconsequential, such as the kicking statistics being totally 
 screwed up. Others are unforgivable, such as the time the game just stopped responding near the 
 end of the second quarter of a hard-fought game against one of my rivals. I'd just stopped them 
 to bring up 3rd-and-four when I realized it had been a while since the whistle blew. The players 
 were still just trotting around on the field. The commentary had stopped completely. Eventually 
 the players just stopped moving and stood around, shifting their weight from foot to foot. None 
 of the buttons or button-combinations on the controller would bring back the front-end. All I could 
 do was shut the machine off. Of course, I was leading at the time.
  
  Other bugs are simply ubiquitous. I don't think I've encountered a single possession on offense 
 or defense where the game's sketchy collision-detection didn't come into play. I've lost count 
 of the number of times one of my running backs or receivers has "snagged" on a defensive player 
 and they both just run in place while facing each other for several seconds until someone else 
 finally comes along to break up the play.
  
  The core gameplay is exactly the same as it's been for the last five or so years. There have been 
 some minor tweaks, including revamped AI and the addition of a handful of new animations (the latter 
 also available on other consoles) . On special teams, punt returns seem a lot harder, but blocking 
 kicks is a million times easier. (I blocked two in my first game, before I even knew what I was 
 doing.) On offense, passing seems tougher and CPU defensive AI  particularly in the secondary 
 -- seems smarter. (See, it's not all bad!) On defense, it seems much tougher to penetrate the line 
 for a sack (unless you "jump the snap"; see below) , but on the other hand I averaged at least 2 
 interceptions per game on the default "Varsity" difficulty level. Against a poor QB  even before 
 I got used to the new controls -- I could easily pick off 5 or 6 passes, returning many of them 
 for touchdowns. That's a little much.
  
  Speaking of difficulty levels, there seems to be an even greater discrepancy between them than 
 ever before, which is hard to believe. During my first "Dynasty" season on the "Varsity" difficulty 
 level, I struggled through the first half of a 9-4 campaign (probably due to the change in controls) , 
 barely squeaking past even the lowliest of opponents. After week 3 of that season, I decided to 
 play a "Quick Game" on the "Freshman" difficulty level just to see how much easier it would be, 
 and I ended up winning the game (against a #2 ranked opponent) by a score of 104-0.
  
  By the beginning of my second "Dynasty" season, I'd gotten accustomed to the new controls and was 
 routinely running up the score on even top-ranked teams. So, I switched to All-American and got 
 humiliated by a mediocre opponent. Each difficulty level is a fairly huge step up, which could 
 be good or bad depending on your perspective. In my opinion, that's fine for an action/adventure 
 game that's pretty much the same every time you play it, but for a football game  which offers 
 an entirely new experience with each and every snap of the ball, and which is ostensibly intended 
 to create a highly realistic simulation of the genuine article  the difference between difficulty 
 levels should be considerably more subtle. That's not really a big deal, though. Just a minor nitpick.
 
  
  The big gameplay change this year is the "Momentum Meter." It's as simple as this: When you make 
 a big play, the game's momentum swings in your favor and your team plays better. The flip side 
 is obvious: When you make a stupid mistake  such as throwing a bad interception or fumbling the 
 ball deep in your own territory  the momentum swings toward your opponent. More than ever before, 
 this encourages conservative play-calling, because once momentum is against you it can sometimes 
 be ridiculously hard to get it back -- even if you're Ohio State and your opponent is San Jose 
 State. If you make a big mistake early in the game, you might lose to a much, much worse team  
 which is kind of dumb, in my opinion. Maybe in the parity-rich NFL momentum can be the difference 
 between a win and a loss, but in the college ranks the better team is almost always the better 
 team, regardless. 
  
  The new addition I actually kind of like is the "Jump the Snap" button. If you're playing as a 
 defensive lineman and you time your jump *just right*, you can bust into the backfield for a sack 
 or tackle-for-loss. Of course, if you don't time it properly, you end up costing your team a penalty, 
 or at the very least getting owned by the offensive lineman. I'll have to admit, though, that the 
 sheer overwhelming dominance of a well-timed "Jump the Snap" has me a little concerned that multi-player 
 games will devolve into nothing more than a contest to see who can "Jump the Snap" more effectively. 
 If one or both players master this skill, the rest of the game simply won't matter much.
  
  Another change is the system for picking plays in multi-player games. It's a bit clunky, and makes 
 it fairly easy to guess which play your opponent picked. Too bad you can't play two-player co-op 
 instead. (Unless you get the Xbox or PS2 version, that is.)
  
  Based on my first off-season, that part has changed a bit, too. Recruiting is considerably more 
 difficult than in past years. Apparently the days of loading up with 8-10 blue-chip recruits every 
 summer are gone. I was actually prepared to mark that down as an improvement, until I saw how well 
 the other schools recruited. My team finished #13 in the final BCS rankings, but only finished 
 #38 in terms of recruiting classes. In last year's version of the game, I don't think I ever finished 
 lower than 2nd place in recruiting, even when my team had a so-so season. 
  
  By the way, you don't have to distribute points between recruiting and discipline anymore. Disciplinary 
 infractions don't exist on the Xbox 360. How many lines of code could that possibly have required? 
 
  
  Overall, this is a good game that should have been great, and in my book there's nothing more disappointing 
 than that. Playing "NCAA 07," you simply cannot escape the feeling that it could've used a little 
 more time in the oven. In a few years' time this is a game that will be remembered more for what 
 it *didn't* do than for what it did. And in that respect, the game is a symbol of almost everything 
 that's wrong with the industry: When you boil it all down, it's an unoriginal sequel that's been 
 rushed to the market to capitalize on a new system that offers absolutely nothing groundbreaking, 
 and it'll be snapped up by the lemmings who've been conditioned to think that slightly better graphics 
 and updated rosters are worth $60 each and every year.
  
  With "NCAA 07," you get what you pay for, and so much less. Here's hoping EA Sports makes it up 
 to us with "NCAA 08."
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgillmaine01
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  If you got Madden last year for 360. You could have been disappointed (very disappointed) . For 
 many reasons. Because overall it was a rushed game. Now after that big Mistake. EA has gone back 
 to the drawing board and remade a great "next gen" sports game for the 360. NCAA 2007.
  
  Game play: Football is a complex game. And trying to implement it in a video game is not easy. 
 But EA has been doing it for years. So they have got it pretty close to as real as you can get. 
 Player movement is the key. The game feels and plays very smooth. The run has so many options from 
 jukes to spins. You have any move at a press of a button. The passing game hasn't been changed 
 sense the new features in 2006. The QB vision is there. But you have to move the right stick to 
 use it (most people just couldnt get with the QB vision in madden, why? Dont know.) The Defense 
 has stepped up a bit also. With more options for the DL and LB's. Blitzes are back from the old 
 madden defense game. Only thing they left out was options for the DB's. We should be able to have 
 more Pre snap control over those guys. But nothing to hurt the game. There's also mini games (3) 
 which will take you from a complex dynasty mode. Which SP fans will love. Take any team to the 
 top and watch them grow! 
  
  Graphics: If we have 360's this department shouldn't be issues. The system has the hardware to 
 produce great graphics and EA really made this game look good. Your not going to see your favorite 
 players face. But overall the look is very next gen. And you will have no issues with it (other 
 then when you really pick at the replays) .
  
  Sound: If you ever been to a collage football game, you know what loud is. And fans can break or 
 make a game sometime. EA has always done well with sound in there games. And NCAA brings the heat. 
 If you have 5.1 you will get the best out of this. Like when the momentum is fully up. The noise 
 is just like your there. Makes the game that more real.
  
  Value: If youre really into this sport. Then the game can't get old. If your just using it to 
 get you by till madden comes. Then you have a month of a great game. So the value can defer for 
 different people. The dynasty mode can take a while if you really get into it. While Xbox live 
 will have you playing others whenever you want. You the fan can make the game last how ever long 
 you want. 
  
  Overall, Im very happy with what EA has done with this game. We are now starting to see the 1st 
 stage of "next gen" games. And Im sure Madden will bring it home for most people. But till then. 
 NCAA is a great game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryan82
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  For many football fans who bought an xbox 360, and also bought Madden 06, a little dissappointment 
 was widely felt. But I am happy to say that things are looking up again for us gridiron competitors. 
 NCAA 07 is a very solid football game with great animations and graphics. The sound is great the 
 lighting is great, I did notice that players jerseys need to get a bit dirtier. So far that is 
 my only complaint. I did have the game go into an endless loop in the 3rd qtr of a game. The camera 
 just panned around for ever after scoring a touchdown. I had to restart my system and all was well 
 again. This only happened once so far. The dynasty mode is here so features this time around seem 
 to be a focus after much forum trash talking from disgruntled madden fans. I am extremely excited 
 to see what they do this time around in Madden. With superstar mode and franchise modes it is surely 
 going to be great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmoran
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:30 am PT
Review:  This years NCAA was worth the wait for me... after playing madden 06 for the 360, EA left a bitter 
 taste in my mouth. I was somewhat hesitant to buy this game, but since I was a fan might as well 
 stick to it. So here we go
  
  Pros:
  Although some might find the new layout of buttons odd, I think they work well
  In-season recruiting 
 has been expanded on
  Graphics look great
  Animations look better (tackling, celebrations, etc...)
  New mini-games are amusing
  Players 
 dont drop every other ball (NCAA 06)
  More in-depth dynasty mode
  
  Cons:
  Although animations are better, players still tend to get stuck on each other
  Intro to stadiums 
 while zooming is choppy
  
  Undecided:
  I still havent felt like momentum plays a significant part
  Navigation system is a little awkward
 
  ESPN integration doesnt do anything for me
  
  Although some might have to add that there is no longer Race for the Heisman, or team/school 
 creator, I didnt buy the original NCAA games for these add-ons. So all and all I feel that this 
 is a great game and is worth the $60 if you are a college football fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is excellent people. I am sure you will have your few people come on here and tell you 
 that they didn't like it for their own specific reasons, but in reality, this game is a keeper. 
 The graphics are great, it has all the missing content madden 06 on the 360 didn't have. The crowd 
 is more realistic sounding and looking than any other game I played. I gave the graphics an 9 just 
 because certain players do not even resemble the real player which obviously comes with the NCAA 
 territory, but if you like football games, you will LOVE this game. Period. The gameplay is extrodinary. 
 If people don't think it is then they must have a hard time with football games. This game is 50 
 times smoother than Madden 06. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
