-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed Most Wanted
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/needforspeedmostwanted/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Mind-blowing full-motion video cutscenes.
 Outrunning the cops is extremely exciting.
 Outstanding sound effects.
 Tones down some of the over-the-top product placement found in the previous NFS games.
 360 version looks good in standard resolutions, much better in HD.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Racer AI isn't too bright at first, gets wicked smart later on.
 Not enough mind-blowing full-motion video cutscenes.
 Occasional skipping and stuttering from the graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 17, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.3, 71 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 6,312 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Nov 16, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Most Wanted is great fun on the Xbox 360, from its hysterical cutscenes to its extremely tense police 
 chases. 

  Every good hardware launch needs a great-looking driving game. With the increased graphical power 
 that new hardware tends to provide, we've got yet another test bed for just how realistic computer-rendered 
 cars can actually look. For the release of the Xbox 360, Electronic Arts is serving up the latest 
 installment in its long-running racing series, Need for Speed Most Wanted. Its high-speed races 
 and police chases make for an extremely exciting game, which is further enhanced by the game's 
 terrific graphics. This is one of those games that makes the previous generation of hardware look 
 older than it actually is.  

          The game's characters act in a hilarious, over-the-top manner that makes the cutscenes 
 one of its high points.     

  This racing game is broken up into multiple parts, but the largest part of the puzzle is the game's 
 story-driven career mode. You'll start out as the new guy in town, attempting to work your way 
 up in the city's illegal street racing scene. That scene lives and dies by the Blacklist, a top-15 
 ranking list that lets you know who the most notorious racer in Rockport is. The beginning of the 
 game serves as a prologue. You attempt to run up against the number-15 racer, Razor Callahan, but 
 this jerk isn't about to give up his spot. When you attempt to take him on, his boys tamper with 
 your BMW and you lose the race, your car, and your freedom, as the cops quickly haul you in. Before 
 long, though, you're back on the streets and starting fresh, thanks to the help of a mysterious 
 woman named Mia.  

  After you're back out and starting over again, the game's story is conveyed mostly via voicemail 
 and text messages from the various racers. But the entire prologue is delivered to you as a series 
 of easy races broken up by full-motion video cutscenes. These scenes mix CG cars and environments 
 with live actors. It's a neat-looking effect, but the best part of the whole game has to be the 
 characters and performances, because the acting -- especially from Razor and his homeboy Ronnie -- is 
 completely over the top and ridiculous. They're amazingly hilarious, and really make you wonder 
 if the comedy is intentional or not. Either way, they look neat and they're fully insane, and it's 
 a real shame that there isn't more of it.  

  Your career mode goal is to work your way to the top of the blacklist and take out Razor, who has 
 used your old car to get to the top spot. You'll have to take on each member of the list, one at 
 a time, but you'll also have to prove yourself by completing a series of races and other milestones 
 before you can face off against a Blacklister. The races are standard and come in a few different 
 varieties. Circuit races and sprints are as basic as they come. Knockout races eliminate the last-place 
 racer at the end of each lap until only one remains. Tollbooth races are checkpoint races against 
 the clock. Drag racing is similar to how it's been in the last couple of Need for Speed games, 
 focusing more on proper shifting and dodging traffic. Speed-trap races put a series of speed cameras 
 on the track. Your speed is clocked at each point and added to your overall score, and the highest 
 score at the end of the track wins. Each of the race types is slightly different, but the speed 
 trap and drag races are the only ones to make you rethink your racing strategy.  

  The racing is fun, but the game's artificial intelligence sort of gets in the way at times. The 
 three computer-controlled racers are definitely programmed to keep it close. If you fall behind, 
 they'll usually slow up or make a mistake that lets you regain the lead. If you're in the lead, 
 the AI rarely fouls up, ensuring that there's usually someone on your tail. It makes most of the 
 races really easy -- we set the controller down for 20 seconds and were still easily able to catch 
 up and win the race. However, the game suddenly gets harder when you hit the top five on the Blacklist. 
 The cars still stay on your tail, but they know every shortcut and don't stay too close after they 
 get ahead of you. It's a sudden and dramatic shift, and a more gradual difficulty slope would have 
 probably worked better here.  

          Getting away from the cops is huge fun that'll keep you coming back for more.     

 
  In addition to your race victories, you also have an overall bounty on your head and milestones 
 to achieve on the open streets of the city. The police are a major presence in Most Wanted. They'll 
 occasionally appear in the middle of a race, which makes the races more hectic and exciting. But 
 the real excitement comes from engaging in police chases outside of races. Once you've been spotted, 
 it takes some fancy driving to lose the cops. Chases usually start with just one car on your tail. 
 But as you resist, you might find 20 cars giving chase, in addition to a chopper flying overhead. 
 Losing the cops gets tougher as your heat level rises. Level-one heat results in the appearance 
 of just your standard squad cars. But by the time you get up to level five, you'll be dealing with 
 roadblocks, spike strips, helicopters, and federal-driven Corvettes. A meter at the bottom of the 
 screen indicates how close you are to losing the cops or getting busted. Stopping your car -- or 
 having it stopped for you by spike strips or getting completely boxed in by cops -- is how you'll 
 get busted.  

  To actually get away, you'll need to get out of visual range... and stay there. The initial evasion 
 changes the meter over to a cooldown meter. You'll have to lay low and wait for that meter to fill 
 up to end the chase. This is probably the tensest part of the entire chase, because you never know 
 when two cops might blow around the corner and spot you, starting the whole process over again. 
 It all sort of works like some sort of strange, wonderful cross between Grand Theft Auto's open 
 city and Metal Gear Solid's stealth mechanic. All the while, you'll be acquiring heat on your car. 
 This means that you'll have to keep a couple of cars around, because acquiring heat on one car 
 lowers the heat on the others. Also, getting busted too many times can result in your car getting 
 impounded, though you can avoid that by resetting the system whenever you get caught (if that's 
 more your speed) .     

  The game has more than 30 licensed cars that you'll be able to purchase or win from other racers. 
 We started out with a pretty weak Chevy Cobalt, but eventually we picked up a much faster Supra, 
 a new Covette C6, and so on. You can also find the Ford GT, a Ford Mustang GT, and other cars from 
 BMW, Mitsubishi, Porsche, Lamborghini, Lotus, and more. You'll buy your first car, but as you move 
 through the Blacklist, you'll get a shot at the pink slip of the other racer, letting you ease 
 right in to the driver's seat of a new, tuned vehicle. Buying them from scratch means you'll have 
 to apply enhancements yourself. You can buy a lot of different performance gear and a ton of visual 
 stuff, like body kits, spoilers, vinyls, and so on. Applying visual upgrades lowers your heat level, 
 making them pretty useful when the cops take notice of your faster cars.  

          If you don't lower the heat on your car, you'll be facing helicopters, spike strips, and 
 other increased forms of police response.     

  Aside from the career mode, there's also a challenge series that gives you a car and a specific 
 goal. Race goals are fairly easy to understand (just win, baby) , but the pursuit challenges ask 
 you to achieve specific milestones like blasting through five roadblocks or racking up a specific 
 amount of property damage. You can also just dive into quick races, or go online. The online game 
 is focused strictly on racing, which is a little disappointing. Teaming up to avoid the cops or 
 letting some players drive police cars probably would have been more interesting. Still, the game 
 offers sprint, circuit, and drag races for up to four players, and it keeps an online version of 
 the Blacklist going so you can see who the most dangerous online opponent is. On the game-creation 
 side, you can play in ranked or unranked games, and you can specify a disconnection or "did not 
 finish" percentage, letting you manually weed out jerks. You can also turn off collision detection 
 between players if you want to prevent people from just crashing into one another throughout the 
 entire race, but that's only possible in unranked games. All in all, the online is functional, 
 but without any sort of pursuit mode or other police-tinged races, it's awfully standard.  

  Most Wanted's graphics are one of the best things about it. The visuals certainly aren't perfect, 
 but when you play it on the Xbox 360, there's no doubt that this is a next-generation game, especially 
 if you're playing it on a nice HDTV. The car models look extremely sharp, and are rendered so that 
 you can see the interiors of the cars through the windows -- unless you've tinted them. The environments 
 reflect off of the vehicles in a realistic fashion, and a lot of objects, like trees, cast realistic-looking 
 shadows. The flashing lights of police cars also reflect quite nicely, and even the streets will 
 reflect when the roads are wet. The city of Rockport is large, and there's a good deal of variety 
 to be found on its city streets, its freeways, and its back roads. The customizable car parts give 
 the game a real sense of style, and stuff like triple-colored paint looks really nice. The game 
 makes heavy use of blurring effects when you're moving quickly, and this helps give the game a 
 believable sense of speed. However, some of that sense is dampened by some skipping and stuttering 
 that seems to show up in the horizon whenever you take a turn. We also noticed a few spots where 
 textures would pop into view a little late. That visual weirdness holds the game back a bit -- it's 
 pretty noticeable -- but it doesn't get in the way of the gameplay or anything like that. Even with 
 those problems, this is still a great-looking game.  

          The game stutters a bit here and there, but the great reflections really shine through, 
 especially on an HDTV.     

  On the sound side, the game has outstanding engine noises that change depending on which car you're 
 in and which upgrades you have. The rest of the sound effects are also of excellent quality. The 
 game uses quite a bit of voice acting in the story, which is good. But the best voices come from 
 the police. When you're being chased, you'll pick up the police band and hear them communicating 
 and cooperating as they try to take you down. The cop talk sounds awfully authentic, and you'll 
 eventually decipher the police's 10 codes and figure out when they're going to lay out spike strips, 
 set up roadblocks, and so on. While the 10 codes used don't seem to be the actual ones the real 
 police use (at least, that's what a little basic research told us) , they sound good enough to be 
 realistic. The music included is the standard mix of rock and hip-hop you've come to expect from 
 EA's games, including a few songs from Styles of Beyond.  

  There's a lot to see in Need for Speed Most Wanted, but really, the best moments in the game come 
 from the police chases, which are easy to get in to, hard to get out of, and addictive enough to 
 keep you coming back, even if the racing itself doesn't stand out. It's also a shame that there 
 aren't more insane cutscenes to drive the story along, but what's there is still most definitely 
 worth seeing for yourself. All things considered, if you're in the market for an Xbox 360 and you 
 require a driving game, Need for Speed Most Wanted is a great choice.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (390 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Magnarr
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Category : Racing
  
  Story 5.5/10 : A racing game should not have a storyline at all but EA did it and I have to say 
 they did it pretty well, the story is told through cutscenes and little text and voice messages 
 on your phone. Your character challenges the #15 on the blacklist and get's cheated and he takes 
 your car and becomes number 1 on this blacklist, long story short, you have to get a new car and 
 climb to the top (who would of guess)
  
  Gameplay 8/10 : I have to say the gameplay i seen in Most Wanted is the best I've seen in a long 
 time, all the cars handle pretty well, all but one and thats the mustang but if you take it in 
 drags it does pretty well. You have this thing called Speedbreaker which can slow your car down 
 to make really tight turns really easy which helps alot sometimes
  
  Graphics 8/10 : Graphics are pretty darn good in this little racer, the cars look really good and 
 they have really sharp lines, the city could have been better but the cars will take your eyes 
 off of that :)
  
  Audio/Music 7/10 : The audio is really good, I love listening to the cars and the police voices, 
 the music I did'nt care for because I did'nt like any of the songs on the tracklist. Use your own 
 playlist and listen to the cars and you will enjoy this game.
  
  Single-Player : You have to win so many races and milestones and then get your bounty with the 
 police up so high and the you can challenge a blacklist member. You have to do this 15 times to 
 beat the game. The single-player is well.... just racing
  
  BREAK it down : Fans of the underground series will enjoy this title and it stays pretty close 
 to what made the two underground games great and enjoyable for racing fans. I would have to say 
 that any racing fan would love this title and should check it out, it's worth the $20.00 to buy 
 it or you can pick it up used from Gamespot from around $17.99 which aint a big diffrence 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_Catacome
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted does a great job of keeping you addicted. I mean of all the great things 
 it does.... It is just a Amazingly Fun Game. 
  
  
  
  You start off the game just as a racer coming into Rockport city. You Drive A BMW M3 GTR. (BMW 
 M3 E46) . There is a racing team called the blacklist. When you enter the city you race number 15, 
 Razor. He screws you and takes your car while, you're left for the police. You get out on not enough 
 evidence and a girl named Mia helps you get back your car.
  
  
  
  This game consists of 3 major cities. Rosewood (First City) , Camden Beach (Second City) , and last 
 but, not least Rockport city (Third City.) You climb the Blacklist going through these cities. 
 You have to reach Razor to get your car back. Throughout the game there are a few cut scenes until 
 you get to the end. The major cut scene. Is awesome by the way.
  
  
  
  This is a amazing game. Don't listen to what the people dissing it say. They just don't like it. 
 This game is really great. I play it to this day which is pretty convincing since it came out 2 
 to 3 years ago. If you don't believe me then check my Gamertag on my page. 
  
  
  Tip: If you don't game but, you are getting it, and read this... Take my advice. Don't use a lot 
 of money in the game. You will end up with about 2,000,000 million after wards. When you start 
 you the Cobalt. Then beat sunny. Get his car and beat Taz. Don't upgrade anything. Then get Taz's 
 car and don't upgrade it. Then beat Vic and get his car. Now you have enough to buy a real car. 
 Use that throughout the whole game. Upgrade it and all. All though Vic's car is fast you can probably 
 go to the number 11th or 10th Blacklist racer. If you're really good... Like me. There is my tip. 
 Use it and you will turn out great. By The Way: DO NOT SELL THE BMW... There is no way to get it 
 back. Forget what everybody else says. Best Car in the game. Online and off. Not the Porsche or 
 the Lotis. Trust me. I am one of the best racers online. If and when you get good enough, Come 
 try to race me. See if you've got what it takes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macrules_640
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  It's been three years since Most Wanted has come out and frankly the last three NFS games that 
 have come out have been a disappointment. Now you're probably asking what makes Most Wanted the 
 best in the series? We to tell you the true the reason Most Wanted is the best in the series is 
 the way that EA Black Box crafted the game and in almost every way this was the best game in the 
 series hands down. The police chases were great in the way that you had to think about getting 
 away from them and the cars even if there were only 32 in total they all handled great and even 
 without the options of the later series it's still great. Now the story is pretty basic and goes 
 that you're a new street racer on the scene and you're looking for races, but you end up on racing 
 the wrong people and end up losing everything and having to get it back. The cut scenes in the 
 are done with real life actors and even if they are cheesy they were done great and the only downside 
 is there wasn't a lot of these great cut scenes and the rest of the story is done through phone 
 messages. The graphics in the game may not be the best what the 360 can handle, but back in 2005 
 they were the best and even now the graphics actually look better in some parts then Undercover 
 and Carbon. Now the only downside to Most Wanted is the fact that in parts the game can get repetitive 
 and the AI is rubber band in areas, but this is easily forgotten as the game is fun to play and 
 it's nice to be able to keep your old car and tune it up to maximum. Now the soundtrack in Most 
 Wanted was probably the best track that EA put together for a game and easily beats Carbon's and 
 Pro Street's soundtrack. Now the online in Most Wanted is somewhat broken and not playable, but 
 that's okay given the game is old now and the controls are well done as well and give you 10 settings 
 if you don't like the default settings. Even if Most Wanted was made back in 2005 if you haven't 
 played it then you're missing out on one of the best NFS in the last few years.
  
  Pros:
  
  + Addicting game play and achievements are easy to get
  + Customization of car even though 
 limited is great
  + Graphics are pretty good and show little slow down
  + Great soundtrack and easily the best soundtrack from any NFS game
  + Cut scenes are well done 
 and the story is pretty good as well
  
  Cons:
  
  - Online play is broken in parts
  - Graphics aren't the best what the 360 can do
  - Some may feel it's repetitive in areas
  - 
 Achievements are easily gotten
  - Some minor slowdown with the higher level heat pursuits.
  
  Overall I give Need For Speed Most Wanted a 9 for being a great NFS game and overall just being 
 plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClioHughes
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Pros: easy achievements; catchy nice and engine sounds; funny at times
  
  Cons: the graphics are awful; it's repetitive; it's very, very frustrating
  
  Basically it 
 could be a good game. Easy achievements to unlock (you only have to defeat all the foes in the 
 Black list, who are 15) . The story is cool, but it end up being always the same thing over and 
 over. The graphics are simply horrible, and I don't care if it's old, they could have done a better 
 job when they ported it to the X360. The most annoying thing is that it's incredibly frustrating, 
 when you are chased by dozens of police cars it's barely possible to get away for example, or maybe 
 you are driving very fast and you're first but suddenly a car or a truck shows up and hits you, 
 therefore you lose the challenge. I beat it on the Ps2 and I wanted to play it again for the X360 
 only because of its achievements, too bad that I'm regretting what I've done. At least I paid it 
 only 9 euro and I'm gonna sell it for 19 once I'm done with it. Just rent it, or borrow it. I can't 
 believe you people rated it 8, I rate it 6 only for achievements and the sound of the engines which 
 are beautiful. The rest sucks. Peace out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XD4NTESINF3RNOX
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed Most Wanted has come along way over the years.
  NFS is a must have for all racing fans because of its customization,
  storyline, and fun. NFS 
 storyline is that you start out of the bottom of a top ten blacklist and work your way up to the 
 #1 spot which is out of 10, That being said this game takes a very long time doing the cop chases, 
 the speed traps, just regular racing. The 1 that was my favorite is the speed traps because it 
 just shows how fast you can really go and how you handle the speed while racing the other racers. 
 My favorite part about the game is defientley the customization you can spend ages on the: decals, 
 vinyls, engine tuning, tires, spoilers etc. You can really customize anything pretty much. Out of 
 the three that are on the 360 right now i would guarantee that this one would last a lot longer 
 than prostreet and carbon. I am looking forward to undercover that comes out tomorrow 
  Since it is gonna be like MW instead of prostreet which I did not like IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omarko_54
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Developers of racing games received a new injection of life and purpose in the last two years. 
 The growing popularity of street racing and modding has flourished in the popular culture, while 
 Criterion's Burnout series has blazed a path all its own, bringing arcade racing back to its pre-Gran 
 Turismo glory days. The Need for Speed series has never clung to a particular aspect of pop culture 
 like Rockstar's Midnight Club or a particular car like Sega's Ferrari 360, but the long-time series 
 struck gold with its light implementation of modding with Need for Speed Underground, selling more 
 units worldwide than any game in 2003 with 7.5 million. Need for Speed Most Wanted continues the 
 street culture thing, but EA's Canadian development team has mined one of the better iterations 
 of the series, Need for Speed Hot Pursuit, fusing both rudiments into a newly refined, yet strangely 
 familiar racer.
  
  NFS Most Wanted is a well-balanced, challenging, and substantial racing game that's worth your 
 while on any system, including this most recent iteration on Xbox 360. It returns the series to 
 its cop chasing days while incorporating street cars, culture, and an impressive display of stylized 
 FMV without forgetting the fundamentals: People like to drive sweet-looking fast cars, they want 
 more than a little freedom, and hey, if there are a hot chicks too? All the better.
  
  
  hough this is obviously a racing game, the first, most noticeable aspect of Most Wanted is the 
 story and presentation. The game is draped in a crazily chromed out, sepia-tone landscape of industrial 
 structures, and populated with heavily bloom-lit FMV characters. The first time you see the story 
 being told, like me, you will probably gasp in horror, "Wha??? The return of crappy FMV?!?!?!!! 
 OOOHHH NOOOOO!" But this mixture of animated, highly colored FMV characters and stylized backgrounds 
 is both imaginative and refreshing. And it's risky. I wouldn't touch FMV with a 50-foot pole if 
 I was a developer these days, but this presentation is creative and striking. The actors aren't 
 phenomenally awful either (though the voice acting does have a streak of heavy cheese running right 
 through it) .
  
  The story is a typical Saturday morning special narrative. It spins an unimaginative tale of revenge 
 and restoration of order, and the bad guys, Razor, and the local cop who meanly keys your car in 
 the beginning of the game, are just annoying and evil enough to get your goat. From a creative 
 standpoint, the story is worthless, but EA liked its trial run with Brooke Burke last year in NFSU2 
 and retained a less cold, angular female figure to narrate this game with Josie Maran (who, in 
 my opinion, is svelte, curvy, and far better at her job than the icy Burke) . So, you'll keep wanting 
 hook up with her as often as possible.
  
  But that's not all. The tutorials and blacklist characters are introduced with flair and a friendly 
 'tude. Whole chunks of the background dramatically drop into place to form a landscape before you 
 start a race, and the whole presentation is laced with slick, stylish graffiti and flickering Fight 
 Club imagery. I like it all. EA may be a corporate, market-driven mega-company with monopolistic 
 tendencies, and this may be just another attempt to tap into the "underground street market," but 
 it's done with appealing artistry and smart style.
  
  Depending on which version you buy, you'll also receive a different technical set of visuals. The 
 PC, GameCube, and Xbox versions display minimal to no flickering or aliasing, while the PS2 version 
 instantly gives away its limitations. The Xbox 360 version, easily the best looking of the bunch, 
 offers several visual elements you won't see in the other games. EA laser scanned each car, which 
 provides an even more realistic look to each vehicle, and its Canadian development team normal 
 mapped both the cars and the streets, giving each a crisp, sharp appearance. Somewhat like the 
 streets in NFSU, the streets appear wet when they're not, a result of normal mapping some obstacles. 
 But since you're usually driving quickly over them, you may never even notice.
  
  Another visual goody is found in the tree shadows, which apparently no longer cast fake shadows, 
 but instead cast dynamic shadows, thanks to EA's work on the lighting system. If you've seen the 
 dynamic lighting in the current gen games, then you're in for a real treat on this next gen title. 
 The sunlight looks like it's coming down in perfectly clear, sharp lines, and when it hits the 
 cars, it reflects off everything, the rims, the bumpers, the windows, the fender, the grill, you 
 name it. Also, the 1080i and 720p modes do look better than the 480p modes, but the difference 
 in this game is less noticeable than one would have thought. There are subtle changes, like sharper, 
 more curvilinear surfaces on the vehicles themselves and on general objects, but the difference 
 isn't vast.
  
  
  
  Just like the current gen games, the 360 version holds at a smooth 30 FPS, and though EA has explained 
 to me why it wasn't running at 60 FPS - the lighting and physics cost a lot, plus there was less 
 time to develop this game on the new hardware - I still have to think that every game on Xbox 360 
 should be running at 60 fps no matter what. But the game runs at a solid 30 FPS. Normally, we would 
 play a final reviewable version on our test units, but EA handed us a payable retail version of 
 the game so we played it on our retail Xbox 360 units. There was one noticeable technical gaff 
 in the retail build: while the framerate seemed steady, objects were loading into the screen in 
 a jumpy, unsteady manner. Trees, buildings, bridges, whatever comes toward the screen as you zoom 
 into the foreground, these objects appear on screen with odd hitches and micro-pauses. These errors 
 don't affect the gameplay, but they're noticeable and distracting and they do alter your sense 
 of immersion.
  
  
  If you've played NFSU2, you'll recognize a lot in NFS Most Wanted, which re-purposes much of the 
 previous game. A handful of racing types returned -- circuit, drag, and sprint -- while drift races 
 and racer x events get the axe in favor of a straight-out speed events. In the Career mode, you 
 must work up the Black List of 15 racers who stand between you and Razor, who's not only snagged 
 your hot rod, he's taken the number one spot.
  
  A bunch of races require completion before a racer on the Black List is willing to face you, and 
 these races can be picked in any order. There are two kinds: Races and Milestones. The Black List 
 racers require a minimum of each to compete with, so you might race in four milestones and five 
 races to gain enough notoriety to challenge him or her, while the next competitor might require 
 you to achieve three milestones and four races. The choices are all variations on A) straight racing 
 and B) avoiding the cops, so while it seems like there might be a big difference between speed 
 traps and sprints, or Cost of State and Violations, there isn't much. The streamlining of the race 
 variety isn't too big of a problem, but the game's variation is slimmer than in NFSU2 and can get 
 dully repetitive.
  
  
  
  That's where SpeedBreakers and PursuitBreakers come in. A SpeedBreaker is essentially Bullet Time, 
 which at this point has been incorporated into just about every game from shooters to platformers 
 to adventure games (Thanks, Max Payne!) . This feature might help gamers take especially tough turns, 
 zip underneath an 18-wheeler, or straighten out after a tough jump. I never used it once, but my 
 brother, who rarely plays racers, tried it out at IGN Live and loved that particular feature. That 
 was his hook into the game. I never needed it, but apparently it works. Each to his own. PursuitBreakers 
 are far more fun and definitely feel like they've been influenced by Burnout. These are special 
 destructible objects in the environment. When you drive underneath them, they collapse, causing 
 cops to stall, pause, and stop in their tracks. These objects range from water towers and gas stations 
 to yachts and radio towers.
  
  
  
  Once you beat a racer on the Black List, the progression system kicks in. You earn money by winning 
 all races, but by defeating a member of the top 15 list, you get the chance to pick two "markers." 
 Markers are like tokens. Each racer has three hidden markers, and a few obvious ones like cash 
 or special mod parts. The hidden markers are way more fun, adding surprise to each race's winnings. 
 Hidden markers range from an extra $10,000, get out of jail free card, or, if you're lucky, the 
 pink slip to the competitors' car.
  
  The currency system works well, and it's restricted so cheaters cannot instantly upgrade and smoke 
 the game AI. Players can spend earned cash on four levels of upgrades, each unlocking new parts 
 for either performance or visual upgrades. The upgrades for spoilers, rims, hoods, trunks, rails, 
 etc. are exactly like the ones in NFSU2, except here you get the custom designed cars. For instance, 
 if you missed out on winning that Mustang or RX-8, you can take those earnings and buy a new car. 
 All upgraded and modded cars can be brought online and raced in EA's much improved online lobbies. 
 Gamers also can get in and out of online races faster with fewer hiccups and dropouts. Like the 
 current gen version, the Xbox 360 version supports two to four player races on Xbox Live.
  
  
  The range of cars is fat. The complete list includes the Aston Martin DB9, Audi A4 3.2 
 FSI Quattro, Audi TT 3.2 Quattro, Audi A3 3.2 Quattro, BMW M3 GTR, Mercedes-Benz SL 500, SL65 AMG, 
 Mercedes-Benz CLK 500, Dodge Viper SRT10, Fiat Punto, Ford GT, Ford Mustang GT, Corvette C6, Corvette 
 C6. R, Cadillac CTS, Pontiac GTO, Vauxhall Monaro VXR, Cobalt SS, Lamborghini Murcilago, Lamborghini 
 Gallardo, Lotus Elise, Mazda RX-8, Mazda RX-7, Mercedes-Benz SLR McLaren, Mitsubishi Lancer EVOLUTION 
 VIII, Misubishi Eclipse, Porsche Carrera GT, Porsche 911 Turbo S, Porsche 911 GT2, Porsche 911 
 Carrera S, Porsche Cayman S, Renault Clio V6, Subaru Impreza WRX STi, Lexus IS300, Toyota Supra, 
 and the VW Golf GTI. The special Black Edition of NFSMW has a few extras not listed here.
  
  Like any racing game, there are cars that are pretty worthless, but I for one am glad that 
 the SUVs are gone. Those were so worthless! The real point here is the diversity. Sure, there aren't 
 500 cars, but you do have knockouts such as the RX-8, five different Porsches, three Audis, the 
 new Mustang, the Dodge Viper, and two Lamborghinis. Once those last five levels are opened up, 
 the racing gets really fast, and the Lamborghinis create a fantastic sense of speed and control.
 
  
  The biggest change to the series, control-wise, is the newly added sense of weight and accompanied 
 physics. The cars all have a heavier, stickier feel. You'll feel the change from previous NFS games 
 when you take turns at high speeds or when you start up your car. The vehicles require more skill 
 to pull out of powerslides, where you'll feel the added weight shift heavier to the side you're 
 sliding in. You'll also feel the weight and dead-stop characteristic when you crash into an unseen 
 object. If you smack into something, you'll need to reverse and the punch it. There is an extra 
 split-second required to reverse and to re-orient yourself to get back into the race. Not everyone 
 will like the new feel of the cars. I love powersliding, so the extra weight didn't both me, but 
 because there are a bunch of sneakily placed unbreakable objects put in key spots around turns, 
 you'll smack into them, and you'll wish your car accelerated faster.
  
  
  Luckily, the course and overall city design are much better in NFS Most Wanted than in NFSU2. EA 
 learned a few things from last year's endeavor, which is that open worlds are fine and dandy, but 
 you'll need to fill them if you have them, and Most Wanted is a racing game, not an adventure game. 
 In that light, EA has done two things: It's created a massive cityscape that's interconnected for 
 non-stop action, and it's also built-in the ability to instantly jump to any race in the game without 
 having to drive there. It's pure efficiency, and I like it. Actually, this same quick-jump function 
 was in NFSU2, but it didn't function nearly as well or as clearly as this does. Also, the functionality 
 here isn't an excuse for a wide-open city that's not all that fun to drive around in. It's purposely 
 designed into the fabric of the courses so its functionality feels natural and smart.
  
  The freeway system is much improved. Last year's freeway was a **** to get on and off, and it created 
 difficulties in simply getting from point A to point B. In that game, the GPS system was always 
 on for a reason. In this one, it's rarely on. There are tons of little shortcuts, too, making the 
 exploration in each race a little challenge. The enemies even use them occasionally too.
  
  
  Most Wanted is also a long game. It's packed. Each of the 15 racers requires anywhere from 
 seven to 10 races before you race them, and those boss competitions are usually two races. That's 
 easily 15-plus hours just to beat the career mode. And that doesn't include the dozens of cop chases, 
 additional milestones or free-roam races you can pick up at any time. It doesn't include the challenge 
 mode or the online play either.
  
  Finally, the cops. The cops are never that smart, but they continually grow in aggressiveness and 
 numbers. When you first start, the cops are a joke. You'll smash them to bits, ditch and generally 
 humiliate them. The cop radio chatter is excellent. The police constantly chatter about your location, 
 behavior, and their plans to catch you. The cop chatter is really well done. When you reach Black 
 List player number 8, the cops grow angrier and more aggressive. The helicopter will appear around 
 that time, although much of your status is based on a heat meter, which is attached to your car, 
 and they add that very necessary component of challenge, annoyance, and heat that makes this game 
 so fun. I wish there were more helicopter-like cop enemies, like motorcycle cops, or more forceful 
 tactics, or even tanks or something heavier and meaner. A greater variety of cop behavior and types 
 would have really brought this game home in a big way. As it is, you can toy with the fuzz for 
 at least half the game before they become half-serious.
  
  
  
  Need for Speed Most Wanted has, as we like to say, shaped up real nicely. The stylistic presentation 
 and graphic sensibilities are impressive (though the acting is super cheese-ball) , and they're 
 complemented by excellent engine sound effects and smart cop chatter. The 360 version sports super 
 high poly count cars with great definition and geometry, and the lighting is first rate. The game 
 holds at a solid 30 FPS on Xbox 360, though there is odd hitching and pauses from either loading 
 problems or disc formatting on the retail builds. And while the sense of speed isn't as palpable 
 in the first hour or so of play, just wait. Win a few cars, upgrade them, and before you know it, 
 you'll be smoking. The sense of speed never reaches Burnout levels, but it's damn good in everything 
 from a souped-up Volkswagon GTI to a stock RX-8. And while it should be a given, the Lamborghinis, 
 Porsches and other high-end cars really rip. The 360 version is easily the best version of the 
 bunch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nurok17
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I have only played NFS Most Wanted extensively in the series. The others just could not keep me 
 interested. I give this one a 9.0 because it is one of the best racing games I've played. Not super 
 realistic damage but the gameplay is simply fantastic. The graphics and the environment look awesome 
 and the TOD (time of day) changes as you play which was really cool to me.
  
  The story is kind of cheesy but its fun. Your Nemesis in the game is pretty lame. The acting wasn't 
 that great and had too many cheesy lines. Where the game set itself apart was in the gameplay. 
 It's not your average racing game where you choose which race you want to do and you start the 
 race. This game takes it to a whole new level. You have an entire city with 3 suburban areas to 
 cruise around in and a ton of mini achievements (bounty, police chase objectives etc.) . If you 
 don't want to drive to the area of the map where the race takes place you can just start it from 
 your hideout so you get the best of both worlds. You can also just cruise around the city if you 
 want for a while to get more familiar with it as the city holds all the courses for races. They 
 really did themselves all out with this one.
  
  The customization in the game is a great feature as well. You not only get to upgrade to new cars 
 but you get to buy performance enhancing parts, decals, paint it, buy body kits, the whole 9 yards. 
 You can make the cars completely your own.
  
  All in all a solid gameplay experience that is not that easy but really fun. Lacking story but 
 who cares. You get to trick out your rides and be in some rocking cop chases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jnsrshwn187
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  This is still a great game. With these new burnout paradise, Grid, They still don't match up to 
 NSMost Wanted. The cop chases are moments in any gamers life that won't forget how fun the cop 
 chases are. first the cop cars then big raming cars to get you to stop then helicopters/ spikes 
 and then the corvettes...... You have to play this if you want an action packed racing game. The 
 game was built great. Even today race games are trying to reach what the need for speed crue did 
 with Most Wanted. Also great custimizations. The story is based on trying to get to the top of 
 the black list and win the race against the guy on the top of the blacklist that stole your car 
 and sent you to the police. Basicallly you are trying to get revenge and then when you win you 
 rub it in hi face....!!! Great game A+ 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: naju890_963
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted was realesed for Released for PC's, Playstation 2, Gamecube, Xbox, Xbox 
 360, Game Boy Advance, Nintendo DS and mobile phones . Need for Speed Most Wanted is the sequel 
 Need for Speed underground and Need for Speed underground 2 that clearly were some of the big shots 
 of that year. In the game, the player takes on the role of a unknown guy that was challenged by 
 Razor a street racer and was defeated so Razor to his car and raced and made himself number one 
 in the blacklist. Now you must beat everyone in the blacklist and get your car back. The most fun 
 youll have in the free roam world are cop chases.
  
  Its very fun to smash and try to escape cop cars or cop suvs and put them in your pursuit breaker 
 which a trap to destroy cop cars. Challenge mode is a mode that has 100 challenges and you need 
 to beat them all. Overall Need for Speed Most Wanted is a great streeet racer and even if it it 
 is 3 years old its the best stret racer there is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avak555
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  This is still a great game. With these new burnout paradise, Grid, They still don't match up to 
 NSMost Wanted. The cop chases are moments in any gamers life that won't forget how fun the cop 
 chases are. first the cop cars then big raming cars to get you to stop then helicopters/ spikes 
 and then the corvettes...... You have to play this if you want an action packed racing game. The 
 game was built great. Even today race games are trying to reach what the need for speed crue did 
 with Most Wanted. Also great custimizations. The story is based on trying to get to the top of 
 the black list and win the race against the guy on the top of the blacklist that stole your car 
 and sent you to the police. Basicallly you are trying to get revenge and then when you win you 
 rub it in hi face....!!! Great game A+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lnehme
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  need for speed most wanted is the best nfs game ever made. with awesome graphics and outstanding 
 cut scenes, most wanted is the first nfs game to have an actual story.... and a good one by the 
 way.
  
  You are a racer that arrives in a new city. You win some racers with your powerful bmw, and earn 
 enough reputation to race the number 15 on the Blacklist. The blacklist is the list of the best 
 15 racers. When you are racing against Razor, the number 15, your hot friend mia says that is something 
 wrong with your car. suddenly, your car stops, and you lose the race. When Razor is making fun 
 of you, the cops arrives. Being with a broken car, you can't get away. You end up being arrested. 
 After a while, mia picks you up at jail and says that Razor used your car to become the number 
 1 on the blacklist. Now you have to take down every single person on the blacklist to retrieve 
 your car and become the most wanted racer alive.
  
  The cars are awesome, the races are awesome, the graphics are awesome and the story is awesome. 
 Need for Speed: Most Wanted = AWESOME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  
  Need for speed: Most wanted is a very good game and a very good chase game 
  
  If you really like to annoy the Police and race other cars then this game is for you, 
  
  In 
 this game you have a very good car a BMW and you race that but loose the race and what you have 
 to do is buy a new car a up-grade it's performance and race the other drivers on the blacklist 
 but first you have to do races and win to get their attention. 
  
  When you win the races you get cash and then you can spend it on a new car or up grade the car 
 you have to give it a higher performance. 
  
  The graphics 
  
  The graphics are very good even when you put the hand brake on you can see you tiers marks on the 
 road as you go round a corner at high speed, even when you start a race and when you go you get 
 tire marks of your car about to launch off the start line 
  
  
  The sound 
  
  The sounds are very good the engine noises are very realistic and the screeching noises from the 
 tiers are very good are you are doing handbrake turns and braking. 
  
  So I would say that if you really love this sort of game buy it 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: magusat999
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Plenty of people have commented on each and every aspect of this game. I'm going to touch on what 
 gave me the willy's and eventually led me to stop playing - one of which was that the sticking 
 was so fierce that I temporarily damaged a nerve in my index finger trying to get the car out of 
 a spot in the sidewalk!
  
  Most Wanted could have been one of the greatest racers ever - if it weren't for a few glaring deficiencies. 
 First off, the idea of "rubberband AI", where the opponent cars catch up whenever you cannot see 
 them anymore, was a frustration and irritating aspect. It did not make the game more "exciting", 
 it made the game broken. Not only did they catch up, the blew right past, no matter how much better 
 your car was then thiers. That is just plain silly.
  
  As if that weren't enough, add in the "attack mode" - where the whole game attacks you whenever 
 yoou get in the lead. Suddenly cars appear right in front of you; your car "sticks" to objects 
 / walls; your recovery time becomes extremely long; you car becomes difficult to handle - and you 
 get a game that is intolerable!
  
  As if that weren't enough, the engine will not let you catch up if you lose your lead! And you 
 WILL lose your lead. The "catch up feature" only works for the cpu operated cars - the cpu will 
 not allow you to "catch up"!
  
  It's a shame that this game has so many flaws as to make it unplayable - because on the surface 
 it looks like it it could be a very great game. The police and other chalenges are buckets of fun, 
 and the construction of the game is exquisite - too bad the handling issues muck it all up.
  
  the Xbox version performed better than the PC version - but the problems inherent had nothing 
 to do with system performance. It was just bad game design. Lets hope they can fix it next time... 
 oh wait - they came out with ProStreet... which is even WORSE!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudz66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Recently, my 360 hard drive died, all saved games lost! So, all games get to be replayed. A fresh 
 start! Most of my games weren't that fun playing again. You get a new perspective on a game when 
 you start completely over after finishing it. Usually, the word is: BORING. Games like Oblivion 
 and Saint's Row are very hard to get into again, you know just how far away you are from finishing 
 the game. However, we had the most fun with NFS: Most Wanted. Fast paced, new cars to buy and fix 
 up differently, lots of tracks to run, and tons of cops to wreck!! Taking out the cops has got 
 to be the best aspect of Most Wanted. After watching all the shows on tv that show the cops catching 
 every single bad guy, its awesome to get the payback! From the first car you buy to the last car 
 you wreck, tons of playability. Don't forget on-line multiplayer. The same tracks you raced during 
 the game are available in multiplayer. More fun awaits! My only regret is that I haven't been playing 
 it all along! Your turn to try it again, you'll thank me later! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFuryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted = The best NFS game in a LONG time. This game actually brings meaning 
 to the name Need for Speed.
  
  Story 7/10. Nothing special here, you're a racer cruising around this new city for a race, then 
 you get into a few races here and there, gaining rep, then you encounter this one racer, he wants 
 your ride, so you both place your rides on the line, but what you find out is that he's rigged 
 your ride so you lose oil about half-way through the race, blah blah blah, he gets your ride, and 
 now he's number 1 on the Blacklist using your ride, now you have to get it back.
  
  Gameplay 9/10 - This is where this game shines, you're given many options to "trick" out your ride, 
 you can unlock decals, paint jobs, etc by racing or by buying them with the money you earn from 
 a race. There are a couple types of races: Circuit, Speedtraps, Drags, and Sprints. All which require 
 some dexterity and skill to accomplish in the later levels. They've added this new feature where 
 if you hit the right analog stick, it triggers a slow-motion effect that allows you to move your 
 car very easily, this is most useful when trying to turn before you hit a wall, or when you're 
 trying to ram through a police barricade. The Police. What a fun time these guys will give you. 
 Every time you engage in a police chase, you'll rack up "Bounty" by staying in the chase for a 
 while, or just destroying everything in your path, your heat meter will also rise, once the heat 
 meter reaches a certain level, more and more police will come after you, and their cars get faster 
 and faster, bigger and bigger, you get the idea.
  
  
  Graphics 8/10 - The best graphics on an NFS game to date, the xbox 360 version of this game is 
 also the best looking. It has an excellent blend of bloom, with some pretty cool effects, and the 
 cinematics look very impressive for live action.
  
  
  
  Sound 8/10 - You'll get a few tunes from your radio every now and then, they're good tracks, cars 
 sound as real as ever. It's all done well.
  
  
  Overall, if you haven't played an NFS or any racing game in a while, be sure to pick this one up, 
 it'll give you the racing rush you've desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valentino07
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  Well, I have just completed the game under 19hours. That may seem alot for some of you, but I actually 
 am not such a great driver when it comes to games. This game really did not have a lot to offer, 
 but the gameplay is what keeps you hooked. As an early 360 launch title, it really did not look 
 as bad as many though it would.
  
  Gameplay: Just like the old school NFS Games, gameplay is addicting as anything else. The Police 
 chases do get intense, and hands start sweating like crazy. In this game, the longer the cops pursuit, 
 the higher your heat rises. Heat is kind of like the star system in GTA. The higher the heat, the 
 more cops and the smarter cops follow you. You will be chased by helicopters, SUVS, vipers, the 
 whole 9 yards. The best cop chases in the series to DATE.
  
  Story: It has a pretty good solid story, not really in depth though. But what can you expect from 
 a car game right? I will give it credit though, for titles like forza and burnout have no storyline 
 whatsoever. 
  
  Graphics: The car graphics (for its time of release) look good. For some reason, the cop cars really 
 could use a touch up, the quality looks horendous on them. The enviorements look good and as far 
 as i know everything else.
  
  Sound: Bleh, you got your mix of EA soundtrax here. If you have played any Underground games, you 
 know what to expect. You will find yourself listening to the same songs over, and over again. Not 
 many songs, but there are some good ones. My suggestion is start ripping cds.
  
  Overall Impression: This has to be the best NFS game to date. The gameplay is fun and addicting, 
 and the story is its own kind. Though it could use some touch ups, it gets my vote for one of the 
 greatest games made!
  
  Note: If you are a achievement freak, the 1000g in this game are quite simple to earn. Though it 
 will take time, its quite easy and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshcutgrass1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  Plot: It's a good story that has you lose your car in the beginning and you are sent to jail. You 
 then have to race your way to the top 15 most wanted racer list and beat the number one guy. The 
 story progresses through text messages and in-game cutscenes.
  graphics: The graphics aren't a huge step from the PS2/XBOX but aren't terrible either. It was 
 a launch title after all, but is nothing in comparison to the PGR and Forza games. The lighting 
 is good but the environments aren't great and the cars themselves aren't spectacular either. They 
 look better than the other ports though.
  Gameplay: The gameplay is great, you got your standard races, but you have police chases that are 
 just a ton of fun and makes one of the best additions. The chases are intense and have you breaking 
 the line of sight, while being chased by undercover corvettes, SUVs, regular police cars, and helicopters. 
 You can also crash into pursuit breakers which are certain parts of the environment, such as signs, 
 water towers, and other stuff. These pursuit breakers fall down and block the path of the pursuing 
 police. The gameplay can make or break a game and in NFS: MS case, it makes it fun and interesting. 
 Alterntively the multiplayer is broken, it lags constantly, and has so many glitches. You'll see 
 cars driving, backwards, upside down, and other ways. The games online is broken and isn't worth 
 your time. In more than one instance I was driving by myself winning races while the other players 
 said they were still in the game lobby. In fact I looked around and yes I was the only car.
  Sound: The music is good, fitting the mood and style of the game. There's nothing like the sound 
 of lots of police sirens right behind you who are all trying to crash you. The voice acting in 
 the cutscenes is perfected, and the cars sound the way cars sound. It's a racing game and sounds 
 like one what else can you really say.
  Value: The game loses its rating here, the story can be beat in between 10-20 hrs depending if 
 you do all of the milestones. The online is broken and not worth anyones time, which frankly cuts 
 its replay value in half. Once you beat the story there is no need to go through again unless you 
 really want to because it's the same milestones again. 
  Achievements: The achievements have you beating the single player career and that's its there aren't 
 any besides that.
  Tilt: NFS: MW is a good game that has great chases, and races but the online is horrible. The story 
 is one that might not get more than one playthrough. It's a great rental or a pretty decent bargain 
 bin game. It is the same thing as the ports besides the slightly upped graphics. Although it was 
 a launch title it was pretty good but isn't worth a second time around if you have already played 
 it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tda503
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  i picked up a copy at my local gamestop for 20 bucks used. its pretty fun. the graphics are great, 
 and the gameplay is really smooth. the cop part is fun. its really easy to get out of a race, i 
 have been up to a x3 pursuit (max is x5) and its still pretty easy to get out of. The achievments 
 in the game are easy too, its basically just finish the campaign. because the achievments are "beat 
 everyone on the black list" pretty much. an easy 1000 gamerpoints. The video in this game is good 
 too, like they said in the gamespot review, there are not alot of them, i wish there were more. 
 So if your looking for a game that will keep you busy, then pick this up. its a "platinum hit" 
 now, and it will keep you busy for probably 20-30 hours. The cars in this game are also fun, and 
 there are alot of customization options, not as much as in other games, but its easy to make a 
 pretty unique ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hondacivicrider
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Man where can I start with this game, the game is just plain exciting. Working your way from the 
 bottom and getting to the top in this game is no easy task. After getting to #5 it got difficult, 
 between you and the cop chases, man its gets harder. I mean you really have to know how to drive 
 to get bounty during this period in the game. Getting to Razor, now thats a bit of a task. The 
 Milestone Events are not easy to get, I mean it took me several times to finally get the whole 
 5. Now beating Razor, its pretty simple, its the chase after you beat him thats difficult, but 
 its a good thing Mia is on your side in this game (even though she is working for the cops) she 
 comes in handy.
  Also too, its helpful to try and get the pinkslip to all the blacklist drivers, just so you'll 
 get a better car each time, and also comes in handy as far as the heat goes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigl281
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  When i first got Nfs most wanted i expected it to be just a ricer type game. Need for speed turned 
 out to be the best racing game i have ever played. The coolest addition to the game is the police 
 who you are destined to have a ton of intense pursuits with. As you get into more trouble with 
 the cops our heat level increases which makes it much, much harder to evade the police. Once you 
 get to level 5 there will be helicopters watching you, corvettes trying to bust you and roadblocks 
 and spikestrips. Multiplayer is fun also, and online mode is a great way to test your skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolzane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  When i first got Nfs most wanted i expected it to be a normal, modern racing game and nothing special 
 but i was wrong. Need for speed turned out to be the best racing game i have ever played. In the 
 career mode it starts you off with a prologue where a dude named razor steals your car and you 
 have to get it back with the help of a guy named rog and a lady named Mia. To get your car back 
 you have to work your way up the blacklist and defeat all the blacklist racers. In total there 
 are 15 blacklist racers and to face them you have to get bounty, comlpete milestones and win races 
 eventually until you beat 14 of them and then beat razor who is number 1 on the blacklist. A interesting 
 addition to the game is the police which you are destined to have a ton of intense pursuits with. 
 As you get into more trouble with the cops our heat level increases which makes it much, much harder 
 to evade the police. Once you get to level 5 there will be helicopters watching you, corvettes trying 
 to bust you and roadblocks and spikestrips. Sometimes when you get busted after a long pursuit 
 you will feel like slamming your controller down. the multiplayer is also great and it keeps you 
 coming back for more espessicaly on xbox live.
  The game has some of the best cutscenes to date
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohfrontline
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  You start out as a street racer trying to make it to the top (which is called the blacklist which 
 has 15 of the top racers in the city) . As you are taking people out, Razor, the #1 blacklist member 
 challenges you to a race. You accept, but he rigs your car to break down in the middle of the race. 
 You lose your car, and you will stop at nothing to beat razor, get your car back and be the #1 
 street racer in the city. This is where the game begins.
  
  I am not normally a fan of racing games, but this one sliences all my complaints. The game is amazing. 
 Even though when you crash it looks like two hot wheels ran into each other, the gameplay is still 
 fun. It also makes the game a little easier. You have a choice of what cars to use, what parts 
 to put on it (like rims, paint jobs, window tint, spoilers, bodies, etc.) .
  
  I wouldn't play this game with the racing wheel, because there is no controller setting to really 
 make all the controls on the wheel work. Use the controller, it's easier with this game.
  
  What really got me hooked is the police chases. If you do enough damage to the property around 
 you (and go fast enough) , the police will start to chase you. As you progress in the chase, the 
 chase will move up to chase level 2, chase level 3, etc. It goes up to chase level 5. Each level 
 has better faster cars, and more of them. You can also rack up bounty (you'll learn about that 
 in the game) during chases.
  
  This is the single best racing game I have ever played. This is a must have. Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Elijo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed takes a new road in it's street racing after adding police to the game. It took 
 me about 2 weeks to finish this game and I loved it. No races were to easy, they were all very 
 intense. When I bought this game I was thinking it would be easy because I had just finished Need 
 For Speed Underground 2 which was a walk in the park but I was very pleased when I began to play 
 it and I realised that it was challenging enough for me. This game brings in an all new generation 
 of street racing with the police and the new checkpoint and speedtap races. I was a little dissapointed 
 though to see that they had taken drift out of the game. 
  
  Another new addition to the game is the blacklist of bosses. After defeating a boss you have the 
 chance to draw a card and win his/her car with a pink slip. Overall I thought this game vas fun 
 and highly addictive and it misses out on a perfect 10 due to the occasional freezes and the drift 
 races being taken out of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3hrubikscube
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  I have sampled nearly all of the games in the Need For Speed series, but I think that Need For 
 Speed: Most Wanted is the best of the series.
  
  The graphics are fantastic, the actual racing is a complete and total blast, the police are awesome 
 and incredibly fun, the chases are realistic and enjoyable, the cars are incredible, and so on 
 and so forth.
  
  I can say with ease that Most Wanted is one of the best car racing games I\'ve ever played. It\'s 
 highly addictive ---you'll want to play nonstop for hours.
  
  Really, I'd recommend this game to just about anyone who wants to have a good time and enjoys playing 
 video games. It\'s that simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  One of the many Xbox 360 release titles was released as well on the original Xbox and this is the 
 first Xbox 360 game that I've reviewed that is better looking on the 360 instead of being the exact 
 same thing. Now even though gameplay is basically the exact same as the Xbox version (score 9.0) , 
 but if you haven't bought it already, an extra 10$ is an extra 10$ well spent.
  
  On the positive side: The cops chases are a great new feature and they put up one hell of a fight. 
 Also, the game is fun, creative, and has a ton of new races.
  
  On the negative side: What is the deal with all the street racer type dialouge?
  
  Verdict: 
 best looking 360 launch game. Gotta pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3LL_Hunter
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  this is a must play, you don't have to own it just play it. 
  
  have you ever want to just out run a cop, or drag race with out the fear of being caught, then 
 baby you've got the right game in your hands.
  
  if your skilled you'll never get caught, also the realistic's in this game find the perfect spot 
 between real life fun and game fun.
  
  i hate those games where if you crash your totaled, i mean common if i wanted that i would really 
 be driving.
  
  but thats whats so perfect about this game, the cops are as smart as in real life that it creates 
 a real challenge.
  
  its customization could get better, but it sustains my need
  
  it feels so good to just let go and speed, without having to fear danger's
  
  and don't even 
 get me started on the surround sound, just brilliant... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inuyasha360x
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I never played any of the earlier NFS games when i opened NFS Most Wanted at chrismas time. but 
 when i put it into my PS2 i knew it was a game i would love forever! and as u can c, it carried 
 to 2 different consoles for me!
  
  First off the cars in this game are amazing! for the Porche Cayman S to the BMW M3 GTR. But enough 
 of them and on to the story mode. this game lets off, i guess, kind of where u finished in NFS 
 underground 2. You start off in a new city and start trying to gain a reputation for urself. but 
 u take on the blacklist racer 15 who is Razor. and he cheats and takes ur BMW...= [ So now u have 
 no car and u want revenge... sounds like the making of a game to me! so u start off trying to make 
 ur way to the top of the blacklist to get revenge on Razor, cuz now hes at the top! 
  
  So now on to how to face the blacklist. first to race a blacklist racer u need a certain amount 
 of race wins, milestones, and bounty. Race wins are self explainitory. Milestones are certain objectives 
 you have to do while in a pursuit against the cops. And Bounty is a point system that gives u points 
 for completing milestones and doing stuff during a pursuit. 
  
  The only bad part ive encountered in this game is the pursuits. they can be very difficult at times 
 and they can get on ur nevers! but other than that this is posibly my favorite racing game ever! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueyeboy97
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  # Mind-blowing full-motion video cutscenes 
  # Outrunning the cops is extremely exciting 
  # Outstanding sound effects 
  # Tones down some of the over-the-top product placement found in 
 the previous NFS games 
  # 360 version looks good in standard resolutions, much better in HD.
  
  gamespot's review hit 
 it on the head. A really fun game. the only problem is that i cant beat the game because the cop 
 missions just get to hard when u are on the last guy. They are pretty impossible. It was really 
 frustrating. Other than that, it was a good game. Customizing ur car was awesome.
  
  gamespot's review hit it on the head. A really fun game. the only problem is that i cant beat the 
 game because the cop missions just get to hard when u are on the last guy. They are pretty impossible. 
 It was really frustrating. Other than that, it was a good game. Customizing ur car was awesome. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedijoshy32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best racing game out there .some stunning graphics and nice cars. one of the 
 best in the series. very well planned storyline and game-play. this game only has a few small disappointments 
 like not all the older cars are in this game like the 350z or the skyline but it does have some 
 good cars instead like the mercedes-benz slr or the lamborghini gallardo. but all this comes at 
 a price unfortunately the customization is where it suffers some. the body kits are only a certain 
 way and theirs no way changing them. everything else is still cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: localgod325
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Besides getting a gun, driving fast cars is the only thing in games i really want to do. I really 
 didn't know what to expect after the disaster that was NFS Underground 2 (how many times do i really 
 have to drive around a **** best buy) . Needless to say after the 5 minute opening, i was hooked. 
 The driving, handling, music and story all come together in this game flawlessly. It doesn't get 
 cheesy, it doesn't get dumb, its just fast and furious racing with a goal, to be the Number one 
 on the black list. oh yea, and the cops really, really don't like you. My only major gripe in the 
 game is that the cops are a bit dumb, you have to actually slow down for them to keep up with you, 
 and at times it gets a bit frustrating, but this is really just a shallow complaint compared to 
 the edge of your seat thrills in the game. I really have lost count of how many times I've actually 
 stood up and shouted at the television. Anyways, I'm rambling. It is an old game, but it is by 
 far the best of the Need for Speed series. Oh, and Carbon sucked ;P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drzb3zt
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  i have played every need for speed game out so far from need for speed 1 to undergrounds to v-rally 
 i played them all i really think this is the best need for speed game so far i think pro street 
 will get better ratings but ill all ways like need for speed most wanted out of all...
  
  i know this game came out in 2005 but if you don't have this game or haven't played it please do 
 your self a favor and buy this game and enjoy one of the best racing games out and the best need 
 for speed game so far...
  
  
 
  
  PS: juiced2 vs. need for speed pro street message me and tell me witch one you are going to buy 
 and witch should i buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  The Good: Decent graphics, nice weather effects, bounty system is well implemented, lots of customization 
 options, you don't have to roam the world, fun mulitplayer, live action cut scenes are surprisingly 
 good
  
  The Bad: Graphics could have been better, bug crashes and framerate hitches abound, no downloadable 
 content whatsoever, weird control setup, no drifting, the world of NFS is boring
  
  Two NFS games later Most Wanted is still fun and exciting. This is probably the first NFS that 
 did new things since Underground 1. The big thing here is the Bounty system and the Blacklist system. 
 You start out at the top and then a racer named Razor cheats and gets your pink slip dropping back 
 to the bottom of the well. You have to climb to the top of a list of 15 different racers to have 
 a crack at Razor again. To get to each racer you have to raise your bounty a certain amount and 
 complete a certain amount of races. There are many race types here, surprisingly, and they are 
 fun and keep things mixed up. You have anything from drag racing, to speed traps (which clocks 
 the fastest racer) , toll booth (timed checkpoints) , to regular circuits. The bounty system is really 
 nice and fun since you have to run from the cops and as you smash into them and evade them your 
 bounty increases. You can use Pursuit Breakers to get the cops off of you then you can find various 
 hiding spots until your heat cools down. This in turn brings the heat up on your car and the higher 
 the heat is the more likely you'll get spotted. The next thing is the big free roaming world which 
 you, honestly, really won't want to roam much since it feels so empty and boring. Thankfully EA 
 put a jump to safe house option and you can get to races from a menu instead of driving there if 
 you want. The tuning is really nice here as well and doesn't boggle your mind like Gran Turismo 
 would. There are a plethora of parts, visuals upgrades etc. to choose from. The main gripes here 
 is that this is a typical EA port and they left in some bugs such as framerate hitches and crashes, 
 but they never came out with a patch to fix this issue. The multiplayer is a nice setup but that's 
 all you'll come back for after you beat the single player. If you missed this NFS or are new to 
 it this isn't a bad entry point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adraedous
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Originally, I had no desire to get Need for Speed: Most Wanted. I was never a big fan of the NFS 
 franchise so I never had any reason to read upon Most Wanted. Nevertheless, I decided to try out 
 the demo offered on XBL. Low and behold, the game, or rather, the police chases, hooked me.
  
  Graphically, the game isn't anything spectacular. You definitely get the sense that this is 
 a port and, for me at least, the framerate seems a little off. I dunno -- I can tell it's running 
 smoothly, but something about it feels choppy. Comparing it to Burnout Revenge, it just doesn't 
 feel as smooth. That doesn't take away from the game itself, though, and I got used to the odd 
 framerate or whatever it is after awhile.
  
  The controllers handle as well as an arcade racer should -- easy-to-use drifting mechanics, boosting 
 that gives a nice sense of accelerated speed, and the slow motion ability is a nice touch when 
 you're in a pinch or need to make it around a tight corner.
  
  I'm honestly not sure what to think of the live action CGs. They're so over-the-top bad that they're 
 funny. Is that a good thing? I'm not too sure.. I certainly got a kick out of watching them, but 
 at the same time I wanted to gag. If they had added quick clips of each of the 15 Blacklisters, 
 for example, rolling up beside your car and taunting you, that would have been great. It's a shame 
 they didn't.
  
  Difficulty-wise, the game starts off incredibly easy. Especially if you were like me and spent 
 hours just playing the 3-star police chase on the XBL demo. I found myself having to stop, turn 
 around, and practically ram into the police cars to let them know, Hey, chase me! at 1 and 2 stars. 
 3 and 4 stars is a really fun level a difficulty that will keep you on your toes, but allow you 
 to get away fairly easy if you need to. Beyond that it can get pretty crazy but it's still a lot 
 of fun.
  
  As for the races, they never really got any more difficult, though I found that as I upgraded my 
 car, the other racers would too, and would provide more of a challenge, even early on in the game 
 if I was racing with a souped up car. The later part of the game consists more of tedium than more 
 challenge -- you have to complete X amount of races to face off against the Blacklister which is 
 3 or so more than the last Blacklister, which was 3 or so more than the one before, and so on. 
 So near the end, I found myself just sticking to the time-trails and shorter courses just so I 
 could get to the Blacklisters as fast as possible.
  
  Lastly, points. The only way to get points is to beat the blacklisters. There was really no thought 
 or effort put into them which is disappointing. They could have easily come up with some great 
 ideas for ones involving pursuits. Maybe next time.
  
  Overall, the pursuits are a ton of fun, even if the races can get tiring and tedius. The sand-box 
 feel of the game is nice and being able to start up pursuits on the fly is one of the best thing 
 about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameking193
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is a thrilling rollercoaster ride that never ends due to the fact that you can still 
 run from the cops after you have defeated the blacklist. some of the bad things about the game 
 is that fact that there is only 15 blaclist members which surprisingly seems short and also the 
 lack of a huge selection of cars other than that this game is wonderful with great graphics, free 
 roam ability , great cars especially my favourite ( The Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution VIII) and really 
 there is nothing really bad to say about this game and that i will be looking forward to Need For 
 Speed: Pro Street 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theUNstopable13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  NFS Most Wanted is the best game in the NFS series. The game is non-stop fun and has some exciting 
 gameplay, so much, that it will never get old. The best part about this game is customising your 
 personal car. Most of the cars in the game are any normal cars that you see today. There are many 
 different ways to build and race your car like, a sports to racing type of engine, turbo to max-out 
 your cars acceleration and top speed, upgrades to give power and muscle to your car, and much much 
 more!
  
  The story begins with you first entering Rockport, a city, and meeting up with some street racers 
 who challenge you to face them all. They call them selfs, Blacklist 15, and they are the top street 
 racers around town. You lose your tuned-out car but you eventually start all over and have to defeat 
 them one-by-one but as you defeat them, your car is getting better and better as you go through. 
 If you want an excelent street-racing game, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whyme122
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  Most Wanted is a must have game in your collection. Even though Carbon is better Most Wanted is 
 basically just as good. The gameplay is the same and the point of this game is to make your way 
 up the blacklist and become the Most Wanted . This game features hardcore online racing and hot 
 pursuits. The graphics are very well put together and the sounds are widely composed. When you 
 play Most Wanted it's like your really racing. The drag races are back too although they take them 
 out in Carbon. So add Most Wanted to your collection and have fun with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjkflke
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 1, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is okay. near the beginning it is fun but it is to repetitive. it makes it become boring. 
 ive finished the game once and after that i have never touched i again. The copes might seem fun 
 in the beginning. But after a while you wish theyed just piss off. The cops are not even fun and 
 if you dont feel like getting chased after a race well bad luck because in this game it happens. 
 And then te most annoying thing is completing a mile stone and getting caught by cops. And dont 
 get me started on the plot. its as simple as you can get with a little twis at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liamaldred
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  u need to get this game u don't now wat your missin. the pursuits r so fun it's amazin. and the 
 car an't bad so i'm telling u get this game or u'll become a loser. After u completed this u want 
 to try need for speed carbon it carrys on from the story in most wanted. If u have a steerin wheel 
 4 your console i would use it, it makes the game a lot more fun and realistic. this can be played 
 by any member of the family and will be enjoyed, it is a good 2 player as well as a single player 
 =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naimscool
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that made me buy an xbox 30, when i saw the preview i was amazed. I have played 
 every single one of the need for speed series since the first one came out in the 90's. I have 
 to saw that this one is the best in the series. It got me hooked for endless hours. The cars are 
 amazing, the city is huge, and the police pursuits are out of this mind. I definely recommend this 
 game, it will not dissapoint you at all. Not to mention the online races youll be playing with 
 your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRookieGB
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 24, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  Hi, I've played Forza 1 &amp; 2. played Dirt Demo and played Burnout revenge.
  
  Don't normaly like racing games with tacky themes and boy racers modes but this is great. Moding 
 the car is great fun and the police chases make this so much fun.
  
  My mate said, why did you by that cr*p boy racing game for? . I said because gamespot review gave 
 it 8.5 and the cop racers made the game. They were spot-on.
  
  Ok there are some down sides, First if you have never played NFS series like me then you may get 
 a bit confused that you can free roam about and where to go. the instructions are a bit basic, 
 but the help messages do a lot to help you along. Hang in there and you will be fine. Basicaly 
 race to up the bounty to the required level then beat the blacklist guy and climb the list. Cash 
 from wins helps you uprate you car.
  
  A great Game thats now cheap in the shopos at around &pound;20-25 or less (play. com - uk) And worth 
 every penny.
  
  Cheers All 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  NFS Most Wanted is the next instalment in the NFS series. This time it has a hepas better storyline 
 with cutscenes and it is a lot better from other NFS games. Its storyline is very long and it is 
 really good and you can verus rivals and you get get there cars if you can get the right card because 
 after each boss or rival race you can choose from 6 cards, 3 unknown and 3 special upgrades for 
 for cars. One of them is getting the boss which will help you a lot. The graphics are great and 
 better then the other console versions like PS2 and Xbox and the game has a lot of detail from 
 the Xbox 360. You can also play online and verus your friends or someone around the world and sometimes 
 you might not want to play the online mulitplayer but you can if you want to. I would. This game 
 is the best in the series so far and the next instalments would be better. This game is a really 
 good game but sometimes the game could get a little hard or boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAdam
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  I bought NFS Carbon a few months back before i bought Most Wanted and I was very disappointed, 
 no involvement just a game. Took it back ASAP!
  
  Last week i thought id give Most Wanted a try, immediately I found myself wanting to play more 
 but was still a big unsure. After the fist hour I was really into it playing my career mode full 
 out to the best.
  
  Learning the basics and the bits and bobs take a while but it amazing when you get into it. Im 
 now about 60% of the way though it atm and its getting harder which is a trouble but adds to the 
 game. Story is allot better than most NFS but still could do with more input from cut scenes and 
 so on. But Great Fun.
  
  The cars are ace, love em, mod them to the best looking every time and power is great.
  
  Online 
 not played it yet but Ive had a look and it looks great, still playing he story mode.
  
  Go Get It. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Most Wanted places you in the shoes of the racer you controlled in NFS: Underground 2, who has 
 left Bayview and moved to Rockport. This time around you are trying to be the most notorious and 
 revered racer in the city and on the city police's Blacklist . This blacklist shows who the top 
 15 street racers are in terms of won races and police chases. Basically, you choose a car to start 
 with (and naturally it isnt going to be the best car in the world) , do a few races &amp; earn money 
 from them, then go and upgrade your car. From there you proceed in police chases to raise your 
 bounty. While in these police chases you must pass milestones - these milestones can be anything 
 from hitting into a car to having a 20 minute police chase. Eventually you can challenge a member 
 on the blacklist if you meet their criteria (they usually require you to win a certain number of 
 races, have a certain bounty price, You can upgrade almost everything on your car from visuals 
 to performance. I mean you can buy several types of body kits, spoilers, rims, paint jobs, vinyls, 
 etc. In addition, you can buy better motors, nitros, superchargers, etc. On top of that, you can 
 performance tweak your car. This means you can lower your ride height, raise your torque poundage, 
 aerodynamics, and much more to give you the upperhand in a race.
  
  The police chases are pretty cool, but get almost impossible later on. You start off at level 1 
 with just police cruisers following you, as you gfo on you will get police copters and police corvettes 
 chasing after you using tactics like making you fishtail or boxing you in. They will even lay down 
 spike strips and road blocks to slow you down.
  
  The graphics in this game are beautiful. The cars look amazing, the environments look top notch, 
 the weather effects are brilliant. The only downside to the grpahics is the sun. Sometimes they 
 will place the sun directly in your eyes and you can't see your car or the road.
  
  The AI in this game is a bit frustrating. It starts off real easy, but then gets REALLY hard as 
 you progress. When you reach something like the 3rd guy on the Blacklist (Ronnie I think his name 
 is) the races become almost unbeatable and you really have to use tactics, strategy, and proper 
 driving mechanics to get ahead of the game.
  
  The music in this game was off the chain, and in a good way. They had great artists like Static-X, 
 MC Hush, Celldweller, Disturbed and many more to help you get pumped for the race or police chase. 
 Obviously there were some bad songs, but whatever. The cars sounded great as well as the explosions 
 and crashes. Downside to the soudn was for some reason when driving in 1st person on a standard 
 audio TV you can't hear your engine making it hard to judge when shifting while driving manual.. 
 but when on surround sound you can hear it just fine, but can't hear the car when in 3rd person. 
 Meh. The cutscenes were ridiculous, but definitley welcomed. It was done with real people acting 
 as characters in the game and helping you through the story. When you got arrested by the cops 
 they showed your character getting roughed up by the police in interesting ways like slamming you 
 onto the floor and pushing your face into the black top.
  
  X-Box live races are pretty intense but lags alot... I mean, you'll be driving neck-to-neck with 
 someone when their car will disappear for a few seconds and re-appear ontop of your car for no 
 reason.
  Oh and another thing, you can create your own cars for fun. By this I mean you can choose any car 
 you unlocked in the career (not just the cars you drive, but any car you have unlocked) and give 
 them your own customization for free and race them on X-Box Live. It was fun making a nasty Subaru 
 WRX STi and racing it against a Lamborghini Gallardo online.
  
  Overall, Most Wanted was a pretty fun and challenging game but it's AI was hard to overcome later 
 on in the races and some small glitches (like hitting into a road block of police cruisers in a 
 Ford GT doing 200mph and stopping dead after hitting one car) kept the game from being higher. 
 I do suggest you at least give the game a try since it is easily accessable to beginners and advanced 
 gear heads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  This in my eyes is the best of the NFS series. The change from the night time to the day was a 
 bit of a shock but the graphics and the storyline were much better than previous versions of the 
 game. I even prefer this one from its sequel carbon . The cut scenes are well done and soo cheesey 
 you just really hate that Razor guy. The whole black list idea was great and the return of the 
 police chases was welcome I love getting into a high level pursuit smashing up Road Blocks at 200mph+. 
 i was also happy that they took out the whole car rating thing which really annoyed me in previous 
 versions. It forced you to put stupid parts on your cars such as dual roof scoops and insanley 
 massive body kits. If you like to modify our motor then the kits etc. are still there but if you 
 like just to do little bits to your car as opposed to an entire change then you can. I thought 
 this was the best in the series and gladly give it 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve12992
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 7, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  NFS: MW is a fine edition to the NFS series. It allows up to four players on the same console and 
 even lets you drive in first person mode. The multiplayer is great, and the career mode is a fun 
 play as well. The only problem with career mode is the bland story. Other than the very beginning 
 of career mode, there isn't even much story. (Or at least up to Blacklist racer number 10) Anyway, 
 the story won't stop you from enjoying this game. The since of speed that you get when driving 
 will top anything like any other NFS game. The car models are great, the city is very well detailed, 
 and the graphics and sound are great. This game also features a wonderful soundtrack. Once you 
 get your hands on some cash, you can buy new cars and trick em out however you want. Overall, NFS: MW 
 is defintely a game worth buying, and you'll find yourself picking up over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weeweenator
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 5, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  In most racing games your on on strait road, with several opponents. Now we have a urban environment, 
 with cops, traffic, buildings, and you. Oh yeah hundreds of roads to go on, which makes each time 
 you play the same map different. And since you have many different maps the possibilities are almost 
 endless. The game has many different types of modes so if you do like just racing on a strait road 
 you can. But whats even more fun is doing it when there's cops chasing you. The graphics are great. 
 The game is addicting and intense. Most likely the best NFS game out there. Its worth the money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ji_ve
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  And yes, I have even played the first game on Sega Saturn. After High Stakes on the PSX being my 
 former favourite together with Hot Pursuit on the PC, I was very disappointed with those two Underground 
 Iterations.
  
  For starters, the whole game was set only in the dark and the reflections on the street where just 
 horrible. How can one drive like that? I certainly couldn't.
  
  Luckily, in NFSMW you get to drive in the daylight again, and, thank god, the most excellent police 
 chases are back. Sure, I can understand if some people don't like those at all. And you HAVE to 
 do them, to beat the game. It would have maybe been better to make them optional.
  
  But for me the game is just perfect. I mean, come on. A racing game with an actual story, that 
 alone is sheer brilliance. Plus the whole free roaming city thing tops it all! Throw in an excellent 
 online multi player mode and you have the best Need for Speed to date. Much better than Carbon 
 too.
  
  I'd say, it's one of the best (if not THE) arcade racers of all time. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SergeStorms
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 16, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This game was a DNF for me. Last night I got sick of trying to get a milestone so I could race 
 the level 5 guy on the blacklist and gave up. I had been through a lot of police chases and once 
 I hit milestone territory (I could get away sooner with some ease) I got swarmed with a small army 
 of cars and the slightest mistake led to me being busted. I was just not fun enough to put in the 
 work to finish the game. The point of diminishing return was reached. So the game is automatically 
 not great since a casual like me may not finish it out of frustration. Up until that point, I was 
 having a fairly good time with it.
  Gameplay: 8. This was a lot of fun until the end. I liked the cop chases and races for the most 
 part. Maybe it is driving games for me, but as the difficulty escalates and I have to do the same 
 chase forever just to build milestones, this gets tedious. Graphics: 9: The graphics are pretty 
 darned good. They show decent speed, good detail, banged up police cars. They were crisp enough.
 
  Sound: 8 Not much here. As GS points out, the voice acting is spectacular in a crazy, goofy, cult 
 movie sort of way. I loved it. Value: 7 The game is what it is. The missions were repetitive with 
 not much variety. It was fun but not very intricate. The sprints were the same as lap races. The 
 photo radar was a little different but not too much. Tilt: 7. I had fun playing the game but not 
 enough to stick out some frustration at level five. I suppose if I worked at it I would have done 
 better with the police chases but the payoff was not there. It was more a nuisance to get through, 
 at that point. I feel bad that I could not see the expectedly dorky ending with Mia, Cross, Razor 
 and the gang. I just dont have time to give to a game like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 15, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed has been ripping up the asphalt for over 10 years now and after numerous additions 
 for consoles, handhelds, and even the PC, one would begin to wonder just how much is left in the 
 tank for such a franchise? In all honesty, not much. With kids and adults alike finding more entertainment 
 in a super charged import vehicle smashing its way through a city with no major consequence, this 
 overly arcade racing franchise shows its fading age and its lack of innovation. At least the cops 
 are back in this one!
  &nbsp;
  &nbsp;
  GAMEPLAY
  Like the last few NFS: Underground games, in Most Wanted you take the role as the lone racer who 
 strolls into some random unknown city and marked as a challenger. You not only get dooped and suckered 
 by the resident racing rejects, but you have to earn your pride back by getting a new car and moving 
 up the Black List. On this list, there are 15 racers who all have their own little flare thanks 
 to stylish profile introductions and specially designed cars that fit their racing fancy. Your 
 task is to rip through the new city and complete side task to gain attention from the Black List, 
 once given the chance you move up in rank by defeating these yahoo's. Of course you have plenty 
 of company due to police trailing you every time you get too out of line, so utilize your environment 
 and upgrade your ride often and your sure to leave these chumps in your  
 &nbsp;
  &nbsp;
  VISUALS
  Don't get me wrong, NFS comes to the 360 and I damn near farted something colorful. My expectations 
 were not as high as some, but I was very well pleased in what I saw. Sadly, after playing the game 
 longer than a few hours you'll quickly realize thats all you will see. The graphical detail on 
 cars and the environments, especially during massive destruction runs, is all top shelf quality. 
 I do wonder why EA would decide to allow your car to take on external damage, but not penalize 
 the cars driving performance. It almost feels like wasted effort, but you hardly have anytime nor 
 a chance to admire your cars design unless your in a shop or in a garage. Besides the smooth city 
 layout and sexy import cars, there really isn't much else to look at. Unlike the night time only 
 Underground series, a majority of the races take place during the early morning where the sun shines 
 intensely, or during the afternoon where it occasionally rains. LAME!&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;
 
  &nbsp;
  AUDIO
  I will warn the unknowing now, if you ever plan on enjoying a EA made videogame prepare to be subjected 
 to their limited music selection for hours on end. You could easily solve this problem on the 360 
 by playing your own music selection from the HD or a portable player, which I do very much and 
 doesn't interfere with the gaming experience one bit. Sound effects through out the game are pretty 
 standard and nothing really grabs you except for the police chatter that goes about while they 
 search and pursue you. Since there isn't really any major car selection, just about every car sounds 
 the same no matter the circumstance... which is kind of... you know... LAME!&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
 &nbsp;
  &nbsp;
  EXTRAS
  Arcade type games I've noticed are mostly fun when played with multiple others, and thanks to online 
 capabilities which is something any racing fan can be stoked about, you can challenge people across 
 the land. Unfortunately, NFS suffers greatly in slapping on a feature that feels more like a side 
 thought rather than a fleshed out extension of the single player game. While online you'll meet 
 2 kinds of racers, the whiners and the exploiters. Since the game only allows you to adjust what 
 type of race, and the level of traffic, there really isn't much incentive in racing online in this 
 game. Unless you find great pride in holding down the leader boards, you might as well play with 
 a friend at your side. The lack of online achievements kind of further emphasizes the point in 
 simply playing the game for the single player campaign and moving on. Once you play through the 
 15 stooges, there is nothing left to this game besides customizing cars which gets boring real 
  &nbsp;
  &nbsp;
  OVERALL
  I've loved this series since day one and being a big fan of racing games, arcade and sims alike, 
 I enjoyed the ride while it lasted. In no way will I turn my back from a good sit down race between 
 a few friends, but this game clearly lost its edge. You can really get excited about massive police 
 car chases, intense bouts between friends online and offline, easy achievement points, and maybe 
 the occasional thrill of flying through a city at 190+ wrecking shop with no remorse. Other than 
 bland thrills that last no longer than a weekends worth, you might wanna play the safe card and 
 rent a game like this. If your a hardcore racing fan and feel like you have to know for yourself, 
 stay positive. Better things are bound to come for the 360... Forza anyone?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antonius86
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 6, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome to play. Kinda boring at first because of driving stock cars (very slow) , 
 but man once you add performance to the car, you can see a big difference. Makes it more realistic. 
 When i was watching the review from the GameTrailers site, they said it had a brownish color scheme 
 throughout the game, if they haven't said that i would not have notice it. The Story is pretty 
 cool including the real people into movie clips, blending them in the game. They have done quite 
 well, and the story line nice and straight. The gameplay for this game is simple. I just love the 
 customizing of the vehicle, thats what i like about racing games, be able to customize cars the 
 way you want. But i have notice that there isn't really a whole lot of things to do to your car. 
 I was hoping something like Need For Speed Underground 2. Customizing your truck with speakers 
 and doors. I hope in the new Need for Speed Carbon game, it will have a lot more accessories for 
 the car. The online gameplay is smooth, but if you have a poor connection from one of the players, 
 you'll see them driving around glitching all over the place. Kinda hard to tell where the person 
 is going. Other than that the game is fun to play and is very addictive to play the single player. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treb3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 30, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  if you want some fresh driving gameplay this is the game to get. this is an awsome game carbon 
 was better but still I just bought it becuase I beat carbon but I beat that too so im pritty much 
 scrooed untill NFS11 comes out. crap. well back to the reviewthis game like carbon has shweet graphics, cops, 
 and of course an great sence of speed. this is for sure not like any diving game out now exept 
 of course carbon. so overall most wanted is one of the best games for the driving genre. most wanted 
 is not like the underground game becuase if you hit a car you dont compleatly stop you keep going 
 like on carbon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brannigancarter
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 24, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  Cops cops cops. It's the whole reason I bought this game. And doing 170 MPH through busy city streets 
 followed by AWESOME federal Corvette pursuit vehicles is one of the greatest gaming experiences 
 I've had to date. Graphics are great (if you're doing over 100 mph, but who the heck would WANT 
 to drive slow?) and this game FINALLY got the difference in MENU and RACING music. Menus are accompanied 
 by hard rap songs and some alternative nu-metal, while races are smashed by metal songs to get 
 your adrenaline pumping. And not to mention the sweet change in music once a cop gets on your tail. 
 Metal changes to cinematic, orchestrated, high tense music that sound like it's straight from Gone 
 In 60 Seconds. No two races will ever be the same, it's always over the top and wild. The story 
 is kind of stupid, but the concept isn't. Start out with the most awesome car on the game, get 
 busted, lose it, and work your way through the cops' Blacklist, a list of the 15 most wanted street 
 racers on the game. Once you get to number 2, it's time to take on the guy that screwed you over 
 in the first place... and that race is AWESOME!!!! It's really an easy game in most aspects but 
 it can get challenging sometimes. And the ability race for pink slips online is a really interesting 
 feature. If you're looking for a realistic driving game... this isn't it. This is all about making 
 you feel like you're making the most awesome car chase scenes ever... which is why I wish there 
 was a replay feature. Either way, this game was seriously entertaining, great looking, awesome 
 sounding, and downright one of the best racing games EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icup01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is Amazing, in my view it has very good graphics, it has a good choice of cars, i like 
 this game and i like the fact that you can have a maximum of 20 cars in your garage unlike Need 
 For Speed Underground 2 where you can only have 5 cars in your garage. this game has made me andmy 
 friends play it non stop, this gamecan get annoying when you have to lose the cops beacuase the 
 y dont leave and wheny ou think you lost them, out of no where another one just pops out and is 
 chasing you. another thing that sucks is the customization is more imited then Need For Speed Undergroung 
 2, you cant put neon, hoods doors spinners and more plus the vinels are also limited, you can only 
 put one layer, but this game still rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 6, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  EA fixed their biggest problem in the Need For Speed series. Want the tricked out cars from Underground 
 and the cops from Hot Pursuit ta-da NFS Most Wanted. The story on NFS is fairly good... You're 
 a young driver who loses his car and must beat all 15 blacklist members. But you can't beat all 
 15 in one day (well without sleep and a FAST car u might be able 2) . You must complete a certain 
 amount of races get you're bounty higher and complete milestones. If you love good stories and 
 fast cars you should defiently pick up Most Wanted...
  
  The graphics are awesome now when i first got this game and started playing i thought the graphics 
 looked kinda PS2ish but thats still good. The graphics are really good. Espically during the cut 
 scences.
  
  The cops are back and sound pretty good. Not much here to say. The only thing i didn't like was 
 no good music in opinion except for the TI song...
  
  I love this game it is a definite buy for any 360 owner or whatever else you have. If u r gonna 
 buy either NFS Most Wanted or NFS Carbon get Most Wanted........................
  
  9.2 SUPERb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DTbikerider9
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 4, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  The Need for Speed franchise has been making great crazy fun arcade racers over the past couple 
 years on the past couple consoles. Some of these games have had diferent features and different 
 pros and cons, Well now the franchise has released Need for Speed Most Wanted and this game combines 
 many pros from pass titles with few cons. One of the biggest things that the franchise has brought 
 back from the title Need for Speed Hot pursuit 2 and titles before is police pursuing you using 
 many different techniques. Need for Speed has released the titles underground and underground 2 
 that took away that crazy popo but now its back, and the franchise has finally mixed underground 
 street racing and fast paced cop action. For a game that many fans have been waiting for, for a 
 very long time.
  
  GAMEPLAY- the gameplay is spectacular w/ a couple flaws. The cop AI has certainly improved from 
 former titles and they avoid civilians and other obsticles better than ever before. The only thing 
 is somtimes the cops will get in eachothers' way in persuing you. Also the cop cars have a VERY 
 fast nitrous oxide that makes escaping plain unfair somtimes. Despite that the AI is well done 
 and plays a good part in the game. The plot of the game is to work your way up the blacklist which 
 is the list of the most wanted street racers and once your at the #1 spot you have to defeat the 
 punk that originally stole your ride. However to get a shot at a blacklist racer you have to have 
 the same amount of bounty on your head (if not more) as the racer and also certain races and bounty 
 milestones completed. Once you have defeated a blacklist racer you select 2 tokens out of 5 that 
 unlock customizable parts or other extras for your ride including your opponents car. There are 
 of course a wide selection of customizations that you've grown to love from the need for speed 
 franchise including visual, performance and body parts. All improve your ride's looks or performance 
 to get reconized and get more rep. After concluding some races there are cutsceens that have dialouge 
 that just plain s*cks its like they had a **** right the entire script. But despite that gamplay 
 is superbly done by the folks at NFS and it has few flaws that dont effect gameplay very much.
 
  
  GRAPHICS AND SOUND-The grpahics are the best yet for the franchise. On the 360 they had far capabilities 
 and they fullfilled them to the fulliest. Your car and any other car look car with complete reflections 
 and shadows. The customizations are well complemented by the stellar graphics and there are nicely 
 designed towns and country side to race through in this title. The sound is great could be better 
 but rubber screeching against road is always satisfying the voice acting and script could widely 
 be improved. But the police radio and other sounds are well developed through out the game and 
 ultimatly could be improved but still fit-in well.
  
  VALUE- You can get it pretty cheap now probrably around $25-$40 in a store used will lower price 
 maybe even cheaper on the internet (ebay) . ANd for any price this game os a must get for any 360 
 owner and DEFFENETLY a racer fan.
  
  THANK YOU FOR READING MY REVIEW RECOMMEND IT IF YOU AGREE :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benjovi-uk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  Finally , Need for Speed has went back to it's roots back to the daylight and bringing back the 
 police, which makes it a brilliant game...
  
  You are in a huge city well kind of.... and it's completly free roaming engine is flawless
  Most 
 of the things about this game are brilliant.
  
  *GOOD* Graphics, EA Trax, Gameplay, Story Mode Races
  
  *BAD* A bit too long for a racing game 
 but still worth it....
  
  *Overview* Great and fun, a bit too long and definetly better than the Last-Gen Versions....
 
  
  At this time of the review it'll be a bit cheaper and I would get this rather than Carbon... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wrona92
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  If you are all about achievements on Xbox 360 this game is just right for you!
  
  This game is a better version of Need for Speed Carbon, why? Because this game provides more of 
 a story line and more of a game play not 2 hours of game and you are done.
  
  This game takes more than 3 days to beat which is fine for a racing game.
  
  It has very nice 
 graphics; the cars are very nicely modeled
  
  The engine sounds exactly the same like in the BMW M3 my engine in my car is exactly the same.
 
  
  The Sound is very good as I mentioned.
  
  The game play is smooth!
  
  Great Buy Highly RECOMENDED! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganandorf1000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Most Wanted (NFSMW) is a game for all X360 gamers of all kind. It's gameplay is 
 great with outstanding driving abilities. Although when you spin out after hitting the wall at 
 full speed it's very tough to get out of it quickly even while using speed-breaker: the nitrous 
 was a good help when you unlock the pro package along with the ultimate pack. I find the graphics 
 to be a sensation. The rain is so realistic when it drops from the into the windshield including 
 the car graphics and colors. The sound blew me away when I turned it up and raced. You could hear 
 the wheels moving and the rain dropping. The main plot of the game is that you once were a big 
 time racer with a tricked out, fast car with great value. You lose the car in a pink-slip race 
 to Razor, the number one racer on the black list. He takes your car and your left with 30,000 some 
 dollars to buy a new car. You must work you way up the Black list by beating the members in the 
 own races. You must beat Razor and get your prized car back. The best way to get cars is to pink_slip 
 the members you beat and races for money. Overall this is a game you cannot miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3r7y
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Most Wanted is exactly that. MOST WANTED!!! Our of all the NFS games this one is my absolute favorite. 
 The customizing isn't as detailed as the Underground series but the customizing that they do have 
 is still sweet. The one thing that stands out the most is obviously the cop chases. The police 
 are ten times more aggresive than the ones in Hot Pursuit 2. And I might add a little more realistic 
 with the chopper. This time it dosen't drop spike strips and exploding barrels like in HP2. Also 
 the radio chatter sounds so real it's like they got it off of the TV show COPS. The higher the 
 heat level the better the cop cars get, eventually becoming C6 corvettes. On the performance uprgrades 
 side, there's a new thing called the Junkman Upgrade. All it does is it adds extra to your Top 
 Speed, Acceleration, or Handling even after your on the max stage. More or less Most Wanted to 
 me is the best in NFS series so far, thanks to the really awesome cop chasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TCisGod
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  NFS: Most Wanted is a racer from EA that takes place in the fictional city of Rockport. When you 
 get there you find out about a group of racers called the Blacklist 15. Before challenging the 
 first member of the Blacklist he messes with your ride and you lose the race, your ride, and you 
 get thrown in jail. When you get out you set out to get your revenge by taking on every member 
 of the Blacklist and get your ride back.
  
  The game is told through full-motion video cutscene that are very funny and voice and text messages. 
 The graphics are very good. The cars and city look great. The acting in the game is very over the 
 top. The production is all great besides the soundtrack. There are six race types that include 
 sprint, circuit, lap knockout, drag, speed trap, and tollbooth which is like time trial. The only 
 really original mode is speed trap which has you racing against three other racers and where the 
 winner is the one with the highest total speed at the end of the race. There are also police chases 
 that can be exciting but the cops AI can be kind of dumb. For example, cops will just stop, turn 
 around and leave the chase. But when it works the police chases can be very fun. If you are a fan 
 of the Need for Speed series then you will love this game, but if you are not then you may want 
 to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sodium_Free
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  All Jokes about 5000 dollars and bolt-on wonder-boys aside, NFS: Most Wanted is a return to form, 
 and a large step forward in the series. Adding the ability to customize the cars you drive to the 
 time tested cop evasion makes this a must have game for any platform. When you first fire up this 
 game (on the 360) it is impressive. Not just the smooth textures, and phenomenal lighting. It is 
 that attention to detail that makes it look so nice and realistic. This game is not only graphically 
 stunning, it has the corner on realistic sounds in a racing game. Even though the engine noise 
 is Synthesized, it is some of the best sounding RPM s that i have heard in game. They did a fantastic 
 job, and this is another one of the small details that add so much to the overall presentation. 
 Finally the game play is the most enjyable part for obvious reasons. you get to run from cops, 
 and go really fast. with the smooth motion blur, and super fast look, this game is a stunner on 
 all cyclinders.
  
  I think this is a Great game to pick up on any system, but if you have a 360, that is the one to 
 get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: butterflyk1ss69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game the other day (feb,13 2007) and I played it for about five hours straight. 
 It has the best graphic imaginable on racing games, the sun in your eyes while driving, the rain, 
 and alot more. I have played Need for Speed on playstation 2 and it doesn't even add up to Xbox 
 360. I realy like the police chase. But my favorit is the career mode, where you have to race to 
 get on the 'Black List' and even better to challenge 'the best of the best' on this game to become 
 the best, to become 'Most Wanted' The online race is pretty cool to, yet I only played it for 30mins 
 because I had to go to work but that 30 mintues was a rush. Play the game if you are a race game 
 fanatic you will not be disappointed!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lild1425
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Innovative story that allows you to work your way down The Black List to challenge your 
 rival that cheated the last race you had and took your car while you were sent to jail. Integrating 
 a story, a wildly interesting one, was very unexpected. It gave meat to the game and kept the game 
 interesting until the end.
  
  The controls felt as natural as any racer I've ever played. Unfortunately, in Need for Speed's 
 next installment, Carbon, the controls did not feel nearly as natural.
  
  The level design is top notch and the free roam city is pretty neat. There are enough levels and 
 cars to keep you busy.
  
  The cop chases are what made the game the awesome experience it is. As you progress they get really 
 intense, an intensity that develops because the chases get pretty challenging without ever becoming 
 too hard or frustrating. One of the best gaming experiences you'll ever have is with the cop chases.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Great graphics. The shine of the cars is beautiful. The great graphics actually add to the gameplay.
 
  
  Sound:
  Although many despise EA's rock soundtrack, I thought it was one of the best and I even dowloaded 
 a couple of the songs.
  
  Value:
  A good online, but unfortunately there is nothing about online that will keep you coming back. 
 The single player takes awhile, but after you beat your rival, the game will be collecting dust.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  I gave it a nine because while it was the best racer I've played, there is more room to expand 
 upon the things that made Most Wanted good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russian4life
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 6, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  If you like a good racing game and if you like to run away from cops this is that game for you. 
 I really enjoy this game and the sound of the cars and that car graphics are great. I think that 
 this game is easy, but i play a lot of racing games so i got good at them, i dont know if it would 
 easy or hard for you? But the challenge series are pretty hard once you get past the #40 race. 
 in every single challenge series the cops will be after you, so beware. Also to win the pinkslips 
 on the boss races it starts out with the #2 question mark than it goes in order after that. All 
 in all this is a good action packed racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKretinousQ
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed has been going for a long time from its early days to the Undergroung series to 
 Most Wanted and now Carbon. Most Wanted delivers all the tuning and racing action from the Underground 
 series that many people loved but now on the 360 it's had a significant visual upgrade and you 
 get the best police chases ever in existence in a video games.
  
  The main story around Most Wanted is you've just come to the city a few dodgy things go on and 
 you have to start all over again. (I won't say too much as it will spoil it) . The Blacklist is 
 how you climb up in the racing scene and you have to complete milestones like ramming a certain 
 number of police vehicles etc. When you defeat Blacklist members you get achievements blah blah 
 blah.
  
  What I love as I'm sure many others do is the cars, the tuning and the awesome sounds the cars 
 produce on Most Wanted. Vipers sound like Vipers and Mustangs sound like well, Mustangs! Visuals 
 really are superb on the 360 and the frame rate is silky smooth with only an occasional bit of 
 screen tearing that takes place.
  
  NFS: Most Wanted really deserves a look in. Especially as it's on the 360 classics game price. It's 
 great for serious racers, casual racers and those looking for a great game.
  
  TKQ out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RiseoftheFist
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  If you've ever played a racing game you know there has to be some key things in the game in order 
 for it to be any good. Such things for a racing game would include Difficulty, Content, Handling 
 and Intensity. These may not seem like what most people rate games on however i find it to be the 
 most important parts of a game. - Difficulty - Of course a game has to have some sort of challenge 
 or else you will blow through the game quickly an/or quit just out of being bored. In the case 
 of Need for Speed Most Wanted i feel that this game gives you the perfect amount of challenges 
 a game could give you in the matter of still keeping you into the game without giving up. Out of 
 alot of games i have played this is one of the few games that i actually did not quit on even if 
 i lost several races in a row. It just got me more into the game. - Content - The Content of this 
 game rather good. You do have to follow a story line however you do get to choose which races you 
 want to complete and in which order. Also the Bountys you have to complete is best addition to 
 this gaming genre. It makes the game very exciting and intense.
  
  - Handling - This aspect i find to be one of most important. In the genre of a racing game i define 
 Handling as a type of control. Such as how easy or hard it is to control the car your driving. 
 In Need for Speed Most Wanted i find it to have a good grasp as how to make driving fun yet challenging.
 
  
  - Intensity - This by far is my favorite part. The intensity is how much the game sucks you in 
 and makes you keep playing till you pop a nut. And in this case NFSMW gets a 10/10
  
  Overall if you got an Xbox or Xbox 360 you should get this game. Even if you dont like racing games 
 to much this one may change your mind. Out of all the racing games ive played, such as Grand Turismo 
 1,2,3 . Forza. This one is my favorite and most recommened.
  
  Rise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stu4u3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I've heard Need for Speed Carbon is great but this game is a got-to-own for every xbox 360 owner. I 
 have to agree with others, running from the cops is awesome. As you progress through the game, 
 the cops start head-on collions with you so be careful. It's not to hard to lose them, just be 
 sure to use cover and don't always drive on straight-aways for a long period of time. As the cars 
 get faster so do the races. The slow motion theatricals when jumping over large hills or dropping 
 from one level to another make the graphics on this game amazing. driving 170 mph feels like you 
 are driving 170 mph. Plus, the frame rate is incredible. Customizing your car with performance 
 part is easy and make the game enjoyable. I'm only half way through the game and I can't wait to 
 finish it. You cannot go wrong buying this game. Get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownnightwolf
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Addictive when challenging your friends. The graphics are kick ass and keeps you on the end of 
 your chair. I love the car chases. Damm pigs can't catch me! Don't do this on the streets. The 
 cars kick ass. Definite a must have game . The sound track keeps you pump but then again it gets 
 old. I rather put my tracks then hear their tracks. Online challenge is alright. The caraer mode 
 is exciting. Graphics wise make you wanting more cars. The characters each have their own method. 
 A different challenge when put out there. Kick ass by far. Want to challenge people and place bets 
 then this is the game you need to get when you have people over. Quick challenges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 31, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  Through thick and thin, Most Wanted can pull off some pretty amazing stuff.
  
  The unique gameplay involved in Most Wanted is clearly what stands out the most, ranging from unique 
 forms of racing to intense police chases around Rockport City. Either way, you're dealing with 
 an incredible game. You're instantly dumped into a tense race with Razor Callahan, some thug/jerk 
 guy. He's part of the Blacklist, a list of the top 15 street racers in Rockport. Razor is ranked 
 fifteen, and when you're halfway through the first race, it turns out Razor sabotaged your ride, 
 forcing you to pull over. As part of the wager you put on the line when you race a Blacklist member, 
 Razor takes your BMW M3 GTR, while you're left with no ride to deal with the cops. Yup, you're 
 arrested. However, since it's kind of hard to bust a guy for street racing when he doesn't even 
 have a ride, you're released from prison and are taken to a Safe House by Mia, your girlfriend. 
 While you were locked up, though, Razor worked his way up the Blacklist with your ride. Now he's 
 number one, and you're practically nothing. You need to gain your rep back little by little by 
 beating each and every one of the Blacklist racers.
  
  Exciting, right? There's one thing that could get in your way, and that's the cops. The cop pursuits 
 are by far the best and most intense parts of the game.
  
  You start out with a Heat Level, or in other words, how much the cops hate you. Well, not necessarily, 
 but as your Heat Level goes up, the cops get tougher to get away from. In Heat Level 1, you'll 
 be faced by pathetic Civic Cruisers and nothing else, but once that meter hits level 5, you'll 
 be running against Federal Corvettes, Heavy Rhino SUVs, spike strip roadblocks, and even a helicopter 
 that will occasionally run you off the road. At this point, the cops can get extremely difficult 
 to get away from, but it's fun nonetheless.
  
  As far as the sound goes, you'll be blown off your feet. EA has gathered together some excellent 
 sound effects, some including police sirens, crashing into traffic, and hitting gas pumps at a 
 gas station. In addition, the cars themselves each have a unique engine noise, which also adds 
 to the realism of the game. As for music, EA has taken care of things with its officially licensed, 
 interesting collection of Hip-Hop, Rock, and Techno music. Once the police chases get going, Paul 
 Linford's intense, fast-paced, mind-numbing score kicks in, which adds to the fun and excitement 
 of the game itself.
  
  Graphically, the 360 is obviously the best choice, and is mind-blowing in every form of the word.
 
  
  All in all, this game is clearly the best choice if you're looking for action and is hands-down 
 the best Need for Speed game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloHunter202
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 22, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Well, i have to say that this is the best type of street racing game ever, i never played Need 
 for Speed: Carbon. But as far as i know, this is the best one yet. Im really not a NASCAR fan, 
 but i am street racing. I like to cars, because you can create them which is awesome!!! I like 
 how you can make your own designs, and colors. I even like how you can fix up the engine to make 
 it faster. i have to sy this game is worth to buy. If you have money and a XBOX 360, and you do 
 not have this game yet, go and buy it, its fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerami
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 20, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  My first impression of this game was wow, what an early-generation game. I was lead to this assumption 
 by the sub-par graphics of Need for Speed Most Wanted. However, upon second consideration, the 
 graphics really aren't that bad, but they could be better. That is the only downfall in this game. 
 Other than that, the storyline is very immersive, it builds a passion for your character, and and 
 even bigger passion to defeat Razor. As for game play, it is just the same as any other racer, 
 and very smooth to drive. The customization of your car (s) is very neat, and I rather enjoyed that 
 'personal touch' aspect of the game. So if you like racers and have always had that guilty need 
 to run from the cops, buy this game, and hey, add 1000 points to your gamer score while you're 
 at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 13, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  This NFSMW is one of the best from series of Need For Speeds. It has great graphics, great gameplay, 
 and great online play. You have to go through the blacklist because when you start the game you 
 loose your car, and you have to go through 15 guys to get your car back. While you go through you 
 can get cany car you want. You can customize it in any way you want. The online play is fun when 
 you have full perfomance on a car, full handling, and full acceleration. Kind of fun that are cops 
 in a game, but sometimes they are really annoying. While you go through the blacklist you get more 
 races to do and you have to have more bounty. WHich is kind of annoying. You have to play with 
 cops until you get the bounty you need to defeat a racer. But overall i would say it's a great 
 NFS game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSpitFire3x
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 1, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  It's got very solid gameplay for a racing game with great customization and various race types.
 
  
  The graphics aren't the best but they are a definite step up from the xbox and ps2 versions with 
 much sharper bitmapping and texturing and better anti-aliasing.
  
  Sound is top notch from the EA tracks and car effects.
  
  Achievements aren't hard to get, 
 just beat the game to get all 1000k so if you're looking for easy achievements this is one of those 
 games.
  
  I personally really liked this game and the racing was really great. It ranks up against alot of 
 other racing games and has some of the best cinematic cutscenes with composited realtime and cg 
 elements making it insanely cool and ultimately hilariousluy over dramatic. This is a racing game 
 that shouldn't be passed up, well worth the price and easy achievement points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikeria
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  the game is beautiful, fun, and innovative
  
  if only it had more cars and drifting, otherwise the game is near perfect.
  I've passed more 
 than 4 times now. yep that's right, that is just how good it is.
  
  The game even after the career is finished still has more to offer. It has multiplayer as well 
 as multiplayer online. There are challenges and the game is especially challening when you play 
 against the cops. They can be very smart cause sometimes they box you in. Other wise the game is 
 amazing. It has everything to offer and more. It is simply put, BRILLIANT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topher78714
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  This is another Need for Speed game, however instead of it being Need for Speed Underground 3 or 
 something they go back to racing in the day time and once again add the addition of the police. 
 The police chases are awesome and really pump you up. The graphics are awesome, however it really 
 can be hard sometime to see where traffic is and if there is something in your way, however you 
 tend to typically get over these problems relaivly quickly. There are TONS of cars to choose from 
 and the sound track is pretty typical for this type of game. I would recondmend this game to any 
 fan of the series and for those who aren't I would say go pick up the game and give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Platow2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  I Loved the first Need for speed with police added (Hot pursuit for PS1) ever since then the series 
 has always had them included making racing games more exciting and fun. NFS: MW does this but also 
 with nice street racing and other interesting types of races.
  
  Story -- Very basic story all your cars are stolen and you have to restart over by beating this 
 black list of 15 drivers. Each one more challenging and with a better car then the next. Let me 
 just say the videos are amazing and their isnt enough of them. You basically have to do challenges 
 and small races to unlock the challenge of the driver on the black list.
  
  Graphics -- They could have been better but seeing how this is one of the first 360 games it isnt 
 that bad. As i said before the video sequences are amazing there should of been more. Cars look 
 outstanding and do take damage not much but a little. The cities you drive around in are done nicely 
 nice details and stuff to crash into and break.
  
  Gameplay -- Probably one the funnest racing game I have played. While racing you really dont have 
 to worry about the cops actually I think you cant even get busted during a race. But free roaming 
 or trying to raise your bounty (you have to have a certian bounty to race a black list driver) 
 can be tough especially when it reaches the 4th hotness level for a helicopter is then deployed. 
 The racing is easy I usually blow the competition out of the water. Sometimes I may have trouble 
 witha blacklist driver but most the time it just takes the first try to beat them. The most challenging 
 thing you be doing in the game is getting your bounty up. Each time you rise on the blacklist you 
 need a higher bounty in order to challenge the driver. Once you get into the top 6 th bounty can 
 get very high. The police chases you have to escape from in order to get the bounty so its very 
 frustrating to havea real long good chase and then get busted and get nothing.
  
  Sound -- Awsome sounds engines and turbo systems sound realistic as hell. The soundtrack could of 
 been better but there are some good songs in it I usually just use the custom playlists on my hardrive. 
 Pretty much the sound is perfect except for the soundtrack.
  
  Value -- I bought mine for 20 bucks preowned at blockbuster. They sell 30 bucks new now and I have 
 heard its way better then the newer more expensive NFS: carbon. If your looking for a next gen arcade 
 style racer Most wanted is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enginwolf04
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  To be sure, NFS MW is an entertaining game while it lasts (which is too long) . The open endedness 
 (not forced on you, which I didn't realize till Blacklist #9) is pleasant although there isn't 
 much to do other than engage in the best, most stressed police chases this side of next-gen, and 
 drive to each event. I kind of liked the first NFS UG where you could engage racers on the road 
 by simply touching them or turning around ( I don't remember) . I thought the tollbooths were boring, 
 the drag races were fun but were few and far apart, circuits and sprints were much more enjoyable 
 at higher speeds (read: driving Lamborghini won from one of the Blacklist racers at top speed before 
 a hairpin V turn) , Speedtraps were fun and slightly harder, Lap Knockouts were frustrating but 
 mildly fun, but the star of the show reminds me of the First NFS for PS2, Hot Pursuit, which was 
 so much fun. The cop chases are really fun. I wish the boys at EA Canada would have kept the Helicopter 
 attacks from Hot Pursuit and the tightness of the cops from that game, as this game really gets 
 cheap at Level 5, although having a car that skids as it accelerates won't help you win (you'll 
 undoubtedly lose and cry as you see the words BUSTED after racking up an 800,000 bounty and tons 
 of milestones) . Also, more Pursuit Breakers or whatever they are called would've been better along 
 the freeway, like using truck envoys or semis to foil the cops. My main gripe is repetition. As 
 you climb up the supposedly coveted Blacklist, you encounter just more of the same. It gets tedious 
 as you strive to make it to number 1, but it just doesn't reward you with enough new things along 
 the way to keep your interest sparking. I really got bored of everything except for drag, speedtrap, 
 and MAYBE lap knockout after about #9 (hence why I stopped free roam) which is a shame considering 
 I really enjoyed duking it out with the sometimes competent and cheap AI Blacklist racers. More 
 functionality for the Body Kits, Roof Scoops, etc. would have been much more appreciated. I stopped 
 purchasing them after I had at least 3-4 cars. The nitro was much more pronounced in this game 
 than any of the NFS UG games, which was a nice addition in my opinion. That being said, NFS MW 
 is a great game, but the novelty does wear off halfway through. The only thing that kept me going 
 was the strongest desire to eradicate Razor Callahan (Clarence as a first name? Yeah, real hardcore 
 Blacklist racer...) and get my Beamer back. Enjoy the game but expect repetition!
  
  R. P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GjRjEjG
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  After two games with the wrong title, Need for Speed is finally back. Kind-of. Need for Speed Most 
 Wanted brings back the exotics, the cops, and keeps some of the element from the Underground games. 
 In the game, unfortunately, you lose your good sports car and you have to start with a crappy car. 
 Then you have upgrade that crappy car again just like in Underground 1 and 2, but eventually you 
 start unlocking exotic cars. The story in the game starts out with you going to a city called Rockport 
 with your fast BMW and race a guy named Razor for your cars. Then he rigs your car and you lose 
 the race and your car. With the car, Razor is able to get to the top of the Blacklist a list of 
 the best 15 racers in the city. Win some races and get some milestones in pursuits and then you 
 can challenge a Blacklist member. The best thing about this game is its police chases. After you 
 get far enough into the game you can get into level 4 and 5 police chases which get really intense. 
 Most of the time I've played them game I'm in a police chase. I get in pursuits so much, my bounty 
 is around 100,000,000. EA did a really nice job of making a game that will still appeal to Need 
 for Speed Underground fans and fans of the original Need for Speeds. I would recommend this to 
 anyone who likes racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sprintguy1376
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 10, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  -Graphics
  The Graphics in Need for Speed are pretty well done from a technical point of view and a stylized 
 one. The tracks are brightly colored and most of the races are done during the day. The car models 
 look stunning and the customization options make them even more jaw dropping. The sense of speed 
 is also very good coupled with a nice blurr effect, the games visuals are great. The framerate 
 does stutter at times and you'll see pop-in on more than one occasion. But that doesn't detract 
 too much from the overall experience.
  
  -Sound
  The in game sound is great. The cars sound amazing and all different. Even the gear shifting in 
 each car is different, it's mind boggling that the developers paid so much attention to detail. 
 It gets even better with the police chatter. The police sound authentic and realistic, they really 
 submerge you into the gameplay. The soundtrack is horrendous. Most EA soundtracks are bad, but 
 this one is just exceptionally horrible. It's like EA found every emo group they could find and 
 packed them into this game. It's a good thing the Xbox 360 can stream music, or you'll go crazy.
 
  
  -Gameplay
  Climbing up the Blacklist is amazingly fun... for a while. After you get passed the 7th member 
 or so, the game feels repetitive. To be able to race a blacklist member, you have to win a few 
 races, run from the police, and complete milestones. Running from the police was easily the funnest 
 part of the game in the earlier hours. But after a while it gets to be a chore. Getting enough 
 bounty takes so long and the difficulty gets to you after a while. It really does get infuriating 
 having to run from the police so much especially when you get into the higher heat levels. The 
 races vary enough to keep you interested and the milestones get gradually harder. It's just the 
 amount of time that you have to run from police that hurt the gameplay.
  
  -Value
  The game tries very hard to make artificial longetivity by getting caught by the police every 20 
 minutes. It actually gets so frustrating towards the end, you'll probably just never want to play 
 the game again. The online is just standard racing, nothing really innovative there. You can take 
 the cars from you career and race them from multiplayer, thats pretty cool, but once you beat the 
 game... if you even want to... you won't be coming back for more anytime soon.
  
  -Tilt
  This game was so fun in the beginning, but it got screwy in the end. The game just gets so frustrating 
 you'll feel like punting your Xbox 360. If you like the Need For Speed series, then rent the game 
 first, it's not as fun as all the others and you may be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haz_4x4
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 6, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed most wanted, i do not own the game but i have played it with a friend, i was expecting 
 a lot from itr but no.. i happen to find it a bit boring which is a crying shame, i just feel as 
 i am into car games they could of improved greatly on this. there is not damage for a start. the 
 graphics are ok not great pgrs are a lot better, a nice choice of cars, nice choice of upgrades. 
 so far this review seems to be ok about the game but the thing that does bother me the most is 
 it's realism, i personally feel the way i drive the cars they just feel so fake and unrealistic 
 especially when you turn it feels like your sliding all over the place which i found irritating.
 
  to sum up i think this a good game possibly for people who like arcadey games not serious racers, 
 it has a nice choice of cars and thats about it, i have also played carbon they have not made much 
 change... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shasam712
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  *DISCLAIMER! This game has been reviewed in Standard Definition. Any graphical issues suffered 
 during the game apply to SD only, and will not necessarily occur when playing the game in HD.*
 
  
  EA is a monster of a company, huge in size and the amount of content they put onto the market. 
 Their biggest export is the Madden series, for obvious reasons, but hot on its heals is the long 
 running Need For Speed series. Need For Speed has come under many different guises over the years, 
 but it came into its own with the super successful Need For Speed: Underground and has continued 
 on to rule the illegal racer category of games.
  
  Most Wanted is the game after Need For Speed: Underground 2, and it ditches a lot of the old tuner 
 scene that kept the game confined to the cover of night and cars all lit up like Christmas trees. 
 Most Wanted is now set in this dusk setting, so everything has this kind of orange tinge to it 
 that gives it this kind of hot, racy feeling. The concept is obvious and successful, the game feels 
 noticeably different from Underground 2.
  
  The story in Most Wanted is pretty simple as usual, but Ill be damned if the cut scenes in the 
 game arent some of the finest use of storage space ever seen. This mainly stems from the characters, 
 such as Clarence Callahan a. k. a Razor, as they say and do some very hilarious things. In total 
 though, there are about 5 of these cut scenes and the rest of the plot is played out through voicemail 
 and text messages, which sucks. Razor races you in the beginning of the game and wins you ride 
 after some foul play, which he then uses to get to number one on the black list, which is the top 
 15 street racers in the city. You then have to crack the blacklist and win your ride back, because 
 you are a sore loser or something. I dunno.
  
  As the name implies, this incarnation of the game brings about something that disappeared during 
 the Underground phase, the police. The police make Most Wanted what it is. Racing is there in all 
 its forms, but the most fun you can have is with the long arm of the law. As well as the police 
 showing up during races, you can also get straight into pursuit events, which is where the real 
 action is.
  
  During a pursuit event, you have a heat level which indicates how strongly the police want to catch 
 you and what they are going to use to stop you. Level 1 is you basic patrol cars and nothing else, 
 as you rise through the ranks they improve their vehicles each time and also add a little something 
 extra to the arsenal. Heat Level 2 will add Roadblocks, 3 will make them use Rhino SUVs (Which 
 will charge at you as if from nowhere just trying to take you out) , 4 adds Spike Strips which will 
 end a chase instantly if hit along with adding a helicopter to the mix. Then Level 5 addswell 
 it just adds better cars, but these cars are extremely fast and are used especially for tackling 
 street racer scum.
  
  While being chased, you have a series of milestones to complete which will earn you bounty. Bounty 
 denotes you standing in the world and you will have to increase so you can challenge the next racer 
 on the black list. These milestones consist of End a chase within X amount of time or Dodge 
 X amount of roadblocks. Once you pass them, if you want to of course, you then have to end the 
 chase. At the bottom of the screen is a meter which swings between the two sides. One side is busted, 
 which means you ride is impounded and you get to spend some time in the slammer, while the other 
 side is evade. The evade side will increase as you begin to lose your pursuers and once it fills 
 you go into cooldown mode and a second meter appears at the bottom of the screen. When this fills 
 up, you have got away and the pursuit ends, there are some spots on the map that will make this 
 meter fill up quickly thanks to their concealed nature.
  
  One thing very visible about these chases are how action-filmy they look. When you smash through 
 a roadblock, the car you hit will often fly 30 feet in the air and tumble on down the road while 
 you speed off at 180MPH. With the police trying to box you in, helicopters flying overhead and 
 all throughout frantic radio chatter, the game just feels like one long car chase from something 
 halfway between The Fast and The Furious and The Matrix.
  
  The police chases are THE reason why this game is better than the Underground games. In many ways, 
 Underground laid the groundwork for everything else and Most Wanted polished off the mix with this 
 fantastic addition. The chases are easy at the lower levels, but as your car gets better then the 
 cops get better until they can be frustratingly difficult, especially when you are trying to finish 
 up 4 milestones in one chase. The frustration is bearable though, just for that one sweet moment 
 of triumph as you see that last car drop off the radar.
  
  As far as the racing side of things go, the already winning formula remains pretty much unchanged. 
 They have removed the style points system of the game that rewarded you for drifting, drafting 
 and the like and just made it about the speed. There are also two new race types, Tollbooth and 
 Speed Trap. Speed Trap revolves around speed cameras positioned along a set route and you have 
 to get the largest total speed after all the cameras are added up, while Tollbooth is your basic 
 time trail event that sees you racing solo, trying to get to the next tollbooth that are all around 
 the map, usually on highways. The two new editions are good, and suit the whole Most Wanted theme 
 well, while the old Circuit, Lap Knockout, Sprint and Drag remain the same.
  
  The visuals in the game are pretty good, but too be honest you wont find much between the PS2 
 and 360 versions, apart from the obvious HD aspect. They graphics serve the game well, as it is 
 very stylised. I noted the use of the sunset earlier, but along with that you have the ever changing 
 blur of objects as the hurtle by, the air that streams off of your car and the shine as your metallic 
 paint catches the sun. It all goes hand in hand with that action film feel, and the game is all 
 the better for it. Nothing too special, but expertly applied to create the perfect graphical effect.
 
  
  Of course, there is still the racer AI problem that has always been a part of Need For Speed, although 
 this is more indicative of modern day racers. The AI is pretty dumb, will break in random places 
 and generally race bad. Of course, if they fall behind then they become the street racer equivalent 
 or Ayrton Senna and will catch up to you in a heartbeat. Despite this, towards the end of the game 
 the AI is pretty tough and can often out run you, even if you are driving a Lamborghini and they 
 are behind the wheel of a VW Golf. A problem such as this detracts from the experience greatly, 
 but it is to be expected and despite thatthe game is fun.
  
  Need For Speed: Most Wanted is definitely the direction in which the series should have progressed 
 and it plays very well. There are obvious points where you think I wish it had this, but the 
 general level of quality is outstanding. Thats what makes Most Wanted a high point in the series 
 so far, and what should make it a must own for both current and next-gen console owners alike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tunecar
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  This was the first game that actually got me into the series. I hadn't planned on playing it except 
 for the fact that it was included in my bundle for the 360. After I started playing it, I couldn't 
 stop. I played through as often as I could until finally beating it. A hell of a lot of fun. So 
 much so that I had to go out and pick up Carbon as soon as it was released. I am glad to have this 
 game as part f my collection, and would suggest to anyone else out there to do the same. The graphics 
 are great, the city is cool to drive around, and the police chases are really fun.... and definitely 
 get very difficult as the game goes on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwx55
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 13, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  I use to like Need for Speed but the more they come out the more I dislike this game. first problem 
 is the cops when they chase you they rely don't be driving they have this habit of slideing its 
 like the wheels be spining but they don't spin at the right speed and it makes it look like they 
 slideing. then this this habit of stopping on a dime is real annoying like say if you are getting 
 boxed in and the leader slams on the breaks and you slam in to him you will stop like that with 
 no hesitation in real life this is not the cace. then you got the lame story wich Im not geting 
 into. the cars on this game are ral good but some cars have an issue with sliding badly eve when 
 tuned up. oh online is good but when some one has a bad connection they car is rely mess up like 
 they car will be all over the rode or they car will make these weird shapes an blinking like a 
 ghost car or something so other than that this game is boring, useless, could of ben better then 
 it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rageonme
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy this game like many racing games. I feel there is a good amount of adjustments that can 
 be made to the cars and the car selections is also decent. I like how the game not only involves 
 racing but also evading the police, this adds another dimension to the game. I am currently still 
 making my way through the top 15 and cant wait to make it to number one. If you get lucky and win 
 the pink slip of a top 15 you can save a lot of money since their ride generally has many upgrades 
 allready installed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_master_mv
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 3, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  the game was a bit challenging on the pursuits, but when on the highway the chase comes to a ease, 
 yet challenging at the same time when at a level five pursuit or a level six pursuit chase. when 
 u lose your car at the beginning of the game i was mad, but i got it back at the end of the game 
 and had to get chased around and around the city for a long while, but then i lost them; then cross 
 came and i took him out with no problem at all. to put it in easier words the game was good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  The best thing about NFS MW is the balance between over the top speed balanced with a good sense 
 of control. Even when you are flying 200mph through city streets you never feel totally out of 
 control. The game is quite long and there are quite a few cars to buy or win and then customize 
 to your liking. The lack of **** looking vinals is a letdown, but the car models still look great. 
 The graphics, from cars to environments, are very good. The sun shine in the horizon looks very 
 real and the building and street textures and very detailed. The cars all look very slick and most 
 feel very fun to drive. The soundtrack is OK but with your own music it's a blast. Sound effects 
 like motors and tires squeeling are very well done. Crashes also sound great.
  
  Most Wanted is an arcade racer so the physics are not realistic, but they are very well balanced 
 for the type of game this is. Gameplay is not an issue at all except for how some cars seem to 
 stick to you during a head on collision, but nothing that ruins the game.
  
  The cop chases are always fun and get pretty challenging towards the last quarter of gameplay and 
 are always exciting. The racers are always fast paced and with great looking areas to race in with 
 great weather and lighting effects. Multiplayer is a little lacking but still fun when you tire 
 of the story.
  
  Due to the amount of stuff to buy, customize, and the game being quite long, you'll find plenty 
 to do and almost all of it feels like a blast instead of a chore. Any high speed racing fan should 
 really enjoy this game. Especially if you like over the top arcade style gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoreCowbell6924
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 22, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed has been around for awhile now, and this is my second crack at the series. Need 
 for Speed Underground is the only other NFS game I've played besides this one. It was a good racing 
 game and this one is probably better, but doesn't have a next gen feel. It's a good solid racing 
 experience none the less, although it can get a bit tedious. They have my favorite car which is 
 a bonus; it's the Porsche Carrera GT.
  
  The graphics of this game are good, but the textures get ugly when driving slow which isn't a big 
 deal sense you're probably going to be driving fast most of the time. The cars and other vehicles 
 look good and resemble the real models. The environments look decent enough and some of it is destructable 
 which is fun for awhile. The graphics on a whole though, don't really look that next gen , but 
 they're good enough to create an enjoyable enough experience.
  
  The sound effects are pretty good too. Most of the cars' engines sound great and cool. Cops' sirens 
 sound realistic as well as the policemans' voices through the radio. The car crashes don't sound 
 as realistic as they could, though I suppose it's because the actual crashes aren't realistic visually 
 anyway. The voice acting is pretty good all around, and most of the voices fit the characters quite 
 well. The music is where this game doesn't do too well. There is somewhat of a variety, but most 
 of it isn't that great for any genre. There is decent value to this game, but once you beat it 
 there really won't be anything to do afterwards as you'll have all the achievements simply for 
 beating the game. You could race online, but it's pretty much the same as racing against the AI 
 except you can talk to eachother. The leaderboard set up is pretty cool, but it's just not the 
 kind of game where you play online to get number one unless you're a racing fanatic or something.
 
  
  The gameplay is that of standard racing. It's really simple and pretty fun while racing. Cop pursuits 
 are the main new element and are fun the first few times you get into them, but after awhile it 
 seems you either can't stay in them long enough or they just drag on and on. Need for Speed Most 
 Wanted doesn't really add anything new besides the pursuit sequences and the fact that those get 
 old easily doesn't help. There is however a decent amount of variety of races to do, but all of 
 them are similar enough to one another, so it doesn't make much of a difference. The best part 
 of this game though is probably the cut-scenes which are all pretty cool, but of course with every 
 good thing there seems to be a bad thing to bring it down, and the bad thing is that there isn't 
 enough of them outside of the beginning of the game. They are just kind of stupid yet interesting 
 because of the characters in them, oh and they look freakin' great. Your goal is to race your way 
 to the top of the black list to get your ride back, because you were set up. It's not as simple 
 as just racing each of the fifteen black list racers though. You have to win a certain number of 
 races, achieve a certain number of milestones, and finally get your bounty high enough to race 
 the black lister. After you beat a black lister you get two markers and get to choose between unique 
 parts, or some random thing. Random is always a good idea as you can get your opponents' ride. 
 Also one last thing I noticed is the customization is seriously lacking in this game. There isn't 
 much to do in the ways of customization, but there is just barely enough to make it decent enough.
 
  
  Overall Need for Speed Most Wanted is a decent racing game and if you're looking for one it should 
 be fine, but I'd probably check elsewhere first. The achievements are pretty easy to get, so if 
 that's your bag try this game out. This game plays well enough and should do the trick as it's 
 simple street racing with a slight twist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hcsif
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun. You race, you run from the cops, you sprint, you race against your time, and 
 you drag race. It is fun and additing. There are a lot of ways to upgrade your car. There are import 
 cars to sports cars and they are all great to drive. You make the car the way you want it. The 
 best part by far is running from the cops it can get hard but thats the fun part of it. I was a 
 fan of the second one they had out of the ps2 and i hope the next game is more like that game and 
 not a street racer but this game will do.
  I cant wait for the next most wanted game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JinxSTL
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 13, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so I, like so many others, have ALWAYS loved the Need 4 Speed series. I've honestly never 
 felt the slightest bit let down by them....... until now.
  
  Don't get me wrong, this is a very fun game to play, but there are some things that could have 
 been better
  
  Gameplay
  Good - Most Wanted is pretty much the same as all other racing games. It's pretty easy conrtol-wise. 
 Bad - It's very easy to get hit a wall and end up stuck on some invisible hook that won't let you 
 off. When you finally do get off the wall, you've already lost the race. This can be especially 
 annoying if you were at the end of a 3-lap race. Graphics
  Good - The cars looked amazing, as well as a lot of the backgrounds, but on occasion things were 
 little bit glitchy. Also, the acting wasn't amazing, but it looked really nice to have REAL PEOPLE 
 in the game, ya know?
  Bad - The on; y bad thing about the graphics in this game is that they really didn't utilize the 
 360's power, All your races are done at sunset., and although the shadows change over time, it 
 never gets dark.... at all.
  
  Sound
  Good - Well, everyone has their own music addictions. I personally like Rap / R&amp; B. There were 
 a few good songs by T. I., but that was about as good as it got. I mean, most of the time Game Soundtracks 
 like these are garbage anyway. Except Midnight Club: DUB Edition. THAT WAS A GOOD SOUNDTRACK!
 
  
  This game is certainly woth it's price now. You can get this brand new for like $30, so you really 
 can't go wrong. However, this is kind of a short game. I beat the full game and all 68 Challenges 
 in a little less than 1 week. Also, at this point, I would actually have to suggest just waiting 
 for Carbon.
  
  -JiNX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwaldron2306
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 12, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  NFSMW is flat out a BLAST!!!!! From the presentation, to the awesome soundtrack, this game is complete 
 from top to bottom. The graphics are beautiful. Everything is very detailed from the cars to the 
 buildings and streets, it all looks great!!! The sense of speed is tremendous, and the races and 
 car chases are all super exciting. You actually will feel exhausted after a long chase. What more 
 could you ask for. If you are looking for a racing sim, this game is not for you. But, if you enjoy 
 fast paced arcade style racers, this one is a must own!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaaraNoSuna
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 12, 2006 4:34 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted isn't just a game for those who love racing. This is coming from a 
 person who couldn't even beat Mario Cart- this game is incredible. While trying to win your car 
 back, you can update old cars you have. Unlike most racing games, you can customize your cars down 
 to the smallest detail. Learning to play is a bit more difficult as when you get better and more 
 efficient cars, you attain more options for your car, thus adding new buttons. The overall difficulty 
 of the game is between medium-hard and hard. Graphics are stunning and the sound is nothing less 
 than perfect. Between outrunning the cops and jumping over cars, you won't know where to start.
 
  
  The Good: Thrilling, even people who don't enjoy racing games will love this one. It also requires 
 a bit of strategy so it's not all just hit the pedal and go .
  
  The Bad: The game is a bit difficult and the car can be hard to control at high speeds. There are 
 many different sub-levels before each main level which can be frustrating.
  
  The Point: This game is just excitement and fun non-stop. There is never a dull moment. Even if 
 you dislike this genre of game, give it a shot and you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  The Graphics are great on HDTV, but they still look good on a regular TV that has component inputs. 
 The opening movie is really nice. It feels like you are going to play something new and exciting. 
 The quick menu feature saves a lot of time, allowing you to start an event without driving to it 
 and wasting time like in Underground2. Getting air during a race and having the slow-mo camera 
 angle to show it off. The cop chases when they get really intense and after 5 to 10 minutes you 
 escape. The cars seem to float more than drive, compared to PGR3. When you are driving really fast 
 the cars pull forward in the screen and when you slam on the brakes the car slides back on the 
 screen, this is very annoying. The cop chases are fun but they seem to happen constantly, and sometimes 
 you will just want to move on to the next blacklist event. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metron4
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  NFS: MW is a fun arcade driving game, showing off the style and intensity that recreates living 
 in the moment as an illegal street racer. I say living in the moment, because thats exactly 
 how this game is designed, with the core experience being inside a car as a faceless, body-less 
 entity. For that matter, you might as well BE the car, since you are nowhere to be seen, not 
 even in the scant few cinematics. Playing through the numerous races, customizing the cars and 
 evading the police infuse a deep sense of what life would be like as a dangerous speed freak. Kinda 
 philosophical when you think about it. However, playing to gain a skill set against A. I. opponents 
 is not a feature.
  
  * Gameplay: The games intensity is thrown at you right from the beginning, putting you into a 
 high speed race complete with pursuing police. From then on its just you and the road, busting 
 your way up through a blacklist of racers to become the most notorious racer in town. You buy a 
 car, win some races and use the money to tweak your ride. Upgrade categories include performance 
 (engines, tires, etc.) , parts (rims, body kits, etc.) and visuals (decals, paint, window tint, 
 etc.) . All categories have locked items, becoming available as you progress through the game and 
 defeat members of the blacklist. Customizing is one of the main features, contributing significantly 
 to the look and feel of the game. All the cars have their own limits to handling, acceleration 
 and top speed. They all feel different, with the range between low end and high end cars being 
 significant enough to affect your chances of winning races, at least against online players. Each 
 level you achieve on the blacklist has several race types; tollbooth, sprint, circuit, lap knockout, 
 speed trap and drag strip. Tollbooth was my personal favorite since its just you and the clock, 
 plus it actually allows for skills youve developed with your car to be of value. In races against 
 other cars, the game uses the oft maligned feature known as difficulty adjustment. If you are 
 too far behind, say you slam into a wall, the other cars will slow down somewhat to give you a 
 chance to catch up, hitting the brakes at odd moments. At the same time they will spring out of 
 nowhere if they make the same mistakes, appearing close to the finish line just to give you that 
 rush of eking out a win. Thats fine and dandy if all you want is the feeling of being a winner, 
 kind of like putting your head in one of those cardboard cutouts of the strongman at the fair. 
 For those would rather win because they were good, because they used excellent driving skills, 
 or lost because the other player was better, this feature is unwelcome. Nowhere was this more evident 
 than in the fact I used my Fiat Punto, a total beginner car, to beat several racers at the end 
 of the game, including Razor, and claim the top spot on the blacklist. The difference in the two 
 is seen when you race online against other real people. If you slam into a truck and they dont, 
 you are going to lose, period. Having said all that, the multiplayer is one of the great reasons 
 to enjoy this game, since you can bring your tweaked ride AND your skills to the starting line.
 
  
  When you arent clawing your way through the blacklist or upgrading your cars, you will be earning 
 bounty accrued by breaking all kinds of road laws. Police chases can be extremely intense, not 
 because you are zigzagging through traffic at unbelievably reckless speeds, but because if they 
 bust you, you may end up wasting a lot of time for nothing. Many of the milestones needed to advance 
 in the game require such lengthy tasks as trading paint with twelve police cars, evading the 
 police after a fifteen minute pursuit, or dodging a set amount of roadblocks. So what happens when 
 you last long enough to accomplish these tasks and then get busted? Square one. You lose it all. 
 I didnt mind paying the fines or fending off impound strikes with markers, but living through 
 an intense police pursuit and having it all magically disappear was darn near traumatic. And Vin 
 Diesel forbid if you are going for one of those record breaking pursuit times for half an hour 
 or so and get busted, you may well eat the game disc, packaging and all.
  
  * Graphics: The ability to customize your car the way you want is abundant, thanks to the numerous 
 visual and body kit upgrades. There are so many that you could easily buy two or three of your 
 favorite car and trick them out completely different from each other. The car models themselves 
 are glossy and photorealistic. As expected in a game that uses real car licenses, damage to vehicles 
 is practically non-existent. A showcase feature lets you spin around your car with the best lighting 
 so you can ooh and ahh over your babies. Externally, the world environment looks amazing on the 
 Xbox 360. Textures for all surfaces are seamless and organic, and the road is fittingly wet and 
 slick when it rains. Its always daytime, but the weather and lighting manages to evoke several 
 atmospheric vibes, like when the sun is in your eyes on the horizon of the road ahead, or the gloom 
 of a cloudy sky. If you manage to sit still long enough, you may even notice that the trees sway 
 gently in the breeze. The laughable cinematics are few and far between, really far, as in a couple 
 at the start and a couple at the end. The rest of the story is told through phone messages. Special 
 dolly zoom visuals are used when driving at high speeds and activating pursuit breakers to slow 
 time.
  
  * Sound: Hard driving demands equally visceral music and NFS: MW includes a number of tracks 
 to get your blood and eardrums pumping. Although I appreciated the selections, there werent enough 
 of them. Thanks to the Xbox, you can always listen to your own music, and I wonder if that was 
 the reason so few songs were included. Im too lazy to transfer music, which means I have the words 
 twisted, brim low, brim low engraved into my brain. There was no skimping of sound effects for 
 any area of the game, even the menu system, which punctuates every button push and flick of the 
 joystick with a sound. Moving through the interface sounds very industrial with clanks of metal 
 and air whooshing all around. Nicely done. Truly amazing is that every car engine sounds unique, 
 and when you add an upgrade, you can audibly tell the difference. I installed this cool gear thingy 
 in my Fiat, and I can hear the gears ratcheting when I shift! How cool is that? Voices are heard 
 by people who leave messages on your phone and by the police you hear on your scanner. While the 
 actors who play the characters do a commendable job, the police broadcasts are outstanding. No 
 one Adam twelve nonsense here. Not only do they sound realistic, they feel real-time, as the 
 police will report on activities as they happen. Smash into a car or fly through a roadblock and 
 you will hear their reactions. They even use real codes that let you figure out and anticipate 
 what they are doing to stop you.
  
  * Value: Due to the difficulty in achieving many of the milestones, the game can take quite a while 
 to finish. There is enough variety to keep things moving and plenty of activities on the side to 
 keep one busy, like buying and fixing up new cars, running challenge missions or playing online 
 races. Since each peg of the blacklist has more to accomplish than you need to move on, you can 
 always go back and play the ones you missed, and there are unlockable advantages to doing so.
 
  
  * Tilt: I cant compare Need For Speed to other street racing games since I havent played any, 
 nor do I know how well this compares to previous chapters in this series. When I bought this game, 
 I was looking for something that centered around the street racing scene with a heavy emphasis 
 on car customization. I would have preferred a game with a more personal touch, such as the way 
 Test Drive Unlimited lets you customize your character. As an arcade racer, its still a solid 
 and recommended game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ian148
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted continues the hallmark quality of the franchise while still providing 
 a fresh new experience. From moving up the blacklist to baiting the cops into a high speed chase 
 NFSWM races ahead of the competition. With a huge catalog of customizations your ride can be tricked 
 out to the fullest. And the Performance tuning gives you just the right edge to trim seconds of 
 your time and tune your ride to the style of the course. However performance tuning can be tricky 
 and difficult for first time players to figure out. After trashing 250+ cop cars and evading the 
 ^$F@$^%&amp;$ police helicopter the game stands out as a racing classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnaloof7337
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 9, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed switched its pace by entering into the underground scene of street racing. Need 
 for speed underground 2 added features that enhanced and hindered the gameplay. The same is the 
 case with need for speed most wanted. Breaking away from night time driving you now are on the 
 streets during the day trying to earn your respect and take back your prized BMW. Getting rid of 
 the annoying factor of being forced to drive everywhere you can now toggle all your races from 
 a simple menu. Yet if you choose you can still drive there. Sounds good, need for speed 2 with 
 outs its problems and new cars and better gameplay. This is true until you input cops and the limited 
 freedom you have. Cops will now chase you wich is excellent, voice chatter, cop AI all amazing. But 
 some might be turned away by this new style of this more controlled and limited freedom. Also the 
 car custuimazation has been lowerd dramatically. Now only being able to choose from 5 preset body 
 kits your car wont look as crazy as your level 3 supra from nfsu 2. Also decal layering is gone. 
 But you can still make some pretty insane rides that look very unique. The addition of more race 
 themed cars and some unique gameplay features like slo motion for sharp turns that you can toggle 
 with a click of the thumbstick, humorous yet engaging cut scenes nfsmw will keep you entertained 
 through the 10 hours it should take you to complete it. All and all its need for speed wih a few 
 twists that may or may not agrivate you depending on your personal opion. I like the street racing 
 fully personal custom cars and no cops from nfsu but some people will disagree. Of course the 360 
 version looks better but really not that much better ( not worth the extra 10$) wether your playing 
 it on any console its a good game for veterans and newcomers.. but if you are a newcomer i suggest 
 you try the street racing themed style of nfsu and choose wich one you like better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rick_Moni
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 7, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Ok people, let's talk about one of the best NFS games I had ever played, and that is Most Wanted. 
 I actually played this game in the two Xbox consoles, and I think that says a lot about how much 
 I enjoyed this game. The difference between the two platforms is mostly in the graphics and sound, 
 the 360 version looks incredible and the game play in both are very friendly and really enjoyable.
 
  
  The story starts with some flashbacks telling how you get invloved in the street racing comunity, 
 you start to defeat some guys that are part of the blacklist and then get a race with your rival 
 Razor, when you lose your car and get busted, this is only the introduction of the game, after 
 that you will have to beat the 15 members of the blacklist to become the most wanted street racer 
 and get your ride back.
  
  To do so, you will have to start buying a new ride and improve it so you get into the different 
 kind of races that are circuits, sprints, lap knockouts and more, but the fun doesn't stop right 
 there, there is a new add to this game wich is called bounty points, and you can get them only 
 by police chases that become exciting as the game continues.
  It is a very nice racing game, I found it kind of addictive, the AI starts a bit slow but gets 
 better during the game, you can really enjoy this game in the career mode, although the online 
 playing has some issues as the intensive lag.
  
  I think NFSMW, is a nice arcade racing game, not really a simulator, cause it offers more rapid 
 fun than driving strategies, but I can tell you that it is a completely enjoyable game, worth playing 
 and it looks great. If you want some racing fun, a game that doesn't ask you to be a full skilled 
 racing player to enjoy it completely, then, you must try this one.
  
  So start your engines and become the Most Wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimboj
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  Amazing graphics, innovative gameplay, all the cars you look for - A++ Game until about 40% :P 
 The police related quests take so long and get so hard that it gets very fraustrating as at the 
 end of the day theyre jus obstacles in the way of your next car deliberately placed there to obstruct 
 the racing side of the gameplay. Theyre quite obviously trying to include more western cars in 
 the game and as a result theres no new oriental cars in the game compared to the last one. Definitely 
 worth a rent and very enjoyable but dont expect this game to last more than a week at most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paddles136
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 1, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  New kid on the block with a great ride, Race the cheat lowlife who messes with your car so you 
 lose everything and have to start from the bottom. Basically you start with the only car you can 
 afford and race to gain rep so you can challenge the "black list" All the while you have to race 
 thru the streets to beat the challenge and avoid the cops at the same time. The cop chases are 
 the best part and where the game opens up the city to you so you can try to get away. The longer 
 the chase the harder the challenge and the better the cops are that come after you. Once you have 
 enough rep you can challenge the black list racer to a race and try to beat them to move on. Only 
 complaint i have is that you only have a chance of winning the car of your rival. I would have 
 like to win the car from beating them and not had to miss a handfull if you pick the wrong one. 
 Great graphics, good story, and the course are varied enough to keep you playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argengamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 21, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  aguante el 360!!! la mejor version..... pero la de play2 no se queda atras.... abajo la pc!!!...... 
 las mejores persecuciones, las mejores opciones de tuning, y la mejor banda sonora... lastima que 
 no tiene muscle cars... pero se lo perdona!... chauuu! soy un vicio!!.... algun dia les voy a romper.. 
 a ustedes yankis!.. ya van a ver!.. a ver si se las aguantan.... les mando un saludito desde aca 
 de argentina!!..... y mandenme unos dolarsitos!!.. que nos hace faltra para comprar el 360!! jeje..... 
 most wanted es el mejor y se callan la   
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 20, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  This gane is great, I hate car game but when first polayed that game I had to finish it!!! there's 
 so many things you can do before getting to the end; black list, cops chase and 5 difernt kind 
 of race. the game play is great with thye boost and the handbreak. teh graphic is great. the value 
 is great too. the sound is awsome. Love the adding parts to the car that is a great part of the 
 game for me with the 5 level cop chase that i lived to do!! tjhis game is to buy cos its the best 
 race game i played!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcgirl5549
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 19, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the trailor for Need For Most Wanted I thoughtI gotta but it! ". But first I needed 
 to rent it to make sure it was worth the money. When starting the game It was fun and all that 
 it just kinda sucked that the cops would make you loose almost everyrace. The cars are nice, and 
 the coarses are cool too, but the music is always the same when racing they should have added more 
 traks to the game to make it more outgoing. But sooner or later I started getting tired of trying 
 to reach the top of the black list cause the stupid cops would end up making me in last place of 
 the last lap when i'm in 1st ( yeah... I pretty much got P. O'd about that ) . But anyways that's 
 all I gotta say my advice is rent it from Blockbust because of theno morelate fees thing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin82485
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 17, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game that everyone should own. It is a very immersive game. Hours can be spent 
 free roaming the city trying to outrun the police. There are plenty of races, milestones, and challenges 
 to win which will keep you busy for hours. The sounds are great. I love the revving of the engines, 
 the shots of nitrous, police sirens, and police chatter.
  
  There are 32 cars available to unlock and buy, and tons of different ways to customize your ride... body 
 kits, spoilers, hoods, roof scoops, rims, paint, graphics, and performance upgrades. 
  
  The police are very intelligent. They try to set out roadblocks, and lay down tire spikes. If you 
 pull a fast one on the police and lose them momentarily they will communicate to and set up a look 
 out radius to try to spot you again. 
  
  The graphics are good, but not spectacular compared to other games out there, but the gameplay 
 and sound make up for it.
  
  Again there are plenty of things in this game to keep you busy for weeks, and the replay value 
 is high on this game, you will not be disappointed buy selecting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 17, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  At first glance, Need for Speed Most Wanted may appear to be just another decent but unremarkable 
 racer. However, this game has some things going on under the hood that help it pull away from the 
 pack of generic driving games. A well-designed city to cruise around in, a story that gives you 
 something to fight for, and especially a series of thrilling police chases make Most Wanted well 
 worth playing for fans of arcade-style racing games. 
  
  Most Wanted puts a slightly heavier emphasis on storytelling than most racing games, which is to 
 say that it actually has a story. It tells a timeless tale of boy has car, boy loses car, boy climbs 
 local street racing circuit to take out the punk who took his car and get it back. When you first 
 start the game's career mode, a series of awesome over-the-top cutscenes sets up the story, in 
 which you roll into the town of Rockport in your souped-up BMW M3 GTR looking for some action. 
 It's not long before a scumbag named Razor Callahan cheats his way into getting your pink slip, 
 and then it's up to you to defeat all fifteen members on the local street-racing blacklist one 
 by one to challenge Razor and win back your wheels. The entire career mode is made up of your efforts 
 to climb the blacklist and face Razor. Unfortunately, the cutscenes stop coming once you've made 
 a bit of progress, and the story then moves along through a series of far less interesting text 
 and voice messages you receive on your Cingular phone (preferably while on your way to Burger King 
 or Auto Zone, or maybe to the drugstore to pick up some Axe body spray and Edge shave gel) . Still, 
 the cutscenes at the beginning do establish Razor as a totally despicable antagonist, making the 
 prospect of climbing the list and taking him down all the more sweet. 
  
  Of course, you can't just face the fifteen people on the list in rapid-fire succession and win 
 back your car in a matter of minutes. Each blacklist racer has certain challenges they put before 
 you that you must complete before they'll deign to race a lowlife like you. There are three categories 
 for their challenges: races, milestones, and bounty. The races you have to win come in numerous 
 types, including straightforward circuits, sprints and time trials, as well as knockout races (in 
 which last place is eliminated at the end of each lap) , drag races and speedtrap races. The drag 
 races control differently from all the other sorts of races; in these, you don't steer the car, 
 but rather just tap the control stick to the left or the right to change lanes in that direction, 
 while focusing more on properly timing your shifts. It's an interesting concept, but these races 
 actually become more about memorizing traffic patterns, since unlike in every other type of race, 
 which let you just plow right through traffic and continue along, one crash at high speed in a 
 drag race means it's all over. Thankfully these races are relatively few and far between. A lot 
 more interesting (and a lot more frequent) are the speedtrap races, in which winning isn't determined 
 by who crosses the finish lane first but who racks up the highest cumulative speed when passing 
 the speedtraps along the way. Winning a speedtrap race often calls for skillful use of the nitrous 
 system each car comes equipped with, and the unusual victory condition puts a fun spin on the race 
 as a whole. 
  
  However, while the races in the game are fine, the other primary aspect of Most Wanted's gameplay 
 is so outstanding that you may end up feeling as if the races are just hoops you have to jump through 
 in between the really good stuff. It's in the police chases that this game really shines. Each 
 blacklister sets a certain amount of bounty you have to earn before they'll face you, and the way 
 you earn bounty is by giving the cops a hard time and then evading them. You also need to complete 
 a certain number of milestones, which are challenges that often require you to meet specific conditions 
 during police chases, such as evading the police after a certain number of minutes or causing a 
 certain amount of property damage. When the police first start coming after you, it's very easy 
 to evade them; sometimes it's even a bit too easy, and you may often find yourself hunting for 
 a cop instead of feeling like they're hunting for you. But as you continue to wreak havoc, the 
 "heat" level on your car gets higher and the cops start making your life harder with faster cars, 
 heavier SUVs, helicopters, roadblocks, and evil, evil spike strips. The higher the heat level, 
 the faster you rack up bounty, but in order to actually earn the bounty, you've got to successfully 
 evade the cops. If they manage to pin you down and bust you, you lose everything you've worked 
 to earn. Seeing all the bounty you've racked up slip away can be frustrating, but the sense of 
 exhilaration and relief that comes with successfully evading the cops after a good long chase makes 
 it all well worth it. 
  
  In order to evade the cops, first you've got to get out of their sight, and then you have to successfully 
 get through a cooldown period without being spotted again. If you're lucky, you'll be near one 
 of Rockport's convenient hiding spots. Duck into one of these and you're safe. Otherwise, you've 
 got to just bite your nails and hope a cop doesn't come your way before the cooldown is over. To 
 help you shake off the cops, there are pursuit breakers scattered generously throughout Rockport. 
 These are environmental elements you can use to distract or destroy the police cars on your tail, 
 and they include things like drive-in movie screens you can crash through, radio towers you can 
 knock over, and gas pumps you can detonate. The novelty of crushing police cars under a giant donut 
 may start to wear thin after a while, but the pursuit breakers do serve to make the chases and 
 the environment more interesting. 
  
  Speaking of the environment, Rockport is a picture-perfect city and it looks gorgeous on the 360. 
 Just about everything in Rockport is clean and beautiful, from the farms to the lighthouses to 
 the industrial parks and the skyscrapers of downtown. (It looks especially fantastic in high-definition, 
 which also comes in handy for spotting evil, evil spike strips from a distance.) The city also 
 provides opportunities for all kinds of driving; you can maneuver on the sharp corners of old town, 
 open it up on the highway, or take it offroad at the country club golf course. The game's tight 
 controls make driving all over Rockport a pleasure in any of the game's thirty-plus cars. Don't 
 expect to have the cash in career mode to score all of them, though. If you're lucky, you'll win 
 some pink slips from some rival blacklisters, but in any case you'll need to pour some cash into 
 upgrading the cars you have instead of buying every car you might want. You can also customize 
 the look of your cars with different paint jobs, vinyls, rims, spoilers, and other accessories, 
 and in addition to making your ride look rad, this serves to lower the heat on your car so the 
 police won't be quite so keen to bust you. 
  
  The game sounds even better than it looks. The EA Trax soundtrack is a mixed bag of mildly interesting 
 rock-rap fusion and truly awful, soulless, corporate, derivative rock-rap fusion, but the custom 
 soundtrack option provides an easy solution to this, and the cars themselves all sound great. The 
 real highlight of the audio package, though, is the radio chatter you hear during police chases. 
 The constant exchanges between police dispatch and the cars on your tail sound pretty authentic, 
 and will often tip you off to what tactic the police are about to use against you, or where they 
 may have placed an evil, evil spike strip to take you down. It's yet another element that helps 
 make the chases so thrilling and memorable. 
  
  There's also a pretty lackluster online mode, but who cares about that? Ultimately it's the exhilarating 
 police chases that make this game great. That and the satisfaction of finally making that poser 
 Razor Callahan eat your dust. Man, that feels good. Take dead aim on Razor Callahan. Get him in 
 the crosshairs and take him down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadownets
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 15, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  a great game one worth playing start off with a sweet car then got jacked from you and you work 
 your way up whats called the blacklist which is like basically the top 15 best racers and you beat 
 them and if ur lucky u get their car u unlock new parts from performance like engine N2O tires, 
 visuals like paint decals, and parts like adding body kits, spoilers, rims etc. its really great 
 and addictive and if it isnt for my 360 that heats up pretty bad i would like play that as long 
 as i can. i played it on the original xbox and there isnt much differenece but probably the graphics 
 but i cant really tell i dont see good so yea get the game if you dont but if u do u guys pwn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 14, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted was a very good street racing game on the Xbox. However, after playing 
 the 360 version, I could tell that was the platform this game was made for. First off, the 360 
 version is the exact same as the Xbox version, but it runs a LOT better on the 360. You play as 
 a down on your luck street racer trying to work your way up the blacklist to get your ride back 
 from the top dog, Razor. To do this, you must race to win, while outrunning the cops in the process. 
 The main difference between the Xbox and 360 versions is obviously the visuals. The Xbox version 
 did look choppy at times, but the 360 version runs silky smooth all the time. The weather effects 
 and sence of speed have all been brought up to the highest level with this version, which is what 
 is expected from a next-gen game. The other major difference is the inclusion of custom soundtracks. 
 The Xbox version didn't support custom soundtracks, which I absolutely hated. That has been fixed 
 with the 360 version, so you can jam away to any music you want while outrunning those pesky cops. 
 Overall, the NFS: Most Wanted experience is best on the 360 and is still one of the best racing 
 games of 2005.
  
  Gameplay: Sold single-player mode with an open world and tons of easy achievements.
  
  Graphics: 
 Truely next gen and full of realism.
  
  Sound: Custom soundtracks and solid surround sound effects add a lot to the game.
  
  Value: 
 It's still around $60, but after the price comes down, this game will be worth every penny.
  
  Final Thoughts: Get this game if you need a good racer for your 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fadibou
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 11, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  I played NFS from the first one and now I don't even need to read a review before i buy the next 
 one. This game plays a good role as a great succesor of the previous one and adds some or few twists 
 of its own. I missed some parts like the specialized shops and bonuses for exceptional performances.
 
  I think the next NFS should feature more aggressive rewards for more aggressive riding and the 
 cash awards should be proportionate to the level of driving you play in a game.
  I think they still need to officially add more cars every once in a while and let us download them 
 via xbox live or similar services. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonstrative1
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I don't think I've ever thrown a controller as many times as I did playing this game. It's a very 
 simple game with not much in the way of mechanics, but the way the single-player game cheaply beats 
 you because you didn't account for the presense of an invisible wall is enough to throw me into 
 a rage.
  
  The premise itself is interesting enough; try to get money and avoid the cops. But the stupidity 
 and repetition of missions like "trading paint" or "tollbooth racing" really turned me off. I can 
 only race the same path on the same course in the same city so many times before I get tired of 
 it.
  
  If you need a racing fix, I highly recommend getting it elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_m_a_n
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  If games were people, then Need for Speed : Most Wanted would be the love child of Grand Theft 
 Auto and Burnout. Taking the free-roaming city of GTA where you can smash into other cars, tear 
 up the scenary and generally do what you want and adding the intense police chases of burnout 2 
 and the blistering speeds and car ramming physics of burnout: revenge.
  
  NFS: MW plays very much similiar to Burnout which EA also had a hand in. The car physics feel the 
 same, the graphics look similiar and generally the fast pace of the game is equal. The only difference 
 is, is that NFS: MW has more of a focus on that it has a career mode with a storyline. In fact the 
 bulk of NFS: MW can be found in career mode and its a good place to start to get you geared up (no 
 pun intended) for some hot exhaust action.
  
  NFS: MW smoothes you into the game very nicely with some fantastic cut-scenes which utilises real-life 
 actors dropped against a graphical background. Although the acting is a bit lame and the plot is 
 bland, the cut-scenes really do shine out above other games, they really do have to be seen. After 
 being wowwed with the cut-scenes you might be disappointed to learn that apart from one small cut-scene, 
 they dont feature again in career mode until you've finished it. This is a bit disappointing but 
 not the end of the world. 
  
  Starting career mode sees you challenging a blacklist which is a list comprised of 15 of the most 
 baddest and meanest drivers around. Before challenging each blacklist member, you must complete 
 a set number of races and objectives though. There are around 6 or 7 different race types but they 
 are all based on one map and you'd have to do well over 100 to finish the game. It does get repetitive 
 after a while doing each race (which is probably the biggest downside of NFS: MW) but you can intersperse 
 your time by doing pursuits which is basically, legging it from the cops.
  
  These pursuits bring the game into its own, and like Burnout 2 where you had a cop pursuit mode, 
 this game is a lot different as there is no finishing line or anything, you have to lose the cops 
 or get busted. Like GTA there are 5 cop levels, so level 1 - you've got your basic squaddies but 
 level 5 is choppers and turbo cop cars. It gets very intense on the higher levels trying to escape, 
 losing the cops is hard enough and once youve done that you have to make sure they don't spot you 
 again for an amount of time based on your cop level. The sound and audio in pursuit is excellent 
 and very realistic, you can hear each cop talking to each other about what your doing, whats happening 
 and all sorts, it also gives you clues on if they are about to lay spike strips or set up a roadblock 
 ahead. It does feel like your on one of those cop shows as an insane driver trying to get away.
 
  
  Dont forget, this is NFS and it wouldnt be a NFS if you couldnt pimp up your cars. There is a nice 
 selection of customization tools available such as colour of car, rims, vinyls, spoilers etc. and 
 you can also add bigger engines and better tires as well, although the whole range is not available 
 at the start as you must beat rivals to unlock them. Seems a bit silly as a lot of it is locked 
 to begin with and the range of cars to buy is pretty poor too, but you can nick a blacklist members 
 car after you beat him if you find his pink slip in a small mini-game which decides which rewards 
 you get - I found this a better way of building up my garage.
  
  There are a few negatives with this game though, its not all rosy - as mentioned before - the career 
 mode can get extremely repetitive and dull at times, also I have had problems with the game freezing 
 numerous times (thank god for autosave) and also because its an EA game, the achievements for the 
 game are incredibly easy. Finishing career mode any kind of way gets you all the achievements, 
 I would much rather they were harder so I could get some more joy out of the game after finishing 
 career mode but now I don't really have a reason to go back and do it all over again.
  
  Overall though, this is a nicely polished game, with a fun and exciting pursuit mode, very nice 
 graphics and excellent audio, wicked cut-scenes, good customization options for your car and generally 
 its a fun game to play. Plus you can probably buy it cheap now as it was a launch game. I would 
 definately recommend you download the demo. I am now looking forward to NFS: Carbon very much so 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ace6706
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  If your a big fan of the NFS series this is definitely something you should consider picking up 
 at your local electronic store, its the perfect combination of underground and hot pursuit all 
 rolled into one. From the car customization to the high speed police chases this is a game thats 
 going to make you beg for more. All of the previous game modes make it back once more to this title 
 with a slight twist by adding police. This was an all around great game and I still play it to 
 this day, absolutely worth buying without a doubt. Worth adding to a racing addict's collection 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  NFSMW is an awesome game when it come to customizing cars and getting chased by the police. But 
 it is hard to keep monkey in the game and it takes a while before you unlock parts to upgade your 
 car. The game difficulty level changes a lot when you get up to number 3 and number 2. So you have 
 to be really good when it comes to getting away from the police. This game is not a beat it in 
 a day game. The game has a basic story a the begining because Razor is a guy who knows he cant 
 win agaist you so he sabotages your car to get it so he can win. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greigax29
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Spectacular EA outdid there self with this one finally a a game that doesn't step up to the market 
 it Slams! the market a game you should definitely check out! a game with amazing graphics intense 
 police chases and just as easy as all the others and best of all NEW CARS the new selection of 
 cars is just unbelivable evrything from a lexus to a Carrera GT revolutionary gaming has definitely 
 done one heck of a game here and for 50$ and all the exotic gaming Its a steal so check it out 
 Need for speed most wanted on the 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 26, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  -------
  Great looking cars, thrilling police chases, high speed street races, customization now goes to 
 a whole new level.
  
  Cons:
  --------
  AI is either too weak or too harsh.
  
  Need For Speed has been around for about 11 years now, and all have been a rousing success (except 
 for NFS: V-Rally) and with each new game, there has been new levels of customization, thrill-rides 
 and cars. The first game on PS2 was NFS: Hot Pursuit 2, then Underground, then Underground 2, the 
 Most Wanted, which was also the first on the 360. Achievements are a real letdown, for each major 
 race (there are 5) you get an achievement and some GP, for example, beating Callahan will get you 
 350 GP. Police chases are a major upside to Most Wanted, it also adds to the reaply value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightsaber8972
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 23, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed got me off of my other games like PGR3 tiger woods 06 and NHL 2k6, I would prefer 
 the black edition than the regular (information on the black edition lower)
  
  It maybe hard when you first start the game, but when you find out all controls which does not 
 take long at all, you would probably be on the game for maybe, a month +
  
  The game has SUPERB graphics, at the tutorial or the beginning of career you see people from the 
 game with a score for graphics of 10.0 out of 10.0
  
  Though this game is highly addictive, It will bring your whole family with anyone of gaming skills 
 into this game.
  
  this game is mainly to male gamers
  
  
  
  You gain more experience in the Black edition game, get extra cars higher heat lvl etc.
  
  
 You gain an extra heat level plus an extra SUV police (supercharged.) The cars you get for the 
 black edition that are automatically unlocked are as followed: 
  
  Bmw m3 street version
  Chevy camaro SS
  Corvette C6 and C6. R
  Lotus elise (special)
  Mercedes SL65 and SL 500 (special)
 
  Porsche 911 carrera S (special) 911 GT2 (special)
  toyota Supra
  
  and more features
  
  I would recommend the Black edition if i picked 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dali_inc
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 23, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  The game in the beginning, may be difficult to the gamers that never played NFS series before (Almost 
 impossible right?) , but after 1 or 2 hours, the game turns easy... well... not easy... "just right" 
 The multi-player it's great too... We can increase our handicap in the multi-player racings, but 
 i recomend to unlock first all the cars and all the upgrades, and then, play on-line. 'Cause we'll 
 nedd more than just a Lamborgini Gallardo to beat our opponents in XBox Live
  
  I'll wait the Need For Speed Carbon...!!! I Need more Speed in mi play room. jejejeje
  
  EA 
 Sports always made great games...! keep going EA...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdog144
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 11:20 pm PT
Review:  I first played this game on the Gamecube which did excite me. The graphics rocked on the gamecube. 
 Then about 6 months later i played it on the 360, and the graphics are about 100 times better. 
 Its very fast paced. Very fun game. 
  
  I find this game 100 times better then Project gothem. The controlles are very easy to. I got used 
 to them in no time, as in about 30 seconds. 
  
  So if you like very fast paced racing games, this game is for you. the controlles a very easy, 
 and i bet youll get used to them easily. 
  
  The game isnt worth 60 bucks, i say its more worth 40 tops. So ide wait til it comes down in price 
 to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayne2k7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  I Wasn't much of a fan of the previous need for speed games but this game got my attention. From 
 the start i knew this game was going to be something special.
  The idea of this game is alot diffrent from the underground compilation of the series. You still 
 get to pimp your rides and there is some nice cars to do so, bu tthe idea of the game is to climb 
 the blacklist 15 of the the 15 top street racers to get back at your big rival Razor, who you'll 
 meet at the beggining of the game.
  Lots of twists and turns through the story kept me interested and the game becomes increasingly 
 difficult so its a challenge for any seasoned gamer!
  A top buy, well recommended until the new NFS: Carbon is released in November. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan3669
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 21, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Most wanted is an inovative game that combines the past titles of Underground and hot pursuit to 
 make a completly amazing game. This game combines underground's costomization and hot pursuit's 
 police chases. The game has the best racing game story that actually has a story. The cars look 
 and sound real the boss races are fun and even though the police chases are difficult at times 
 it is still a great game. The game is very fun until you beat it and fully customize all your cars 
 then the game is kinda boring but the online racing is fun and it makes for a great game. If you 
 like racing games and enjoy street racing you'll like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themtman
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 16, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun at parts of the game. The multiplayer is fun and the single player cop chases 
 are the best part of the game and the worse part of the game. I know you guys dont understand what 
 this means but i will explain. The cop chases or bounty in the game is the most fun and the most 
 hard part of the game. This is a very frustrating game to me and the game is great. If you like 
 racing games then you will love this but i just love the speed of the game and the cop chases. 
 The game is great but is very hard at the best part of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booomer69
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good.. Dont get me wrong. I have many things to say about the game. Its a great 
 game that offers almost no realisim whats so ever it completely is fake. The cop chases are really 
 fun but at times it just feels to easy. The game is nothing new compared to the xbox vershion of 
 the game. The graphics are the only major diffrence. Its a great game dont get me wrong but you can 
 probably beat the game in about 5-7 days its very easy and at times i see myself overlaping the 
 enemys "Rivals" and well its just plain boareing. I haveint beaten the Xbox360 vershion yet because 
 i didint even bother doing the same thing over and over again. Multiplayer sucks because as everyone 
 knows you cant trust the Ea servers. It seriously sucks. But overall the game is pretty fun. But for 
 me im a car junkie so seeing Mistubishys beating bmw m3 or beating a Lamborgini fully loaded its 
 highly stupid and highly anoying. But even with all those bad things it aint that bad. But its just 
 like burnout if you had the xbox vershion your not going to find anything new on the 360 vershion 
 besides graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  The difficulty can't be set in career. You'll actually just get better at the game, increasing 
 your level of game with the computer opponents. Some of the boss races may be a little bit harder 
 towards the end but they're still obtainable.
  The cops are a great addition to the game. It's really fun to run from the cops and try to see 
 how well you can outrun them.
  Online modes are pretty fun, although a little basic.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  Speaking of the previous Underground series, Underground 2 had some cool "cosmetic" 
 features, such as the custom speakers and pimping your ride with some hydraulics.
  Frame rates are suffering in higher resolutions (even 720p doesn't ride as smooth) .
  
  :Overall:
 
  It's a good start to something that could come out even better. But for the time being, it's 
 a good buy and is really fun online.
  
  -------------------------------
  :Achievement Challenge:
  The achievements are a little difficult towards the end. Some of the 
 later bosses almost make you too dizzy to race them from the speed but overall I believe the achievements 
 are easy to obtain. I'd say you could get them in about a day or two, if you're new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aftermath6
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 15, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I have played NFS: MW for more hours than most people should play any single game... I finally made 
 my way to the top of the blacklist and past Razor (the goal of the overall career mode) and to 
 say the least I was disappointed. I realize most games are not worth the time you put into them 
 but the cutscenes in this game are so breathtaking that there really should have been more of them. 
 With that said, my step-brother has the same game for the current-gen and the cutscenes are not 
 that much better on my 360 even in hi-definition. 
  Overall the game is highly addictive and worth a quick rent because if you are not having fun in 
 the beginning of the game then you will not like the entire thing because it is very repetitive. 
 You win races and break milestones while driving up your bounty in order to race the current challenger. 
 You do that basically 15 times and then the game is over. There is replay value in the challenge 
 series but it is more of the same there too. 
  The most annoying part of the game is the fact that you have to throw yourself into police chases 
 and almost beg for the cops to stay on you long enough to get a high bounty and complete the milestones. 
 If you are a good driver this gets very boring and can make it seem like way too much work just 
 to challenge the next racer on the blacklist.
  Rent first, if you like it, then buy because there are hours of the same fun ahead of you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supa_natural888
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 14, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  Need for speed most wanted is a solid game. The storyline is a bit cheesy but it's a racing game 
 so it's not that big a deal. After playing for a while this game gets old and boring. It's always 
 the same thing for each blacklist racer. The graphics are good but i think they can be a little 
 better. The sound is very good but the songs in the game is all that keeps me from giving the sound 
 a ten. If your looking for a fun racing game for the xbox 360 that allows you to customize you 
 car in a million different ways then this is a game to pick up. The only downside to this game 
 is having to do the same thing over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squall8880
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2006 3:53 am PT
Review:  Electronic Arts NEED FOR SPEED racing series has always focused on illegal street racing, and 
 NEED FOR SPEED: MOST WANTED for the Xbox 360 is no exception. However, Most Wanted adds something 
 new to the mix: the police. The storyline of Most Wanted revolves around a nameless racer who enters 
 the illegal races. After an altercation with another racer, however, things go horribly wrong. 
 His car is sabotaged and lost to the same punk who fought with him earlier, and then the nameless 
 hero ends up in jail. With a little help from his friend Mia, he gets out and starts making plans 
 to reclaim the title of street racing champion. The new addition of running from the cops is a 
 cross between racing and a stealth game. Players start out with only one car after them, but the 
 more cops they avoid, the more the police throw at them. Helicopters, barricades, unmarked cars, 
 and more will eventually make an appearance. The goal of the cop chase is to get out of visual 
 sight and then stay hidden until the cop meter drops to zero. Of course, there are a huge number 
 of races to win as well and over 30 licensed cars to drive, including the Supra, Ford Mustang GT, 
 and a Lamborghini. Racing fans will love how these cars handle and the racing dynamics of the game. 
 NEED FOR SPEED: MOST WANTED delivers in every possible way and will impress even the toughest game 
 critic. The best graphic's for a racing game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Probably the best Need for Speed game yet. The object of the game is to beat the blacklist, and 
 there are fifteen people on the blacklist. And each one has different things you need to do to 
 race them. And after you beat each person on the blacklist they give you their car. There is so 
 much to do in this game like: customize your car, race, run from the cops, and level up. And in 
 each subject there is a lot to do, like when you customize your car you can change your: windows, 
 tires, rims, paint, hoods, doors, and many other things. Then when you race it helps you go up 
 the blacklist, because for each race you do it helps you move up and gives you money to customize 
 your car. Then when you run from the cops it brings up your bounty, which is also essential to 
 moving up in the blacklist. The higher the bounty the more wanted you are, and the more wanted 
 you are makes it harder to get away from the cops. And each car has it's own bounty, plus whenever 
 you get caught by the cops it goes back down to zero. And to level up you need to do all you have 
 to do is beat the minimum amount of missions for that boss. So I would recomend buying and playing 
 this game over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warthog259
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 5, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best game for the 360 so far its better then pgr 3 this game is when u race ur 
 there when the only time u dont feel like ur there is when u crash because u dont feel it the rest 
 feels great and when the new wheel cmes out u r there ur actually driving like the animation is 
 in the game so if u feel that this game is hard to drive its not u just have fun the controls r 
 hard in the beggining but u get use to it and when the wheel comes out get ready that is the time 
 when ur ready to get ur license
  
  and the wheel is out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3rev
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  This is like the 7th game ea has made out of the need for speed experience. now i am a really really 
 big import fan so i love need for speed games but i havnt felt like there has been a good one sence 
 hot persuit 2 becuase of one reason the cops. Now i really do hate cops but in this game there 
 freaking great. You start off with a nice BMW but you end up losing it becuase u betted it and 
 u should of won but ur rival (razor) cheated and screwed with ur car so u get to start with a crapy 
 car and have to work ur way up the car i used the most during this game was the rx-8 becuase its 
 my fav car. Now there is one thing i dont like about htis game u cant really do much to ur car 
 u sure can make it fast and choose ur pant but sence there really is no night time u cant put underground 
 affects or put subs in ur car or lambo doors like u could in nfsu 2. The cops in this game are 
 amazing they talk to eachother alot for you know what tehre doing and once you get to a certain 
 part in the game they start to get a little no really tricky and they will try anything to run 
 u off the road. all in all this game is great and i recommend it to anyone who loves need for speed 
 or cars for that matter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjakybob
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 29, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  This game came out at launch and was one of a few that got over looked that shouldn't have, this 
 is just as good as its always been mabey even better but this is still a must rent or own racing 
 game if you do not have it yet go pick it up you will not be dissapointed.
  
  The Good: Amazing story line, Outstanding acting and actors, Graphics are eye splitting, Sound 
 of the cars is unbelieveable, Senory is almost real, voice messages are no longer choppy, you are 
 able to put what ever you want on and in your car.
  
  The Bad: Frusterating at times, Cops only have 1 minuver in which its hard to get out of if it 
 gets properly put in, story line seems kind of fimilar to others in the N4S series, when you get 
 busted its real annoying to always watch the video of you getting the S*** kicked out of you.
 
  
  Achievements: Easy, Just beat everyone on the black list to get the 1000 points 
  
  Even thought thi sgame got over looked its still great and a must have if you are a racing fan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_Iic
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  When this game first came out I was not so sure if I wanted to get it. I really liked the other 
 NFS games, especially NFS Underground and Underground 2. I finally got this game a couple days 
 ago; missing the excitement of racing streets, and was surprised at how well this game came out. 
 Yes there are a few bad things here and there, but I would love to play this game any time. One 
 complaint I do have about the game is the police. They can drive in reverse and pull out of it 
 and quickly go forward in no time flat. When you're trying to get out of the corner when the police 
 have you cornered, all you can do is burn rubber and watch the busted meter fill up. This game 
 doesn't have that great of a car variety either, but who cares as long as the play is good. 
  I would recomend this game to any one who is a fan of the other NFS's, you wont be dissappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtfwyvernlord
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 23, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot of great points to it. I won't go into to much detail so that this doesn't 
 bore you to death, but the game has a lot of elements to talk about. I want to mention a few of 
 them, like how smooth the graphics are. The graphics are amazing, but what do you expect on the 
 360? The game produces a thrill in your living room that you can only get one other way, which 
 results in JAIL. I'd prefer running from the cops on a video game any day. The excitement of 20 
 cop cars on your tail is pretty heavy, and just shaking them can get tricky when the game gets 
 tough. I have gotten frustrated and gotten caught because of one stupid little mistake, resulting 
 in me just turning my Xbox off frequently. Don't let that scare you though, this game is worth 
 it. It has it's own style, and is definitely different than PGR 3, but in a good way. The car customization 
 is very good, except for one small thing. The game has degressed in this one aspect - Vinyl layers. 
 There used to be up to four layers of Vinyl, now there is only one, but the cars still have amazing 
 originality. The added bonus of Xbox Live to this game is a definite plus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superbustacap
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 21, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  NFS: MW is the best of all the early racing games for the 360 in many ways. The in-game racing 
 is the funnest, and the cars are very customizeable. You can improve the racing ability of the 
 car, and the look of the car in all the ways you would imagine changing the outside of the car. 
 The game has 15 different people you must defeat 2 or 3 times in order to beat the game, but it's 
 obviously not that easy. Before you can face each person, you must do things to be worthy of facing 
 them. That is winning a number of races, and raising the bounty the cops have on you. It can get 
 boring at times, espcially when you don't have a top-knotch car. This is where an HDTV really improves 
 the experience, making it more realistic and fun. In conclusion, the game has its very fun racing 
 moments, boring racing moments, and great customization. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonius05
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome to play. Kinda boring at first because of driving stock cars (very slow) , 
 but man once you add performance to the car, you can see a big difference. Makes it more realistic. 
 When i was watching the review from the GameTrailers site, they said it had a brownish color scheme 
 throughout the game, if they haven't said that i would not have notice it. 
  
  The Story is pretty cool including the real people into movie clips, blending them in the game. 
 They have done quite well, and the story line nice and straight. 
  
  The gameplay for this game is simple. I just love the customizing of the vehicle, thats what i 
 like about racing games, be able to customize cars the way you want. But i have notice that there 
 isn't really a whole lot of things to do to your car. I was hoping something like Need For Speed 
 Underground 2. Customizing ur truck with speakers and ams. i hope in the new Need for Speed Carbon 
 game, it will a lot more accessories for the car. 
  
  The online gameplay is smooth, but if you have a poor connection from one of the players, you'll 
 see them driving around glitching all over the place. Kinda hard to tell where the person is going. 
 Other than that the game is fun to play and is very addictive to play the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duh_to_the_avo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 19, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The action in Need For Speed: Most Wanted sets off fast and furious and nearly never lets up for 
 a moment. Whether you're in an intense race facing a difficult blacklist rival or outrunning the 
 cops in your newly tricked out ride, the action doesn't stop to take a breath until you've turned 
 the machine off. Due to some slight stuttering problems in the graphical department, some may be 
 turned off by this games somewhat lackluster graphics. However if you look past the sometimes confusing 
 shadow placement and lack of an in car view, a la PGR 3, this game has some rather fantastic vistas 
 to experience along with some detailed roads (that's right, the road) to draw your attention away 
 from the more glaring flaws. 
  
  One place EA scored major points was in the sound department. Having worked on and driven several 
 different high performance vehicles in my time, I can confidently say that along with the PGR series 
 , Need For Speed has always paid due attention to the way a car sounds. Also the soundtrack scores 
 big points with its decent mix of rock, hip-hop, and the one hardcore track by Bullet For My Valentine. 
 Unfortunately if you attempt to implement your own custom soundtrack the game will occasionally 
 shut it off during loading screens or if you cross into your career from a two player race, or 
 the other way around.
  
  Another place where there are several hits and misses is in the game play department. While all 
 the cars drive relatively close to their real world counterparts, there are some exceptions. I 
 had the incredible pleasure of taking a drive in a viper SRT-10 recently, and I can tell you quite 
 simply, that in real life, that car does not handle like it does in the game. Aside from the slight 
 missfire there, all the other cars handled as I anticipated them to and all were quite responsive 
 and realistic. A place of minor (and in some cases, major) annoyance was the enemy AI. Now at the 
 higher heat levels such as levels 3, 4, and 5, the police are very good, executing advanced squad 
 tactics in an attempt to take you down. However the level one and two cops seem to be piloted by 
 several nine year olds with severe diseases of the attention span, often wandering off from the 
 chase or driving head on into a wall. Then again, one cannot expect perfection.... yet.
  
  Overall the game is a rather enjoyable jaunt, despite it's glaring shortcomings. Perhaps one should 
 wait until the price drops ten or twenty dollars before purchasing. But if you're a fan of the 
 Need For Speed style of street racing, then by all means, pick up this game, you definitely won't 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hell9141
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 19, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  NFS: MW is one of the best racers so far on the 360.
  This game pits you aganist the backlist 15. A selection of racers that have made names for them 
 selfs through raceing and dodgeing the police.
  The aim of the game is to get your car back , the BMW GTR, which you get to race at the start of 
 the game. But you lose the car to Razer and so through the cousre of the game you must race and 
 defeate the backlist 15 to have a chance at the number one spot who is of course Razer the guy 
 who beat you and took your car.
  So after losing your car the main game starts. You start the main game by buying a cheap car. From 
 there through the course of the game, by beating the backlist racers you can buy new and better 
 cars and buy new parts that make it faster. You can also in NFS fashion change the look of the 
 car. It doesn't have the freedom of Forza but you can still come up with some impressive looking 
 rides.
  The look of the game is not bad yes it doesn't look like PGR3 but it still looks good on a HD tv 
 (if you have one) . The cutscene's look impressive and different as they dont use the game engine. 
 Infact each character is played by a real person.
  The actual gameplay is very easy to get to grips with. Infact you can litteraly go through most 
 of the tracks without touching the brakes. So the game is very easy to get into but it is a little 
 to easy, all you have to do is lay of the accelerator at the time before the corner and you can 
 praticaly get round it quicker then any of the AI controlled racers. The pursuitmodes add a little 
 excitement to the game and the pursuit breakers look good aswell.
  If you find your bing bogged down by police, smash through one of these pursuit breakers and if 
 you time it wright you can stop the pursuit or immoblize the crusers.
  The soundtracks are good but the music doesn't differ that much from the heavy rap and RNB songs 
 but there afew rock songs. The cars dont sound like there realife counterparts which is abit disapointing.
 
  
  You just get a sense that if EA spent a little more time on this then it might have been better. 
 The cars could have sounderd better, the look of the game could have been better and of course 
 the gameplay could have been better. But apart from that it is still fun to play and that is what 
 I look in a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebird024
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  You go against the blacklist of 15 people and each one gets harder and harder. Its a good racing 
 game if you like getting chased by cops and racing against other street racers. You can upgrade 
 your car so it has a faster engine, turbo, exhaust, nos, and have your car the way you want it. 
 But you have to beat more blacklist people to get better upgrades for your car. You can race people 
 to get more money and buy new cars. I recomend that you get this game if you like getting chased 
 by cops, racing against street racers, and having a chalange with beating the blacklist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulreaper187
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 17, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  the first time i got into need for speed was when it was
  released for the ps2 in its new form 
  NEED FOR SPEED UNDERGROUND AND I WAS HOOKED
  I was hooked 
 I loved being able to pimp out my ride...
  then NEED FOR SPEED 2 came out and I bought it for the
  xbox and I was instantly won over with 
 the new looks and feel
  of the game i really loved the fact that you could play dirty
  against the computer.... then NEED FOR SPEED MOST WANTED
  came out so i picked up the black addition... 
 i finally got a tast
  of what all the old school people were shouting for the cops
  were back in the saddle once again... I will admit that I stoped
  playing for awhile. that is 
 untill I bought the xbox 360 and picked
  up a copy for it... once i got use to it the game really wasn't bad
  I could still pimp out my 
 ride thoe it wasn't the focas in this game
  plus I finally got to see my ride in the day light which was sweat
  for a change of pass, they 
 didn't mess with the driving physic's
  to much and i liked to fact you got to buy the high end foren car's
  too... but I have to say 
 my all time favorit feature of the game was
  the chance to nab your rivals PINK SLIP FOR HIS RIDE i mean
  how cool is that not only do you 
 beat the pant's off your rival but
  you get to rub sault in their wounds by taking their ride's from
  them and on top of that you 
 got to use their own car's against
  your next apponet. over all i found that the hardest part
  of the game was the pursuit mile stones 
 later in the game
  rather then the races themselves and at the very end when you
  beat the game and you have to escape from the cops
  all and all NEED FOR SPEED MOST WANTED is 
 a solid racer
  and finally pay's hommage to it's predessors. 
  so in cunclusion if your a old school fan of the series or just
  getting in NFSMW is a most have 
 for your collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellswrath99
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 15, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This game proved itself a great addition to an already excellent series: the graphics took a huge 
 leap from the last installment, the gameplay is excellent with only a few setbacks, and the depth 
 of play involved in the career mode is excellent.
  
  Gameplay for different types of cars showed a dramatic difference as far as sensitivity to control, 
 and acceleration of the various cars, making for a varied racing experience as you progress through 
 the game.
  
  The biggest downside to this game is the tedium involved in hitting the milestone markers and police 
 bounty between each of the blacklist racers that you face up against. This can be especially frustrating 
 when you have spent upwards of 20 minutes on a police chase and hit that spike strip that was just 
 out of sight until you took the corner while trying to evade the pursuit.
  
  This aside, the police chases are a great amount of fun and the storyline gives you plenty of incentive 
 to struggle through each set of requirements to work you way up the blacklist. The cut scenes are 
 always entertaining, and the drive to stomp on the final baddie is always kept at it's peak, thanks 
 to the frequent and insulting voice mail he leaves on your phone.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of racing games, and also to those people looking 
 to play a racing game for a change of pace from their usual genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: govinator07
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 14, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  THANK YOU EA!!!!!
  first of all this is EA people what do u expect.... a crappy game.... i dont think so and im not 
 just saying that because i love mostly all EA games (cuz Live 06 and Madden 06 sucked arse for 
 next gen) but because the whole NFS franchise has been all but dissapointing.......... i dont know 
 wat gamespot is thinking about giving this game an 8.4 when it is easily a 9 game.... w/e 
  
  i wouldnt say that ea tried something new when they went to NFSMW but they actually tried something 
 new again.... the combined both the old NFS series kinda cars like Lamborghini and Aston Martin 
 with the new style of the Underground series like the tuning and customizing with some of the cars 
 from those series' like the Impreza and the RX-7.....
  
  it is no sleeper as u have to win back ur M3 that gets stolen from u in the begining of the career 
 mode (it gets u really mad) .......... it puts u through a thing called the blacklist and u have 
 to fight ur way to the top in order to face razor to get back ur M3......... while fighting ur 
 way through the blacklist u have to go through a series of races and milestones (things that give 
 u bounty in which the cops want to catch u more and gets up ur rep) which the blacklist person 
 that ur on makes u do so u can "please" him... so u can race him.....*duh*
  
  then u have thier new style of gameplay using the RT for gas and LT for the brake.... then u have 
 the revolutionary control in this game by simply pressing the X button called speed breaker that 
 allows u to slow down time and make the most precision turn that u possibly can...... when ur trying 
 to make a 30 degree turn in order to get away from the cops and hit the persuit breaker to get 
 the cops out of the way..... this really comes in handy...
  
  on terms of graphic quality this game looks extremely great.. on any platform that u get it on 
 but of course the best is 360 for graphical quality...... it has really good lighting to it and 
 the environment moves seamlessly during the intense races while going 150 around a 90 degree turn 
 with speed breaker..... but be careful not to run into a wall as ur paint will start to chip away 
 which gives a feeling that u have to drive good to keep ur car lookin fresh (u dont have to pay 
 to fix ur car however) ....... then when it rains u see the water on ur car and all over the road 
 with it even reflecting ur car in the puddles and it also even throws off ur handling a litttle 
 bit as if it was real....... after u get out of the rain and have a feeling that u want to go fast 
 and jus want to stroll on the highway u can go right ahead and do so....... while goin fast u will 
 notice the speed lines of ur car or wind resistance lines or whatever they're callin them.,.... 
 it really looks great and gives u a real scence of speed then while goin 130-140 down the highway 
 u hit the nitrous and then u get the real scence of speed when u get the tailight streak behind 
 the car as if u were movin to fast even for the camera to keep up with
  
  overall this game is really good on any platform that it comes in and it looks excellent..... there 
 is only one or two bad things that are in this game... 
  1) the customizing in the game is offly small and has not a lot of layers to it...... for instance 
 when ur putting on a body kit u have to get a hole body kit and not just a front bumper and back 
 bumper and side skirts which sux..
  2) after u beat razor for ur M3.... its not over (which is a good thing cuz it makes it longer) 
 when u have to have the ultimate chase from agent cross and u have to get away by jumping off this 
 unfinished bridge that they are working on the whole game until then.... and this is very difficult 
 to do ..... then after u beat the chase and the game u dont even get to customize the M3 any or 
 even use it..... which sux ass....
  but this is probably one of the best or the best game made in the franchise and i cant wait for 
 NFS Carbon to come out for PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth_420
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 10, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  In the new addition to the Need For Speed game line comes an array of new cars, add-ons, races, 
 and yes they brought back the police chases. When i bought this game iw as kind of skeptical (i 
 actually went to buy PGR3 but was sold out) but now that i have been playing it non-stop for a 
 while the skepticism has gone away. Here are some of the new features you can look forward to upon 
 purchasing this racing game. 
  
  Blacklist: The Blacklist is a list of racers in the street racing scene, in order to get to the 
 top u need to rough it through many of challenges and also get past the police.
  
  One of the new features in the game are the Toll Booth races, which require you to pass through 
 a certain amount of toll boots in a certain amount of time, this challenge is fun exciting and 
 also challenging in the higher levels of the game.
  
  Speed trap racing: This challenge is one of my personal favorites in the game because you dont 
 need to cross the finish line first to be declared the winner of the race, instead u need to accumulate 
 a total speed by going through a certain amount of speed traps, you could be the last person to 
 cross the line but be the one in first place because you have accumulated the most speed.
  
  Bounty: Bounty is how you are rated by both the police and the other racers on the blacklist, 
 in order to race the next racer on the blacklist u need to accumulate a certain amount of bounty 
 points. You can get bounty points many of ways, ramming a police car, hitting other cars, speeding, 
 and various other ways.
  
  New cars: They have added new cars to the line up in this installment, like the Ferraris, Corvettes, 
 Vipers, Lambos, Porches and more, but they didnt keep some of my favorites from past games like 
 S2000's or SI's but that didnt bother me too much.
  
  All in all i love this game, its kept me on my toes and is very easy to just pick up and learn 
 this game rocks and i recommend it to everyone. Thanks for taking the time to read my review and 
 have a pleasant day
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I love this game!
  
  Nothing better thanhaving a street race and then outrunning the cops after. Chases are very intense 
 and the cops are on you right when you become a very wanted suspect.
  
  The graphics are very good. Smoothe and detailed, the cars and environments meet up with the Xbox 
 360. Cutscenes look all out AMAZING!
  
  The gameplay is great. Easy controls and smoothe running, this game is definately one of the best 
 games out there. Cops can be pretty smart but sometimes very dumb.
  
  The sound is pretty good too. The voice acting in the movie sequences is pretty clear and well 
 done. Cars sound good too.
  
  Overall, this game is worth checking out. Even if you aren't a fan of the NFS series, you will 
 grow to like this game a lot.
  
  A 9 out of 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I am playing this game for PC, and it is the 'Black' Edition. My main complaint is the ease at 
 which the game is beaten, and the **** I think they casted the T-Mobile 'Poser Mobile' crew as 
 the game characters. Still, if you lack the ability to be competitive in other games (GT4, FIA 
 GTR, etc) NFS: MW is a less than satisfying alternative. Still, more of the same. 
  
  Presentation: Good marketing, same as the other games in the series. Menus are interesting as well 
 as functional. 
  
  Graphics: Improved since NFS: U. Probably some of the best graphics in a racer to date, but severely 
 handicapped by the games lack of customization. Resolution is limited to 800x600, which is tiny 
 by today's standards, no options for aa, af, textures, etc. The glare, although annoying, is well 
 done as are the other effects. Improved blur since underground. 
  
  Sound: Sound is mediocre. Engine sounds are less than accurate and are repetitive. The BGM is not 
 my taste, but manages to be less annoying than NFS: U. Environment sounds are lacking. Several faked 
 doppler effects. 
  
  Gameplay: Incredibly easy, most races consist of driving in a semi-straight line and avoiding the 
 occasional car. The physics are ridiculously forgiving. The upgrade system is horrible as usual, 
 forcing you to buy parts in a specific order at specific points in the game. 
  
  Lasting Appeal: The wiggers and punks from the Underground games are back, and do little to contribute 
 to the plot. Way too much 'attitude' and not enough substance. Very cliche in every aspect. Online 
 is ok, but nothing to rant about. I will most likely not play this game again. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedStarStrife
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  gameplay- Most its just a racing game.... so not much really to say but it does deliver new racing 
 modes such as the toll booth which is personally my favorite now. Racing from one tollbooth to 
 another at super highspeeds on the highwway with no traffic. Thats just fun! cop chases are the 
 best... so intense and fun, gaurantee that this is a well added mechanic to the gameplay. 9/10
 
  
  graphics- very nicely done, reflections on the back of the car of the road is a well added touch, 
 sunlight and shadows are reflected very well in the game, enviroment can get a little bland though... 
 9/10
  
  sound- engine, muffler, tires, and buildings exploding.... music to my ears 9/10
  
  value- 60 bucks, if you got the cash then go get it. 8/10
  
  tilt- 8/10 After evading the 
 police for like 4 hours, its almost impossible to escape and then when you get caught... its extremely 
 frustrating!!! this game requires a very good memory because if you want to get away from the cops 
 you better know you backroads.
  
  last remarks on game enhancments from previous installments of the nfs series.
  
  Police AI, 
 is very well done in this game. Using an array of tactics to screw you over suchs as, road blocks, 
 road spikes, boxing you in, having a truck run into you head on, and then at level 6 having helicopters 
 and corvettes chase you until you get busted.
  
  The acting cutscenes are quite hilarious since the actors make it seem like such a joke. you will 
 know what i mean when you personally see the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohanssj7
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  I have never played such a mind blowing and addictive game. With a High Defination of graphics 
 both on PC and XBOX360 this game offers a good gameplay and addition. I have played it over 1000 
 hours and never feel like getting bored. This game is lot more impressive on XBOX 360 rather on 
 PC coz XBOX 360 offers much more details and quality graphics. But on PC its been somewhat dissappointing 
 with its daytime gameplay where it is hard 2 see any nitro boost (from exhaust as it was in UNDERGROUND 
 2) . But 360 offers a much better gameplay and also much detailed graphics. The career mode isquite 
 fascinating where we have 2 complete a lot of circuit, sprint, drag, drift & URL races 2 unlock 
 parts of city. Last but not the least the COP MODE is the best where we are being chased by cops. 
 WOW!!!!
  So it is a MUST BUY from my side.
  
  PLAY MORE......................... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scott911
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 1, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  When I first started the game it was fun and interesting to work the way up the blacklist and the 
 police chases are fun, but at about blacklist #4 the game gets much harder than the previous blacklists. 
 things that are good include custom soundtracks and the songs in the game are great too, great 
 police chases, grapics are pretty good and the beggining of the game is great but when the game 
 starts to get harder, some things start to suck. for instance, when going around a turn, you may 
 hit a gap between the gaurd rail and your car will come from 160 mph to 0 in about a half second. 
 this is also true on walls with something extruding like about an inch off the wall, but if you 
 hit it, you basically have to start the race all over again at high levels. Next, the autopilot 
 feature on the drag racing is crap. If you want to go one way, but the programming wants to go 
 the other way, the car doesnt move and you crash, and yes many times one collision in a drag race 
 means you are done. This basically means that you have to know what the game wants you to do, otherwise 
 you crash and if this is an event against a blacklist, you cant crash because you cat move on if 
 the car crashes. it is a bunch of bull. Also, like half of the gamer points come from the top two 
 blacklist people, so everything else is basically worth no gamerpoints whatsoever which sucks. 
 In the end, a great start to a crappy finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlord20
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 30, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed - Most Wanted Is definantly the best in its series. I would have preferred if i 
 could have set up my car the way i could have in the previous NFS but its still way better because 
 of the graphics and the addition of police and having to get the bounty and so forth. This game 
 is very addictive but it can get a bit boring close to the end because its a fairly long game. 
 I would definantly recommend this game to anyone who loves car games and wants a game that will 
 last. Its definantly worth every cent. Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daprofesa
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 29, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  Gameplay-
  If you played any of the NFS series games before then it is very similar. There is free roam, drag, 
 sprint, ,circuit, toll racing (i'm not sure the name of the next one but) dropout, speed trap. 
 In "Toll" racing you have to get from one tollbooth to another in under a certain time. In dropout, 
 it is a circuit type race but the person in last place at the end of the lap is out (k. o.) Speed 
 trap is like sprint. In speed trap you drive and you drive by ceertain checkpoints and at those 
 checkpoints it gets your speed. At the end of the speed trap race it collects the collected speed 
 at each checkpoint and it gives you the total speed. The person or car with the most collected 
 speed wins.
  So there is your career mode which is good. You do a certain amount of races before you can face 
 a blacklist person. The goal for the career mode is to get back to your number 1 spot on the blacklist. 
 WHat happened? Well if you watch the cinemtaics in the begining it explains all. Your racing a 
 dude name razor he is number 2 on the list and your numkber 1. Your car breaks down and you loose 
 your number 1 spot. So the career is mode is all about you geting back to your number 1 spot. There 
 is also challange mode where you have challanges to do. I wish they made some acheivement points 
 for this. And there is also 2 player and online.
  
  Graphics- 
  Well, i couldn't really the graphics because i'm spending to much time racing. But it looks fabulous 
 and the effects are awesome.
  
  Sound-
  One word, great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_fat_bum
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 26, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  its a great game. i thought it wouldn't take long because there is only 15 blacklist racers but 
 meeting the recuirements is difficult. the cars are great and there is many upgrades and modifications 
 to choose from. i wish there was more vinyl upgrades though. this game looks great. when u speed 
 up streaks start comming from ur ride, but if u jump wit the jump cammera, the streak dont look 
 that great. the gameplay doesnt seem really new to me. it just seems like any old racing games 
 with cops. thats how i got bored of it. in the beggining, every thing seems easy, but when u get 
 on in the game, the cops become more pesistant and stuff. the higher u get in the black list, the 
 mosre bounty u have to get. u need like over 3 000 000 to get to razor (the last blak list racer 
 that takes ur beamer) . but overall this game is good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 24, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted is a great game for all that love racing games. True street racing 
 fans will finally appreciate that EA brought back the police, and makes for the most exciting parts 
 of the game. Yes, the graphics are fantastic, the controls are pretty good, and of course pushing 
 the nitrous creates the same sweet blur effect that we have all come to know and love so much.
 
  
  The gameplay is pretty awesome as well. You'll have to do your share of races to be able to take 
 on the blacklist each time which can get to be either really entertaining, or really annoying, 
 depending on how quickly you want to move through the game. I noticed that when I played it the 
 AI from the blacklist racers improves rather quickly, and that running a near flawless race is 
 the only way to victory. You could look at that two different ways. One - that will really piss 
 you off because you might get stuck in a few places that you don't think you should. Or two, you 
 can actually appreciate that that is pretty realistic. If you really did have to race these people 
 in real life you would have to run that kind of a race to win. You are proving how good you are, 
 and to do that, you have to prove how good you really are... which sucks sometimes because dammit 
 sometimes you just wanna beat the guy and move the hell on! 
  
  All in all this is a great game. If you are a racing fan, or a need for speed fan then you will 
 really love this game just for the simple fact that getting away from the cops is quite a task 
 sometimes that is highly enjoyable.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mostwanted128
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 23, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  Amzing game i got the game the first day it came out for ps2 and i loved it it was a great game 
 to play and good graphics and the cars were a lot better then the older series as the come down 
 the car visuals so they are not a shiny. i loved the selection of cars and great customizing for 
 the cars lots of parts. I have already beat the game in 14 days not alot of play time because of 
 school but it would take about 7-8 days or less dpending on how much you play but what a game for 
 ps2 but then i went to a friends and he had it for Xbox 360 and my mind totally changed i mean 
 it was amazing they game the graphics were totally so much better the gameplay was just awsome 
 the game was way more solid and you could see the guys face almost, now i so want to get a xbox 
 360. so i find the game so much better then the ps2 special the graphics and it is so much faster 
 and i hell of a lot better game then the ps2 version it's to bad they didn't have the black edition 
 out long enough for it but oh well least i got it for ps2.. rather it for xbox 360 i think i will 
 go and buy one now.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09BA8053
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 22, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good, and i'm glad they combined the free roam form underground 2 and the police 
 from hot pursuit. This game is cool for someone who has never played need for speed games before 
 and even for ones who have. The cars in the game look great and sound great too. They sound like 
 they would in real life. The enviroment it very detailed and every thing you hit reacts in someway. 
 When you beat the long career mode you can continue afterwards to inprove you ride and buy even 
 more rides ( up to 13) . 
  
  If you have never played the series before and want to start, this is the game to start with. It 
 is an all around good game and is worth the 60$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 90% This game is based on a GT Street Racing Style. This Game Delivers allot of action 
 you can cruise around the city find races beat blacklists. And the best part of the game the intense 
 police chases i think this game is the best in the series because you can drive over 30 fast licensed 
 car. And you can customise your car with allot of uprades. When you beat single player you can 
 play other challenge's to win new cars.
  
  Graphics 85 % The Graphics looks pretty real on the 360 but if you have a Hd tv you will see a 
 good difference then a normal tv.
  
  Difficulty: This game isn't really hard you just need patience sometimes because the AI is pretty 
 advanced.
  
  Sound 100 % The Music is good it matche's the game i think this game has the best Ea trax. The 
 sound its pretty good the cars sound pretty real and the police cars also.
  
  I think you'll spend allot of hours trough this game because this game has allot of things to offer. 
 
  
  Now for xbox live this game has little technical problems when you're racing.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MicK765
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 15, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  I loved the Need for speed games especially the underground series. I love the fact that games 
 finally let you customise the cars to let you change their look. Although i must admit Underground 
 2 took it a little too far, so i'm glad this game has got rid of the pointless customising features 
 you don't need or use.
  
  FINALLY they bought the cops back into action, But where is the pursuit mode where u play as the 
 cop : (, that was a let down. But the chases are challenging and make the game just that little 
 bit cooler.
  
  One more thing i have to say is, Why get rid of Nissans. I have to say what were they thinking 
 not putting the skyline in the game it is by far the most popular car in the whole series that 
 was a HUGE let down. 
  
  In all it is the best of the series, in fact it is a great game, but it still could have been better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXBrazilManXx
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 11, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Thank you EA games for another great NFS! This is definitely the best one yet! This game has awesome 
 customization options and the choice of cars is huge. Now you can street race with exotic cars, 
 make then lightning fast to beat all your opponents.
  
  In this game you'll find the addition of cops which are brutal and forceful. Get into high-speed 
 chases that will have you jump off your couch! Challenge other racers in the Blacklist and make 
 it to the number one spot, so you'll become the most notorious racer around!
  
  After all the action, sign on Xbox Live to take on players all over the world. Beware though because 
 you won't find anybody on Xbox Live with slow cars and soft attitudes!
  
  If you really like speed and intense police chases then you need to buy this game now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zsciaeount
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 10, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted is the latest iteration of the popular racing franchise, which over 
 the past few years has focused on the underground street racing scene. Its also the first of what 
 will likely be many installments to appear on the Xbox 360. And while it is a port of a game that 
 was designed with the last generation of consoles in mind, it certainly doesnt show on the 360. 
 With tense police pursuits, tremendous graphical style, and an unbridled sense of speed, NFS: MW 
 is the best racing game currently available for the 360.
  
  NFS: MW pits you as a young street racer new to town. In the opening scene, youre racing against 
 a racing hack in your supercharged BMW. However, it would appear that the nefarious Razor Callahan 
 has sabotaged your car, and midway through the race, your car breaks down, causing you to forfeit 
 the race and your ride. With your car in his possession, Razor quickly climbs to the top of the 
 blacklist, and to the top of the pecking order in the city. Now, you must start from scratch and 
 climb your way through the ranks in order to reclaim what it rightfully yours. Matters are complicated 
 by the local 5-0, who are cracking down on the street racing scene.
  
  While the story is fleshed out early on by some amusing and stylized cutscenes, as you go through 
 the game, the story inexplicably takes a backseat to the action, save for the occasional voicemail, 
 which is disappointing considering how the cutscenes are such campy fun.
  
  The meat of the game lies in the various game modes, which include pure racing, drag racing, time 
 trials, and police pursuits. In order to build up enough reputation to be considered worthy to 
 take on the next adversary, you have to prove your mettle by winning enough races, and escaping 
 a number of run-ins with the authorities to increase the bounty on your head. While the individual 
 events can be accessed by a free-roam mode, this is unnecessary, as you can skip directly to each 
 event through the game menu. Therefore, unless you have some strange compulsion to explore the 
 city, pretty much the only free-roam driving you do will be between your hideout and the parts 
 shop.
  
  Winning contests with your rivals not only opens up a new set of challenges, but it also offers 
 the opportunity to win the rivals car with a pink slip. The pink slip is not guaranteed, however, 
 but you have the option to purchase any of the cars from a dealer as long as you can afford them.
 
  
  But, having a nice car is not enough. You can trick them out with custom parts to snazzy them up 
 and provide improved performance. Doing this is not necessary, unless you want to quickly reduce 
 your wanted rating to make the run-ins with the authorities less of a headache. You are also able 
 to fine-tune your car between and inexplicably within races, but this is largely unnecessary, as 
 the changes are too subtle to notice. Only part upgrades seem to make a major impact.
  
  Initially, the racing modes are a lot of fun. However, the game suffers from a relative lack of 
 variety in courses, which is disappointing, considering how large the gameworld is. Moreover, the 
 races are hindered by a profoundly unfair rubber-band AI system that never works in your favor. 
 Therefore, a 10 minute race that youve run perfectly can be undone with one corner. Conversely, 
 a computer opponent can often spring far ahead, and can never be caught no matter what you do. 
 Given the tedium often associated with retrying events, youll likely find yourself looking for 
 the events that cover the shortest distance. In fact, as you near the end of the game, youll likely 
 find yourself tired of the simple races.
  
  Pursuit is a different matter, however, and is unquestionably the best part of the game. Get caught 
 making a traffic violation, and the cops will be on your tail. The milestones you must complete 
 to advance your pursuit ranking range from ramming police cars to avoiding roadblocks and spike 
 strips to outright destruction of public property. As the chase wears on, backup will be called 
 in, and your wanted level will rise until helicopters and federal agents are called onto the scene. 
 The police AI and the difficulty are significantly different between the wanted levels, and when 
 you get to levels 4 and 5, escaping with your freedom can become very difficult.
  
  You can break off the pursuit with some clever evasion down sidestreets and off-road terrain, but 
 if you really want to shake the cops, you can barrel through hotspots that cause scaffolds to fall, 
 watertowers to crumble, and gas stations to explode, generally obligating the cops to stop and 
 offer assistance. Once youve evaded the cops, you have to wait for the heat to cool down and the 
 pursuit to be called off, which can be accelerated by finding cool-down spots which are displayed 
 on your map.
  
  The controls in NFS: MW are responsive, but the drift controls seem a little off. Executing a slide 
 just doesnt feel right after playing Burnout, and cornering can be difficult if you hit the shoulder 
 of the road. This, I suppose, is more realistic, but it can really provide a lot of frustration 
 when youre barreling along at 190mph. Tough turns and tight roadblocks can be rendered more manageable 
 by going into a limited slow-motion moment, where your handling, as well as your ability to drift 
 are enhanced. However, even with turbo, doing this seems to slow your car considerably.
  
  When it comes to presentation, NFS: MW is generally a class-act. The graphics on the 360 are nothing 
 short of stunning when played on an HDTV. The visuals are crisp with excellent texturing and an 
 unbelievable viewing distance with no discernable pop-up. Unlike Project Gotham, which had unnaturally 
 plastic-appearing cars, the cars look like they actually exist in the gameworld. The reflections, 
 particle and lighting effects, and depth of field, combined with just the right amount of motion 
 blur make for a visual feast. The rain effects in particular are a sight to behold, and change 
 the asphalt into a sublimely reflective slick. The car models are faithful to the actual models, 
 and the modifications you can make are seamlessly integrated into the models. Whats more, the 
 game even makes use of limited damage modeling on licensed cars, which is a rarity in racing games. 
 That said, the damage seems to have zero effect on your cars handling.
  
  While many have criticized NFS: MW for the drab brown visuals and overcast skies, the design scheme 
 creates a cohesive atmosphere that gives the games environment a sense of realism, and puts the 
 weather and sunset effects into a proper context.
  
  The sound is a decidedly mixed bag. On the plus side, the engine noises are robust and visceral, 
 and the sound balances perfectly with the other components in the game, making none of the audio 
 components overpowering. The voice chatter during the pursuits is stunningly accurate, and often 
 humorous in a realistic way that really helps to elevate the tension of the chase sequences. The 
 original pursuit themes composed by Chris Vrenna are pitch-perfect and serve as the perfect complement 
 to the intense pursuit action.
  
  On the negative side? Worst. Licensed. Soundtrack. EVER. During the non-pursuit events, you are 
 treated to a mind-numbingly short playlist of some of the most inexplicably bad thrash rock that 
 ever had the misfortune to be recorded. The songs do absolutely nothing to heighten the action, 
 and by the 20th repeat of the same song rotation, youll be on your knees thanking Microsoft for 
 making custom soundtracks a standard option for all 360 games.
  
  All in all, Need For Speed: Most Wanted is a thoroughly enjoyable and viscerally exciting experience 
 that is worth a look from anyone with even a passing interest in racing games. Though the action 
 does get a bit monotonous near the end, the pursuit modes are worth the price of admission alone. 
 And, if youre looking for the ideal title to show off your 360 on your HDTV, Most Wanted provides 
 one of the best-crafted visual feasts available for the fledgling system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomer2uall
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 8, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the NFS series and this game is the best one yet! We've all been waiting 
 for EA to make a street racing game with cops, now here's your chance to experience it.
  
  You start out by coming into town with a sweet ride and try to wipe out all of the racers. Then 
 you meet Razor, a tough little fellow that wants to race you for pink slips. He ruins your ride 
 and you lose the race. Now you have to start from scratch and work your way up the Blacklist to 
 become the most notorious racer around.
  
  The graphics are awesome, not to mention the cut scenes. You get to explore a huge city just for 
 you. There is lots of room for all your action needs.
  
  The game features intense police chases that will knock your socks off! If you want a true challenge 
 then buy this game to see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellosnolvr
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 11, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Most Wanted draws you in with the story and the insanely realistic graphics. The addiction of upgrading 
 a car you own just pulls you in even farther. Pursuits with the police are just amazing with the 
 amount of lines the cops say over the radio. "Can I get more info on that?" "The driver is driving 
 a black Porsche." You hear things like that when people see you driving too fast, and its even 
 better whn you engage in a high-speed, high-intensity, high-graphical powered chase that could 
 lead you through the whole city... WOW! The graphics too. They are amazing. Take a look at the screenshots, 
 go out and rent it, then get ready for the biggest load in your pants since you first played your 
 360. This adds to the experience. You must race your way to the top. If you cant do it, practice, 
 beat some novices and upgrade your ride. Then youll be ready for the blacklist. Do you have what 
 it takes? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman-2k3
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 7, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  This is the newest NFS, a line of games that has been a revered franchise for over a decade now... every 
 game has something done right & some things done wrong... Most Wanted is no exception to this "rule".
 
  Let me start off by saying that the game is beautiful, the cars & the environments are stunning, 
 sit there & watch it rain for a few minutes!!!
  There are a ton of ways to customize your cars & it's fun to come up with the sweetest styles, 
 by the way the cars all handle pretty good and seem to handle based on their weight.
  I like the tollbooth races which you have to beat a clock to advance & the speedtrap races are 
 cool as well, where you accumulate the highest overall speed by racing through radar checkpoints... it's 
 a lot of fun to play these races.
  The pursuit chases however range from the ridiculously easy to the insanely hard!!! The police 
 are either total morons who couldn't catch a cold OR geniuses with some kind of "Pusuit ESP AI" 
 where they are already heading down a road that you have made a snap decision to turn down... already 
 there !!! and even heading your way already !!! COOL !!! No it isn't. It makes finishing the game, 
 which I finally gave up on, damn near impossible... and I tried every hint everyone gave me.. none 
 of it helped... I wasted about 20 hours of my life trying to get 200,000 in "cost to state" just 
 to satisfy the #2 retar - I mean blacklister, and I don't get those hours back... I get that the 
 cops increase the patrols the higher your wanted level goes, but come on... it was insane... and 
 not really worth the time...
  That being said, I think the game is fun, but the difficulty goes crazy just all of a sudden & 
 thats a bad thing... it needs to be gradual, not abrupt... thats what EA did wrong here mostly.
 
  If you want to play a fun racing game that doesn't abruptly kick your ass all of a sudden, play 
 Project Gotham Racing 3, it's just a better game... plus no dumb cops... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nationyde5
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 4, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  The NFS series has come a long way since the original. It has had its ups, like Hot Pursuit, High 
 Stakes, and Underground, and lows, like Porsche unleashed. But with Most Wanted, EA takes two of 
 the more popular entries in hot pursuit and underground, and combines them for amazing results.
 
  The first thing that one would notice on this game are the amazing graphics. The cars look very 
 realistic and the huge city is full of details. It even changes from daylight to dusk with extended 
 play. But the cars are the star of the show here, each licenced vehicle looks ery sharp and be 
 customized. While the customization is not as robust or as deep as NFSU2, this game more than makes 
 up for it with the game play, most notably the police chases.
  When you drive around the city, occasionally you will run into the man. When this happens they 
 will try to pull you over. these are the best moments of the game. The better you elude the cops 
 the more ammo they use to box you in. They call in back up, set up road blocks and spikes, even 
 call in air support. It can take some fancy pedal work to elude them especially when there are 
 as many as 15-20 cars chasing you, but it remains fun even as the difficulty climbs. The races 
 are also fun. The cars handle well, its a perfect blend of arcade and sim felling. What adds the 
 excitement of the races is that police can also begin to chase you during those.
  All in all, if you have played any of the previous games in the series then you will feel right 
 at home, and be throughly impressed. If you havent, then this game is one the best in the series 
 and is a good place to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acerbicgeoff
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 3, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  need for speed games have never been my forte, in fact, i've always considered NFS as the uncomfortable 
 tighty whitey to the free-feeling gran turismo. NFS: hot pursuit was the first game in the series 
 that i'd even developed a liking for and that was after much playing and it ended up being that 
 "it rather grows on you" situation. next i borrowed a friend's NFS: underground and i thought that 
 was fairly enjoyable but not great. when NFS: most wanted came on the scene i was thinking, "oh 
 no ... not another one," but on the recommendation of a close friend, i decided to give it a shot.
 
  
  i work overnights and i am able to bring my 360 to work and play throughout the night -- unfortunately, 
 not for the entire 10 hours ... god, that'd be sweet, right?? -- and i picked up the game on the 
 way in, feeling a little ambivalent in eagerness to play. once my work was done, i set up my machine 
 and started it up. i wasn't sure what to expect and i didn't really have high hopes ... well, color 
 me surprised.
  
  the first thing i noticed that impressed me were the graphics. the vehicles appeared ultra-realistic 
 and the environments seemed to be quite detailed and expansive. the live action acting was a cool 
 addition to the game, infinitely better than NFS: underground 2's comic-esque interpretation. i 
 played throughout much of the night and actually enjoyed my time with the game. it was fairly challenging 
 right out of the gate, unlike underground 2 where ever race was a simple endeavor. 
  
  after several weeks of toying around with it -- placing it on the back burner to delve deep into 
 elder scrolls IV: oblivion -- i've realized that the game is pretty amazing, albeit a bit repetitive 
 in the race portion, but half the fun of the game is drawing attention from the po-po, building 
 up a heat level, then trying to lose them and avoid road blocks and spike strips. 
  
  currently i am #9 on the blacklist and i find myself having a lot of fun with the game and after 
 playing it, i would recommend this game to others if nothing more than for the graphics and outrunning 
 the 5-0's. NFS: most wanted has changed my perspective a bit on the series and i find myself more 
 apt to purchase the next title in the series, so long as they don't fall back to their roots and 
 turn it into a steaming pile of drivable crap.
  
  -g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 27, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This is a game i had alot of fun in and really showed off some of the 360s muscles. Alot of people 
 like burn out better but I thought this game was hands down 1000x better, graphics, story, presentations..
 
  
  THE COP CHASES are amazing , I love going down the city being chased by like 40 cops cars and causing 
 over a million dollars in damage... it makes me smile haha 
  
  this is a game which is fun and allows me to do things I woulnt do in real life like race a $400,000 
 car and let other rub its paint !!! haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8er4life24724
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 25, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  this is prolly my 1st racing game i brought. y? because racing games arent that appealing to me 
 but this 1 is very unique. 
  
  graphics- scored an eight because there really good and all but dont stand up to 360 standards 
 i think
  
  sound- 9 because when u start that engine right away ur ears fall inb love with how nice that sounds. 
 o and music is pretty good but gets old
  
  gameplay- probably a 7 because great police chases and racing
  
  value-5 definately not worth 
 60 bucks mayb 40 but definately not 60 ripoff!
  
  but if ur a really big racer fan i think this game is 4 u prolly 1 of the best racers ever so far..................... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllEmosSuck
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed was the game the 360 needed to make sales jump. The graphics will blow anyone away 
 as they are top of the line the cars are so realistic and the sceanary is amazing. The racing is 
 broken into sections were you have to race. do challenges and get bounty to challenge a blacklist 
 rival. Its high-speed races and police chases make for an extremely exciting game, which is further 
 enhanced by the game's terrific graphics. This is one of those games that makes the previous generation 
 of hardware look older than it actually is. 
  
  If you don't get this game you are definetly missing out on a great gaming experiance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GazzaB
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  To start, this game looks fantastic. The cars are all very detailed and look very smooth, sleek 
 and sexy, and the environments, also being very detailed, have a gritty feel to them which I like. 
 EA have done a great job improving the graphics for the Xbox 360 version. The cut-scenes have a 
 cartoonish style to them which I love, and it all looks even better in HD.
  The story behind Most Wanted is brilliant in my opinion. The twists and turns, and the shock at 
 the end all add to the games experience. The acting in the videos is also really good, and with 
 added effects to make it look more cartoony, it all fits together brilliantly.
  The cars in it are also excellent. The addition of Lamborghinis, particularly the Murcielago has 
 to be the best idea ever, and made the game much more fun. The level of customisation is also excellent; 
 with the next-gen visuals making the body parts look even better.
  The gameplay is just as good as previous Need for Speed games. It still has that arcadey feel 
 to it, and is just as fun as before. The addition of tollbooth and speed trap races is excellent, 
 those two being my favourite racing types. The only disappointment was the absence of the drift 
 races, but I can see why the developers decided to leave that out.
  Overall, Need for Speed Most Wanted is a very fun game. It is cinematic, which I like in a, game 
 and it looks great. The story is engaging, and has a brilliant ending.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  First off I want to sat that you will not play the game all the way through. One reason may be 
 because you got bored of it. I say this because it gets very very very very repetitive. You get 
 bounty you gett milestones and you beat reces. That is all. Another may be ebcause it got hard. 
 IT gets real hard as you go on. The storyline is decent and the cutscenes are great. Yuo are just 
 better off renting this game first. Borrow it off somebody or somthing and don't believe the hype. 
 I hoped this helped you buy it, or not buy it! I am out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed: Most Wanted returns the Need For Speed to its "get away from the fuzz" roots. NFS: MW 
 is the first non- underground Need For Speed since Hot pursuit 2 and may very well be the best 
 Need For Speed yet. Need for speed: most wanted has amazing graphics, where every effect looks 
 incredible. The A. I is smart for the most part, but at times can be inconsistent. Sometimes you 
 will be far away from the cops and they will somehow catch up to you in a split second. Need for 
 speed: most wanteds engine noises are ridicously realistic, and the soundtrack has a good blend 
 of hip-hop and rock. If you like racing games you must own Need For Speed: Most Wanted 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breckcowboy25
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted is a fun game that will occupy you for hours. There are only a few modes 
 in the game but some of them are quite deep in length. The blacklist mode is disappointing but 
 the cop chases make up for it. The more times you escape from the cops the higher your bounty will 
 end up becoming. At the highest heat level you will become frustrated with the cops because they 
 become very difficult to evade. All in all, Need for Speed Most Wanted will satisfy your senses 
 for a short while, but eventually it will collect dust on your shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zubair_Ahmed
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 15, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Good game At least its gonna pass my 3 or 4 hours each day or when i'll 
  get messed with all of the things. Soundtracks is real big deal and videos too no doubt that Ea 
 sports make really big impact on Car racing And hope they will make in future. For comparising car 
 racings game from pc to ps2 its only MIDNIGHT CLUB 3 DUB EDITION is the game which got some comparision 
 from pc to ps2 this shows you how good game it is.
  As far as i rate this game is Worth to playing because the sounds n videos snatch greates attraction 
 from any one whoes play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CasaHova
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up since I have had experience with the Need for speed franchise. The game begins 
 with a movie and cut scene with you as the new racer in town who meet a cute girl with a hot ride, 
 then you meet up with the local law enforcement (who has a nice ride and does some mean things 
 to your car) You race a few matches to get a handle. After you lose your car you have to climb 
 the ranks of the "Blacklist" = a list of 15 racers who are the top racers in the city. 
  
  The racing style is very basic. There is the sprint= the dash to the finish line, the lap race, 
 which normally is like 3, the lap knock out= three laps where the racer in last place at the end 
 of each lap is eliminated. There is also the drag which is the most difficult and has to be learned.
 
  
  There is also the challenge in which you must complete specific tasks. Examples are like engage 
 in a police pursuit for x amount of minutes and the like. 
  
  The game is not that challenging until you get to the like top 6 racers. Then you have to begin 
 to use some strategy. It does become frustrating when you have like a 15 minute+ race and then 
 get busted and not only have to start over but possibly lose money.
  
  Word to the wise has at least three cars. One for the straight up racing, one for the challenges 
 make sure that it you best so you can get away. Then you spare which can handle races and chases. 
 Just keep that one around till you can get what ever car out of impound or till the heat level 
 drops enough.
  
  It is over all a nice game and I have found myself just racing around the city and participating 
 in races that I have already completed to get more money 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 12, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  I'll start this review off by saying that anyone who knows me knows I love the Need for Speed series 
 (with the exception of part 2 which was a disaster) . That said, I had some pretty high expectations 
 heading into Most Wanted as it has earned nearly universal acclaim for EA. After beating the game, 
 I can safely say one thing: leave it to EA to throw in a very very poor gimmick into every single 
 "tuner"-esque NFS game that ruins the whole show despite solid gaming to be had otherwise. What 
 am I talking about? Well, let's get to the breakdown:
  
  Graphics: If you've played the original Xbox version, you've pretty much seen this. Things may 
 be alot crisper in HD (I refuse to buy an HDTV. If you can't make your game look good on standard 
 TV, I feel really sorry for you as a developer) , but there's not a whole lot of differences on 
 a standard TV. The cut-scenes are good-looking, but rank up there with Vin Diesel's "Quarter mile 
 at a time" quote from The Fast and The Furious as far as stupidity in dialogue is concerned. It 
 warrants a few laughs, but you have to wonder, did EA mean for us to take this seriously, or did 
 they KNOW it was so bad? In-game environments look very similar to the original version, but the 
 car models are a bit better here. That's really about it.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack is your typical hip-hop menu music mixed with your rock/techno race music. 
 It's not bad, but I typically play with the soundtrack muted. Why? That brings me to the high point 
 of this game: The realistic police banter. Just listening to the cops trying to bring you down 
 really drives you that much more to get away. The rain sounds in this game are the most realistic 
 I've ever heard. And yes, before it's asked, I'm THAT much of a stickler for good sound effects. 
 I liked being able to hear the whine of a supercharger if you put it in your car or hear how the 
 car's exhaust tone changes as you add things. I would like to have had some beefier muscle car 
 sounds, but oh well. Voice acting is good for what they're saying anyway.
  
  Control: Easy as pie EXCEPT for the drag racing. That was the one spot I felt that EA dropped the 
 ball. The setup idea I get: Use the right thumbstick to shift up and down. Cool idea, but since 
 this game REQUIRES you to use nitrous if you even want to think about winning, that's where things 
 go haywire. I say this because, well, here: Picture you're holding your 360 controller. Two fingers 
 on the triggers for brake and gas, your thumb steering on one side and your other one shifting 
 with the other thumbstick. Now, how do you plan to hit the A button so you can use nitrous? I found 
 myself missing shifts left and right as I dodged my thumb over to the button and then back to the 
 shifter. Very annoying in my own opinion. Also, turning in this game doesn't happen. Better to 
 just tag the wall and go from there. And whatever you do, never, EVER turn using an E-brake drift-esque 
 technique. You will go sideways into the wall, if you're lucky. If you're not, somehow you wind 
 up just sliding to a complete stop. Whoever did the physics engine in this one needs to go back 
 to school and learn how to get it right.
  
  Entertainment: This game can be summed up in one word: Frustration. That's what you're going to 
 be feeling. There's more "catch-up" A. I. in this game than there was in the first Midnight Club 
 game, and if you've played that one, you know how ludicrous that is. I don't care what you have, 
 the computer is faster, turns better, and will always be right on your butt at the finish, if you 
 even win. Another bother with this game: The cars. Who do you know has the money to buy a Carrera 
 GT (and if you do, you're an idiot for buying that car) and soup it up? I liked Underground 2 because 
 I could take an RSX and custom it out. You know, an actual tuner car? Here, we start with the Lexus 
 IS300 and the Chevy Cobalt, etc. but finish with Aston Martin, Lamborghini, etc. WTF?? I felt shades 
 of the old NFS games playing this one, and I didn't like it. Not at all. If I want to race super 
 cars, I'll plug in PGR3. This is supposed to be about tuning imports. Speaking of, this game is 
 full of B. S. when it comes to car performance. I had a new Pontiac GTO completely souped up and 
 was getting the S#@% kicked out of me by a Fiat-whatever that the computer had. Um... no sir. And 
 as far as the BMW goes.... I can see how that went down:
  
  (Conference room at EA games corporate H. Q.)
  EA CEO: I like the ideas you guys have in this 
 game, but there's one problem.
  EA Programmer: Sir?
  CEO: Well, I drive a BMW M3. It needs to be in the game.
  Programmer: okay sir, I think we can 
 wor.....
  CEO: AND it needs to be the best car.
  Programmer: But sir, we have Lamborghinis and...
  CEO: I don't care! Just do it! Make it slow 
 when the player has it if you have to, but when the computer controls it, make it unstoppable.
 
  Programmer:..... okay....
  
  And thus, Most Wanted became Least Wanted. If a BMW M3 fully modded could ever beat a fully modded 
 Viper SRT-10, I will eat the tires right off it. Much less a Lambo. But in the game, that BMW is 
 insane. My biggest complaint though, and this is the one that really RUINED this game, is the fact 
 that once you get level 5 heat, it's over. Literally. I don't care how good you are, what you drive, 
 it doesn't matter. The police always know where you are. Someone made the comment that when you 
 do get caught, you don't feel like the computer cheated. Um... BS. When I'm flying down the road 
 at about 210 mph and I crash into a Corvette at a roadblock, I'm expecting that thing to go flying. 
 Not just sit there like a wall. And to top it off, the computer will actually flip your car on 
 it's side and pin you against a wall for an arrest. Wow. That's realistic. Just like suicidal cops 
 in SUV's who's only apparent mission is to ram you head-on at 200+. Who cares if they'd kill themselves 
 in the process? At least they'd stop you.....*shakes head* In Underground 2, the game tracked your 
 car's visual appeal with stars. Get X stars, get a mag shot. To get the highest rating, you had 
 to make your car look like a rolling ball of carbon fiber crap. In this game, you have to get bounty. 
 You get bounty by evading police, etc. The system SUCKS! You get in a half-hour chase, rack up 
 tons of bounty, then get cheap-shotted and arrested. Oh, and if you get arrested, say goodbye to 
 ALL your accumulated bounty points for that chase. Yep. I can't tell you how many times I shook 
 my head and shut off this game because of that fact alone.
  
  All in all, this game is alright, but major flaws severely dent the score. Ridiculous A. I., suicidal 
 cops with immovable Corvettes, and the god-awful bounty system really push me away from this game. 
 If you're a fan of street racing games, you really don't have a choice on 360, and you could do 
 worse, to be fair (Anyone ever play RPM Racing?) . But EA let me down with this one. Maybe next 
 time we'll see some Mustang 5.0's or some Camaro SS's in the mix instead of Lambo's and such. I'd 
 recommend a rental. As for a purchase, once you complete the single player mode, this game is done. 
 If you can find it used, maybe. But the whole 60 shells? I'll have to say no. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maniacnick93
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  This game is the best racing game i have played in years!!!! So if u don't have this game get up 
 and get it because this game is great and worth the money u spend on it!!!! So hurry up ur wasting 
 ur time reading this instead of going to buy this AWESOME and fun game!!!!! Come on get up and 
 get on the bus or in ur car which ever one i don't care just buy this game!!!!
  What did i just say go get this game or i might have to jump through the screen and attack u.... 
 just kidding with u i would not do that..... that would be mean!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toasted_Gnome
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  well this game was decent, but it wasn't anything special. I was fully expecting a need for speed 
 underground 3 (which I would have loved) , but I was surprised to see that it mixed exotics (lamborghinis, 
 and lotus etc.) with your average everyday cars (like the chevy cobalt...) . It was a solid game 
 in general, but it didn't seem very "next gen", and yes I know it was a multiplatform game, and 
 the graphics were not much better than the other systems. I alos did not like the exotic cars' 
 body kits very much, they didn't seem very realistic... but it was good for an arcade racer I suppose. 
 The stats were somewhat unealistic, and I never really understood the tuning aspect of the game 
 (in the start menu?!? what the hell? ... lol, whatever happened to the NFSU2 tuning? It wasn't 
 accurate, but it let you add an entire new level of customization to your car. In most wanted, 
 all you do is add the right parts and you win. This WAS the basic concept of the original NFSU, 
 but that's what made the second so much greater, especially with great online play. Overall this 
 game was somewhat dissapointing, but It was alright for a launch game, and it was very amusing 
 getting the police after you, I also enjoyed breaking the roadblocks and getting helicopters after 
 me... but that wore off quickly... you know... it being done in hot pursuit 1 and 2 and all
  
  all in all it was amusing... but not revolutionary or anything, it wasn't at all impressing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redviper2321
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 31, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted looks back at it heritage and puts it into action once more, this time 
 with the car-tuning features of the Underground series. The career mode pits you against the 15 
 Most Wanted racers, with your goal being to make it to the top. Free roam makes another appearance 
 as well. As you earn cars in career mode you will have the chance to upgrade them and use them 
 online, which is fun. Only a few things hold this game back, such as a 30 car roster, not even 
 close to the 80+ cars of PGR3. Also, the catch-up feature used by your rivals in the career mode 
 can be annoying at times, but it is nothing too serious. A visually stunning game because of the 
 awesome lighting system, and with amazing sound, this is one addition to the series you will need 
 to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PanDamian12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is just great. I own the two previous ones and I have to admit that this one is the best 
 of them all. Firstly - the graphics. The game plays at a smooth frame rate and you can really feel 
 the speed. The cars, as well as the surrounding environment are highly detailed, great stuff! The 
 cars: each car is quite different and responds differently, having its own personality. Once I 
 got my hands on some of them, I instantly got addicted into buyng more and more parts and trying 
 to reach each machine's limits of performance. The story line is pretty cool too. You just want 
 to get your car back in, and the guy who stole it... well, smash his head against the wall. The 
 only thing that I found a little annoying was the fact that each time I wanted to cruise around 
 in my new hooked up car I would end up racing with the cops. Sometimes you just wanna relax, explore 
 the city, find some new shortcuts and once again the screen freezes, lights, sirens, and its on. 
 Besides that everything else ir really well designed and the game is definitely worth the money 
 for any racing genre fan. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 30, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted is the best iteration of the long-running series to date, and also proves 
 to be a thrilling arcade racer. And just about everything that is the foundations of this game 
 works and functions as you would come to expect from such a great developer as EA. The visuals 
 are top notch, the sound is both realistic and exciting, the online modes and playability are not 
 only noteworthy, but you might say as good as you could have hoped for or imagined. 
  
  But what really makes this game shine, or at least puts the icing on the cake, is its hip hop style 
 of presentation. Face it, the game looks stunning from the moment you pop the disc in the tray 
 to the moment you power down your 360. The menu system is a breeze, the artwork is trend-setting, 
 and the whole game embodies this unique and funky style. 
  
  What more can be said? The game looks good (especially on the Xbox 360) , has superb uses of audio, 
 employs some of the finest and slickest presentation you'll likely get from a videogame, and is 
 just a ton of fun to sit and play both online and off. Most Wanted is just that, a sought after 
 videogame experience you'll want to repeat over and over again. 
  
  Overall Score:
  
  8.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ikeruaro
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  Lots of cars, lots of tracks, and a great variation of play modes makes this my favorite racing 
 game ever. NFSMW features a great sense of speed, with excellent races against other drivers, the 
 clock or even better, the police, and that's the best part! Escaping from the cops are insanily 
 great, with shortcuts and incredible moves! The sound is great too, and the music is up to you!!! 
 Load your 360 with your favorite tunes and play listening to your House, rock, Pop or Hip-Hop selection. 
 The original soundtrack of the game is very good, just like the previous games of the series. If 
 you're thinking about buying this game, don't think twice, just do it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  I love racing games, but usually Im only interested in simulations. NASCAR and Forza Motorsport 
 are my cup of tea. Very rarely to I get into arcade racing games; usually because they feature 
 fictional cars. When I picked up the Xbox 360, I needed a next generation racing game.
  
  I had thought about picking up Project Gotham Racing 3, but I was burned by that game in the past. 
 Instead I picked up Need for Speed: Most Wanted. I played Burnout Revenge on the Xbox, and that 
 to-date was the only arcade racer I truly enjoyed. My expectations were totally blown away. I thoroughly 
 enjoyed NFSMW.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  First of all, I have to say that right from the beginning, the presentation of this game really 
 impressed me. From the opening movie and cut scenes, to the slick menu system, it was all very 
 well done. The controls were sharp too, and very responsive.
  
  One feature I enjoyed was being able to slow down time. This allows you to dodge incoming traffic, 
 or make sharp 90 degree turns at high speed. My only complaints about the game play was that the 
 difficultly starts out a little too easy (you can easily beat the first blacklist driver without 
 any upgrades to your car.) Theres also just a basic tutorial, so youre kind of thrown in the 
 deep end. Its not too hard to figure out what you need to do, though.
  
  GRAPHICS
  I was also impressed by the graphics. Going into the game, I was worried it wouldnt look any better 
 than the Xbox version, and instead would just have faster loading times. This is not the case. 
 The texture resolution is so much better, that just amazed me. Add to that the awesome real-time 
 reflections, high polygon count, stunning lighting effects, and youve got a multi-platform game 
 that looks next-generation.
  
  The cut-scenes are reminiscent of the Sega CD days when FMV was king. It uses live actors in CG 
 environments to advance the story. It looks great, and adds a lot of depth to the story. The only 
 problem is there arent a whole lot of these scenes once you get past the intro. Some of the acting 
 is great, and some of it is painful. Each car also as fully modeled interiors, but theres no in-car 
 camera.
  
  SOUND
  The sound is very well done, too. The engines sound great, and have a nice thump in the bass. Theres 
 also a nice whoosh of air as your speed gets into the 150+ mph range. The music fits perfectly 
 into the theme of the game. I just wish that there was a louder sound effect when you crash your 
 car. The music tends to repeat a lot when you go into the same menus, and there seems to only be 
 about 5 songs.
  
  VALUE
  For an arcade racing game, theres a lot to do and unlock in this game. Therere tons of after-market 
 parts, vinyls, and performance upgrades. You have a chance to win a unique car via a pink slip 
 when you race the black list racers. Theres also offline and online play, and even a mode where 
 you can take any car youve unlocked, and trick it out with parts as no cost to use in multiplayer 
 races. NFSMW also contains a wide variety of races including point-to-point, circuits, drag races, 
 police cases, and a cool race where you need to get clocked by the police going as fast as you 
 can over the speed limit.
  
  I wish there was a little more to do besides racing, and all the custom parts you can add make 
 me wish you could make your own custom vinyls. Good next-gen visuals, great sound, and its just 
 plain fun. All of these element combine to create a fantastic arcade racing game; that gives new 
 life into the NFS series as well as the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 29, 2006 4:35 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of my favorite driving games along with Gran Turismo and to play this game on 
 the xbox360 with all it's power, is worth the price of admission.
  
  You can play a few racing or circuit games but the real fun starts when you go into career mode. You 
 are basically the "new" kid on the strip with a beast of a car. You just wanna race with the best.... but 
 the best is an underhanding sneak that ends up sabotaging your ride, so he can own it.
  You get your car taken from you and now you have to race and beat 15 racers to race him and get 
 your wheels back.
  
  The gameplay is just a step up from last gen but the graphics of the cars are outstanding. The only 
 noticeable draw back is that when racing the first half the racers on the blacklist. If your leading 
 in the race and fall back, the lead car will S L O W down so you can catch up. Yes.... the lead car 
 who passed you by and no doubt can win the match.
  S L O W S down so you can win.............. huh?
  
  Cops are too slow in this series, it doesn't 
 take much too lose them or smash right through the roadblock and they still can't haul you into 
 jail.
  
  Nice game and you will have tons of funs driving, customizing your car and if your lucky taking 
 someone else's ride. But alot more could have been done with this game. It feels rushed since it 
 was a launch title for the Xbox360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theman1126
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game and should be bought if you like racing. What make the game really good 
 is that the developers actually did something with the game and did not just add a 2 or "Underground". 
 It is very fun and for me most of the time I was just running from the cops. The only real reason 
 to play the story mode is to make money and buy more cars. The Blacklist was just way to easy for 
 me. I beat it in about one and a half hours. At first the multiplayer racing was very confusing 
 and I guess i'm just stupid but I had to actually read the manual. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDL54876
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  you start off driving one of the best cars in the game, until some underground racers jack your 
 car. After that you hook up with a new car, and start racing. Cut scenes are great, some stupid, 
 but stupid-funny. I think the controls could be a little better, I don't really like the RT button 
 as accelerate, my hands get cramped after a while from constantly holding it down, but the controls 
 in general ok. The graphics are good, but I dont think they are as good as Burnout or PGRs. Fun 
 action, I dont think police chases are that great (they are usually a lot slower than your car, 
 or you can loose them easily) . The only thing that could get a little better in the sense of speed 
 in the game. The fast cars never seem like they go too fast, and your are either usually way ahead 
 of your opponents by a few seconds, or down by a few seconds. I have yet to experience a real close, 
 nail biting finish. Overall, game could be improved, and i wouldnt go to it as my first racing 
 game choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebushank
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  This is most likely the best nfs game out well besides hot pursuit two, but anyway this game is 
 very very good, nothing really breakthrough about the graphics but the cops are a welcome extra. 
 more could have been done to change it from the near perfect n. f. s. u.2 but its still a cracker.
 
  
  the story mode is very short but it is challanging enough like. the videos are also very impressive 
 looking as they copy and enhance on the second versions videos.
  
  i would rent this game rather than buy it cause it wont take that long to finsih unless you like 
 the multiplayer games aswell
  
  a good game just nothing we havent seeen before 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathbal888
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is so far the best need for speed game that has come out. I have played some 
 of the other ones but this one is much better.
  The single-player is quite fun and keeps you wanting more and more. The The cars are great and 
 pimping them out makes it cool because you have you car the way you want it.
  It took me some time but now I own all the cars and all of them are fully modified.
  The only 
 thing that i found to be messed up is the graphics of the game when you get BUSTED from the cops. 
 The people look very bad... its not even 360 graphics but whatever... it isnt a big deal.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrydebug
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  I think that need for speed most wanted has excelent graphics and some gud music tracz and better 
 carz dan da preevious need for speed games on ps2 and xbox. Its my favourite game and i think dat 
 da bext version is on xbox 360 its obviously the best need for speed in the series and i like the 
 new name they came up with 'the blacklist' its sounds really cule. so if any of yu guys have an 
 xbox 360 and aint played dis game yu just have 2 and if i were yu i wud rather get da black edition 
 cuz it has a special challenge in it called da black edition challenge and 4 me it was very fun 
 but also very hard and i wud like 2 see any1 else hu can brake ma record and win dat challenge 
 in dere first go at tryin it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterandbeer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome in so many ways. The sense of speed is unbelievable. You will have lots of 
 fun zooming around the city trying to escape the police, to build up your rank on the blacklist. 
 The car customizablity is of course as good as always. The story is also pretty good but nothing 
 to get excite about even though they do use real live actors. This game will give you an adrenaline 
 rush when your trying to escape over 20 police cars and a helicopter. You will have to evade roadblock, 
 spike strips, and many other difficult obstacle. This game is fun but it is not as open as it could 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbo_prelude
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  i own this game on my 360 and my playstation 2 but why didnt they have black edtion on 360 anyway 
 its an awsome game to own i noticed in the 360 version they put more stuff in like do not pass 
 signs and more road cones and road blockers and they put a lot of random parked cars around thats 
 cool and all but it makes it harder for you to run from the cops but thats cool i like a challange 
 but anyway its an awsome game but will get kinda mad when you get busted but oh well oh ya one 
 more thing the online needs a better sever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr-sheep
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 24, 2006 5:13 am PT
Review:  It has been quite a long absence of cops in the NFS series. Finally years after Hot Pursuit's release 
 another NFS game comes out with cops! Yes, cops! This latest installment to the long-running EXTREME 
 EXHILIRATING racer.
  
  The most exciting thing about the game is the cops. They are smart, fast, and sly. The more chaos 
 you cause in the city, the more cops you will have on your tail. They call out helicopters, spike 
 traps, barricades, and if your lucky the cops might even pull off the box maneuver on you! 
  
  The graphics look much sharper than on the PS2 version off course. Playing it on my 52-in HDTV 
 brings the graphics up a notch. The effects are great too. 
  
  The controls are still the same except for the new addition called the "Speebreaker." The speedbreaker 
 slows down time and helps you asses the things that are coming up ahead. If you use it correctly 
 
  
  My most fave part of the game is its extremely in-depth customizing of your car. The farther you 
 get in the game the more customizations you will get. Its extremely detailed.
  
  Overall, this is no Gran Tourismo but, dang this is a damn fine racing game that deserves a spot 
 in your game shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsluss
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  I have loved nearly every minute of this game. I haven't played a NFS game since the early releases 
 in the series because they really started going down hill, but this game represents a triumphant 
 return for the series. The racing feels great and the career mode is a blast. I had a lot of fun 
 playing it with my wife and along side my friends, but I sadly had no desire to play it online, 
 but some will. 
  
  The games visuals and sounds are amazing, as well as the responsive gameplay. Very nice customization 
 options and racing modes of many sorts. 
  
  The only real problem I have with the game is that it has a few bugs that can get really annoying 
 at times. One that really gets me is that I can crash through light poles, garbage dumpters, and 
 even huge SUV's, but at times I might clip a wall or a tiny pixel of a fence and my car gets slammed 
 to a dead stop, and this is extremely bad when running from pursuit corvettes. The game has also 
 locked up fairly frequently, to the point where I don't feel comfortable just free roaming, I alway 
 feel as though if I'm going ot accomplish anythin gI must immediately save for fear of a game crash. 
 
  
  The police chases are a blast, at least at first, then as you get higher into the game some of 
 the police chases require get really old because of the high requirements for them, and unless 
 you're an elite player you'll end up running the pursuits over again many many times to try and 
 get to the next blacklist racer.
  
  But those few things aside, I higly recommend this game. For avid game racing fans you might want 
 ot rent it first to give it a try since some people fell it's more "arcadish" than "realistic" 
 in terms of racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RUMMELraider
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  its friggin awesome!!! the graphics r so awsome!!! ive never really got into the series but my 
 cuz got me into this game. its so realistic i wish i had a bigger hdtv screen for this game!!! 
 i didnt get far in the game because i jus mess around and explore thi game and every single spot 
 so when i race i can find shortcuts. im not as good as everybody because i play sony and nintendo. 
 i play this at my cuzs house. i didnt expect anything bad or good from this game because ive heard 
 a lot about this game some good some bad. so i had to test it out. rent it first n if you like 
 it buy it!!! i only played it for an hour or two because i was there because my mom needed to do 
 something over there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilchild
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  Before describing each 'Attribute' im gonna say that its a fun game that you could love it, or 
 either hate it... why? because its always the same thing.
  
  Gameplay- i gave it a 5 because i love cars, and customizing them, but not a 10 because its always 
 the same thing (race n' race n' race) (boring so far!!)
  
  Graphics- a 8 because they are really good, even on standard TV, trust me.
  
  Sound- a 8 because 
 of the mufflers sounds, ambience sounds n' stuff, so far so good.
  
  Value- i always liked need for speed's n' their way to play so another 8.
  
  Reviewer's tilt- 
 a 7, why? because some of them say it's the best game ever, well it is not for me.
  
  * A big CONS about this game is that there are only 32 cars, at the beginning you only have 3 cars 
 to choose WTF?? not even OUR most wanted cars, such as civic, focus, neon, n' miata. *
  
  Finally I returned my game and got Burnout Revenge, realistic car damage, sorted races, more fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CassiusVII
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  Awesome Awesome game! The Xbox version of this game was really good and I decided to rent this 
 game. Its basically the same game except for a couple things here and there.
  Gameplay- Awesome, Its really fun. It has a variety of new cars to choose from. I love racing games 
 and this has to be my favorite one so far.
  Graphics-Spectacular! They are flawless. The frame rate finally keeps up with the speed of the 
 cars.
  Sound- Really solid Sound track! Some of the songs I have never heard and now Im looking for them 
 in stores so I can listen all the time.
  Value- The game is pretty long. Not very ... but its there. Also you have online play which will 
 challenge you all the time to be the best.
  I love racing games and this is the best one that I have played by far. The next gen console really 
 brought the racing games to a max! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Of the 3 racing games I have played so far on the 360, this has to be my favorite for the single 
 player options (look at PGR3 for my multiplayer racer) .
  Lots of cars, lots of modes and lots of destruction. 
  
  Gameplay - Simple controls and a rather 
 neat timestop (matrix effect) function. It took me no time to get my cars running and begin tearing 
 through the blacklist. The later tracks got harder in a way that kept the game challenging and 
 fun
  
  Graphics - If cars looked this good in real life after running them around off the road and through 
 chases.... Actually the graphics are great and I love the minor damage to you cars paint depending 
 on how much rubbing you have been doing. The damage to the other cars is nice, even if it doesn't 
 affect them in any way. Of course you can only scratch your paint job or break your windows.... even 
 if you hit a semi head on at 180 in your porsche....
  
  Sound - pretty good soundtrack, still not enough rock though, car and envirornment sounds were 
 great
  
  Value - if you like fun racing games and aren't as concerned about the multiplayer... BUY IT! If 
 you like the multiplayer, take a look at PGR3.... at the least though, rent NFSMW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_freak_mb
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This is to me the best game in the series. For one because it combines all of the greatest features 
 from them all and puts it into one. The graphics are awesome, and ive never played a game with 
 better police chases. They do everything in there power to get you off the road, and that is awesome. 
 The drag racing is harder than ever. The cars now have better Nitro systems because they refill 
 constantly. 
  
  After you go up on the black list and you get to about level 4 in the police its starts getting 
 really hard to get away from them and earn all of the achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raylen12
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  So, I traded Call of Duty 2 for Need for Speed: Most Wanted to my friend for the weekend, and bet 
 him that I would finish the game before he beat CoD2 on Veteran. Big mistake, let me tell you.
 
  
  Need for Speed: Most Wanted comes from a long-line of standard street racing games by EA (increasingly 
 regarded as a developer and producer that churns out a lot of average and substandard games) . This 
 time, EA hopes to revitalize the series by dumping a load of cops into the game. The police chases 
 are great fun to anyone just playing, but get old fast, just as the repeating races and challenges 
 quickly become.
  
  The plot of NfS: MW is that you are a newcomer to the city of Rockport, but soon lose your car 
 to the #15 Blacklister, who uses it to gain the #1 spot. You must then start from scratch to regain 
 your rep and climb the Blacklist. To face a Blacklister, you must complete a series of challenges 
 to prove yourself: win so-and-so number of races, complete so-and-so number of milestones, get 
 a bounty of so-and-so. It works for the first five Blacklisters, just because it is sooo easy. 
 Soon enough, however, the races get wickedly difficult, and you are forced to repeat each race 
 several times to win. For someone time challenged, like me, this was incredibly frustrating. Plus, 
 there are only a few types of races; drag, circuit, sprint, etc. Some become impossible as you 
 get to the end (such as tollbooth, which is a time attack type game) . Others just get boring.
 
  
  The graphics of the game are good; racing games usually have very good graphics, just because they 
 hardware doesn't need to be used for much more than that. The sound is acceptable - standard engine 
 revs, but the police calls are incredibly realistic. But, there is a problem with the police chatter 
 - if you're caught during a race, their talk doesn't say anything about "street race" or any of 
 the other racers; their chatter focuses only on you.
  
  So, Need for Speed: Most Wanted is an excellent game for anyone who is dedicated to playing it, 
 just because it is rewarding in the end (gamerscore points on the Xbox 360) . It is NOT a good game 
 for a weekend rent. After devoting at least 12 hours into the game, I'm still on Blacklister 5, 
 and the completion percentage is still less than 50%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielcesario
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Fmv cutscenes are hilarious but well done and presentation is great especially on hd
 
  
  gameplay: fun racing, slightly repetitive but cop's add some depth to the otherwise straight forward 
 racing game
  
  sound: good car sounds cheesy but well done voice acting
  
  Value: 12-15 hours of gameplay and xbox live make it worth it
  
  i have no idea what reviewers 
 tilt is? 
  
  overall is a good game and is worth buying or at least renting. One of the more fun 360 games out 
 and is worth it if you enjoy street racing or want the fell of th old nfs games with the police 
 chases 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jak2k5
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 18, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted is a great racing game for the Xbox 360. It takes elements from the 
 two underground games and mixes it with the Hot Pursuit games. Now instead of racing at night you 
 race only in the daytime this could be good and bad depends on if you prefer to racing in the daylight. 
 You can still customize your car like in the underground games but its a little more friendlier 
 to beg beginners but there is still a lot of options. 
  
  Electronics Arts also added Porsches and Lamborghinis in the game which are also fully customizable. 
 As far as the A. I. goes its challenging enough nothing hard but it may take you a couple times 
 to complete a challenge. I personally found the A. I. annoying since if it passes you it slows down 
 like they made it so the A. I. never gets a insane lead over you. 
  
  The graphics in NFS: MW are pretty good nothing amazing but their decent for a launch title specially 
 on a HDTV. The online multiplayer is pretty decent it allows you to join ranked or player (unranked) 
 matches and you can have up to 4 people in a game. 
  
  In the end, Need for Speed: Most Wanted is a decent racing game and probably is the best in the 
 Need for Speed series. The game is definetly a must rent or even a must buy if your a fan of the 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 18, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I hated NFS underground but this game is so much better that I forgot about the underground series 
 altogether. Although this is a port I notice the where the extra polish went. The models are B 
 E A utifl I love the lighting effects. The soundtrack sucks but I just use the custom soundtracks. 
 A little slayer is the right music for this game because the outrunning the cops is literally a 
 rush. I love the how you can smash objects that destract the pig bastards and you can make your 
 getaway. But what I love mot about the game is the controls. The slowing of time feature is awesome. 
 The steering is well perfect. I just like smashing into oncoming traffic that in itself is a self 
 made mini game. the car options are not endless but they are plentyful. Iwish my beginnig car wasn't 
 a chevy colt but now it's pushing 160MPH. with nitous. I can't wait till the good cars come. I higly 
 suggest this title and this is an awesome launch title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydrolite
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Most Wanted is the first entry for this well known racing franchise to next gen 
 systems. Did it make the transition well. In my opinion no it didn't. This game has some good qualities 
 but a few more bad ones.
  First for the good. Need For Speed Most Wanted boasts fairly nice graphics worthy of the Xbox 360. 
 It has a very good framerate and i have noticed one drop in it. The city is pretty large and offers 
 a lot of variety in the looks and buroughs of the city. The blacklist is an interesting new idea 
 and will keep you entertaned for awile. Also there are a decent amount of cars and upgrades available.
 
  Now for the bad. The first thing most people will notice is the repititiveness of the game. At 
 first glance it may seem like there are a decent amount of gameplay types but once you launch the 
 game you will notice that you are doing those modes over and over again. It makes you just want 
 to bang your head against a wall. The blacklist racers are way to easy to defeat. Shouldn't they 
 be the top of the line racers? Instead they are a letdown once you get there. My biggest complaint 
 about the blacklist is the fact that when you get defeated by a blacklister you don't have the 
 penalties as them. Shouldn't they pick markers from you? Also you have defeat the black list racer 
 twice and if they beat you once you lose. The dialog in this game is rediculous. I swear grey haired 
 fifty year olds wrote the script and tried to make a bad attempt at street slang. It is just lame. 
 
  Overall Need For Speed Most Wanted makes a great rental but thats just about all. My main advice 
 is to enjoy it while you can because it won't last long. This is by no means the worse racing game 
 but its not the best either.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  A very average game. It's got some good ideas, but ultimately, this game is not what it could be. 
 There are much better racing games out there. Controls sucks and the racing gets pretty darn boring. 
 There's some variety in the racing types, but that only lasts so long. Things like controls and 
 getting stuck on dumb objects in the game make it frustrating at times, not to mention how cheap 
 the AI is in the game (get ready to experience "catch-up in a very stupid way!!) . 
  Police chases are fun, very fun at times (but again, sometimes cheap) . I haven't the slightest 
 clue why EA could not have made this an excellent game. It looks pretty good and had some good 
 ideas, but it was executed with the same lack of effort most of their games are.
  
  It's not worth buying by a long shot. Renting? Ya sure, but you may end up throwing your controller 
 out the window. It's very frustrating at times, especially when traffic conveniently tries to crash 
 into you head on or when a trailer is blocking the entire road in the middle of a race.
  
  Oh ya, and the sound is just plain terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rasgueado
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  The Need For Speed racing titles have been around for a long time, and over the years the series 
 has seen quite a few different incarnations. The past few years have seen the developers taking 
 a detour into the underground racing scene and included features to tune and visually tweak your 
 cars. The current Most Wanted title sticks a fair amount to the Underground formula while adding 
 in the dynamic of police chases. The result is a game that is fast and fun for the first five to 
 ten hours, but then falls into a repetitive circuit that might seem overly tedious for some players.
 
  
  The bulk of the game play is comprised of the player assuming the role of a street racer in the 
 city of Rockport with the goal of reaching the number one spot on the blacklist. The blacklist 
 is made up of the top fifteen most notorious street racers in the city. Starting from the bottom 
 and working upwards to number 1 the player will be required to complete a certain number of tasks 
 before being allowed to challenge the blacklist racer and assume the corresponding spot on the 
 list.
  
  The tasks laid down for the player start very simply and as the game progresses will become harder 
 to complete. The blacklist racer will set out a list of races that the player must win and a certain 
 level of police bounty that must be achieved before enough reputation is earned to warrant the 
 blacklist racer accepting the challenge to race. As the game progresses more races will have to 
 be won at every level and the amount of bounty that must be earned increases in regular increments. 
 
  
  There are a six different race types to help spice up the game play in Most Wanted. These are: 
 Circuit, Lap Elimination, Speed Trap, Sprint, Drag, and Tollbooth runs. Circuit and Lap Elimination 
 are basically the same except that the player must make sure theyre not in last place at the end 
 of each lap or theyre eliminated. Sprint and Speed Trap are also similar in that they are point 
 to point races with the exception being that at certain intervals a speed camera will record the 
 speed the player is traveling. At the end of race the car with the highest accumulated speed wins. 
 Drag racing is the old standard that players of the Underground series will remember, and Tollbooth 
 runs are timed races where the car must pass through a certain series of checkpoints in a set amount 
 of time.
  
  To go along with these race types the game also has the added feature of the police pursuit system. 
 The city of Rockport is an open area that the player can freely drive around and look for races. 
 Patrolling the streets of this city are the police that will show up from time to time in order 
 to start a chase. In this mode the player will now have to do their best to evade the police while 
 also racking up a high enough bounty score in order to meet the blacklist target. Bounty can be 
 increased by completing milestones, such as evading 5 roadblocks, or by smashing into a lot of 
 civilian and police cars to increase the cost of the chase to the state. The police chases are 
 by far the most fun and challenging part of the game, especially when it becomes required to gain 
 a great deal of bounty later in the game when the police start sending spike traps and helicopters 
 into the field.
  
  To help with some of the crazy moves that will be required to evade a lot of the chases, the developers 
 have given the player two special movement modes. The first is the nitrous boost that will be acquired 
 fairly early in the game. The nitrous boost gives the car an extra burst of speed and becomes handy 
 for speeding up again quickly after performing an e-brake turn. The second is the speedbreaker 
 mode which will allow the player to slow down time to a crawl and also provides highly sensitive 
 control over the car no matter what speed it is traveling. Good use of this mode will allow the 
 player to make impossible turns at the highest possible speed though beware because it also has 
 the potential to cut your speed in half if the turn is too sharp.
  
  The game also includes a car buying and tuning system that will be very familiar to players of 
 the Underground series. This time the developers have provided a reason to change the visual look 
 of your car on a regular basis in order to keep the heat level of the car down. The more the 
 car is changed after an intense pursuit, the more the police wont recognize it. 
  
  All of this game play works very well for the first eight or so blacklist racers. After awhile 
 though, it becomes tiresome to play out the same race types and longer pursuits. With effectively 
 only three truly distinct races to play and a limited number of track designs the game falls into 
 a steady step very quickly. The challenge level doesnt really get any higher; the races just seem 
 to get longer. This is a common problem for many racing games, though it is normally offset by 
 an increased difficulty level that doesnt ever arise in this game.
  
  Part of the challenge difficulty with this game is the lack of a really compelling AI system. Instead 
 of coding challenging AI the developers have decided to use a rubber banding system instead. This 
 is the most easily seen in the actual blacklist challenges in the game. It is fairly easy to beat 
 the blacklist racers best time on a track by over a minute but still have them finish directly 
 behind you. It is also common to see the AI get stuck on the sharp invisible corners that plague 
 certain sections of the map and fall fifteen seconds behind you. Thanks to rubber banding AI however 
 that same car will close that distance with great rapidity until they arrive at the 2 seconds 
 behind mark that is. 
  
  The game is also lacking more distinct tracks to run around on. There are a lot of races in this 
 game, and by the time the number 1 spot is finally up for grabs you will be quite familiar with 
 the tracks. This is strange because there are many places that the game world has that the actual 
 race tracks never go. Its like the developers have this huge area to set up race tracks in and 
 yet decide to only use portions of it. 
  
  I suppose it is worth mentioning the now famous cut scenes in Most Wanted. The story is ridiculous 
 as usual, but it is told through completely over the top video sequences. More of these would have 
 been useful as it could have added a little more to the actual campaign aside from the constant 
 repetition of the racing formula. As for the quality of the scenes it depends on what your feelings 
 are toward cheesy melodrama. The acting is terrible and the script is atrocious. The high point 
 of the cut scenes for me was an obvious allusion to the great Jean Reno movie The Professional 
 during one of the final scenes in the game. 
  
  Need for Speed: Most Wanted in the end is a pretty good and exciting racing game. It doesnt capitalize 
 on the great strengths that it does have and the format of the game really lends itself to showcasing 
 the weaknesses instead at least after awhile. If youre a patient person and willing to put in 
 for the long haul on this game you will enjoy yourself, just maybe not as much as you might have 
 hoped.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: desaimastaflash
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game and I am surprised it did not do better in terms of reviews. The graphics of 
 this game aren't as amazing and picture perfect as PGR3, but that wasn't the point of this game. 
 PGR3 was supposed to be pretty, this game is supposed to be intense and fun, and it is. The graphics 
 are still pretty good, just not as realistic as other racing games like PGR3. The gameplay and 
 driving is fantastic. The cars in this game are really great, and the music is perfect, but not 
 well known, driving music. The point of the game is to make your way up the blacklist, which is 
 a list of top 15 street racers, and then beat the number one racer who cheated you out of your 
 amazing BMW M3 GTR at the beginning of the game. Before you can challenge a blacklist member, you 
 must complete other races and bounty milestones to prove you are worthy of racing that blacklist 
 member. Bounty is basically how much you are worth in the Cops eyes, and the more you piss them 
 off, the more bounty you have. The racing is really intense in the game and a lot of fun. It did 
 get a bit repetative after a while but that wasn't too big of a concern. The cops are also really 
 good in this game. They start of stupid but become a plague of locusts flying around you suffocating 
 you until you can't move an inch, and then you are BUSTED. The cars are also really good, and you 
 can customize a lot of different featues on each car. The only other negative in this game, besides 
 the repativive races, is that the blacklist members were not really a challenge. In fact, they 
 were often easier than the filler races that you need to go from member to member. Even the final 
 guy was not hard. I never lost a single race to a blacklist member, and I am not exactly a racing 
 prodigy. Other than that, it is a great game and I recommend it to anyone. In my opinion, of the 
 360 games available, I say that This game is in the top three with Call of Duty 2 and GRAW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralT
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 10, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted is one of the best racers ever created. This was the fourth game I bought 
 for the 360 and I love it. It has a great story-line, which is good because most racing games have 
 no story-lines. the game has a wide variety of cars to buy and a great deal to customize. The game 
 however does not have as many choices to customize as Need for Speed Underground 2 did. You basically 
 can only customize the engine parts, paint, and all the other things like spoilers, rims, body kits 
 and so on. The game is very fun and takes a while to beat. You have to go through the whole blacklist 
 to win and get your BMW back. Along the way you get lots of money and maybe even the previous blacklist 
 member's pink slip. It's hard but you can do it if you are able to keep you're head on when your 
 on your last lap and your opponents are on your tail and the one behind you crashes you into the 
 wall on the last turn and you have to start the race all over again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hendrix_986
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  To sum up the game for NFS fans, mix NFS Underground 2 with NFS Hot Pursuit, add beautiful graphics 
 and place it in the day time.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Plays the same as the older ones except that its easier to find races and get to your 
 garage. The part of this game that really shines is the police pursuits. The cops chase you if 
 your spotted speeding or racing. After they've chased you several times, they'll recognize your 
 car and chase you down even if your stopped. That plays along also with car customization. If you 
 ever felt like looks are a waste of money, you'll need it to change the discription of your car 
 and bring the heat down.
  
  GRAPHICS: Looks great on the 360, the roads reflections and cracks really add a sense of realism 
 to NFSMW. The cars and police vehicals look very nice and smooth. Distant mountains, trees and 
 building look very realistic.
  
  SOUND: I have a surround sound system setup and it sounds AWESOME! I like how the low revs of the 
 cars hit the sub and shakes my house. Tryed it on regular tvs, its good, but you need surround 
 nowadays.
  
  VALUE: I've played it even after I've beaten it so its a good buy.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAMFactor
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 3:01 am PT
Review:  There are a lot of different qualities that can go into a great game, and different types of games 
 have different qualities that make them great. But the ultimate gaming experience is a game that 
 doesn't just "feel real" because of pretty 3d graphics on an hd screen. It's a game that moves 
 you, physically and emotionally, in a compelling way. To acheive that, a game could be an RPG with 
 an incredible storyline that moves you to tears. Or it could be a survival horror game that scares 
 you to the point of jumping out of your seat or giving you dreams about it at night when you just 
 finished playing. Or, it could be like Need For Speed Most Wanted. I had to complete several very, 
 very enjoyable levels before I finally "got it." The more you play, the more intense this game 
 becomes, and sucks you into every juicy minute of that intensity. It's a perverse thrill and a 
 guilty pleasure, I admit it, creating utter and absolute carnage all over the city, running police 
 cars off the road, and costing the state hundreds of thousands of dollars. But it's so engaging 
 that the cat and mouse game between gamer and AI cop becomes so intense your heart starts pumping 
 and racing and the adrenaline rush begins, and I don't just mean some lame "excited" feeling, I 
 mean a rush on par with what you can get riding on an extreme coaster at an amusement park. That 
 is the feeling, and physical responses (heart rate etc) I got playing this game, and it was incredible. 
 I never felt so fantastic playing a game before. Needless to say, this is the best racing game 
 ever (yes, better than PGR3, another great game, which I also have) and best in series. And one 
 of the top 3 games out so far for the 360 along with Condemned and Ghost Recon.
  
  There are so many other great things about this game it's hard to even know where to begin. One 
 great thing are the cars and car customization. You can really let your imagination and creativity 
 run wild here, with tons and tons of depth in this area, as far as performance upgrades and car 
 appearance. And if you're short on cash but want to upgrade your car, you can re-race races you've 
 already beaten and still get the cash reward again, unlike some other racing games where you can 
 only win a prize the first time you win. You can also win pink slips, to win the unique cars of 
 the drivers you face. Another great thing about this game is the variety of race types. Some other 
 racing games have a tendancy to feel repetitive, but with so many kinds of races this game never 
 gets old. There's knockout races, drag races, point a to point b, circuit, with cops chasing you, 
 without cops chasing you, etc. Also great is the sound. The music is a super cool mix of edgy hip 
 hop and electronica that is high quality music in it's own right, rather than just older, b-rate, 
 cheaper tracks thrown together as game "background" music. Excellent music and the only game ever 
 in my opinion for which the soundtrack cd would be worth buying for just listening. Finally, this 
 game is eye-candy. Every screen is attention grabbing and interesting to look at. And instead of 
 just facing a bunch of blacklist drivers, these drivers have real bios and backgrounds that are 
 presented in a way that makes them very enjoyable to watch.
  
  This game is an absolute must own for any gamer. More intense and thrilling than any game I've 
 ever played before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: incendiumx
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 8, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  If you're a fan of any of the import racing games, this one is the creme de la creme! The graphics 
 are great, and the gameplay is there to back it up. 
  
  Story - Shallow. Its your basic Fast & Furious story line. Gotta get respect in order to race the 
 "blacklist" a group of 15 racers. In the #1 spot, Razor the jerk who steals your car in the first 
 race. He drops some nasty voice-mails along your way to intimidate you. The characters are shallow 
 as expected. You also have 2 really nasty cops on your tail - and one of them drives a corvette 
 c6.
  
  Graphics - WOW. this game looks SICK. I have played the X180 AND the X360 version and the 360 version 
 has some very nice upgrades to it. There are no graphical glitches that i noticed, and the game 
 maintains a very smooth framerate at all times.
  
  Gameplay - This game offers very little challenge... UNTIL you get to about #5 on the blacklist.... 
 then it gets insane. The cops are psycho, and it almost seems like the civilian drivers are on 
 the payroll of the cops as kamikaze drivers...
  
  overall... worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shrtyscott3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Most Wanted pulls underground and old pursuit into one amazing game.
  
  You might think this game is would be Need For Speed Undergound 3, but this game would surpass 
 what even that game could do. After taking out drifting and the extreme or whatever the stupid 
 races were called its leaves you just with sprints, circuit, and drags but they bring back knockout 
 from Underground 1 and they bring in TollBooth (time trial single car race kind of) and Speedtrap 
 (get the most speed which doesnt mean finish first) and they add most definiatly most fustrating 
 (but fun) thing to beat..... pursuit (yep they did they brought it back FINALLY) .
  
  This game serves out some very nice graphics they might have been able to better for being Xbox 
 360 (but im not complaining really) . It also adds a story which is very good (i mean a real story 
 not you lose your car and then you come back, oh yea there is more to it) but hey for a racing 
 game to have a story i like it. it also has more cars then NSFU and they took out hummers. Only 
 bad thing is online becuase you can only do circuits, sprints, and drags. You can't do pursuit 
 with friends and be the police and they totally took out Speed Trap for no apparent reason (TollBooth 
 would really only be good for tournies because its a solo race so that makes sense not to put it 
 in) . 
  
  You are a street racer (your name here) went all the way up the blacklist from #15 to #1 and went 
 against Razor, but wait he messes with your car and no the cops get you....... Now you have to 
 start all over and get back to the top of the blacklist and now since Razor took your car you need 
 to get another car too. With help from Mia and Rog you get a car but you don't want to lose it 
 to Cross (the nasty cop who hates you) . 
  
  Now After doing x amount of races and milestones and getting enough bounty you get to race a blacklist 
 racer. Which you do pretty much over and over again (but it doesnt seem super repetitive because 
 pursuit isnt racing and pimping out your car rocks, too bad they took out having more than 1 Vinyl?!?!?!? 
 i dont know why) then you keep moving up the blacklist. also to keep from being repetitive when 
 you beat a blacklist racer you can choose from 6 markers but you can only get 2 (3 are upgrades: 
 performance, part etc or you can go with pinkslips of the racers car, money, get out of jail free 
 etc.) and you can get an awesome blacklist car that has perfomrance parts you cant even get yet.
 
  
  The game isn't too hard at the core either i beat it in about 4 days (i didn't play it much each 
 day) but it doesnt get harder after awhile, becuase trying to get the bounty and milestones can 
 be hard unless you get one car with a lot of heat (makes your bounty go up faster and for some 
 reason 5 heat is easier then 4) so it gets to be kind of easy.
  
  Now this game is acually visually pleasing when you go off a big jump streaks of white air come 
 from you car which is pretty, PLUS there is damage on your car..... well really the glass breaks 
 and you can get the paint to be worn off but hell thats better then before when you could break 
 glass and a huge reck then it be fixed 10 seconds later. This game also has some very good looking 
 cinematechs which they did very well to convert game and reality into eachother.
  
  All in all i rented it and beat it but i still might buy it because its just that fun. Now if you 
 didn't like NSFU 1-2 this game will change it up a bit so give it a chance and rent it. Overall 
 amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadynate82
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  What so Great:
  The graphics are a step better for the 360 and there are more debris for people to wreck into and 
 leave for the other racers. Driving is fun again with high speed chases. Car upgrades can let you 
 customize your ride and make you feel unique. The racing world is massive with anywhere you want 
 to turn once you unlock it. They A. I. can race smart later on in the game, avoiding anything that 
 comes their way.
  
  What so Wrong:
  If you have the game on the X box already I would not suggest you spend 60 more dollars for it 
 just to see what the 360 has done with it. They just simply ported it to the 360 and the machine 
 did the rest. Not much vehicle damage with all the recking that is going on. On-line is very minor 
 as there is not enough customization as the other games (Need For Speed Underground, Forza, Gran 
 Turismo) to be unique in the on-line world. Where is the police pursuits outside of the story mode? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyderfan1212
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  When i 1st got my 360 i didn't think i would ever buy NFSMW. The 1st underground was a bit disapointing 
 and the 2nd underground just flat out sucked. I thought the series was done for, and gave up. One 
 of my friends however insisted that i get it. After a bit of persuasion i went out and bought it. 
 I'm happy i did, the creators finally put back in what made the series so popular in the 1st place, 
 the cops. 
  
  The cut scences are filled with fake gangsterism, i'm not sure if there suppsed to be serious or 
 not, but i get a big kick out of them. If you look at them like a comical relief you will like 
 this game more. The game revolves around the blacklist, a list of the most wanted street racers 
 in all of Newport, 15 in all. When you start the game you face the #15 on the list, Razor. Midway 
 through the race it stops for a little bit of flashback memories. When you start back up again 
 you lose the race thanks to Razor who messed with your car before the race. he takes your high 
 powered car and leaves you for the cops. Once Mia, one of your friends, bails you out of jail you 
 see your situation. Razor used your car to beat all the blacklist racers and he now sits at the 
 #1 spot. Basically you than have to go buy a stock car and move up the list. Before you can actually 
 race a blacklist racer you have to complete a set number of races, milestones, and you have top 
 raise your bounty.
  
  You raise your bounty by running from the cops, causing as much damage as possible. Than you have 
 to race the Blacklist racer, you have to face him in 2 races before moving on, 3 races for blacklist 
 number 3 and 2, and 5 for Razor. The game is all freeroam, however, newport is not really exciting, 
 there is no pedstrians and no easter eggs really so you won't spend your time exploring. The game 
 will run you anywhere from 12-20 hours depending on your skill level. You will spend alot of time 
 in pursuits.
  Persuits are instense, fast paced chases that force you to think and act quickly. At the bottom 
 of the screen there is a meter, when it goes all the way to the left, you caught, when it goes 
 all the way to the right you evade, However when you evade your job is not over yet, you go into 
 a session called a cooldown. The police don't know where you are but will search for you. The easiest 
 way to evade the cops totally is to head to some designated spots which will hide your car and 
 the cooldown will go quicker.
  There are 5 heat levels of persuits.
  
  1st heat level- Cop crusiers will follow you and see if you will pull over
  2nd Heat level- More 
 cop Cruisers will follow, Occasional road blocks may occur
  3rd Heat Level- Cruisers Start to become aggresive, More Roadblock, Light Suvs called Rhinos will 
 attempt to smash into your car.
  4th Heat Level- Faster, more aggressive undercover sedans will chase you, Heavier Rhinos, and the 
 police will start to use SpikeStrips and Helicopters.
  5th Heat Level- Very fast police corvettes will begin to follow you, more roadblocks, more Aggressive 
 Helicopters.
  
  Your heat level is placed on a car, so when the heat gets hot on one car, drive another for a while 
 or change its apperance.
  
  One way to evade the cops besides just out running them is using the enviroment. While on a persuit 
 there are several locations marked on your map, if you run into these items they will fall or blow 
 up; immoblizing the police vehicles, or some may even stop to help others. If you get caught you 
 either have to pay the fine, or use a get out of jail free card. If you don't have enough money 
 your car is immediately impounded which sucks, escpecially if you only have one., thats has never 
 happen to me though.
  
  The game is very fun at first maybe all the way to blaclist #4 when the difficulty really starts 
 to amp up, and you will get frusterated easily. Even the most calm gamers will yell curse words 
 on several occasions, it feel really good when you complete the game though and you get those full 
 1000 gamerscore points.
  
  When you beat the game you not done. XBL offers a pretty engaging online play, with its own blacklist, 
 but the game is really all about SP.
  
  Its worth picking up if you like racing games, or customizing cars, it has some really sweet ones 
 in here too. One really fun thing to do is go in a chat with one of your friends and both play 
 SP together and just chat while your playing. This game does really rock.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_Kaliaver
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Most Wanted pulls underground and old pursuit into one amazing game.
  
  You might think this game is would be Need For Speed Undergound 3, but this game would surpass 
 what even that game could do. After taking out drifting and the extreme or whatever the stupid 
 races were called its leaves you just with sprints, circuit, and drags but they bring back knockout 
 from Underground 1 and they bring in TollBooth (time trial single car race kind of) and Speedtrap 
 (get the most speed which doesnt mean finish first) and they add most definiatly most fustrating 
 (but fun) thing to beat..... pursuit (yep they did they brought it back FINALLY) .
  
  This game serves out some very nice graphics they might have been able to better for being Xbox 
 360 (but im not complaining really) . It also adds a story which is very good (i mean a real story 
 not you lose your car and then you come back, oh yea there is more to it) but hey for a racing 
 game to have a story i like it. it also has more cars then NSFU and they took out hummers. Only 
 bad thing is online becuase you can only do circuits, sprints, and drags. You can't do pursuit 
 with friends and be the police and they totally took out Speed Trap for no apparent reason (TollBooth 
 would really only be good for tournies because its a solo race so that makes sense not to put it 
 in) . 
  
  You are a street racer (your name here) went all the way up the blacklist from #15 to #1 and went 
 against Razor, but wait he messes with your car and no the cops get you....... Now you have to 
 start all over and get back to the top of the blacklist and now since Razor took your car you need 
 to get another car too. With help from Mia and Rog you get a car but you don't want to lose it 
 to Cross (the nasty cop who hates you) . 
  
  Now After doing x amount of races and milestones and getting enough bounty you get to race a blacklist 
 racer. Which you do pretty much over and over again (but it doesnt seem super repetitive because 
 pursuit isnt racing and pimping out your car rocks, too bad they took out having more than 1 Vinyl?!?!?!? 
 i dont know why) then you keep moving up the blacklist. also to keep from being repetitive when 
 you beat a blacklist racer you can choose from 6 markers but you can only get 2 (3 are upgrades: 
 performance, part etc or you can go with pinkslips of the racers car, money, get out of jail free 
 etc.) and you can get an awesome blacklist car that has perfomrance parts you cant even get yet.
 
  
  The game isn't too hard at the core either i beat it in about 4 days (i didn't play it much each 
 day) but it doesnt get harder after awhile, becuase trying to get the bounty and milestones can 
 be hard unless you get one car with a lot of heat (makes your bounty go up faster and for some 
 reason 5 heat is easier then 4) so it gets to be kind of easy.
  
  Now this game is acually visually pleasing when you go off a big jump streaks of white air come 
 from you car which is pretty, PLUS there is damage on your car..... well really the glass breaks 
 and you can get the paint to be worn off but hell thats better then before when you could break 
 glass and a huge reck then it be fixed 10 seconds later. This game also has some very good looking 
 cinematechs which they did very well to convert game and reality into eachother.
  
  All in all i rented it and beat it but i still might buy it because its just that fun. Now if you 
 didn't like NSFU 1-2 this game will change it up a bit so give it a chance and rent it. Overall 
 amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-Mac1H
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted is a fun game for all ages. It has a long single player where you must 
 defeat all the racers on the blacklist in order to win your car back, that was cheated from you. 
 There are many cars to choose from and countless performance and visual upgrades. 
  You also have to gain bounty by running from the police and running up a high cost to the state. 
 While this is fun at the beginning of the game, it can cause some major frustration as the game 
 continues. You can find yourself running fron the police for many minutes and then you get busted 
 by a spiked barricade. While this can get a little annoying it is a lot of fun in the long run.
 
  The online game is not very good. It is very laggy and it will appear that the cars infront of 
 you are teleporting around. Racing online can also get very repetitive.
  While the multiplayer on XBox Live holds the game down a little bit, it is still the best game 
 in its class and a must have for anyone with Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 930ff
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed: Most Wanted is one of the best driving experiences for the Xbox 360. Although you 
 have great driving games like Project Gotham Racing 3, NFS gives players the chance to go up against 
 cops. With many different ways to customize your ride, NFS gives you the chance to go online and 
 show off your work. During the single player you will have to go up against the cops, and the thing 
 about the cops is they have some of the best AI in racing game history. The bad part about this 
 game is the fact that once you beat it, there really is no point into playing this game again. 
 Also, the online play really isn't all the exciting and you'll probably find yourself spending 
 less time online then in the single player. Overall, the game is a fun experience with a great 
 single player. Although the Multiplayer isn't all the exciting, NFS is the best racing experience 
 for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 1, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Im gonna start w/ the bad stuff. First of all in the cut scenes the other people are ridiculously 
 anoyying.... really bad ?acting?. Another problem is occasional graphical glitches but nothing serious. 
 And last the AI is really inconsistant. Some times the will be really smart or be absolutely horrible. 
 Put this stuff aside though. Because this game is packed with great visuals (nice motion blur, 
 other than the few graphical gafs) , intense chases, and its just palin fun. Trying to outrun the 
 cops gives you a very gratifying feeling. Overall this game has a few small issues but overall 
 I really enjoyed this, especially as a launch game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 28, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  graphics: ok if you played it on xbox or gc do not expect major improvment in this version as gc 
 and xboxs version are close to it in quality sense it is just a port of these games 7.9 
  
  gameplay is still excellent the xbox360 makes it a little better then the xbox ver since loading 
 times are smaller but its not smaller then gc bc gcsimply has somthing that no other cd based system 
 has inthem 9.0 
  
  the sound ill start with voicing the voice acting both in game police and cutscenes are good the 
 cars sound good but the music is somthing we could go with out it has no value of music 7.8
  
  the value isnt changed there are 15 challengers with a bunch of races in them and after that 
 theres nothing else to dp then run from policei n free roam 7.0
  
  tilt if you own it on any of the 3 major platforms already do not think anything is better here 
 meaning dont waste 59.99 on it if your one of those who dont own it yet then buy at your own risk 
 i cant gurrantee that youll get what you pay for here 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  As published on cgno. com...
  
  Fast and the Furious did a lot for American culture. It ensured that fresh-faced suburban teens 
 everywhere would be able to feel the horse power thunder out from their four-cylinder engines as 
 the sheer force of it all rattled their plastic body kits with NOS bumper stickers attached thereon. 
 More importantly for video games it created an entire sub-genre of fully-customizable arcade racing 
 where you could not only tear up the pavement but look great doing so. Need for Speed: Most Wanted 
 is the latest incarnation of that genre and is arguably the best arcade racing experience to date.
 
  
  You play as a nameless newcomer to Rockport City sporting a tricked out BMW M3 and a craving for 
 the fast lane. You come across the Blacklist, the top 15 racers in the city, and Razor, a man who 
 talks a lot of smack and holds the number 15 spot on the list. Its not all fun and games youre 
 informed that the Blacklist races for pink slips. You challenge Razor but quickly realize youve 
 been sabotaged. As your ride spills oil all over the track you know your sweet ride is now Razors 
 and as the cops break up your rally and haul you offcar-less and powerless to get awayyour ultimate 
 goal is clear: start anew and smash through the Blacklist to get to Razor who has skyrocketed to 
 #1 using your car.
  
  Perhaps the best part of it all is that Most Wanted doesnt take itself seriously, at least we 
 hope not. All scenes seem intentionally overacted, gloriously cheesy, and to use the vernacular 
 of our times, awesomely bad. Theres just something about the way a man named Clarence tries 
 to threaten people with their life that is amusing. Despite their parody they are in the game for 
 a reason; it keeps the action moving, keeps the player in pursuit of a goal. Where Project Gotham 
 Racing 3 presented a series of races and challenges with no real purpose, Most Wanted lays out 
 a cohesive storyline and the game is all the better for it. The Blacklist concept gives players 
 something to strive for and youll have to reach certain requirements to challenge each number 
 on the list.
  
  The first of those requirements are is to win a certain number of races, which come in many flavors. 
 Standard races like circuits, sprints, and drags have a simple goal: win the race. Others mix up 
 the racing batter a little by setting various targets and circumstances for the win. Lap Knockout 
 is similar to circuit racing in that it has laps, but when each lap concludes the person in last 
 place is eliminated from the race. Speed Trap places cameras at certain points in the route with 
 the intention of recording racers speeds at each. The speeds are then added up and the racer with 
 the highest sum at the end of the race is the victor. The variety gives players a certain amount 
 of leniency in what they choose since no one blacklist racer requires that all races be met, instead 
 requiring around 70-80 percent.
  
  The races take place in the midst of Rockport city which consists of three main boroughs and youll 
 race across each one. The tight turns of city streets will give way to large all-encompassing highways 
 and long stretches of country roads. Sprinkled throughout are shortcuts through shopping malls, 
 universities, construction zones, and suburban alleyways. The races themselves are a jumble of 
 turns and stretches and seem to include both in just about every race. When youre not racing however 
 you have the freedom of roaming around Rockport City seeking out garages, safe-houses, car dealerships, 
 and can even drive to the races themselves. For the lazy gamer there is an in-game menu which can 
 jump you to any scheduled race.
  
  Once you start racing youll quickly notice one of Most Wanteds most prevalent problemsrubber 
 band AI. The artificial intelligence doesnt exactly race to win, instead is races in response 
 to how well you are doing. If a few sharp corners and collisions have slowed you down youll see 
 the AI randomly hit their brakes, giving you ample time to catch up and get back in the fight for 
 first. Race well and youll find an AI incapable of making mistakes and one that will never be 
 more than a few car lengths behind. This type of system has the unique capability of making winning 
 seem cheap, since the AI blatantly dumbs itself down, and losing frustrating as any mistake late 
 in a race will ensure a swift demotion in place and an ultimate loss. That doesnt mean the AI 
 cant be manipulated though. Spend enough time with the game and youll quickly realize that with 
 enough traffic in the road the AI can be slowed down for a temporary reprieve but dont waste it 
 as theyll soon come barreling back no matter how fast youre going.
  
  When you win races youll not only fulfill a requirement but also be awarded cash that can be spent 
 in Most Wanteds extensive garage. There you can upgrade a cars parts, performance, and visuals. 
 Parts are external pieces that give cars that extra after-market flare by adding body kits, spoilers, 
 roof scoops, hoods, and a myriad of different rims. To increase performance is to increase the 
 overall badass ability in terms of speed, acceleration and handling. New engines, turbos, superchargers, 
 suspensions, brakes, tires, and transmissions will become available as you progress through the 
 game. The visual options allow everything from new paint to impressive vinyl and window tints to 
 be applied that give any vehicle a special personal touch. 
  
  The cars you pimp out will be either bought at a dealership or won in a blacklist race. With a 
 little over 30 cars in the game Most Wanted has a little something for everyone including exotic 
 MacLaren F1s, American-muscle Chargers and Corvettes, and a variety of Porsches, Mitsubishis, and 
 Ferraris. With enough upgrades most of the cars will end up maxing out in one or more categories. 
 This leaves the choice of car as simple as brand preference.
  
  These cars wont just win races but also will evade the law. The dark side of the blacklist requirements 
 involves accomplishing illegal milestones and racking up bounty. Milestones are as harmless as 
 speeding past a ticket camera and as dangerous as plowing through a dozen police road blocks during 
 a chase. Each blacklist racer has a specific set of milestones to pass and the successful completion 
 of each one will score the player bounty, which is a number representative of how wanted the player 
 is by the police.
  
  The chases are by far the most exciting and adrenaline-pumping parts of the game. As you evade 
 the cops longer your heat levela numeric scale from 1-6rises. Each level presents unique challenges 
 and will upgrade the police with quicker vehicles, SUV support, the ability to call in helicopters, 
 roadblocks and spike strips. These chases boil down to hide and seek on a city-scale where slick 
 driving and knowing how to dodge the various obstacles thrown in your way will lead to victory. 
 EA Canada has included pursuit breakers which represent everything from giant water towers to dry-docked 
 sailboats. These items can be run over and collapse, causing the destruction of any pursuing police 
 cruisers. It would be nice if everything went according to plan but many times these chases just 
 become a major headache for inexperienced drivers. Not only can police keep a continuous pace with 
 you but randomly generating roadblocks and SUVs that ram your car head-on seem like cheap tricks 
 that end up getting you busted and any accomplishments performed erased.
  
  When youve crushed your last police car and done your last circuit race theres not much more 
 to do. A challenge mode sets up a series of situations for you to beat and provides some extra 
 content for those determined to squeeze every ounce of sweetness from the games single-player. 
 Theres a good reason for that since the multiplayer comes off as rather average. Youll get some 
 standard racing options but it all comes packaged in a horrible online interface. Add on that the 
 police chases that make up a large portion of the single-player make no appearance in multiplayer 
 and youve got an online racer that fails to strive for anything above par. The games that you 
 do find are scarce and consist of fast tracks as a lot of players seem to be ignoring the longer 
 races.
  
  Even the graphics suffer a little as frame rate drops occur every so often. The most glaring bug 
 is one that places invisible objects along smooth-textured walls and will cause you to come to 
 a dead stop as if you hit a wall. Aside from those complaints the title sports an impressive texture 
 and brightness jump from its past-generation counterparts. High-definition has never looked so 
 good and Most Wanted is one of the best games weve ever seen. With an absence of jagged edges 
 this title may be reason enough for players to purchase an HDTV. The speed blur from surrounding 
 traffic and buildings adds a sense of quickness along with a slipstream effect that appears behind 
 your vehicle. 
  
  The audio stands out as well, as is typical for EA productions, and EA Trax will deliver contemporary 
 alternative rock, techno, and the occasional hip-hop tune. The custom soundtrack option is also 
 included for players with their own specific tastes. Sound effects are superbly done as each vehicle 
 sounds unique and similar to its real-life counterpart. Squealing tires, crashing glass, smashed 
 guard-rails will all come to life through any decent sound system. The radio-chatter of the cops 
 delivers a convincing enough performance that makes you believe youre actually involved in a police 
 chase.
  
  When its all said and done Need for Speed: Most Wanted delivers one of the best racing experiences 
 on the Xbox 360. Its not as polished as PGR3 in some respects but the story mode keeps players 
 interested long enough for them to enjoy this solid arcade racer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360warrior
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 26, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This game was my most favorite 360 game to play, fun, quick, and awesome pursuits. Sad thing is 
 that my hard drive got deleted half way through so i didnt get to experience the whole thing. In 
 my opinion the story line for these games suck and are always the same, some **** hole at the top 
 always wants to challenge you or something, but this takes little away from the game. The police 
 element in the game is superb and fun as hell. The street racer element isnt as storn as to the 
 fact that pimping your car is really of your own choice and doesnt count towards anything. The 
 achievements in this game are distributed as you take people out on the black list, there are 15 
 people, the higher you get the more the points are worth. All in all, solid good game. A 9/10.
 
  Gamertag   PHINS FAN 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thornorway
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 26, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  Its another year and yes another Need For Speed. Its almost like their yearly updates of fotball, 
 hockey etc now and this time around they have gone alil back to the roots well known from the early 
 NFS franchise.
  
  After a couple of years with titles like Need For Speed Underground 1 and 2 they have done a lil 
 twist by mixing some of the cool features from the undergroud franchise with the more old pursuit 
 modes from the early one. A splendid mix if you ask me.
  
  As you expect from the next gen console the graphic is smooth.. not excellent though but you can 
 clearly see that the game runs on a next gen console.
  
  The game is divided into two major section.. whereas one is the story mode and the other is a challenge 
 mode, the main difference from the two is that the story mode help you acheive achievements points 
 on xbox live gamertag and its the main story behind the game and it all runs very smoothly.
  
  The game certainly live up to its name Need For Speed.. most of your rides fly through the 
 cities and other areas very smoothly indeed. I find the milestone events extremly good as the police 
 chase get really instense as you work your way up thorugh the blacklist.
  
  The game is also possible to play on Xbox live but i have not tried this feature yet but if i know 
 EA this work smoothly aswell.
  
  If you like high speed challenges, missed abit of the old concept then this game is a must. The 
 game is almost pefect..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinjennison
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  The game itself was incredible! Tight graphics, totally suitable gameplay mechanics for this type 
 of game, some really kool effects with the slo-mo and crash replays, etc. The single player was 
 a lot of fun and the cheesy cutscenes were actually very entertaining and served well to spur you 
 on and keep things interesting. Running from the cops never got old and there was a LOT of area 
 to explore here. I won't go into any more detail on the single player mode as it was exactly what 
 you'd want and expect from this type of game.
  
  The online was a huge letdown. No modes involving cop chases that you can do with yoru friends. 
 Isn't that what "Most Wanted" is supposed to be about? They could've added SOMETHING interesting. 
 All they have is 3 race modes: Drag racing, sprint (point to point) and circuit (laps) . After doing 
 so much in single player, tricking out and customizing my car (they give you a LOT of options for 
 that) it would have been awesome to go online and try to run from player controlled cops or just 
 running from AI cops with some other players seeing who could last longest etc. Alas, there is 
 none of that, I finished the single player, loved the game, but haven't played it again since. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobcat63
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  This game was the first game I bought for my 360. On nov. 22 I played this game the entire day. 
 Yes to some that might be a wasted day but I thought this game was that good. And still I feel 
 that way towards this game. I just could not get enough of how good the graphics were and how realistic 
 the cars were. (My personal favorite the Ford GT!!!) The blacklist races and challenges are not 
 overly difficult but the challenge series will test your skill. I have been stuck on the last challenge 
 for weeks now. I can't keep going on for 30 minutes of level 5 without not paying attention for 
 a second and hitting a spike strip. But this game is amazing. I would recommend this to anyone 
 who owns a 360. Its delivers and was worth every penny I paid for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted (NFS: MW) has delivered and pumped new life into the Need for Speed 
 series. NFSMW offers a lot of different things that will give any Need for Speed fan great experience 
 with this game. NFSMW combines the best from Need for Speed Hot Pursuit, exotic cars and cop chases, 
 with the new craze of customization from the Need for Speed Underground series. The game play is 
 innovative and delivers with a punch. The races are much more fun. All of these types of races 
 that were in Need for Speed Underground, with the exception of drifts and street Xs. There are 
 also a few new races such as tool both and photo ticket. Now to the graphics. In the beginning 
 of the game there are mind blowing cut scene never seen before in a video game. But these fade 
 out after the first couple of races. The in game graphics are very good also. The cars and they 
 way they look are amazing and add more to the game then the other systems could. The sound of the 
 game is the high point of the game. With a pretty good sound track that includes good up coming 
 artist such as Avenges Sevenfold it adds to the game play. Now the in game sounds are the best 
 in any NFS game in a while. All the cars sound different, and depending what performance upgrades 
 you put into your car also affects the sound of your car. The value is moderate. If you really 
 wanted to you could beat this game in 10 hours which is pretty good, but after that there is really 
 nothing to do except finish the races that you did not complete and get 100% of the game complete. 
 The overall fun of this game is another strong point. Even though you will find yourself frustrated 
 at some parts the game offers a lot of thrills and a great and surprising ending. Any fan of EA's 
 Need for Speed series should defiantly pick up this game. Any other racing fan that has been disappointed 
 in the Need for Speed series should look back into it with this game.
  
  Cover Artwork ~B+~ Your prized BMW M3 with a reflection of cop cars in the paint job basically 
 describes the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pribylbr
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 22, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  This game was really fun, but the story line is pretty bad. I mean it's a good idea but the acting 
 is sooooo cheesy. The game itself is cool. The graphics are decent but nothing spectacular. The 
 game is pretty hard once you get to the middle of the game. You can choose from all types of cars 
 including a FORD GT!! The game is pretty much the same as any other racing game online. I would 
 have to say that out of all the Need For Speed games, this is by far the best one. The police chases 
 can get pretty hard if you dont know what you're doing. When you ram through a police roadblock 
 it goes in slow motion so you can see yourself obliterate them. I would have to say that this game 
 is a rent because once you beat it there's not much else to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowcaster_98
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  This game was a major step up from the previousd Need for Speed undergound for the origional Xbox. 
 I rember playing that game and thinking how difficult it was to really have a good feeling of the 
 environment, seeing as how 99% of it was in the dark city. The game made it very difficult to see 
 upcomming turns and obstacles. The graphics in the game were great, but toned down by the lack 
 of good lighting. Need for speed most wanted stepped up the bar by bringing you back out into the 
 light! There are times where you are driving at dusk, but never at night. The graphics in this 
 game are outstanding! When you start hitting the 130-140 mph range, there is a nice wind streaking 
 effect on your car. This, among other amazing effects really make the games graphics shine! There 
 are times where you are doing a race and for a moment, are driving towards the sunset around dusk. 
 The sun is right in your eyes and looks incredible! As annoying as that may be, it makes the realism 
 of the game even more impressive. One thing that could have been tweaked is the sound effects. 
 The car engines and tire screaching sound great, but the sounds when you catch air and land, or 
 hit another car are quite lacking. To be honest, those "crashing" sounds are almost identical. 
 After playing a bit you might notice this. Definetly, the most beneficial upgrade from the last 
 game is the re-introduction of the cops. Instead of just random police chases, EA did a great job 
 of how the cops find you. The easiest way is if you're driving around the police stations. Obviously 
 the cops are around here. Also, if you're driving around in a rather reckless way (which is 99% 
 of the time) , other drivers on the road will call in you as a hazzardous driver to the police. 
 Then, they will send a unit to that area to investigate. If you hang around for a bit, they will 
 most likely spot you and begin a chase. Durring chases, you have ways of knocking out obstacles 
 that destroy cops persuing behind you. The longer the chase and the more damage you accrew, the 
 higher level of chase. At the higher levels, you have harder cop cars, and more ways they try to 
 stop you, ie road blocks, helicopters, spike traps, ramming SUV's, etc. If you get caught, you 
 will have to pay fines due against you, or use a "marker" or get out of jail free card basically. 
 Then you car gets an impound mark against it. Once you get 3 strikes, your car is gone sucka! But, 
 the good news is, that you will have lots of cars. And, if you just dont use a car for a while 
 and change its appearance, it will drop the impound strikes, as well as lower its heat level with 
 the cops. This is really needed, or else you would go through cars like crazy! Also, the location 
 of the game is quite nice. It has a excellent variation of large highways that let you haul, as 
 well as small rural roads, and two lane farm roads in the middle of nowhere. Overall, the game 
 play is still similar from the last game. Other than the fact that you are working your way up 
 a famed "black list" to beat your arch nemesis (who, as you find out in the beginning of the game, 
 is a bald skinny guy!) I highly recommend this game for all kinds of racing fans!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomedtakedown
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Goods: First the story is pretty interesting. You start with a nice car then it gets took from Razor 
 Leader of the blacklist and you try to get it back. Second this game is for any arcade racing fan. Im 
 mean really the pursuits are awesome. You get fast try to crash the police cars. Now thats revolutionary 
 or say next-gen. Also you get unique vinlys for your car now. SWEET is all i have to say. And thats 
 not all you get cars for VIpers to lambos AWESOME.
  
  The only bads is they are bring new moves and moving the controls around and im saying this cause 
 now the shift is in the R-Thumbstick and that stinks.
  
  
  Overall i give it a 10 out of 10 for being one of the best NFS games
  
  EVERRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilmerk
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  NFS most wanted is one the top x360 to get fun as a hell
  
  kinda got let down when in the beginning u lose our BMW but hey is there 
  tight ass cars to 
 make up for it
  
  one my favorite cars in there are Toyota Supra , Ford GT, Porsche Carrera GT , Lotus Elise , and 
 Lamborguini Murcilago just couple names off my head 
  
  getting chase by the cops is really fun the come after you in the race that when really stuff happen 
 flying and dodging cops 
  
  the downside of this game you can use your brugerking challenge once .... lets you put extra part 
 to you car to make super fast on Career mode 
  
  this is one most want games by sides madden in stores now 
  
  this is lilmerk saying peace 
 out see in the game gametag: B MERK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phatfu
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  This game is great! It really surprised me. I own 9 Xbox 360 titles and out of all of them this 
 ended up being my favorite. I play this game non-stop. The graphics are great, the gameplay is 
 fun. The multiplayer is done very well online. I had no promblems with lag! I love building my 
 cars. I have never been into the underground seen. This game made it simple to upgrade your cars. 
 Sometimes just for fun I build the cars and pimp them out! I love the police pursuits, that is 
 what seperates this game from all the others. Its not just racing after racing, you can change 
 it up and feel like your playing GTA III. With way better physics! I definitely recommend this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtifulguitar
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Need for Speed: Most Wanted offers lots of different styles of racing. Here is a break down of 
 the different types:
  
  Sprint - one, long lap where you and 1 to 3 opponents dash it out til the finish.
  Circuit - 
 obviously, laps. Usually 3.
  Lap Knockout - 4 laps, person in last place at the end of each lap gets eliminated.
  Speed Trap 
 - at certain points on the course, there are radars. Hit these radars at top speed. Each spot will 
 be added to an overall speed. Person with the highest accumulated speed wins.
  Drag - you have to manually shift, dodge traffic, and beat the opponents.
  Toll Booth - get from 
 booth to booth in the allowed time.
  
  Each is a nice variety, but when it all boils down to it, they are all racing. The variety is nice 
 and helps with not getting bored. Plus, to get to each race, there is a free roam mode where you 
 can just travel the cities to each point where the races start. There is also a challenge mode 
 that offers 60+ challenges. One problem with it though is that there are only like 4-5 varities 
 of challenges, so it seems to repeat itself a lot.
  
  Graphics:
  Easily better than the PS2/Xbox/GC counterparts. The textures are really smooth, and the sense 
 of speed is great. The only graphical issues the game has are some the clucky physics when running 
 through spots to tear stuff down, and the shadows of the cars are really bad. But other than that, 
 the game is beautiful.
  
  Sound:
  The music is a god-awful selection of songs. I think the only one I could take was the Static-X 
 song. However, with a click of the off button, that was not a problem anymore. The SFX of the cars 
 and voices of the police are great though. 
  
  Replay:
  Tons. This racer has a lot of variety packed into it.
  
  Overall:
  This has been the first 
 great NFS game, to me, since NFS3 for the PSOne. I would recommend it to anyone, especially racing 
 fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincompost
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  NFS-MW was a great game in my opinion because it gave the driver a chance to change the cars performance 
 aerodynamics and sheer power. Unlike PGR-3, NFS was more based on luck than pure skill. In PGR3 
 you had to brake exactly right or you lost the race from the start. In NFS you could crash into 
 3 cars and still come out on top. Also NFS had many new but classic ideas put into the game. For 
 instance: the toll booth time challenge, the classic drag racing, and the sprints, which I favored 
 over the others. Also the change in heats created a new challenge for the driver during a race. 
 It did have some graphical errors and some twitchy factors that slowed the game down, but it was 
 by far the best NFS ever created. I think that Need For Speed Most Wanted is better than PGR 3 
 because of the ability to change the flaws in your ride. PGR just had a better car selection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgfreak
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Great game, giving u the ability drive pimp rides fast with nice control and graphics and last 
 but not least outrun the coppers. What can I say a game with powerful storyline and fun fast-paced 
 Police chases. I would highly recommend this game for anyone who likes cars. The expansive customization 
 abilities and sweet graphics to show them off. This game really puts EA Games way ahead of any 
 developer working on games for the Xbox 360. By the way if your torn by the fact that the core 
 bundle didnt come with a hardrive, no worries, the hardrive is the only must have item that came 
 with the premium, so spend ur money on a core and buy the hardrive seperate. Thats wat me and my 
 bro did and now we game on the best console ever. This game has revolutionized the racing word. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adidasking417
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This game (and MC 3: DUB edition) have really gotten me into liking racing games... I honestly used 
 to HATE them with a passion. NFS: Most Wanted is everything and MORE!!!! Especially when you start 
 getting closer to the top of the Blacklist and getting way more money... the possabilites are endless. 
 Plus it's another 1000pts added to your 360!! The better you get and the more bounty you have.. the 
 better the cops get. (light suvs, heavy suvs, helicopters, and corvettes) . Another game i'd totally 
 refer is COD:2 and Condemned.... but totally NOT MADDEN or NBA LIVE... they suck bad!!! Everything 
 GREAT about the two games on previous consoles is MISSING on the 360. I bought MADDEN the same 
 night I waited 14hrs in line to get my 360... and I was totally let down big time... except for the 
 graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecrous
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Loved the graphics and couldn't get over how fliipin stupid the cops are, hahahaha sometimes they 
 get smart but hafl the time i could sit on an on ramp and they would never find me. My rap sheet 
 says that i have dodged over 250 spike strips yet i have never even seen what they look like. Another 
 thing that i liked was nocking down the donuts and tires and blowind up gas staions and tipping 
 over water storage holder things. The las tthing that i like is theway you need to pay attention 
 to the cars i got totally jipped by buyying a lotus and it screwed me over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: copunit
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 17, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Gameplay: 8
  The gameplay in NFS: MW is pretty good for the most part, but the core gameplay gets pretty old. 
 The new police evasion thing is a neat idea but like the gameplay, gets repetitive. The customization 
 in this game is very good, but they could have added alittle bit of more variety. The BL is a very 
 neat idea executed very well. I think that the car physics are the poorest of any of the NFS because 
 of tight turning, you do not even have to use the brakes for most of the time.
  
  Graphics: 8
  For the most part, the graphics are great. But one thing that bothers me the most 
 is that there is no damage modeling, I mean what happens when your running away from the cops and 
 a roadblock is ahead you? you smash into it but the only thing that dents/breaks is the windows, 
 but it still makes a futile effort by making the bumper paint scratch off, but it still does not 
 take my mind that is does not have full damage models.
  
  Sound: 7
  The sound is pretty good, but falls short in the variety department. The soundtrack is not very 
 good compared to some of EA's other games. The dispatcher and officers taking in reports is a really 
 neat idea, the sound of the scanner sounds really good, but most of the cars deliver the same engine 
 noise. The voice acting in this game is excellent, but even that cannot save the sound department.
 
  
  Overall score: 8.1
  On the outside, it sounds good, but is not executed well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YearoftheSnake5
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted comes to the 360, and holds up quite well.
  
  You play as a new street racer in Rockport city. You work your way up to face the most wanted street 
 racer in the city, Razor, but fail to beat him and lose your car. From this point on, you must 
 buy new cars and work your way back up the Black List by defeating everyone on it.
  
  The graphics are on the good side. It looks better than the GC, PS2, or Xbox versions, but isn't 
 quite there when it comes to top notch graphics. All the car models look great, and seem almost 
 real. Reflections, wind effects, and various others make sense and show off the 360's capabilities. 
 The envirnment is a mixed bag. The lighting, buildings, and reflections all come into play here, 
 but the terrain at times, can look unusually dull, especially the grass. It really isn't a problem 
 though, the game looks up to par regardless.
  
  Gameplay is fast paced, so you'll have to think fast and know your way around. Like in other Need 
 for speed games, you'll start off with a low level car and face others of the same skill level. 
 The races go through various parts of Rockport, and work really well. The races are cleverly thought 
 out, and have you looking for shortcuts and ways to slow down your opponent. There is a bit of 
 a collision detection problem though along the walls. If you grind along a wall, most of the time 
 you'll be stopped completely, and have nothing in front of you that could have done it. This can 
 get in the way of both racing online, and in single player mode. Not only that, but your rival's 
 car will occasionally fly through a wall, or cars get stuck in you. After you win a race, you'll 
 be rewarded with some cash, with which you can choose to save up for a new car, or tune up the 
 one you already have. 
  
  Customizing your car has always been a big part of the Need for Speed series, however, there isn't 
 a whole lot of customization in this game. You cannot choose individual parts to customize the 
 body of your car. Instead, the game has you choosing body kits, rather than choosing what you want 
 from a variety. You can still choose small details, such as the spoiler, rims, paint, and vynals. 
 So if you like to make your cars look kick ass the way you want, you'll be a bit disappointed with 
 the lack of options.
  
  The online multiplayer is nicely done. All the different racing modes are there from the single 
 player mode, and run great. You'll get to see what everyone has done with their cars, and find 
 that hardly any look the same. When you're done with the story, you'll find hours of enjoyment 
 in this.
  
  Sound is authentic and works well with the rest of the game. There isn't much in game music, so 
 you might want to have a custom sound track on hand. Sound effects are done to perfection. It's 
 as if EA went out and actually recorded every engine, collision, and effect from the actual thing.
 
  
  If you're looking for a good racer for the Xbox 360, this is definately one worth picking up. Although 
 there are some minor collsion and customization issues, I still highly recommend this to all 360 
 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiseIce
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  I fell in love with this game whne i started playing it. I really like how the story started and 
 how it's progressing with every racer you bet. It suck that you lost the fast car in the game at 
 the begining but once you start beating racer and taking there pick slips you'll forget that you 
 even had that car. Gameplay is awsome. You get to mod your cars performance, visual, and get to 
 change the way the car looks. I really love the police chases. They make the game ever so fun. 
 Online is also a great feature to the game but it would be kooler if you could race for pinks online 
 or even roam the streets with a buddy. This game gets a 10 out of 10 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBRM
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  NFSMW - Gameplay, PGR3 - Graphics.
  I bought both racing launch titles for the Xbox 360 and could see some pros and cons in both. Overall, 
 Need for Speed: Most Wanted is a game that is much more addicting and entertaining to play to the 
 general public. It lacks the attractiveness I see in PGR3 and the realistic features that Project 
 Gotham adds to its racing. But, NFSMW is a definite buy because of its hooking story line and crazy 
 cop chases. The story mode has you racing to get back your old car, while doing challenges and 
 police missions -- and it is pretty fun ranking up on the Blacklist. An online blacklist would be 
 a great installment, but unfortunately online play is not that impressive. Yet, the customization 
 found in most Need for Speed titles is still solid and same for the racing aspect. This game will 
 keep you hooked but sometimes crooked... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XmythbusterX
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 15, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Im a lv 8 racer, and have experienced 2 rare freezes after blowing throw glass. Controller starts 
 to shake and the only thing to do is turn off console. Overall, graphics are pretty realistic (even 
 with regular tv) . 
  
  The music in the game appears to make you feel like your in the driver's seat. With 5.1 Dolby Digital, 
 everything comes out great. Finally EA actually made a game that I'm not upset with. I. E. Madden 
 06 for 360. 
  
  NFS: MW does not have the lag issue from the regular XBOX version. I have yet had the road disappear 
 in front of me, like the previous versions. If you want a racing game, then this is the one. It 
 my opinion so please DO NOT write me saying, I'm an idiot, or anything else that is not constructive 
 criticism. Enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austingamer
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 15, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  The garphics are awsome, and the sound is great, especially when you have surrond sound. But it 
 get very repititive. It seems like they didn't have enough time to or didn't spend enough time 
 putting together diffrent obstacle. The story line is pretty good, it's not the best but it keeps 
 you intrested. It is a great game to play with other friends. I have not tryed out the online featrues, 
 I dont know if it even has any. I just couldn't get into the game enough to be able to take to 
 that level. I do like the idea though of you being able to put extra parts and acc. on your car 
 to make it look better and run better. I also like that it use's actual cars that we know and not 
 some made up cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedDemon821
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 14, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Most Wanted is a balls to the wall racer, with some of the most impressive graphics 
 in any racing game out there, but unfortunately the whole experience ends somewhat quickly. 
  
  The games career mode throws you into the fast paced life of a street racer, with everything 
 to prove (like we havent heard this one before) . You start out, for the first few races, with 
 a nicely outfitted BMW, that you quickly loose. Not far into the game you challenge Razor Callahan 
 to a race for glory, honor, and pink slips. Hes really nothing more then a joke when the race 
 starts off, and if he didnt cheat, you would smoke him without much trouble. But being the low 
 down slimy grease stain on the road he is, he sabotages your car, and glides to an easy victory. 
 Now you have lost your car, your rep, the girl, and you land your ass in jail. The whole rest of 
 the game, once you get out of jail, is based on you getting revenge on Razor for taking your ride, 
 and ruining your reputation. To do this, you have make your way up the Black List, which is list 
 of the top 15 racers in the city, at the top of which is Razor Callahan. So you have a lot of winning, 
 buying, tweaking, and running ahead of you.
  
  The Black List is pretty straight forward. You start the game at the bottom, not even on the 
 Black List. In order to challenge the racer who takes up the number 15 slot, you must complete 
 enough races and milestones, so as to gain his attention. Once you have done that, then you can 
 race him. After you leave him chocking on your exhaust fumes, the cycle begins again for the 14th 
 spot, and so on and so forth until you can challenge Razor.
  
  The career mode is somewhat lengthy when compared to most other Arcade Racers, and does attempt 
 to give you a compelling story, but it ultimately boils down to a pretty basic revenge plot, with 
 the most cheesy stereotypical Californian dialogue you have ever heard. Instead, the thing that 
 will most likely push you to finish the career mode, will be the promise of brand new shiny cars 
 for you to deck out, and race to your hearts content. 
  
  The game has a total of 32 cars. Ford, Dodge, Mercedes, BMW, Aston Martin, Chevrolet and many others 
 all make appearances in the game, and they most defiantly do their real life counterparts justice. 
 Weather you are admiring them in your garage, or watching them fly down the road at 150 miles an 
 hour, they look astounding. Each car has a distinct engine sound. From the deep roar of a Dodge 
 Viper, to the high pitch whine of a Porsche Carrera GT. They all sound amazing.
  
  The tracks are equally impressive. You almost feel like you are flying down the highway, weaving 
 through traffic, and trading paint with the police. Each track, although sometimes similar to others, 
 does have a distinct feel to it, and will force you to change up your driving style. Plus, certain 
 tracks will force you to change up your car. For example, if you are on a course that is predominately 
 highway driving, then you would want to get into a Mustang which by default is very fast, but somewhat 
 difficult to handle.. But if you are on a course that takes you through the heart of the city, 
 with narrow twisting roads congested with traffic, you might want to switch to a Corvette, which 
 has high acceleration and responsive handling. The downside is the fact that there arent enough 
 tracks in the game. It doesnt take long for you to see them all.
  
  Of course cars and tracks arent the only thing you will unlock as you go. You will also unlock 
 a decent assortment of body kits, paint jobs, spoilers, window tints, rims, vinyls and engine parts. 
 Unfortunately, there isnt nearly the variety that Need For Speed Underground 2 had, and youll 
 end up feeling pretty limited in what you can do.
  
  If you dont feel like racing through the streets at 200 miles per hour, you can opt to go for 
 a leisurely drive through downtown. Yes, the free roam mode has returned for this installment of 
 Need For Speed. Luckily though, unlike in Need For Speed Underground 2, you dont have to drive 
 all the way across the impressively large city, to get from race to race. Instead you can simply 
 hop to your safe house and select which race or milestone event you would like to perform. The 
 best part about the free roam mode though, is it allows you to give the cops hell. (yes people, 
 the pigs have returned to try and ruin your fun)
  
  Finally, after being left out of both Need for Speed Underground and Need For Speed Underground 
 2, the police make their triumphant return to the Need For Speed Franchise. When you first start 
 the game, they are pretty dumb, and drive the most pathetic cars youve ever seen. They really 
 wont offer you much challenge. But as you progress through the game, earning a larger bounty and 
 costing the state more money, you will gain more and more heat. The heat meter, as I like to 
 call it, has 5 levels. Level 1 has the pathetic overweight cops who couldnt drive if their life 
 depended on it. From there, they get increasingly better, until you reach level 5, when they put 
 NASCAR drivers behind the wheel of some thoroughly tweaked Corvette C6s. Yes, when you get to this 
 level, you had better have a nice bit of work done under the hood, a full bottle of nitrous, and 
 some good music playing because you are going to running for a while before you ditch these guys, 
 if you can. Luckily, you wont always have to go against these experienced drivers. Yes as you 
 go you do build up more and more heat on your car, but if you give it a new paint job and some 
 different body kits then the heat does down. Or you can just switch cars and not drive it for a 
 while. Either way you can drop your heat all the way back down to the level one, where you get 
 to go up against the fat cops again.
  
  Throughout this review I have mentioned the different races, and milestones a couple times. Well 
 now Im finally going to explain to you the different race modes, and explain what the hell a milestone 
 is.
  
  The race modes are pretty straight forward. You have Circuits, Lap Knock Outs, Sprints, Drags Speed 
 Traps, and Tollbooth races. Now, if you dont already know what Circuits, Lap Knock Outs, Drags, 
 and Sprints are, then you shouldnt be playing a racing game, so Im just going to explain Speed 
 Traps and Tollbooths. 
  
  Speed Traps are basically a sprint race with a twist. You arent suppose to get to the checkered 
 flag first, but instead the object is to blow through certain areas on the course as fast as you 
 can. At the end of the race your speed at each area is added up, and the person with the fastest 
 total wins. Tollbooth race is really just a fancy name for check point races. The only object 
 is to get to each check point before the time expires.
  
  Milestones are what give the career mode a special twist. No, you cant just win race after race 
 and expect to make your way up the Black List. You also have to earn some rep on the streets, and 
 thats what Milestones are for. Milestones are like mini challenges. Out run the cops in under 
 two minutes, avoid 8 roadblocks before you ditch the cops, cost the state x amount of money before 
 you leave the cops behind wondering where you learned to drive like that. These are example of 
 milestones. They start out pretty easy, but as you advance and get more talented cops on your tail, 
 they get more and more difficult. You will have to get good at trading paint with the law, and 
 leaving them in your dust, if you want to make it all the way through the career mode.
  
  Now, this is where the game loses its appeal. Once you have beaten about 5 or 6 of the guys on 
 the Black List, you will have quiet literally seen all the game has to offer gameplay wise. It 
 start getting extremely repetitive. There just isnt enough variation to it. You can only do so 
 much to your car, and you can only race so many races, before you start to get board, and end up 
 wanting more. The Challenge Series, which is a set of 68 different challenge races, can be interesting, 
 but it also begins to get very dull very fast. 
  
  The multiplayer isnt anything real special. Its what you would expect from a race game. If you 
 play a local game then you and one friend can race against each other,. If you go LAN or online 
 then you and four other people can race. But you can only do the same tracks over and over again 
 for so long, before you are ready to through your controller out the window. 
  
  Ultimately, if you dont mind the repetition, and are really into racing online, then this game 
 is a buy for sure. But if you arent a car enthusiast, and get board of doing the same tracks over 
 and over, then you might just want to just rent this one. 
  
  Whether you rent it or buy it, Need For Speed Most Wanted is a fun, good looking, fast paced racer 
 that you should defiantly check out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatality4u
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted provides the next generation of gaming with possibly one of the most 
 addictive and fun racing games to hit the gaming community in a long time. The combination of the 
 outstanding graphics and the purely addictive game play will provide every gamer with the opportunity 
 to spend a lot of time exploring all of the beautiful city and the different races. Additionally, 
 no racing game would be complete without the ability to customize and supe up your ride in order 
 to dominate and humiliate your opposition.
  
  You play as a street racer new to the scene in a brand new city, but the fact that you are new 
 to the city does not keep you from taking on one the top racers in the city. Unfortunately for 
 you your nemesis, Razor Callahan, sabotaged your car and it cuts out on you during the race, but 
 because you are racing a Blacklist member you put your pink slip up for your car and you now have 
 no car. In the mean time the Sgt. Cross, the local Sheriff in town who has it out for you and 
 for the rest of the street racing community, busts you just after Razor takes your car. Fortunately 
 for you they werent going to hold you for street racing especially since you no longer have a 
 car. You will hook up with Mia Townsend, another local racer, and she will help you work your way 
 up to the top in order to get your car and dignity back.
  
  In order to take on each member of the Blacklist, on your way up to taking on Razor, you will need 
 to fill certain criteria in three categories. The three categories: milestones, total bounty, and 
 race wins will require you to constantly work on your racing skills and ability to dodge the police 
 at all costs. The prerequisite to racing each one of the Blacklist has the benefit of putting cash 
 in your pocket and get acquainted with several areas in which you will race in the future. In addition 
 to providing you with practice, they will also help to give a small amount of variety to a genre 
 that can get tiresome fast. Once you have accomplished what you need to in each of the categories 
 you will be allowed to race on of the Blacklist members, one on one. Wash, rinse, repeat until 
 you get to Razor and that is the name of the game, but luckily the racing never gets old.
  
  To be able to get to the top you will need to have several sweet rides to get there. You will 
 start off with a puny car with meager stats and then as you continue to accumulate money you will 
 be able to upgrade the certain stats of your car and even customize the looks of the car. Spoilers, 
 graphics, and the dashboard of the car are just some of the few items that you can customize. There 
 will also come to the point when you will need to purchase a new car, because the stats that your 
 parts provide you do not give you the same performance boost that a brand new car will give you. 
 If you are lucky you will be able to win the cars of the Blacklist members that are better than 
 any of the cars that you would buy, so the money that you will spend is predominantly used on parts 
 and pure customization. 
  
  The game play is down right addicting to say the least. Each of the races will require your full 
 and utmost attention in order to win and sometimes some guiding of the other racer/racers into 
 obstacles is a nice way in order to assure some gap between you and your opponents. The AI is pretty 
 dumb in the beginning, but dont expect that from your Blacklist members as they are pretty intelligent 
 and they are quite good drivers so be prepared for a couple of hard races. The types of races are 
 all very different and you will soon find that there are some that are used more often than others, 
 but they all provide a different challenge in order to complete. There are the usual circuit tracks 
 and knock-out tracks, which are nice, but they can be pretty long if there is a big route that 
 you are taking. The drag, sprint, and tollbooth types of races provide you with some memorable 
 and very difficult moments in which you will have do some hard and fast driving.
  
  The truly most outstanding and fun part of the game is the milestones that you need to perform 
 in order to race Blacklist members, and in particular the police chases. As your heat level goes 
 up the difficulty of eluding the cops will become harder, with harder. They will attempt to block 
 your progress with things such as spike strips, road blocks, and elite police cops who will box 
 you in. Some milestones will require you to elude the police for a longer period of time, hit more 
 police cars, or evade more road blocks. The harder the milestone challenge is, the more you will 
 strive to achieve it and the more you will feel like you are getting sucked in. 
  
  The graphics in the game are excellent. The regular in game graphics are very detailed and it shows 
 the reason as to why you have gone out and bought an Xbox 360. The best part of the graphics is 
 the very serious cut scenes that you will see every so often, especially with Mia and Razor. 
 The scenes try to be so serious that they are actually pretty funny. Every so often you will run 
 across a minor flaw in the scenery where you will get stuck up on an edge during a race and you 
 will not be able to continue on until you back up and then go forward pretty much ruining your 
 chances of winning the race unless you can bust out some spectacular driving. Graphically the only 
 real disappointment with the car is the fact that you car only seems to get little scratches or 
 a broken windshield despite crashing straight into a wall. Your car will have cosmetic problems 
 with it when you crash into things, but really the hitting of obstacles will not affect the performance 
 of the car. 
  
  The sound in the game is very realistic if you have ever been to a real street race. The sounds 
 of the engines purring and the tires squealing makes you really feel like you are there at the 
 track. The sounds of the police on the scanners are a nice cue to you that you will either be soon 
 have some police on your tail or if there will be some more back up that is coming your way. The 
 voices of the actors are crisp and clear which is nice especially when the point of the game is 
 not really taking the voices and making sure that they are the best that they could be, but they 
 went that much further and got good and different voices for the police and all the essential characters. 
 The music is pretty good and eclectic with everything from rap to rock that will help to intensify 
 each of the chases. You might find yourself singing with the songs as you are evading the police, 
 but you might also find that you will get sick of the music in the game, but that can be easily 
 remedied by the use of the music loaded on to your Xbox 360.
  
  The value of the game is excellent, because it provides you with many hours of game play that you 
 will find yourself going back to more often than any other game. Although the game may be 60 dollars 
 it is still very hard to beat the price of the game especially if you do all of the milestones 
 and races and not just the number required to be able to race the Blacklist members. 
  
  If you are a racing fan than this is a game that you will want to get immediately because you will 
 love this game and play it very often. If you are not a racing fan you will want to get this game 
 immediately because it is enough racing to be considered in the racing genre, but enough different 
 with the police chases and milestones to make you not even notice that it is a heavy racing game. 
 What are you doing still reading this, go buy this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: samrichesson
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game it was very confusing and by the time i knew what i was doing i had 
 already beat the game they should add more to the multi-player and create the career longer. I 
 lioked it though it got very boring and stupid after you've completed the career. The more you 
 play the game the more boring it gets.
  Don't get me wrong i had a great time playin this game but what ruins the game for me is three 
 things- one is the crapy multi-player- two is the short career- and three is the fact of the boringness 
 of the game after it's comepleted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linkfanatic501
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 12, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  i have played every NFS game and this really excited me. I mean, the cars look real az helll!!! 
 The gameplay is great. The graphics are really cool. It has a nice soundtrack, but me and my uncle 
 just used his music. This is a really fast game. It gets harder when u keep progreesing so good 
 luck with that. The cops aren't stupid, so they will keep going after u untilu are caught. The blacklist 
 thing is a coll idea. u have a nice selection of cars .So if u own a 360 and love driving games, 
 then get this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xupex
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 11, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  The Good
  Great looking cars
  Police chases are loads of fun
  Good sound track
  Hilarious cut scenes
  
  The bad!
  Developer could have spent more time on the environment 
 instead of just focusing on the cars
  Less customization options than on previous games
  Becomes very repetitive
  Ai always seems 2 drive to perfectly
  To few cars
  To few cut 
 scenes
  Predictable story
  
  At the beginning I found this game to be a lot of fun but it just becomes same old same old. To 
 beat this guy you have to do races milestones and bounty. Once you have beaten him you have to 
 do more races millstones and get more bounty before you can race him. The online is terrible sometimes 
 takes me 5min to get into a race which isnt particular exciting. While it is a big improvement 
 from the many other need foe speed games it could be better. Near the end I found my self-playing 
 it only because I wanted to last few gamer points not because I was enjoying it but i can see my 
 self coming back every now and again for a good old police chase :P. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derrico_8448
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 10, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Its a street racing game. BUT WITH A TWIST!! But really, its a fun racing game. If you have been 
 wondering what racing game to get for the 360, your search is over. The cars handling is tweaked 
 to perfection with each new part you buy. However, this game unlike need for speed underground, 
 doesn't force to upgrade the outside look of your car at all. (even though you most likely will) 
 You can spend all your money on the inside, where it really counts. Also, unlike underground they 
 brought back police chases! Yes, they brought back the classic hot pursuit chases. They are tense, 
 and will never get boring, since you get more wanted and the police get bigger, faster cars. BUY 
 THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody4890
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 10, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  For those who loved the modding of underground, and also liked the police chases of hot puruit, 
 then this your gunna love. most wanted is the newest addition to the need for speed fanchise, and, 
 as always you start off with a rubbish car (fiat punto) and build your way up the blacklist 15, 
 which is the bosses in the underground circuit. to beat a member, you must complete a certain number 
 of races, get a certain amount of bounty, and complete a certain amount of milestones. then, you 
 challenge them. if you win their races, you pick 2 markers from a selection of six. these could 
 be a pink slip, a jail pass, or cash. your goal is to beat blacklist 1, razor, who has your bmw 
 m3 gtr. if you like street racers, you must buy this, as it is a fantastic game, which is extremley 
 well created. theres loads to do, loads to see, and one hell of alot of cop cars to evade! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zmaleh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  This game was the first racing game I got for my 360. At first while playing this game multiplayer 
 I thought It was nothing from the usual. But after playing the story mode I had a completely different 
 change of mind. It is excellent and the story is the best racing game story and gameplay I have 
 ever seen. The graphics have improved so much it is unbelievable. The fun part is that you can 
 win and buy parts, another fun part is being able to get cash and then customizing and upgrading 
 your cars. Overall if you hsve an xbox 360 this is a must-have game. Although some may argue that 
 PGr3 is better I disagree. I think this game is fun because of customizing and there is more of 
 a sense of speed while your playing, Once again the story is Just plain Amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  this latest and greates installment in the need for speed series is to me the best one yet. the 
 cars are great, customization is huge and police chases are awesome. the story is a little goofy 
 but fun to play along to and beeting the end boss is rewarding. online play is very solid and you 
 can be in control of your own room. anyone who enjoys racing games will love this one and the police 
 chases are a added bonus. please try not to go start a police chase though even though it is very 
 tempting after playing this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kicken
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  what amazed me the most about this game, is that need for speed finally went to realistic driving, 
 with power slides and turning, etc. It was well done, but it also had the arcade aspect: the MC 
 3 rip off with slow-mo around the turns, and the crashes are still unrealistic, but still should 
 have a little more crash detail, but thats ok.
  gameplay: along with the driving, MW has been revamped, no more drifts, but instead things like 
 speed traps and checkpoint racing. but the newest addition is the police chases, amazingly done, 
 AI smart, but not too smart so you still can get away.
  graphics: amazing, gamespot said the frame rate goes down in certain places, but I didnt notice. 
 the game really does take the graphics to a new level, not only the car, but the environment looks 
 so much better than previous racing games. and the environment is different, no more nighttime 
 racing, you can change the setting dawn - dusk or anything between. and better city than nsfu 2 
 (stupid las vegas looking rip off)
  overall: a must buy, it was really good, some races in singleplayer can be a little annoying because 
 you cant ajust the difficulty, but at the same time it gives it that challenge. graphics and realistic 
 driving, not to mention the awesome customization that NFS always got right. go buy it! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirRocky
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  As with any Need for Speed series, this game boasts features that make it alot of fun to play.
 
  
  However, again, EA has proceded to disapoint and leave out many features that should've been in 
 this one.
  
  One of the major problems with Most Wanted is that like so many of the launch titles, it is very 
 clear that this was a direct port from the PS2/xbox versions of the game and no real improvements 
 were made nor was there any effort to take advantage of the full capabilities of the 360.
  
  Gripes over the port, and the increased cost of the 360 version aside, there are still many 
 other things missing from this installation in the series.
  
  Positives:
  Its alot of fun, single player, one time through really. High speed cars, custom visuals to the 
 cars, classic NFS feel, well detailed environments, interactive environments, new Pursuit breakers, 
 having tons of cops chase you relentlessly as you speed through shortcuts, around spike strips, 
 in the aquaducts, etc.
  
  Negatives:
  Mediocre AI, lack of previous customization options, car types break away from previous Underground 
 series types, poor multiplayer support, no damage modeling.
  
  Starting from the top, nothing compares to driving a car in the top 100's with 10, 20 cops chasing 
 you as you dodge spike strips, trigger pursuit breakers, and drive through tunnels/aquaducts to 
 avoid helicopter pursuit, weaving in and out of traffic and barreling through shortcuts in every 
 attempt to lose them.
  
  Pursuit breakers are specific triggers in the world (shown with a small icon) then when driven 
 through correctly, break part of the environment causing obstructions to the police chasing you. 
 Notible examples are the large donut on the donut shop that when triggered rolls in to the street 
 and blocks traffic, or the water tower that when hit correctly falls down and blocks those below.
 
  
  However, many customization features were limited or removed. Where are the neons? How bout the 
 multi-layered vinyls in Underground 1? And what's with the lamborghini's and mclarens? I like them 
 as much as the next person, but underground wasn't intended to include exotics, it was intended 
 to include everyday low budget cars that could then be "tricked" out. While I like the variety, 
 I think adding exotics takes something away from the game, and it makes it unrealistic to try to 
 compete with the Golf or other low end cars, whereas in Underground 1, you could.
  
  How bout the multiplayer? or lack of.... No traffic, no police, no player vs player pursuit? EA 
 missed the boat on this one... .these are things that were present in the older Hot Pursuit installations 
 of NFS, and they didn't bother to include them in Most Wanted.
  
  All in all it is a very fun game, but only the single player. The multiplayer leaves something 
 to be desired. It's very clear this was a rushed job for the 360, and very clear that EA didn't 
 take the time to consider what would make a game like this fun in the long run. They went with 
 the quick, short term cop out (pun intended) response and as such, the game suffers greatly. You 
 might as well play underground 1 or 2, or go pick up the older High Stakes or Hot Pursuit ones. 
 Hopefully Most Wanted 2 will add all of the missing multiplayer elements and return more to the 
 style and customization of Underground 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chiefinator
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely great. It is very fast paced and Arcade styled but if you remember the 
 good ole' Need for speed Hot Pursuit 1 and 2 and High strikes and a few others this game takes 
 those plus Need for Speed Underground and makes them absolutely look sick! Its AI is very smart 
 when at higher levels with both cops and street races. The only problems with this game (if you 
 can actually call them that) are it doesn't have as In depth customization as Underground 1 or 
 2 instead of being able to put on different headlights tail lights neons side effects bumpers grills... 
 u simply get 1-5 complete body kit choices (limited on faster cars) which can be unlocked throughout 
 the career mode... and spoiler, rims (17-20) , Hoods and Roof Scoops. As far as Performance there 
 is alot and you will not be disatisfied. The "Visual Effects" are quite good too. They have Paint 
 (car and rims) , vinyls, window tint, decals, numbers and custom gauges. These are quite good and 
 can give alot of variety between cars. The car choices are good but not as realistic in the fact 
 that this is a street racing game not PGR-3 2/3 of the cars are "Normal" but others are fun yet 
 outrageous. The loss of customization from the old games is definetly picked up by the extreme action 
 in this game and you have to always outsmart your enemies which brings in strategy into this game. 
 Unfortunetly the EA tracks suck in this game and make it so u just want to put in your own music 
 and thanks to the 360 we can, and as far as in-game sounds they are great you can hear the cars 
 going around in the city while hiding and sirens of police cars in the distance also all the vehicles 
 don't sound the same V-12s sound like V12s and V8s sound like V8s. The scenery is absolutely stunning 
 in this game and looks very real. Definitely worth picking up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Microsoft1112
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  The game has great graphics and excellent sound. The story mode is stupid however. Who has ever 
 asked you "did that racing game have a good plot?" NObody I know. Maybe if they spent the time 
 programming all the cutscenes and story and all that garbage, they would have been able to add 10 
 more cars that people actually like. One mode I would have liked them to bring back from Underground 
 2 is Outrun. I understand that being chased by the cops is a form of outrun, but what if you started 
 up an outrun race and then got chased by cops. There are things they definitely wasted their time 
 on, like speed trap. The sound is great, in surround it's phenomenal. I give it an 8.5 out of ten, 
 but I sincerely hope they do better next time. THey are always so close, they just always add stupid 
 stuff. Good Luck EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaded4Life
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 3, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Out of all the Xbox 360 launch titles, I would pick this one as my number one favorite. Never have 
 I had so much fun with a racing game. I do also own Project Gotham Racing 3, but quite honestly 
 in just sheer fun it can not compete with Need For Speed: Most Wanted.
  
  Not in a long time I have been as excited to play a game as NFS: MW. This game delivers you with 
 non stop action the whole way through. You start off the game surprisingly with a tricked out BMW, 
 after a couple races though you lose it. From here on the game really starts, and you will have 
 to start from scratch with a new car. With a full range of real licensed cars to choose from NFS: 
 MW does not disappoint. You will find anything from luxury cars, to sports cars, to really really 
 expensive cars. After you get your new ride it's free game from there, win races, lose the cops, 
 and beat black-list racers (boss racers) and you will find your way eventually back to the top 
 trying to get your ride back.
  
  Ridiculous storyline aside NFS: MW also sports some nice looking visuals. Not just a high def port 
 of the Xbox version, the 360 version includes amped graphics. The controls are solid and totally 
 customizable, but the sound is where the game shines. For me sound makes a game, and as an EA game 
 there are tons of licensed music on this disk (also you can play your own tracks a la Xbox 360 
 dashboard) . Also surprisingly the voice acting is not that bad, the script a little corny at times, 
 but the acting is really good. The first time you hear one of these engines roar though you will 
 understand what I am talking about.
  
  From start to finish Need For Speed: Most Wanted is a thrilling and engaging experience. It will 
 keep you on the edge of your seat veering into corners as your rocket of a car screams 150+ mph 
 down the virtual freeway. Never could you ask for a better launch title, so go on and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable_master-12
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 3, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun for a while but it does get annoying i kept finding myself bored and i didn't 
 want to play it all the time i actualy watched tv before i played it again i beat it but i didnt 
 want to come back to it gameplay was good but stale at the end of the day graphics were amazing 
 especially in HDTV Sound was pretty good nice engine sounds i rented the game so it was worth the 
 money tilt its worth a buy but if u get bored easily then rent it for a couple weeks. Buy it if 
 u like racing games but rent it if ur not nuff said nuff said 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disturbed00
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 2, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  another great addition to the NFS series.. everything was just perfect. perfect engine sounds.. nice 
 cop radio ( althought got quite repetative) ... visuals were outstanding in 1080i.. nice car selection.. great 
 frame rate.. just about everything in the game was flat out great. especially the cop chases.. some 
 of the most intense stuff ive seen in a game in a while.
  
  my only complaint was that the customization was nowhere as good as underground 1 or 2.. thats my 
 ONLY complaint. oh.. and some races were just plain out annoying.. with the whole catch up thing.. with 
 catch up on it was impossiable to win races by no less than 10 seconds.. and with out it.. one crash 
 and you could NOT win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyboy070
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 1, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  This game has an insane amount of fun factor to it. Combined with many other factors it becomes 
 one of the coolest games of my collection. Here's why.
  
  First and foremost is the graphics. I have this game for both systems and it is rediculous the 
 difference in graphics between the 2. The game is smooth and has awesome reflection qualities that 
 are realtime in the car, on the road, on other cars and on water. Hard to see at 150+ mph, but 
 normally you won't have the time to appreciate that. The details in the world are awesome, from 
 the cracks you can see in the black top to the real time car damage. That of course doesn't mean 
 you will have folded bodies and stuff like that, but the cops will. Of course there is the standard 
 things like tire marks, smoke and some very nice lighting affects. There is only one occasional 
 glitch and that is a frame rate jump, it seems to just suddenly drop off for a split second then 
 catch up.
  
  The physics are awesome, they are forza class realism but if you side swiped a stopped car at 180 
 mph they are going to go flying, because that is what would happen. Of course your fiber glass/carbon 
 fiber bodies ofr you car along iwth the super light aluminum frame would crumple into a package 
 so small they could just sweep you up. But that would remove the fun factor. That is the next thing 
 though, just how fun it is.
  
  Between the street races of several types, several different types of achievements to get during 
 police chases and several different levels of pursuit difficulty, this game leaves alot to do. 
 ON top of the carreer mode there is also various single challenges, 68 in total. Completing each 
 individual section provides you with more features unlocked. 
  
  However, if you are looking for a realistic game that requires you to learn to not oversteer, exactly 
 when to brake and how hard, and avoid damage so you can cont. without any problems with performance 
 you are looking at the wrong game. Yes you will need to learn your car, braking late is important 
 and things like that, but slamming through cars, ptting cops, slamming through building and knocking 
 over water towers is very unrealistic. This game is intended to be fun and to do somethings very 
 illegal and unrealistic without the side affects like death or jail time. Very fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterHaloChic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 31, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Great Graphics, Amazing AI, Loveable and Hatable Charecters, Very Good Storyline, "Smart" 
 Police, High Replay Value, Nice Voiceovers, Great Way of Coummunicating, Very Nice Animation, Background 
 Effects are Stunning, FreeRoam Ability, Tuneable and Customizable Cars, Many Diffrent Cars to Choose 
 From, All Real Cars and Licenced, Exellent Camera Modes
  
  Cons: Multiplayer Gets Boring Quick, Races Can Sometimes Seem Unfair or One-Sided, Dosent Show 
 Your Rivals or Friends Step Out of the Car, Pirsuits Can Sometimes Be Very Short, Soundtrack is 
 Centered Too Much Around Rap Music (Not that its bad or anything but, it need more varity)
  
  NFS: Most Wanted can be a highly addictive game, it has stunning background effects and the 
 Artifical Intellegenge is unbeliveable, the cops are extremely smart and will do anything to bring 
 you off the road. They will do anything from boxing you in to blowing your tires out with a spike-strip. 
 The graphics in general are amazing, they blend with everything and the reflection is awesome. 
 Camera modes are exellent and well made out. Some are good to race with and some are good just 
 to free-roam. The new free-roam ability is what every racing fan has dreampt of. It enables you 
 to go around and see the city. New pirsuit breakers are also a new way to stop the cops dead in 
 their tracks, just crash through them and watch the mayhem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo786
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Ok heres a game that doesnt dissapoint now i grew out of need for speed after the first underground 
 because midnight club 3 dub edition was very appealing with famous cars such as mercedes. Now this 
 game lets you kit up everything for a golf to a mercedes slr mclaren. The story line is so great 
 its actually like your in the game the cars a driving at 200 mph using nitrous and new engine parts. 
 Full body kits custom paint rims and vinyals will me u say "w00t". Oh and dont forget MIA :p. This 
 a true racing game with police chases high speed street racing modifing. This game makes u want 
 to stand up and clap for the EA team. Not as good as pgr3 in realism but still a good match gameplay 
 wise this is a must buy. oh and dont forget this takes u right back to the need for speed hot pursuit 
 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PRliger04
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 29, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  There is one thing that I can say about this game that I know people would agree with me on, it 
 is better then PGR3. I can race people on the blacklist or just drive around and piss the cops 
 off. At the same time I can trick out my car while making it look flashy with vinlys or keep it 
 simple with a nice paint job. You get it all... well except for legal cred, but who wants that when 
 you can get street cred by taking out the blacklist. NFS: Most Wanted is a good upgrade in graphics 
 and cars. The range of cars speaks for itself. Its all up to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodobaby
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 29, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  The long awaited release for the xbox 360 has come and what a way to start off with a bang. Need 
 for speed most wanted is the best way possible to having a successful launch for a game system. 
 The graphics are refined and polished so far that they need a next-gen console to show off its 
 beauty.
  The gameplay is on point and the crazy, wild, fantastically superb police chases are the best in 
 racing games with police chases. The sound can be compared to the sounds of the cars that will 
 be in vision gran turismo for the playstation 3. I can stay for hours upon hours upon hundreds 
 of hours playing this game in my room. This is the best racing game out there right now for any 
 system you play it for and that is why i give it a 9.6 out of 10.
  GREAT JOB E. A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 29, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  This game is highly addicting and fun, but only for a short period of time. Eventually the outruns 
 get annoyingly hhard and almost impossible at some times. The races are cool to play but also eventually 
 get repetitive, so I mean it's great if you can beat it real fast and get all of the cars so you 
 can have fun with customizations. Basically I loved the game until about halfway through and it 
 just started getting real repetitive, and realy annoying, especially after a 30 minute outrun when 
 you slip up once and get busted. So basically I would say a rentable game unless you in love with 
 street racing like I am. The acheivements are kind of reidiculous being that beating the first 
 10 racers you beat give about 160 points, while the last two give you roughly 550 points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikingPhil
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 28, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great franchise game. All other Need For Speed games were very entertaining but 
 this game is the king of the franchise. The graphics for this game are very good. They show the 
 graphic potential of the Xbox 360. This game also has awesome shadowing. The arrow that shows you 
 were to go even has shadows that appear on it. The reflections in this game are also amazing. The 
 sun that reflects off the car is awesome. The gameplay is like all other Need for Speed games. 
 Except in this game your lose your ride in a pink slip race and you have to make your way up a 
 list of 15 street racers to win it back. Along the way to becoming number one you have to gain 
 bounty by getting in pursuits with the cops, and complete races to get qualified to race some one 
 on the list of street racers. Once you get to number one then you win. The online play of this 
 game is pretty good. You can choose between drag race, sprint, circuit and a couple other different 
 race types. You can race a total of four people at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheerio2
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  This is the game to have on the XBOX 360. Even if you don't care for racing games this is still 
 a game that you have to consider buying or atleast rent. There is so much to do in this game, especially 
 the career mode. It is quite long, it take about an hour per blacklist member, so about 15 hours 
 long. The difficulty in the start is easy, but gradually steps itself up later through the game. 
 The police chases are phenominal. The sense of speed is great. The customization of cars is awesome 
 and getting pink slips is RANDOM! Thats right, you don't just get the other racer's car in career 
 mode. You have a 2/3 chance of getting it, which I think is pretty cool. Outside of career mode 
 you have online, which is pretty good. It is really fast, if you want a slower paced on and offline 
 game I suggest Project Gotham Racing 3, PGR3 probably has a better online as well, but NFS: MW has 
 a pretty decent online. You can also customize cars that you have unlocked in career mode for free, 
 so that you could use those too when your online to give you a step up on the competition. This 
 game also provides a hefty soundtrack. There are some pretty good songs in this game, as what you 
 would expect from EA. Gameplay is great, Graphics are great, and the value is pretty good. If you 
 love racers and have a lot of money I reccomend buying this game, as well as Project Gotham Racing 
 3. PGR 3 gives you a true to life experience, and NFS: MW gives you an arcade sort of feel. Funwise 
 I would choose NFS: MW. If you want a game that'll last a while from online play defineatly get 
 Project Gotham Racing 3. Both games are really good, controls are very simple in both and they 
 are both worth your time. If you only have enough money for one of these games I really couldn't 
 tell you which one to buy. It all depends on which type of racer you like. Listed below are some 
 of the things you should think about if you are only buying one racer game and can't decide. (Compare 
 and contrast of PGR 3 and NFS: MW)
  
  NFS: MW- Great graphics, gameplay, sound, easy and good controls. Has a sort of arcade feeling 
 of it but is very fun. Awesome single player. Decent online. Works great on regular tv, and even 
 better on HD. A game that you would like to show off to friends. 
  
  PGR 3- Great graphics, gameplay, sound, easy and good controls. Has a real feeling to it. The sound 
 of the cars are true to life and the locations are real. Outstanding online. You can blow by the 
 single player pretty quick. Is a game you must get if you are into real racer fan and if you have 
 a lot of down time when your not with friends. Also a game you would like to showoff , but you 
 probably would like to play both only by yourself. Right now this game is $50, which is $10 less 
 than NFS: MW.
  
  May you choose wisely, and please rate my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  If you have played one NFS game then you've pretty much played them all when it comes down to the 
 racing experince it provides. Most Wanted just looks better and has the customization options from 
 Underground. If you enjoy the arcade style racing that all the NFS games have had then you will 
 enjoy this game. But if you were hoping for something a little new then your in for disappointment.
 
  
  I'm not even going to go into the basic gameplay of this game, it's the same as all the rest of 
 the NFS games. At least in this game they bought back the cops, but they arn't present in all the 
 races for some reason. This game is all about the black list, a list of 15 opponents you have to 
 beat to be number 1. To race a black list memeber you have to complete a set of races, milestone 
 events (out running cops in a set timelimit, dodging a set number of roadblocks, ect.) , and get 
 your police bounty which I guess is like a price on your head to a certian level. After you do 
 that you can challange that black list memeber. You will race them in certian race types that they 
 accel at. After you beat them you get to chose from "markers", this markers represent things like 
 upgrades for you car, the pink slip of your opponents car, get of of jail free card, ect. You do 
 this over and over and over and over and over until your number 1. And that's the major problem 
 I had with this game, it's so damn old doing the same thing over and over. Looking at the same 
 scenery over and over, and getting into huge police chases over and over. By 35% through the game 
 I was tired of it, I forced myself to play through the rest of it just to get my money out of it 
 so I could trade it in. At least in this game you had to switch cars unlike in Underground where 
 all you needed to do was buy the Mitia. To bad all the cars with the same drivetrain feel the same, 
 some are just faster then others. The car physics at times are a joke even for a arcade racer.
 
  
  Well something had to be improved in this game and that would be the graphics. This game looks 
 great, the cars look, the tracks look good, everything looks good. Every now and then there are 
 some graphical screw-ups but nothing horrible.
  
  The sound is good, there are actually some halfway decent songs in the playlist and you can turn 
 off any songs you don't want to hear. You can also play your own playlist but it only plays it 
 during the races, when in the menus you have to listen to in game soundtrack. The cars sound really 
 good as do the sound effects.
  
  Overall, if you just love NFS and it's arcade style gameplay you will enjoy this game. If you are 
 one who is getting tired of the dated NFS gameplay rent it first or just stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havokmaster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:24 am PT
Review:  NFS: Most Wanted, the best in the underground series, returns to the streets, better than ever.
 
  
  You play as a street racer, who has just been robbed of his ride by rival Razor Callahan. The game 
 basically is about you getting to number one on the blacklist and taking out Razor to get your 
 BMW M3 back.
  
  The game has great graphic, great story, and great gameplay, but it get's a little repetitive once 
 you get near to the top of the blacklist. the online is great and there is a good selection of 
 cars.
  
  This game is the complete opposite of PGR3, and is not a whle lot worse than it. The game has substance, 
 which PGR lacks. 
  
  A must buy for street racing, tuning or NFS fans alike... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgreenawald
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the best NFS they have come out with. The fact that you can free roam in a 
 new Ford Mustang, tricked out however you like, is unsurpassed. The best part about this game is 
 the fact that you get chased by the police. And let me tell you, they are tough. When it first 
 starts out the police are pretty laid back and you can typically lose them pretty easily. However 
 once you get your rep built up and you tick off the cops enough, they are not playing around anymore. 
 This has to be once of the best street racing games I have played to date, in regards to normal 
 cars that can be customized to fit. I totally recommend this game to anyone who liked the movie 
 Fast and the Furious and now wants to play the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vagabond_gamer
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  This game is simple. Race, beat the heck out of a blacklist member, Run from the cops. Simple. 
 But it's that simplness that makes it so entertaining. The races are fine and all but, the real 
 meat of this rubber burnin' title is what happens after the races are over. I wish you would try 
 to run from the law when their on level 5 and up. It is so sick trying to run from those do gooders. 
 All the cars look fabolous.... ( can i say fabolous cuz it sounds kinda meh) ..... and so do the tracks. 
 I was in awe when i first burst from out of a tunnel and saw the light effects ..... you know like 
 when your asleep but some one cuts the lights on real fast without warning.... yeah that's how it 
 is. This time around the dev's focused more on the racing aspect more than the car visuals...... i 
 personaly liked the customization in underground much better, but the way they made the mood and 
 the difficulty level just perfect is well........ perfect. This is a fun game and you will never 
 get enough of it no matte how cheesy the dialouge is ( I want to burn my ears off with a hot butter 
 knife after the first couple of cut sceenes) . All in all it's fun and fast... What more do you need? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  My first time buying the NFS series and I am really glad that I did so. Didnt know what to expect 
 so I just started playing it and fell in love. What I really like about this game is the fact that 
 it isnt just racing. There are toll booth runs where it is just you and a time to beat. There are 
 drag races, circuit races, sprints and the best part that I like the police pursuits. I love just 
 crusing the town looking for some po po so I can start a high paced, car smashing pursuit. And 
 when you finally escape the cops you really feel good about your skills, almost like you could 
 go out and do it yourself in real life (but I wouldnt recommend it) . Great game that I am about 
 1/2 way through and look forward to completing it here in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerDudeB3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 24, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Wow I thought this game will be like underground 2, but I was wrong, this game turned out to be 
 alright, much better than underground 2. With hot races, hot cars and unbelievable hook ups, .. 
 It takes you through the top 15 racers on the blacklist. you race to get your BMW and spot to the 
 # 1 ,,, Everything counts in the game, pink slips , thats what I like about this game.. its a must 
 buy.. Its also hard to beat some of the racers, so if do not have the nerves to play the same person 
 over and over again well ,,, Negatives about this game sometimes to hard to beat.. Good part.. 
 amazing game play . Best is series.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron_anvil
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good, the graphics arent bad and the playability isnt bad either . . . its 
 not good but not that bad. basically its exactly the same as NeedForSpeed 2 except the graphics 
 are improved and there is a bit more to do . . . Smash Cops through Giant Doughnut signs and make 
 them crash and burn in petrol stations . . infact iv changed my mind this is a good game!
  Its just a shame that the cars dont handle well like on PGR3 etc. Also online multiplayer is only 
 4 players at a time where as PGR3 you can have upto 8.
  Still aint bad tho so give it a whirl! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DANIELALST
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Most Wanted is easily the game in the series. Even one of the best games in the 
 genre. Rivalled only by the legendary Gran-Turismo 4. You are easily immersed in the life of street 
 racing. Also this installment gives you a plot a reason as to why you are going through all this 
 trouble.
  
  However later on in the game it will become extremely hard. This is due to the milestones which 
 you must complete to move on to the next driver.
  
  The police chases which will become a huge part of the game are revolutionary. With your heat level 
 rising, as this happens the police cars and there methods advances. Police cars range from just 
 ordinary patrol cars to Dodge Vipers. They also go from just using box methods to roadblocks to 
 spike strips placed on the road to bring to justice.
  
  The frame is also unbelievably fast.
  
  Overall this game has revolutionised the street racing 
 genre. Also the benchmark to which all racing games will try and compete with... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandVizier
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome.... that is, until I got my new HDTV. In HD, the frame rate is a supreme issue. 
 It's not even playable. It will give you a headache in about 30 seconds. I am now forced to play 
 the game in 480i and I have to flip the switch on the cable before I play it just to make it playable. 
 A great game if you don't have HD, but in that case, why bother? Just get the xbox version. Too 
 bad, cause the game is mega fun otherwise. I have now completed the game. It takes some time to 
 get through and stays fun the whole time. A great pick for people who have a 360, but havent gotten 
 their HD set yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to like this game, I really did. It looks amazing, there is a good story and the cars 
 handle well. But for some reason, it just did not grab me.
  
  I have never really gotten into the NFS games, I have always been attracted to the PGR type racing 
 games. But I rented a copy to see what it was like.
  
  The game is fun I guess, the introduction is great and it looks amazing. The soundtracks are spot 
 on and it is a very polished title.
  
  But I could not get into it and ended up going back to PGR3. For me, it just seemed like it was 
 pre-fabricated and I know it is only supposed to be a game, but there was something missing.
  
  So I would say, give it a try, you may like it. I however, was not that impressed and was glad 
 in the end that I had rented it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Am I in the twilight zone? This is the first EA game that I love playing in a LONG time. A return 
 to form for the series despite the fact that this game is a port. I'm loving this game and I rented 
 it but now I kind of wish I bought it. The graphics are great, not as next generation as your typical 
 Xbox 360 game but the gameplay makes up for that. Plus, the textures are very high resolution and 
 despite the certain freezes I've experienced, the fun I have had outweighs that. If you love racing 
 games, being chased by cops while you race then I highly recommend renting this if not buying it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 20, 2006 11:59 pm PT
Review:  After the letdown that was NFSU 2, EA fired up their generic gamemaking machine and Most Wanted 
 came out the other end. Just like before, you start a racing career, earning better and faster 
 cars along the way while upgrading and tweaking the ones you already have. The car selection is 
 a major step down from the first Underground, as EA made the brilliant decision to replace tuner 
 car standbys like the Honda Civic Si and Nissan 240SX in favor of Renault Clio V6s and a few other 
 ugly European cars. Skyline fans, prepare to be angry, as they axed your R34 to make room for the 
 Fiat Punto. The car physics remain arcade-focused, and it's easy to swing around corners at 130+ 
 mph late in the game. The new shifting style for those who prefer a manual transmission is surprisingly 
 fluid, as a quick flick up or down on the right stick will change gears. As fun as the driving 
 can be, the opponent and pedestrian A. I. is stuck in neutral. Oncoming traffic refuses to dodge 
 you, and racers often behave like drunken frat boys. They'll do things that make no sense, like 
 slam into you when they could have taken the lead, and stop dead for no reason at all. The real 
 star of the game isn't the watered down customizing (I'll get to that in a second) , but the police 
 chases. It's a clever blend of Metal Gear Solid sneaking and aggressive Burnout driving, and the 
 cops really step up their game in the later levels. You'll dodge roadblocks, spike strips and even 
 helicopters as you try to avoid capture. The chases are pitifully easy early on, and you'll even 
 have to stop and let the police catch up to get your Bounty high enough to meet the game's arbitrary 
 goals. As for the car customizing, it's a big letdown. Body kits are all one-piece, and there was 
 more than one occasion where I found something I hated on every kit, which is why my Ford GT and 
 IS 300 remain sleepers. Swappable head lights and tail lights are gone, as is the interior designing 
 like TVs and sound systems. Vinyls are limited to one layer, although the rim selection and spoilers 
 are pretty good. The graphics are nice, but look like a high-res Xbox game compared to Project 
 Gotham Racing 3. Overall, Most Wanted is a solid, if uninspired romp through racing land. Although 
 I recommend PGR3, I would'nt feel too guilty about buying it, as long as it's used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WildWorlds
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 20, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  The latest installment of the Need For Speed series kicks butt. The graphics and sound are noticably 
 improved over last generation (which you should expect on the new XB360) . The car chases are not 
 as repetitive as you would expect (the police chatter is in a great way so it isn't) , something 
 that could have become very repetitive, but didn't. One thing that could have improved on is the 
 car customization menu, besides that the only thing that bugged me was the fact that after you 
 beat the story mode you can't go back and finish races you didn't get to race or go on a "free 
 roam". Not something major, but some people like to continue racing after you complete the game 
 (a-la Midnight Club 3) , though the games do differ sort of. If you are a hardcore racing game fan 
 that craves realism, pick up PGR3 instead (as if you hadn't) because this game probably isn't for 
 you. The physics aren't exactly realistic (not something bad considering realism isn't what the 
 game is focused on) . Instead the game focuses on street racing, police chases, and destroying lots 
 of property, geared towards people who just want to race and not think too much about controls. 
 If that's you, then pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiftstar183
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 19, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  The Game Is A Pure Adrenalin RUSH! if only you could KEEP all the blacklist cars, It Would have 
 been much much better. but wtv Its A Great Game Period. 1 Thing Though. As Soon as you put Turbo 
 in your career car, The AI become some sort of Racing GODS. game has lottz of Challenge. And 1 
 thing real tuner Racing game fans will realize is that some of the REAL Japenese Cars arent there. 
 Honda, Acura, Mitsubishi. just in those 3 makers you would have had Crazy amounts of Cars to keep 
 the Gamer happy. i sure would have been happier with an RSX or an Evolution. that department let 
 me down :- ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vic_Vega1994
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 19, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  The game Need for Speed: Most Wanted is a all around great game. THe game is best when you have 
 a HDTV. The graphics in the game are reallt awesome and the road looks real and so do the cars 
 sound real. The story of the game is cool, but the people in the game say the dumbest things. The 
 live action cutsences are amazing. There are alot of cars to buy and to unlock in the game. You 
 start out with a BMW M3 and 5 minutes in to game you lose it from the top guy on the Blacklist 
 15. Then you get arrested and you have to buy a new car. I picked the Chevy Cobalt. It a good car 
 to start out with. Then the story goes you have to beat everyone on the Blacklist to reach the 
 guy who took your car. The guys name is Razor. THe game still looks good on a regular TV. If your 
 a fan then get this game and if your not a fan still buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnm00
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 19, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  Ok, Im going to show my age with this review, but itll help you understand my perspective. My 
 experience with Need for Speed started on the PC back in 95. Back then, the game was about earning 
 the right to drive exotic cars really fast. Since then, its evolved a lot. I really enjoyed the 
 Hot Pursuit version where you had to avoid the cops (or could be a cop) . That was a nice twist 
 to the game and made it more interesting.
  
  After the movie The Fast and the Furious came out in 01, racing games took on a whole new dimension. 
 Now, it wasnt just about exotic cars and fast rides, but now its about average cars pimped out 
 with accessories and avoiding the law. Personally, thats not my taste, so I wasnt too into the 
 Underground versions of NFS. Most Wanted doesnt take NFS back to its roots, by any means, but 
 the whole underground racing scene is a little more palatable in this incarnation.
  
  First off, Most Wanted is a nice game to look at. The graphics do take advantage of the 360 and 
 everything looks really good. Honestly, I dont find the graphics as good as PGR; its just not 
 as photorealistic. But, the graphics are still really good. The details are very nicely done, especially 
 considering random debris, leaves in the air, and weather and such. The rain effects are particularly 
 impressive. The cut-scenes are very nice looking. Its from live video, with some cool filters 
 and stuff to blend in nicely with the game.
  
  The sound in Most Wanted is also very good. Nice road noises and ambient sounds. The engines sound 
 good with the surround and the police sirens and voice talents are also well done. I really like 
 the radio voices from the police, it sounds like an episode of COPS. The music is ok, not fantastic, 
 but ok. I feel the same way about the music in PGR, its just not as cool as it could be. I think 
 Burnout: Takedown had the best soundtrack of any racer so far. It would be nice to create a custom 
 soundtrack, but, for some reason thats not an option.
  
  From a gameplay perspective, Most Wanted is somewhat unique and very interesting. The whole premise 
 is that youre a street racer whos got to earn his rep by winning some races and getting back 
 at the guy who took your car. You have an attractive girlfriend helping you out and a few friends 
 offering you some advice along the way. But, this isnt a simple list of races and new challenges 
 to face. Most Wanted has a complete free-roaming capability. If youre not familiar with that, 
 it basically means that you can drive around just for fun and check things out. Of course, if you 
 drive recklessly, the cops will be after you, but, thats another fun aspect to the game. Now its 
 time to outrun the cops! Free roaming is a nice diversion from constantly facing new challenges 
 and competing in races. But, those challenges and races are the goal. You have to work your way 
 up the blacklist of racers to get a shot at challenging the top dog. If you can do that, you 
 win it all.
  
  The controls in Most Wanted are pretty simple. Its A LOT easier to control than many other racers. 
 Its not too realistic, in that sense, but this isnt exactly a racing sim. This isnt about drifting 
 or crazy stunts. Its about speed. Because of that, its easier than you think to keep your car 
 on the road. Controls are pretty tight and you dont lose control too easily. Just keep your eyes 
 on the road, avoid hitting things, and stay ahead of the cops and youll be fine.
  
  To be completely honest, if anyone asked me if I liked NFS: Most Wanted over PGR3, Id have a hard 
 time answering that. They are very different games. PGR is a racing sim: real cars, real controls, 
 real cities. Most Wanted is more about the overall story, the scenarios and customizing your ride. 
 They play very differently and have different strengths and weaknesses. So far, I enjoy PGR more, 
 but like I said, they both have a lot of good points. Bottom line is, NFS: Most Wanted is a good 
 game, it looks great and is fun to play. Which is the best racing game on the 360 today? Thats 
 a matter of preference.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: demiree
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive 
 to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases 
 are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed 
 and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry 
 nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice 
 game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A 
 verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive 
 to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases 
 are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed 
 and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry 
 nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice 
 game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A 
 verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive 
 to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases 
 are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed 
 and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry 
 nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice 
 game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A 
 verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive 
 to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases 
 are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed 
 and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry 
 nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice 
 game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A 
 verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive 
 to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases 
 are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed 
 and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry 
 nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice 
 game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A 
 verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive 
 to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases 
 are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed 
 and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry 
 nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice 
 game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A 
 verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive 
 to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases 
 are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed 
 and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry 
 nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice 
 game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A 
 verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive 
 to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases 
 are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed 
 and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry 
 nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice 
 game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A 
 verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive 
 to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases 
 are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed 
 and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry 
 nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice 
 game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A 
 verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive 
 to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed and the police chases 
 are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry nice cars and the speed 
 and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ A verry nice game indeed... verry 
 nice cars and the speed and the police chases are verry adictive to do................ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ca_Stylin
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  great game, great start for the 360. it moves away from the need for speed underground modes/ ideas 
 of game play and i wish they would bring some of that back... ie. some of the cars i actully c 
 on the street and the brake down of parts and most of all the drag racing and drift corse's. some 
 of the things that makes street racing, street racing. playing the music u got on the 360 makes 
 it ez to get in the racing/ running from the cops mood. the cop Ai is unreal... they are any thing 
 but stupid or overbaring. when their alone on your tail they fall back, if they have back up ther 
 more aggressive. they also box very well. the city is large and is very detailed and fun to speed 
 throgh. moving up the black list is very ez at first if u are a gamer and doest get very hard untill 
 like #8? over all i would suggest this game to every one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tx2000
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Wow, thats all i really have to say. I personally thought that this game is killer, i first played 
 it on the xbox and now i own it on the 360 and it just kicks butt. I have it set to H. D. resolution 
 and i don't notice and glitches or nothing... I love the police chases and i think having them added 
 in the game just adds that little bit extra to it to make it super addictive. My only pet peave 
 i have with this game is that they seem to have a lot of German cars in it and thats not problem 
 cause they are gorgeous car's but me being an italian fan i woulden't mind seeing more italian 
 cars in it. i. e. alfa romeo's or massarati's. Other then that this is a great game and is a must 
 for anybody looking for a good racing game that isn't a true driving simulator like G. T. or Forza. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamermon
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Now i've only played the demo but i still have a good idea of what the games like. It is da bomb. 
 The cop chases are wicked, and the races are awesome, but since i haven't gotten the game yet the 
 demo only has like 1 cop chase lvl and so on. But its givin me enough info to go out der and buy 
 the game. If you want a racing game i highly recommen u get this first, and for a FPS get Call 
 of duty 2 but thats besides the point. the graphics are really good in Need for Speed Most Wanted 
 and the sound is excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXboxgamer73
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Most Wanted has successfully recaptured the greatness of speeding through a gorgeous 
 environment at high speeds while causing a massive array of havoc. Unlike the two past Underground 
 titles, Most Wanted has once again included one of the greatest Need For Speed features: Police 
 persuits. This combined with the games awesome use of acting, animation, sense of speed, sound, 
 and overall superior quality makes Need For Speed: Most Wanted a must have launch title, hands 
 down.
  
  Gameplay: Most Wanted features everything from drag races to full blown police persuits. If you 
 think that blazing 200 mph down a highway with 20 corvette cops and a police chopper on your tail 
 is fun, your right, because it is fun, insanely fun. Most Wanted has you working your way up the 
 Blacklist 15, trying to take out every member of the list, mainly your rival Razor (#1) . To do 
 this, you must earn bounty, complete milestones ( tasks such as wrecking cop cars and smashing 
 through roadblocks) , and increase your rep through racing events. Once you earn enough rep, you 
 challenge one of the Blacklist 15, win, then start over again. It's a mainly repetitive process, 
 but one filled with enough excitement to leave you drooling until the very end.
  
  Graphics: The environment looks great, and the destruction onscreen with a whole police force persuing 
 you is something you must see to believe. Great blur and nitrous effects also contribute to the 
 exhilerating sense of speed.
  
  Sound: Since the game is pretty long, the soundtrack will get annoying very quickly, so loading 
 some good tunes onto your 360 is reccomended. Other than that, the sound is very excellent. Each 
 car has a different sound to it, and the extreme effort put into the police radio is quite a successful 
 and enjoyable addition.
  
  Value: Most Wanted is a long game. That aside, you can have so much fun just blazing through the 
 amazingly huge environment, whether it be racing, evading police, or just driving. Most Wanted 
 is worth the price of admission on every level.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: Unless you dont like games that are fun and exciting, it might be a good idea to 
 check Most Wanted out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypto138
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 15, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted isn't your average racer. No, this game has cops. Yeah, cops, hence 
 the name 'Most Wanted'. You start the game with a long cutscene, and then you race. But part-way 
 through the race, it'll stop you. Then you get to go through all the stuff leading up to that race. 
 Then you get to do that race again. And it forces you to lose, and Razor takes your car. Now you 
 get to spend hours working your way up the blacklist.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing. Even the normal gameplay looks great. But the cutscenes 
 are the best, considering their real people. But the best part of the graphics, which lies in the 
 cutscenes, is your partner Mia. She is HOT!!!
  
  Sound
  
  The sound in this is good, for the most part. It consists entirely of rap music.
  
  Gameplay
 
  
  Well, the gameplay in NFS: MW is pretty great. Not only do you race but, as mentioned earlier, there 
 are cops. And the police chases are absolutely fun. 
  
  Conclusion
  
  And so ends my review of Need for Speed: Most Wanted. I have to say, this is the best racing game 
 you will ever play. This game is truly worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FiveStarHacker
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 15, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I've been play the NFS series since the first game released. Now up to the point of NFS3: Hot Pursuit, 
 I was impressed. Since then, no NFS game appealed to me, even the Underground franchise. Underground 
 completely went a different way from tradition. Now that Most Wanted has released, I'm pleased 
 to say that I'm quite happy with this game. Most Wanted is like taking old-school and new school. 
 Sure they still kept the customization nice and fresh, but now they've put back the cop chases 
 which made the game so fun at it's time.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Most Wanted, has brought back the old tradition and made the game worth playing. At first when 
 I just played the demo, I would continuously replay thed emo just to run from the feds. It's alot 
 of fun to so, and when you have your own car to do it, you feel that YOU are the one being chased. 
 It's clearly all fast-paced and the content of the game is incredible, from some of the coolest 
 cut-scenes, to the customization, to the choice of cars, it's all good. The gameplay is probably 
 the highlight of this game.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  I played this game on 2 systems, the Xbox, and then the 360. Now from seeing the game Gun, I noticed 
 that some cross platform games may not even change the graphics. But when I played it on the 360 
 I could see a HUGE difference in the graphics. The blur effects, the reflections, and whatnot all 
 of it was good. The only problem I had is with the scenery and surroundings. Not to say they were 
 bad, but they weren't as good as the car. Yes I stared at them, [I have no life] . But even though 
 after customizing and whatnot the graphics seems fine, and I didn't experience any framerate problems. 
 Some of the coolest effects were the whole slow-mo thing. That was pretty cool. The weather effects 
 were alright too. All to say, the graphics were good.
  
  Sound: 8/10 
  As some of you know, I have this huge problem with car sound effects in games. They just never 
 sound real enough. I know, because I work with cars and stuff alot, I know how a real engine sounds. 
 Though I think that they decided to upgrade the sound a bit because the cars sound decent, especially 
 when upgrading the car. You can tell you are putting more power because of the sound. And honestly, 
 I just love the sound of the waste-gates from turbos. But the sound still didnt sound just right. 
 Now, originally I would've given the sound an 7, but what shocked me was the chase music. It sounds 
 like I'm in a movie, with the orchestra in the background, or something from cops. That just adds 
 to the rush and makes the game worth listening to.
  
  Value: 7/10
  Let's face it, most of us hate spending full price for a game. I know, I'm a cheap person. And 
 added that 360's games cost 60$ new, I wouldn't buy it for that much. I would either rent it if 
 you don't like buying games, or buying a used copy. Or you can be patient and wait until the price 
 decently drops down.
  
  Tilt: 8/10
  I am very pleased with this game but I can't say that it's the best one. I'm just going to say 
 that it's a great game that all racing fans and non-racing fans alike should play. It's a good 
 game, with alot of content. Most Wanted as brought up a new level for racing. 
  
  Final Score: 8.6
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: polska1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  God this game is good. The graphics are the best. i have it for xbox 360 the graphics are the best 
 get it now. The story line is cool, i just love racing there is no better all racing game then 
 this. the graphics and sound is awesome. Out of my 14 xbox games this one is the best racing one. 
 The storyline could be longer but it will do for me. if you feel the same way as me write me . 
 if you need help with the game just write me i will help you. i have all need for speed games and 
 this one is i n2nd  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gazzam
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  after seeing the good review on gamespot, i was gonna buy it (for the 360) . GLAD i never ,8.2 they're 
 having a laugh (they must of took a back hander) . This game is played in jerko vision , it plays 
 smooth then stutters then smooth again then jerks, yeah the detail is good. 3ghz and 3 cores surely 
 they could make it smooth??? the xbox1 is smoother than this.
  
  i turned the resolution down to 640-480 from 1280-768 (i have hdtv and vga lead) and it definately 
 ran smoother (but still slightly jerky) i hope this isnt a sign of things to come, that is ,having 
 to tone down the graphics to get games to run well. (PC woes all over again :- ( ....)
  it spoils the whole game for me, which is a shame ,because the gameplay is good with nice detail 
 glad i held off from buying it i'll stick to the xbox1 version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygamer55
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  Need 4 Speed brings you into a immersive world of street racing. This title of the series has surprised 
 me with its decent story line thats easy to follow, to its wlid police chases that rack some huge 
 bounty on your head, then there is the fun assortment of races that you take part in which are 
 fun but sometimes can get repetitive. Milestone are a big part of the game to. The require you 
 to get a certain amount of bounty, keep a chase up with the police for certain amount of time and 
 many more. The most fun part of the game is police chases. They really grab you and keep you on 
 the edge of your seat while you avoid a sea of cops. To escape from the cops you can use pursuit 
 breakers to slow the cops down or they can be imobilized by them. Pursuit breakers are bulidings 
 or structers around the city that are interactable with your car. What I mean by interactable is 
 you can run right through the buliding which will then knock the buliding down and it will imobolize 
 any police vehicle that is the radius of the buildings fall. Overall this is good game that will 
 impress a fan or newcomer to the series a lot and will be worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n3oS7oRm
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  Ok you need for speed fans. This game is highly addictive, from the police chases to the races, 
 and the tollbooth checks. I love the full customizations that come to play in the game. They even 
 have different types of paint to choose from by texture and look, such as gloss or metallic, powder 
 coat on the rims, its just amazing. I would have liked to see us be able to put whatever text we 
 wanted on the cars, Like in the old Ridge Racer days, but still in all this games kicks butt. This 
 game gives you the feel of speed by the blurring fields and the wind displaying as you prominetly 
 speed down the highway at 125 mph. It's always fun to wreck the cops too. Anyway this is a must 
 have for 360 owners so quit reading this review and go buy it already.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody998
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 15, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  
  
  Need For Speed Most Wanted 360
  
  Need for speed most wanted is the sequel to the Underground series which brought in the whole underground 
 street racing thing and night only racing with better car customization. But most wanted brings 
 it back up into the sunlight and also re introduces back into the series what has definitely been 
 missing for a long time which is the police! The police add a ton new fun and gameplay to the game 
 and offer some really high speed action packed chases around the open ended city and countryside.
 
  
  The main aspect of the game is definitely the Career mode which starts off with a bang with over 
 the top amusing cut scenes which give the whole game a very Hollywood action movie kind of feel 
 to it. But the cut scenes are so over the top its hard to tell if they were intended to be funny 
 of not, but either way they are great! Whilst doing the solo missions you will be alerted with 
 voice and text messages from your fellow racers which keep you up to date on what is going on and 
 set you up for races etcetera. There is also a ton of customization that can be done to your cars 
 and this really adds a lot of gameplay and sense of achievement whilst doing your car up to look 
 good and kit it out with lots of different types of rims, spoilers, tinted windows, nitrous oxide 
 amongst many other things. You can also do up the engine of your car too to improve the overall 
 performance of your car and help you win races.
  
  You can also jump right in at the deep end and choose a Pursuit event where you are already in 
 trouble with the police and all your really need to do is escape them. You have what is called 
 a heat level, this means the higher the heat level is the more cops you have on you. From just 
 simply cop cars to better cop cars, vans, roadblocks and even helicopters. This makes it even harder 
 to escape the cops. The aim is to get out of sight from them and remain that way for a certain 
 amount of time thus ending the event and the cops do eventually go away. This mode is really fun 
 and fast paces and you will find yourself spending a lot of time in cop chases.
  
  The game is out for most formats and for the current gen the Xbox is definitely the best looking 
 of the bunch. But if you have a 360 it is definitely the one to get due to its next gen capabilities 
 giving it the best graphics and it also comes with a great Xbox live mode where you are up against 
 other real people and you can see what their car is like and what they have done with it and generally 
 have great fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: videohead20
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  I would just like to say that I am not a big racing fan. But this game rocks. I love the graphics, 
 game play, story, cars, free roam, and last but not least the cop chases. This game has kept me 
 on the couch every day at least 7 hours for 2 1/2 weeks now. It is just raw breakin the law fun. 
 I love the selection of cars and the mooding you can do to them. The races are fun and hair pulling 
 at times as well which gives it a 9 in challenge for my book. The story isnt great, but it does 
 keep you playing to find out what in the world is going on. The online is always a fun ride when 
 the AI just isnt enough. I really like the controls for this game. They are responsive and smooth. 
 And once again the cops. What a great addition to a game. I can never get enough of plowing into 
 cops and dodging road blocks. Now the only things I really didnt like about the game was once in 
 a while you had lag. Also the fact that the cop AI wasnt too bright. here were times when I would 
 hit the and slowly drive off and they would still go the wrong way. This game is great but I dont 
 see much of a replay value to it besides on line racing. Over all it rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GangstaKeith
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 13, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Like every Need for Speed game when I first started playing I was like WOW what a good game but 
 after playing a couple times I was like when is something new gonna happen same thing over and 
 over and the more u get into the game the more you do the same thing. I don't know about you but 
 thing thing I loved about NFS and NFS2 was the drag race but in NFS Most Wanted you barely EVER 
 drag race but there new race where you try to reach each toll booth in time you do CONSTANTLY. 
 The Whole black list is a very cool concept and I understand that you have to build up rep to race 
 a black list driver but why do you have to beat them more then once? Didn't you race Razor only 
 once for him to win your car then you have to beat him 5 times to win yours back that doesn't make 
 much sense, and like every NFS game theres a girl in this one its Mia shes in the beginning of 
 the game like crazy every other race you get a message from her but then all of a sudden shes gone 
 for like 13 black list races and you Barely see any Cinematics mabe 4 or 5 in the whole game. Enough 
 of ripping this game apart in all it is a good game nice cars lots of ways to change the look and 
 I did like how you can soup up exotic cars. In all if you like NFS games this is the best yet but 
 if you didn't and you think this one might change your mind it won't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2006 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted is a great racing game and MY first xbox 360 game. It's basically about 
 you losing your rep when this guy named Razor sabotages your car, and you're trying to get back 
 up. The cars are cool, but you can get better if you have pink slips. The FMV's look so real, and 
 the people look great. The cars look fast and furious, and the online play is good. But, there's 
 a negative side to this game. You're gonna have to be careful on how you drive because the cops 
 will be on your ass for hours maybe. This game is a combination of Underground 2 with Hot Pursuit 
 called Most Wanted instead. As your Heat Level rises, the cops get more aggressive, and there's 
 a chance you'll be arrested by them. Anyway, this game is pretty well-done, and the graphics are 
 great on the 360. HD or not, this game looks great. Get it, and like it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tazisme
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  it is a all around great game ive played it on the playstaion xbox and 360 because i like compare 
 the same games on differnt systems and the 360 has the best and the game is easy to and worth more 
 creadit then it was give by some big mag people so by the game is worth it but make sure you play 
 it 2 times with diirernt cars so don't read any more go play the game you here before your girlfriend 
 comes back so get going now and i will give a update when i get a chance to play the other 3 verasions 
 of the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgw798
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I mean Need For Speed Most Wanted (NFSMW) is quite the spectacular game for the next generation 
 XBOX 360 console. Disregard the incredible graphics... The career mode is enticing and brilliant. 
 The customization and options in the game are nothing short of superb. I have yet to test out the 
 online mode, but from what I have seen, it appears to be in depth and provides lasting appeal. 
 The multiplayer action is somewhat limited yet what you come to expect from any racing game. If 
 you are looking to buy any game this holiday season I would certainly recommend that you purchase 
 this game. I give NFSMW a perfect score, 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: southvike22
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 12, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I love the game, and have played it more than any other game I own for 360. This is mostly because 
 it is super addicting. Everything that made Underground so much fun to keep coming back to returns 
 in Most Wanted better than ever.
  
  The racing mechanics are good, not amazing or groundbreaking, but solid. There is a plethora of 
 racing options, most are the usual, some nice new features. The drag is the only one that really 
 breaks off of the normal driving mechanic, and its a good distraction, but not a big part of the 
 game. 
  
  The cop chases are probably the best part of the game. Very intense and cinematic, especially when 
 you get into the higher heat levels. The first time you run through a gas station blowing up the 
 cops behind you, you'll know that this game is a keeper.
  
  The story is also awesome and really drives the game along and keeps you playing. The cutscenes 
 are AMAZING. You really have to watch them to understand. The acting is purposely over the top 
 and hilarious at times and all the voices are really well done. It really adds to the immersion 
 factor overall.
  
  There are some things that I dont like so much. I may be spoiled by Burnout, but the collisions 
 are so so, vehicle damage on your own car is minimal and running headon with a van does nothing 
 other than slow you down a bit. Overall though a really good game and lots of fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinhetu
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 10, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I've never really been a fan of racing games but this one is probably the best I've ever played! 
 From the very beginning, career mode offers a "mini-sequence" where you are thrown knee deep into 
 a world of high performance street racing. I love how you start racing, get you car sabotaged, 
 get arrested by the police, and finally get picked up by the hottie in the game, Mia Townsend. 
 From here its totally up to you what car you want to supe up use to take on the 15 blacklisted 
 drivers.
  
  I thought the options for cars was a little lacking when you first start but you should see what 
 I did to this Chevy Cobalt SS! It's a great feeling to take a would be dead beat stock car and 
 turn it into a high powered racing machine! Tons of options and extras in this one! I can't seem 
 to put this one down...
  
  The graphics are amazing, especially the cut scenes! And if you don't have the optical digital 
 sound hooked up then you are really missing out. The sound effects are unreal! The sounds that 
 are produced when you scream by cars or fly through an underpass make you feel like you are really 
 there. I need to mention the thunder and lightning because the first time I heard it I thought 
 it was starting to storm outside! For real!
  
  There are plenty of other races and events to try besides career mode. I can see this game taking 
 many hours to complete!
  
  They've also done something with braking and steering... It seems as if you brake slightly when 
 you turn your vehicle. I think this is a great addition to the game play. It gives you much more 
 control over your car and contributes a huge factor into the overall fun of the game.
  
  I subscribe to Gamefly and rent a lot of games. This one may be one that I eventually buy. Yep, 
 that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcore0115
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. After playing Project Gotham on the 360, the graphics in NFS MW don't look too 
 great, but it is a really fun game. MW is completely addictive. It does get pretty tough as you 
 move up on the black list. There's a thin line between challenging and frustrating, and this game 
 is just on the challenging side. If I was going to buy one racing game for the 360 right now, this 
 would be it. PGR would be it if you could modify or customize your cars at all, but you can't so 
 I lost interest. Races are intense, cop chases are even more so once the heat builds up. The different 
 types of races are great and the customization of cars is just what you would expect from a NFS 
 title. The only thing I would add would be more cars (or trucks) , but thats about it. Great game. 
 Play. It. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAm-Jeff
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 10, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Thank goodness I rented it through Gamefly instead of buying it when it came out. 
  
  Let me start out by saying what I liked about the game. Running from the cops is just as much fun 
 as it was in NFS: HP. Very fun. I love being able to use the environment to your advantage when 
 being chased. Free roam was also very cool. I liked just being able to drive around the NFS world 
 and check it out. Car selection was pretty decent also. Not as many cars as I would've liked but 
 still pretty good.
  
  Now for the bad. Blacklist racing is TERRIBLE. If you had the ability to mod your car from the 
 start, it would be ok but since you only get to start out with one of 3 very slow cars without 
 being able to add n2o or any of the uplevel mods, it's kinda hard to beat the blacklist guys. I 
 guess that's the point but after trying 5 races just to get past the #15, I gave up. I could always 
 beat him in the 1st race but never the 2nd. There was always some car around the corner that I 
 always managed to hit but he never would. If you had a large lead he would magically catch up to 
 you at the end and beat you. It's crap. The playing field needs to be even and it's not in this 
 game. Very frustrating. 
  
  I think another reason I don't like this game is that it can't stand up to PGR3. PGR3 is worlds 
 ahead of NFS: MW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmanndriver
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted was one of the best car racing games i have ever played. The cars look 
 realer than most car games, and when your getting chased by cops you feel invincible. Most chases 
 will leave you mortified thinking, "How did i survive!" From the completely interactive environment 
 to the street lay out it's as real as it gets.
  But there are some things that it lacks. The game play is decent but you can beat the game in like 
 5 hours, thats not enough substance for me. There is also no more drifting in NFSMW, and there 
 is no more street crossing races (The short tracks in old NFS) . 
  My suggestions to make this game better would be to add a better plot line, add drifting tracks, 
 and to make more shortcuts through out the maps. That's why i gave Need for Speed Most Wanted a 
 7.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homestarmy1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  When you think of the Need for Speed series, what comes to mind? For me it would be driving at 
 night, emphasis on "gangster" life, huge product placement, and just not all that thrilling to 
 say the least.
  
  When I played this game I was expecting the same old stuff. Boy was I wrong. I was not a fan on 
 the the 2 underground games, just not my style. But this game is close to the undergrounds polar 
 opposite.
  
  For instance this game is set in the daytime, which I give props to whoever decided that because 
 it is absolutely beautiful (especially on the 360) . This game in my mind is more gritty then the 
 others just because of how you have to work your way up the blacklist. 
  
  The blacklist consists of the 15 "Most Wanted" street racers in the area. As the games goes on 
 you will have meet certain objectives to have a chance to race the blacklisters. You start at 15 
 and work up to 1 to becomes the "Most Wanted."
  
  One huge reason that "Most Wanted" greatly separates itself from the others is the police chases. 
 These chases are the most exciting thing that I have encountered in a game since I have played 
 Metroid Prime (see my review) . You couldn't ask for must more when it comes to the chases. 
  
  What happens is that occasionally during a race the cops will either spot you or someone will 
 call in and report you. When you are spotted the cops will be on your tail. Chase will also occur 
 if you are being seen causing accidents or breaking some type of law and someone sees you. You 
 will also be called in on that. When you are being chased you gain a "bounty" this bounty also 
 increases your rep on the blacklist. You can obtain bounty through opjectives, breaking laws, and 
 through destruction. The longer you are being chased the more cops will show up. Eventually there 
 will be road blocks, SUVs, and even helicopters that are trying to stop you are ANY cost.
  
  This to me is near perfect game. It has outstanding gameplay, like I said the most fun I a 
 long time, that I have had playing a game. If you liked the other NFS games you will love this. 
 Even if you didn't, like I, you should like it as well. The only minor detail that I noticed is 
 that I get some slow framerate when I am going fast and have a lot of cops on me but it's not anything 
 to complain about just thought you should know. 
  
  In conclusion buy this game if you are looking for an arcade style racer that has some realism 
 to it or if you just love racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axe84
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Your objective here is to get your wheels back, your precious BMW GTR.
  Im a car enthusiaist that loves all sports cars, italiens, japanese cars, aston martins and american 
 V8's. This game kind of made me hate cars. 
  It's better to buy a game thats mainly about driving cars, then this game. 
  Gameplay: 
  Didn't 
 like the controls at all. Seemed like I was driving a 85' Toyota Corolla.
  Graphics:
  Graphics are nice, quite nice with an HD TV. But didn't like the yellowish/goldish colors on the 
 world.
  Sound:
  Terrific sound. Just have the engine sound on, get the Lambo and listen to the nice V10 that scream. 
 
  Value: 
  Not as good as Hot Pursuit 2. And it seems like EA has tried combining HP2 and the underground 
 series with no luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  First off I have to say that I hated both Underground games, there was just something about them 
 gamyplay wise that just didn't click with me so I always skipped over other other NFS games on 
 other platforms because of the bad experience I had with Underground. That has resently ended when 
 I bought Most Wanted and I have to say that this new game is a huge step up from other NFS games.
 
  
  The gameplay is back to its old roots and the graphics are just stunning, not as good as PGR3 but 
 still pretty good. With a bunch of new features and a very very cool story, it makes it worth to 
 buy. I would have to say that the voice acting and animations with the video are just amazing and 
 well worth your time to watch because they are that good, it really makes you feel like your IN 
 THE GAME. So in the end, its fun and cool, I say buy it if you like street racers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mamad_raiss
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 1:43 am PT
Review:  Its a real review and I want to explaine the game for people that in doubt to buy it or not.
  first of all the graphic in this version is the best in the series and I can say best after pgr3 
 , reflection of car and road is amazing and you can hit more things in the road like trees, lights,... 
 and the background and environments graphic is so good but not excelent (I think it can be better 
 with more reality in next gen)
  by results It have the best graphic in series with no doubt .
  sound system is so good in xbox360 
 and pc version . and they improve game sounds and you can hear more musics and real car noises.
 
  but the best parameters in the game is gameplay ,story, cars, police.
  this 4 new feature make this game much more better than previous it has amazing gameplay with nitro 
 ,good handling, no freezing and you will enjoy driving with your car. and slowmotion feature is unbeleivable 
 and amazing.
  story is better than previous games, you wish to get back your BMW and see the last scene of movies 
 all the game. and its a reason to continue some hard levels like drags ,police bounty, milestones 
 , ... I like MIA (he is so nice) dont you?
  when you see 32 + 1 car you think thats not too much car but when you see the name of cars with 
 no doubt its have the best collection in NFS games.
  you can unlock more cars and get some new instroments and parts to sport your car or increasing 
 the performance .
  I realy love last car (porche) and it was one of my reason to continue game to drive this F*damn 
 car. it realy sux.
  and at last police and persuits is so damn good because the AI has many improvements from hotpersuit 
 2 and its the biggest deffrence from NFSUG1,2 beacuse they hadnt any police , when you are in condition 
 5 it is too hard to runaway from police and sometimes you see more than 20 car in a scene .and 
 sometimes you should use slowmotion feature to run the blocks. 
  result: the game is excelent and best in series. if you like racing and runing from police its 
 the best choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed has been around since 1995. The Series has had numerous sequals, each being better 
 or worse than the next. Perhaps the last good Need For Speed game was Need For Speed 3: Hot Pursuit 
 for the PC and Playstation consoles. The PC version allowed you to play a police officers, featured 
 an in dash steering wheel view, and a wide variety of user created DLC.
  
  Well theirs' been a few games since NFS3... The series got into gambling rides, tuning Porsches, 
 and then sliping into the underground nightlife. WHile those sequels were fine, they certainly 
 weren't the most entertaining in the series. THe last two squables pretty much forced advertisments 
 from Car Parts manufacturers down our throats for no appearent reason. They revolved around the 
 over-rated import tuner scene, and they were both outdone by under-rated games such as Mid-Night 
 Club 2 and Mid-Night Club 3: Dub Edition.
  
  Well this year EA has done something different with the series. It's going back to it's roots. 
 Need FOr Speed Most wanted features all of the great aspects of past Need For Speed games. You've 
 got starter tuner rides, then you've your exotics from manufacturers such as Porsche and Corvette... 
 This is great since it gives you a semi-large variation of cars to upgrade. 
  
  The sad part about it is that the game doesn't give you much tuning options. You can fine tune 
 your car, but you can't see any accurate results from a dyno chart or anything like that. With 
 the variable cars in the game, fine tuning can make the difference bewteen escaping from the cops 
 or having your vehichle impounded.
  
  That's perhaps the most intense part about NFS: MW. THe police chases are just realy good. These 
 cops will hound you until you're long out of sight. It's not just about completing the races anymore, 
 now you have to escape after you've completed the races. The higher your wanted level, the harder 
 the escape, and sometimes even the W... You need to raise your bounty level to advance in the game, 
 so you can't realy keep your heat down. You can lower it, but it will take longer for you to advance 
 in the game if you do so.
  
  Another good part about the game is the cut-scenes. I'm not sure if they were supposed to be bad, 
 but their so bad that it's actually funny. The characters come off as posers, and it's just so 
 stupid funny. YOu'll get some kicks after seeing them. The only bad thing is that their aren't 
 enough of these cutscenes. THey pretty much stop after you start the game past the prologue. Any 
 information you then recieve is done via TXT or voice message via your cingular device. Although 
 Nextel is preffered by racers, it's obvious that EA is easily subdued by other corporations. Then 
 again it's wonder why they're one of the largest publishers around.
  
  Now the games graphics on the original xbox aren't so good. They look sloppy and the detailing 
 is just not their. However the game shines on the XBOX 360. Theirs excellent lighting effects. 
 You'll see reflections in your shiny ride, and great textures through-out Rock Port. The game does 
 however lack a Steering Wheel view. You've got your over the hood, but it doesn't compare to what 
 is in PGR3...
  
  As for the online play, I didn't even waste my time here. EA is known for having sloppy online 
 play with XBL and virtually just doesn't make it right. This realy kills the value of the game. 
 Also, you can't have police chases online... ANother bummer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghost5891
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  this game has alot of things going for it with only a few things missing. the graphics in this 
 game are amazing. they are very smooth and the frame rate is great. the controls are all pretty 
 easy to use and they added some new stuff to the game. there is now a speed breaker button that 
 slows down time for a certain amount of time so that you can manuver around things with tight turns. 
 also the cops are making another apearance in the series. mixing the two genres through the series. 
 there are exotics, tuners, and muscle cars to choose from. all equally fast. the player can take 
 all these cars and just like in unground 1 and 2 you can customize them to your liking. the difference 
 with that is they removed the rep stars so that you don't need to look good or any particular way 
 in order to move on in the game; but they did remove alot of the customization options from underground 
 1 and 2. players can still make some pretty sweet cars just not to the extent as the others. as 
 for the police, they have some tricks up there sleeves also. they pull real life manuvers to take 
 you out from road blocks with spike strips to boxing in your car to the arial chopper following 
 your every move. listening to the scanner while in a pursuit can help you informing you of where 
 roadblocks are and what they plan on trying to do to stop you. the game also uses the first person 
 camera like in underground 1 and they used real actors along with that and put them in the game. 
 that definitly adds to the game alot although there aren't nearly as many cinamatics to show this 
 off as you would hope. the game gives off a real sense of speed and physics. the game also keeps 
 most of the races from the underground series and adds a couple. they kept circuit and sprint and 
 drag and also added a speed trap and toll booth. so drift and street cross of been taken off which 
 makes sense due to the police being in the game. basically the story of the game is you come in 
 as a no body start something of yourself and get everything taken away. then off course you have 
 to start from scratch and make your way up what they call a blacklist which is a list of the top 
 15 street racers most wanted by the police. the guy who screwed you over is #1 of course and you 
 want to take him out. when you manage to beat the career mode you can always move onto online play 
 which is just amazing. there is hardly any lag if any (at least i didn't have any problems) and 
 there are usually a reasonable amount of people online. there are only 15 achiements for the game. 
 each one you get by beating a blacklist racer. i would definitly recommend this game to all need 
 for speed fans and even for those just coming into the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer_Of_SeeD
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed has been a popular franchise series for EA. The game started on the PC and then 
 ended up on the home gaming systems. Being a fan of the long time series and owning every version 
 made, I had some expectations for the newest game. After all, not only is this the tenth anniversary 
 of the Need For Speed series but EA made the last two games based in the underground world of illegal 
 street racing. While this was a nice idea, it seemed to take the series away from the exotic cars 
 and police chases. I went to EA studios in Vancouver, Canada and had a chance to play both the 
 Xbox and the 360 versions. Due to the NDA I had to sign, my hands-on preview did not let everything 
 out of the bag. It's a good thing too since the final build that was released is slightly different 
 than the builds I had a chance to play. Jason will be adding in comments and parts to the review 
 as well, since he managed to tackle the top spot on the Blacklist before I could, and is a huge 
 fan of the series. 
  
  I enjoyed the last two Undergrounds, but what I did not like was the fact the last one had a disappointing 
 online mode and it just seemed that you were racing the events to unlock new parts and vinyls. 
 Since it seemed to need another angle, EA must have listened. The new Need For Speed Most Wanted 
 has a mix of the underground gameplay style with a return of the roots of the original games for 
 the PC. By adding a decent story and premise, the game finally has something that gives gamers 
 a feeling of accomplishment including the chance to out-run the cops in their cruisers and even 
 their helicopters. The mix of the two makes this one the best Need For Speed game since Hot Pursuit 
 even though it was missing a few elements. Read the full Need for Speed Most Wanted for more details. 
 
  
  
  The game opens with several cut-scenes that are just like watching a major Hollywood movie. A young 
 hotshot starts taking down the Blacklist racers and earns his reputation fast. He also attracts 
 the attention of the lead young lady named Mia (a girl with a mysterious past) and a hot-headed 
 racer named Razor. The story shows that Razor tampers with your car and since pink slips are on 
 the line, he gets your priceless ride. The game sort of does a double take on players by shooting 
 back in time from the first event and then back to that day. I understand why they did this, but 
 I think showing the major event twice could confuse some players. 
  
  The fact you actually race the events while it tells the story also makes this a little confusing, 
 but then again the quality of the movie and the mix of jumping in the action was a great idea. 
 You return and meet up with the same girl who seems to know right when you are released from jail. 
 She tells you Razor tampered with your ride and fixed the race. To make things worse by using your 
 ride, he is now number one on the blacklist. She sets you up with some connections and a safe house. 
 She is pretty and bright but seems too eager to help out. 
  
  The overall gameplay is not like the last two underground games but will have some similarities. 
 The best way to describe it is a mix of the underground games and the other NFS games. You buy 
 a ride and start off in an okay car, but to beat the blacklist racers, you need to upgrade it while 
 racking up your rep by out running the cops and building up your rap sheet. It sounds easy for 
 the first few races on the list. The A. I. seems a bit stupid at first but no matter how far ahead 
 you are, they seem to find away to be right on your heels. In the same boat you can screw up and 
 catch up a bit too easy at the onset. Then again most racing games have the same issue and you 
 won't mind it until the A. I. gets very hard and seems to know every shortcut and rarely screws 
 up. For the real deal racers out there, rest assured there is an option to disable the 'catch-up' 
 effects during races. 
  
  In order to get a crack at Razor, you will need cash, cars and help. Oh yea, the cop that busted 
 you seems to have another motive and is out to get you at any cost. Officer Cross is a tough guy 
 who seems to know something about you. Only you don't know exactly what. Let me explain, using 
 a story as a backdrop is part of the main focus of the game but you only learn things by getting 
 up the blacklist. Details and tips are passed on to you by three ways: text messages, phone calls 
 on your cell and secret meetings. Every now and then some new detail or twist will be thrown at 
 you and is made to keep you guessing to the very end of the game.
  
  The neat part of the gameplay is after beating a blacklist racer; you get to pick two markers from 
 the list. They appear on the screen and the first three are unknown. These include unique performance 
 parts, other upgrades, a pink slip for the rivals ride, money, bonuses and out of jail cards, or 
 one that prevents the cops from impounding your ride. The mistake most will make is going early 
 for the performance markers and then having to earn enough cash to buy another car that can beat 
 the next racer on the list. The races vary and will include times runs, knockout races and drags. 
 At times you will race against three A. I racers. To make the races more realistic and challenging, 
 the cops can spot you at any given time and start chasing you. 
  
  While the racing A. I is easier at the start, the A. I. system learns from you and will predict your 
 moves. They keep a database on every car you have raced, been seen in, and all the outstanding 
 infractions or warrants served or not served. It's all pretty impressive! You will also need to 
 race milestone events against the police. A goal is given and includes smashing through a number 
 of roadblocks, tagging police cars, going through speed tracks above a target speed, and destroying 
 property. During these events, you will need to be heavy on the gas but know the area. You will 
 look at the map for hiding spots and certain landmarks, when you hit these spots, certain events 
 will be triggered such as boats will fall off there dockings, water towers will crash and even 
 a huge doughnut can be rolled out into the path of the cop cars.
  
  The problem is while you build up your rap sheet and bounty, it also raises the level of your car's 
 heat level (an indicator of how bad the cops want to bust you) . Starting out at one and going up 
 to three or higher at level three, any cop that even gets near you will trigger a chase and you 
 need to get the level down by going to the safe house, switching cars or going to the parts shop 
 and buying a new paint job and body kit to lower the level of your car. The whole point of the 
 level system is if you get busted three times and have no markers, a strike will appear. After 
 the third time, say good bye to that ride and if it's your only car, a game over screen will appear! 
 That's right you can spend hours even days getting to the top five and one wrong turn and you will 
 need to restart the game all over. The first major tip is you need to have more than one ride and 
 keep the safe house location known. For those who love racing games and being chased, this is the 
 best part of the game. This is the first game to have a game over screen in ages.
  
     Incoming transmission from Jason: The whole point of the heat level on your ride is a major 
 factor in the game, determining what actions the police will take to put you in jail. Simple concept, 
 the higher the heat level, the more tactics they will deploy. At first the police cruisers are 
 simple to evade while at heat level 1, ramping up to level 2 doesn't do a whole lot more, but they 
 do appear to be more aggressive. At level 3 you will start to see road blocks, spike strips, and 
 SUV cruisers which can stop you in your tracks. Once you hit level four, look for a spot to hide 
 cause the helicopters are on the way. The helicopters make it impossible to get out of sight, unless 
 they need to stop to refuel or you lose them by ducking under a building. Finally, later in the 
 game, after beating blacklist racer #3 you'll encounter heat level 5, where all the previous tactics 
 are deployed as well as super fast, super aggressive federal agents in Corvettes. You may even 
 see Sgt. Cross chasing you at this level, if you do, take him out, it's worth $100,000 in bounty. 
 There is actually one more heat level, but I'll let you experience that for yourself! - Transmission 
 ends. 
  
  Most Wanted is an arcade racer plain and simple. The parts you add really only affect the speed 
 and the performance of the car. Some may need to get used to the physics of the cars since they 
 are a bit loose and still skate a bit. After a few races or the other events, you will get used 
 to the way they handle, but if you are playing PGR 3 let's say, and then switch over to NFS MW, 
 you will have to readjust the way you handle turns and your overall driving style. There are some 
 very cool cars to unlock or get by picking the pink slip icons and range from tricked out Supra's, 
 Corvettes and even Lamborghini's. This is an impressive list of cars and the only thing that some 
 fans will notice is the new way of buying the custom parts like front ends, rear ends and sides. 
 These are now all included in a body kit limiting the amount of looks and overall parts but the 
 hoods, spoilers and other items are pretty impressive. 
  
  The paint shop is cool and you can change the look really easily. The trick is to have enough cash 
 when you need to buy those parts. Upgrades are impressive but to add more of a challenge most of 
 the better performance items won't be available until you bet the 8th ranked blacklist racer, and 
 the better gear and cars after beating #3. This is where you need to decide when to go for a unique 
 performance marker and when to add it. Overall, the game is impressive. The cop chases at times 
 will have 12 cruisers all of different makes on the screen. They can call in for the chopper, road 
 blocks and spike strips, so you need to listen to the police scanner and watch the map and hopefully 
 stay one step ahead of them. This may be the hardest cop chase system I have ever seen in any racing 
 game. EA really did a top-notch job in this area. 
  
  
  Gamers will have the choice of either automatic or manual settings. Each set of controls are well 
 explained and laid out perfectly and responds well. There is no delay, however, a few of the more 
 advanced controls like the nitro meter and boost will take some time to learn how fast it recharges. 
 The trickiest control feature is using the Speed breaker hitting. This slows down time and allows 
 you to make hair pin moves without slowing down. It looks neat and comes in handy but can also 
 screw you up. You need to know when to use it and is never recommended during a police chase where 
 it looks like you will get busted. It is meant to get around turns and other obstacles. 
  
  The learning curve is about 10 minutes for those who have played any of the other NFS games and 
 about 20 minutes for others. The 360 controller reacts well and they really made use of the new 
 layout. Overall, nothing to complain about here, but you will need to spend time learning the way 
 the cars handle. You will also want to hit the D pad to bring up the map and selecting events or 
 locations and then knowing when to engage the GPS system which can save your butt. Note that the 
 GPS system will not always connect and if you're spotted and the chase mode kicks in, expect the 
 GPS to disconnect. The only other thing to remember is when reaching a location or event, enter 
 the lighted area and press in on the D pad to activate it. 
  
     Incoming transmission from Jason: The controls for Need For Speed Most Wanted are done extremely 
 well, but simply mastering the controller layout won't get you anywhere fast in the game. You'll 
 need to become familiar with the area, especially for the police chases, and learn to take turns 
 at break-neck speeds to evade the level 5 chases successfully. While the Speed Breaker is a nifty 
 feature, I rarely used it throughout the game. It can be useful during police chases, but only 
 when approaching a road block with spike strips, so you can ram the block in just the right spot 
 to get through. Performance tuning can also be valuable and have a major impact on the handling 
 of your ride and is a great option to make even lower rated cars out-perform the competition. In 
 addition to knowing the tracks and beefing the car up, the single most important thing to master 
 is cornering. Even corners sharper than 90 degrees can be tackled using bursted acceleration, throttled 
 braking, and nitro boost. Cornering, learn it and hit the top of the Blacklist! - Transmission 
 ends. 
  
  
  While I enjoyed the last underground, the online mode lacked anything to really hold my interest. 
 You could use your tricked out cars but there was no traffic and it basically boiled down to who 
 knew the tracks better and could make the run with the least mistakes. It was fun for a while, 
 but it got a bit old and that was the major complaint from almost everyone who played it. I thought 
 that this one would have a better online mode and the book even says take on the online blacklists 
 racers. I already knew that they would not be adding a pursuit mode due to having to make choices 
 on a having a better offline career mode or adding a pursuit mode. EA explained this while I was 
 in Vancouver. 
  
  I hopped online and it just seemed like the same online mode as NFS Underground 2. It is fun for 
 a bit but no traffic and the cars seemed to handle and even look different online. I was disappointed 
 and know that EA wanted to create a great game and succeeded, but the online mode is nothing new. 
 EA should have added something here to enhance the great solo mode and while it is easy to join 
 or create a room, it just seems not all together again. Hopefully the next NFS game will offer 
 players a great and intense online mode. 
  
     Incoming transmission from Jason: Need For Speed Most Wanted would without a doubt be the best 
 racer in the Xbox 360 launch lineup if EA had put more time into adding features and gameplay modes 
 to the on-line modes. It's hard to expect everything from one game, but it is a bit dissapointing 
 to see such a lackluster on-line game in stark contrast to the great off-line experience. When 
 it comes to on-line play, Need For Speed Most Wanted is just another racer, nothing more. - Transmission 
 ends. 
  
  
  Graphically the game is great and the movie cut-scenes and slow motion action adds to the overall 
 feeling of really being an illegal street racer. The video feeds, the times when you go airborne, 
 and the slow motion effects are great and not overdone. The racing cars, police cars, and helicopters 
 all look realistic. Each area looks different and the lighting and shading effects really show 
 that EA took time on the game to make it look great. The rain hitting the windshield is something 
 you really need to see to believe how real it looks. The special areas that can be used to trigger 
 events are also well done. They managed to capture the look of the high speed racing. 
  
  The amount of details even on simple things like a building or dock is great. When you change a 
 paint job or a certain details, the next time the game kicks into the slow motion scenes will show 
 exactly the changes you made. Each rival has their own look and the opening movie that introduces 
 them is slick. Of course Habib Zargarpour can be credited to most of the cinematic effects including 
 the green screen footage shot. He has worked with Steven Spielberg and George Lucas which gives 
 him the experience to give this game a Hollywood look and feel which really helps showcase the 
 game. 
  
  Josie Maran does a great job as the girl who is helping you and really seemed into the role. Razor 
 and Rog are great and really help set the story; in fact all of the voice talents both when seen 
 or just hearing them do an excellent job, right down to the stuttering dispatcher. They stay in 
 character and make the story more interesting. The amount of voices is simply incredible. Every 
 car sounds different and they managed to capture every sound perfectly. The soundtrack fits for 
 racing and is good, mostly rap and funk music. At times there are a few songs that can get a bit 
 on your nerves depending on your personal tastes, but I was so into the chases and the races that 
 I did not even hear the music after awhile. During the game you get voice messages or calls that 
 are saved. You need to be careful which ones you decide to delete. Certain ones may come in handy 
 later and you can replay them at any time. I would not recommend streaming music while in the regular 
 career mode. There are other races that you can stream music while completing without the risk 
 of missing a key piece to the story. Overall, they really did a great job in the audio area. 
 
  
  The game will take even those who think they rule in racing games a long time to complete everything. 
 Even after beating Razor, there is more to do and you can always try and beat your rap sheet records 
 and times. It's a game worth replaying since chances are you will want to try other cars at certain 
 races. The amount of time put into making the game paid off and fans of the series will be happy 
 to go back and replay it. If the online mode had a pursuit mode, this would have greatly raised 
 the replay value. Of course the online mode has a blacklist and some will want to try and reach 
 the top of that as well. 
  
  Most Wanted is a blast with the mix of a story that could lead to other games and add to the series. 
 It's something any fan of the series should own. In the final verdict, the solid story, the twists, 
 the great graphics and excellent audio make this still a solid game and one that will remain in 
 my 360 collection forever. It has things never before attempted and shows just what EA can do with 
 the series. It's addictive and visually stunning. Any fan of Need for Speed should play it and 
 it does the tenth anniversary of the NFS franchise proud! 
  
  Incoming transmission from Jason: The tenth anniversary of the Need For Speed series is celebrated 
 by the best Need For Speed game to date, Need For Speed Most Wanted. Any fan of the series really 
 needs to pick this game up, the story is good, the presentation is excellent, and the gameplay 
 rocks! With celebration comes cleanup, so I ask that EA clean up the on-line mode and make the 
 next Need For Speed game for the Xbox 360 be as versatile and exciting on-line as it is off-line. 
 One more note in regards to the Xbox 360; the achievements. Many games are being released with 
 outragious achievement goals, Need For Speed Most Wanted gives achievements for beating the Blacklist 
 racers, the main objective of the game. Beat the Blacklist, the rest of the games goals simply 
 fall into place. Great job giving gamers a sense of accomplishment. Are you still reading? Go grab 
 a copy of Most Wanted! Over. - Transmission ends. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermario2653
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted suprised me very much. This game is very good and running from the police 
 has never been this fun. The game delivers a sense of speed that no other racing game can touch. 
 NFS has the import tuner type of cars and gameplay but even if you arent that its still great. 
 I was kind of dissapointed that there were'nt more drag races since they freakin rock. If you have 
 played the game before you will know what im talking about. My only complaint for this game is 
 at time the screen will get choppy and it bothers me. The soundtracks are good enough that i didnt 
 even load up my playlist once. This is a very good racing game and if it is coming down to this 
 or PGR 3 its really close. But i would still put my money on PGR 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webby1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Well there has been quite a few Need for Speed games, and the most recent were those from the Underground 
 series, however in this Need for Speed game there is a major difference, of course the cars, places 
 to drive and graphics and some gameplay is different but now there is the Police which play a big 
 role in the game. As far as I know the last game for Police to be in a Need For Speed game was 
 Need for Speed Hot Pursuit a while back. However things have adapted and changed, for instance 
 the police will chase you will get a "bounty" that means how bad you have been. So your bounty 
 can be raised very high so theres not just a few cop cars but also SUV Rhino's, Spikes on the road 
 which flatten your tyres, undercover cops and even corvette cars. The game is involved a lot with 
 the police and raising your bounty and doing something called milestones its like doing a certain 
 crime, so all these things are actually needed to progress through the story in the game. So you 
 may be thinking is the game just with the police then, and the simple answer is no still a lot 
 of the time will be on races, they vary from sprint races where you just race from say A to B, 
 circuit races where you race around a certain area doing so many laps, Drag races which are mostly 
 straightish runs, and other stuff like get to somewhere with a certain amount of time, so kinda 
 like time attack races.
  
  The ranges of cars are good but not that great, you can buy some cars at your local shops which 
 you can free roam drive to them if you wish, or you can win a pink slip after you beat a rival 
 this allows you to keep their car. I would mostly reccommend this further on in the game but its 
 your choice.
  
  As for difficulty its pretty varied, most of the races seem pretty easy but the only thing that 
 actually seems chalenging at times are the police runs, cause the AI gets so smart they start doing 
 all sorts of tricks to you.
  
  The gameplay is great it offers lots of different race modes and even after youve finished career 
 mode you can just do the challenges if you wish.
  
  On a right TV Need for Speed Most Wanted looks awesome, especially the awesome cut scenes that 
 you see, but its too bad that you only really see them at the start of the game and right at the 
 end. However even for that short length of time its still worth it.
  
  So overall Need for Speed Most Wanted is it worth checking out, definetly its a good game for either 
 the hardcore gamer or the casual and any 360 owner should consider this game especially racing 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trap-Muzik
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  First, to get this out of the way, the 360 version is almost the exact same as the old consoles, 
 so it really doesn't matter which console you own, it's a great game all around. But the 360 has 
 ( of course ) the best graphics out of the bunch. Seriously though, could one ask for a better 
 Need for Speed game? Well yeah, you could. You could ask for the Nissan Skyline GT-R to return 
 to the game, the option to change head lights and tail lights, the option for more exotic cars 
 ( it's a good start, but where's the Saleen S7 seen in Midnight Club 3?) , and more of a challenge 
 from the cops when you have a heat level of 1. It's as if they don't care about you unless you're 
 causing some REAL TROUBLE. But just because the game is missing a few things doesn't mean its not 
 good. What the game got great was the cutsceens. The cars look almost as real as the people driving 
 in them. But since they look so great why is there only about five of them in a game so long? However 
 they did make up for it by improving the gameplay. The handling is way better than Underground 
 2, and the nitrous recharges on its own. That's a major improvement. Also, it's about time the 
 exotic cars came back. You can use cars such as the Corvette, Viper, four different Porsche cars 
 ( Carrera GT, Carrera S Cayman S, and the Turbo 911) , Lamborghini Gallardo, Lamborghini Murcilargo, 
 Ford GT, and the Mercedes-Benz SLR McLaren. And you can customize them anyway you want, unlike 
 in Midnight Club 3, which also had exotic cars. It's sad that you won't be able to use them until 
 you get close to the end of the game. You can also change the performance settings... BY PAUSING 
 THE GAME. You can have three different setting, which allows you to make one for drag races, sprints, 
 and circuits. I'LL WARN YOU NOW. THE DRAG RACES GOT HARDER. THERE'S TRAFFIC ALL THE TIME NOW IN 
 DRAG RACES. AND IT'S NO LONGER IN A STRAIGHT LINE. AND YOU USE THE ANALOG TO CHANGE LANES. But 
 at least you can use the new Speedbraker system, which is similar to the Zone used in Midnight 
 Club 3. Overall, this game is an improved Midnight Club 3 and Need for Speed Underground 2. If 
 you liked any of those games, buy Need for Speed Most Wanted. you'll be glad you did.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickeyg
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed games have been some of the best raceing games ever because of the costem cars. 
 This one was a great for racing but they dident give you costemization they shood of like the others. 
 They should of gave you more cars to play with as well i think. The look of the tracks look very 
 natural and look like you are really street raceing. The heat recording is a great little twist 
 to the game. The Black List is very cool idea that make you feel like a bad ass. The cars they 
 did give you were all very nice cars and the ford gt almost looked real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ujazzrule
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  The best thing about this game is the police chases. It is very exciting running from the cops 
 and "T"ing up a cruiser at 130mph. The career mode is somewhat annoying given the lack of $ early 
 on since the only way to make some decent $ is to repeat the races many times. So that is a little 
 annoying since upgrading your ride drains you $ fast.
  The controls are nice and are pretty forgiving so it allows you to focus on the races and chases 
 instead of trying to stay on the road.
  PS I don't like the drag races. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillz0
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is really entertaining, but by the way it's not quite impressive visually. Next 
 gen consoles has got to be much more impressive as project gotham 3. Nice playabality and good 
 sound. The thing I like most is running away from cops  
 want to say anything else I said, what i say is just that. In this world of videogames I have to 
 be estrict........ nothing else to say nothing else to say nothing else to say nothing else to 
 say nothing else to say nothing else to say nothing else to say nothing else to say nothing else 
 to say nothing else to say nothing else to say And that's all folks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killa-k
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  As usual the NFS is wicked. Most wanted i find is a good mix of the old style NFS and the new break-through 
 of the recent yrs of tricked out cars. The police chases are addictive sumtimes i'll just look 
 for trouble to get them to chase me all over town, but sumtimes i'll admit it is frustrating, i 
 just wish they had more cut sceens. I like the fact that they brought more brands of cars like 
 the Cobalt, DB9 and the Mclaren, but i just wish they still had Acuras and Hondas, not as if they 
 are my favorite cars but u and i know that we're all used to seeing them, but change is good. I've 
 had a few glitches that made be get busted a few times but hey what game doesn't have a glitch 
 or 2 in them. I say if u like street racing then go for this game u can't go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2006 12:28 am PT
Review:  I first wanna just say, Hot Damn! I beat the dang game finally and now I can give you my opinion 
 about my gaming experience with Need For Speed: I must get away from those dang coppers or spend 
 years in prison sharing and cell with a big guy with a hair back named roy. (whew, long title)
 
  
  I liked this game! It had some issues but over all it was a memorable game experience. I loved 
 getting chased around by the cops like I kidnapped the governors daughter.
  
  The good side.
  The races were fun and challenging most of the time and the cops always made 
 it more interesting. Some variety in races, and had some pretty cool looking cars. The mapping 
 looked great and the scenery was beautiful.
  
  The bad side.
  Wheres the Drafting? I loved that in Underground. There are No older versions in cars. I like to 
 get the old stang out of the garage and burn rubber once in awhile. No new vinyls. No new parts. 
 How come every car in this game has a horn but the ones I have? Hmmm. 
  
  It almost seems like every Xbox 360 game that has been released by EA is missing a lot of the big 
 time average features for their games. I was gonna mention the game titles and their mistakes but 
 everyone already knows what I'm talking about I'm sure.
  
  The bad may look like it out weighs the good but don't be fooled this game delivers quite a good 
 gaming experience. I bought it with the console, but if you can find it for rent you could complete 
 it 100% in about a few days of none stop cop chasing action.
  
  The game starts off easy at first but stick with it and you will see its not so easy to get away 
 from rosco as you would think. Its almost like an art form once you get close to completing the 
 game. 
  
  I suggest winning all the races before you continue on racing the blacklist racer so you won't 
 have to go back and race again to earn cash just to pimp out your ride. And don't worry about after 
 you beat the blacklist racers extra parts stuff just stick to the money and pink slips.
  
  Well I'm tied and I've rambled on enough, so Thank you for your time and check out my other reviews 
 when you get the chance. 
  
  Games are like crack to me and I will never stop.
  
  -Crim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RavenElite
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is a wonderful, overall amazing game. Great graphics, Great Gameplay, Great everything! 
 This game is amazing overall, and i would strongly recommend picking this hot game up. As your 
 progress in the game, the cops get harder and harder to avoid, and they get better cars all the 
 time, which makes it alot more challengin, even when you have a Pimped Out Lamborghini.
  I diffidently recommend picking this one up. Lots of playtime, lots of cars, lots of races, lots 
 of enemies, lots of twists, lots of enjoiment, lots of alot.. haha.. anyways, the game gets quite 
 tough towards the end, so if you like a challenge, pick up NFSMW now...
  
  what are you waiting for? GO GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feno666red
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent fast paced game. 10/10. For more info check out www. dj-feno. piczo. com. this 
 site also has info on playstation3 and its games.
  
  First of all the graphics in this game is outstanding. The detail of the cars is smooth and you 
 can change your cars look to fit your taste. The backgrounds and scenery are very realistic and 
 just about anything is breakable and can be used to slow up the cops or even yourself.
  
  The gameplay is very smooth and if there was any drop in framerate in the game at all I can't see 
 it. I love the feeling of speed you get when hit the NOS the blur effect is very cool.
  
  The cars sound great and I love the radio chatter between police officers and dispatch.
  
  
 Granted the realism of the game is no perfect such as you hit a light pole and keep on going but 
 that is part of the charm of the game. It was meant to be an arcade style game and that is how 
 it should be judged.
  
  Overall this is yet another strong launch title for the 360. I hope that Microsoft will continue 
 to bring in such quality software titles to it's system 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nas6192003
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  When I started the game the graphics blew me away, but after just a mere 35 minutes of play the 
 game froze for the first time. Now I know this isn't a problem with my console I've played NBA2K6 
 for 4 hours stretches numerous times and my other games work fine still as well. Back to the point 
 if not not for EA making yet another sub-standard game i. e. Madden 2006 on PSP this game would 
 be worth buying, but I felt I should warn people this may be a game flaw so buyer beware don't 
 let the beautiful jump in without a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnmetcalf
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Before reading this review you need to understand that there are in my opinion two types of driving 
 games. You have the driving simulation games such as Forza and Project Gotham 3. Then you have 
 the arcade style games such as need for speed. So with that in mind I can give the review that 
 this game deserves.
  
  First of all the graphics in this game is outstanding. The detail of the cars is smooth and you 
 can change your cars look to fit your taste. The backgrounds and scenery are very realistic and 
 just about anything is breakable and can be used to slow up the cops or even yourself.
  
  The gameplay is very smooth and if there was any drop in framerate in the game at all I can't see 
 it. I love the feeling of speed you get when hit the NOS the blur effect is very cool.
  
  The cars sound great and I love the radio chatter between police officers and dispatch.
  
  
 Granted the realism of the game is no perfect such as you hit a light pole and keep on going but 
 that is part of the charm of the game. It was meant to be an arcade style game and that is how 
 it should be judged.
  
  Overall this is yet another strong launch title for the 360. I hope that Microsoft will continue 
 to bring in such quality software titles to it's system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  This game takes all of the customization of the NFS: Underground series and adds in the cop chases 
 of the Hot Pursuite series and it combines well. The Graphics are great the cars reflect light 
 realisticly and blur effects from going fast look great and character models look so real tho they 
 are modeled after real people. The sound is great aswell with the engine noises sounding like the 
 acttual cars and all cars sound different and the sound of destruction you cause is great as well 
 as cops chat over radio calling for back up and reporting your location as you speed away. The 
 gameplay is good but gets boreing yes there is varity in gameplay but your still always driving 
 around runing from cops are racing and i have yet to see drag racing which was the best mode in 
 underground but im sure its in ther some where i just havnt got there yet. Overall this is a fantastic 
 game with plenty of customization options and some great cop chases the graphics cant be beat and 
 sound feels real but the game suffers from repetetive racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rayze78
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I have been a Need For Speed fan since its first release (Road and Track presents: The Need For 
 Speed) . Although I miss racing the exotic cars, this game is my favorite out of all of them so 
 far. This game finishes what NFSU1 started, and learns from its horrid mistakes from NFSU2 (read 
 my review for that one) .
  
  Your goal of the game, without getting into too much detail, is to become the #1 blacklist racer. 
 You start out unranked. To take on each blacklister, you have to win a certain amount of races, 
 complete pursuit milestones, and rack up some bounty on yourself. Each time you beat a blacklister, 
 new parts and cars will be available, and sometimes you will unlock new areas.
  
  At the beginning, some of the races are won fairly easy, but they definatley get tougher as you 
 progress. You can jump right to races in this game, unlike NFSU 2 where you had to drive to everything. 
 This game introduces new races, like Speedtrap and Tollbooth. In Speedtrap, your speed is recorded 
 at certain checkpoints, and whoever has the highest speed total wins. In Tollbooth, its basically 
 a time trial. But you have to reach each tollbooth in a certain amount of time or the trial is 
 over. 
  
  The pursuits in this game are awesome. You can have a handful of cops after you, or maybe 20 or 
 more once you get a lot of heat on your car. Your car gains 'heat' when you cause trouble during 
 chases, and it stays with you. If you dont use that car for awhie, or do something to alter its 
 appearance, its heat level lowers.
  
  If you get far enough away from the cops, you enter Cooldown mode. During this time, you have to 
 find a place to lay low until the Cooldown bar hits 100% which will end the pursuit sucessfully. 
 Certain hiding spots on the map (like car wash bays, etc) , will speed up your Cooldown by a lot. 
 As your heat gets greater, the chases get harder. Rhino SUV units are called in, which have no 
 problem hitting you head on and stopping you in your tracks. Spike strips and helicopters are called 
 in as well. You better have a good lawyer if you get caught.
  
  I dont have many complaints about this game. I had a problem racing in some areas because there 
 was so much shadow. I tried adjusting the "Time of day" bar which makes the sun set higher or something, 
 and it reduced the shadows so I could actually see the track. There isnt a whole lot of customization 
 here. Instead of just buying a bumper, you have to buy the whole body kit. The endless customization 
 of NFSU 2 was about the only thing I liked about that game. Too bad NFS MW doesnt have it. At least 
 in this version they dont give you a visual rating. So you dont have to worry about affixing those 
 damn park bench shaped aircraft wings on your trunk just to get a high rating. 
  
  Another thing that bothers me isnt about the game so much, but more with EA's marketing. Why did 
 they release a regular version of this game, and a "Black Edition"? From what I hear the only difference 
 is more cars and tracks. Since they were released basically at the same time.... couldnt they have 
 made ONE game with ALL of the cars and tracks? Shame on EA for this marketing scheme. 
  
  Any fan of Need for Speed will enjoy this game. This is my favorite game on the 360 so far, and 
 I cant stop playing it. 
  
  **If you found this review helpful, please rate me with the thumbs up or thumbs down, I enjoy writing 
 game reviews, so this helps, thanks. ** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jomamawantsdis1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  this gaming is great just because the reviews on gamespot say that it is an 8.4 i dont think so. 
 Its very addictive. I have been playing for hours pissin off the police upgrading my car to look 
 very sexyyyyy. One of the best things of this game besides graphics and gameplay., is the story. 
 this game has an excellent storyline that will keep you entertained for days/hours/weeks/months/years 
 (depends on how fast you beat games. Online is pretty fun and the story is long for max entertainment. 
 I hate those kinds of people that think that PGR3 is better. The sad part is that IT ISNT. I have 
 played it the graphics are better but the gameplay and every thing else SUCKS. This is a great 
 game, what are you doing reading this review you should get off your butt run over to a video game 
 store and buy it. COME ON EVERY SECOND YOUR READING THIS REVIEW YOUR MISSING OUT ON THE FUN COME 
 ON THE REST OF THIS is boring get the game, get the game, get the game, get the game, get the game, 
 get the game, get the game, get the game, get the game, get the game, get the game, get the game, 
 get the game, get the game, get the game, get the game, get the game, get the game, get the game, 
 get the game, get the game, get the game, get the game, get the game, get the game, get the game, 
 get the game, and uhhhhhhhhhh get the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GotRaceGames
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 6:05 pm PT
Review:  This for the most part is what i expected from EA when it comes to the NFS series. i have played 
 them all and i have enjoyed them all, but to me it seems that this one has a few minor details 
 that make the gameplay a little anoying. 
  
  First off when you are doing the tollbooth runs look at the timer when you go through. the time 
 extension is not on with the actually time extension you get. some times it will say you get 10 
 seconds extention when it means you get 1 min. it just a minor detail but when you are playing 
 and you see that 10 seconds you think o SH** i dont got time to finish. 
  
  The second has to do with the cops when you are working on your bounty. this might just be me complaining 
 and in fact is what EA wanted to do but i think that if you can blow your tires out on the spike 
 strips then why the hell cant the cops. i have been busted to many times by cops who just drive 
 over the strip and smash into me. like i said its just a little detail but when you are dealing 
 with a consol so amazing why not fix it. i mean cops are invincable.
  
  The only other problem i see with the game is that when they came out with it they marketed to 
 "tune up your import to race against the exotics". now given that yes you can have a import that 
 is damn fast and good enough to beat the game. but after that a import just doesnt get you where 
 you need to go online. everyone online runs the Porches and lambos and a couple lotuses but what 
 about the imports. not to many people run imports and those who do like me are finding that even 
 when you got all you can get you still are haveing to run a perfect run even to be in a postion 
 to win against exotics. so my question is why market to import people when in actuallity the imports 
 cant keep up? just seems silly to me. Nuf said still a great game and i will probably get next 
 installment i mean NFS is still a great title.
  
  Also is it just me or do the graphics start to shutter and everything slow down when you go under 
 trees and stuff like the game is trying to catch up with the car. maybe i only one who notices 
 this.
  P. S HEAD SHOT NO SCOPE!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilan123456
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:44 pm PT
Review:  write ww w w www www wwwwwwww wwwwwwww wwwwwwwww wwwwwwwww wwww w w w w w w w wwwww ww w ww w w 
 ww w w w w ww www w w www wwww wwww wwww www wwww wwwww wwwww wwww wwwww wwwwww wwwwww wwwwww wwwww 
 wwwww wwww w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w ww w w w w w w w ww w w w e e e e r 
 r r t t y y y y y u u u i i i oo o wqq q qqq qw w w w w w w w e e e e e r r t t t t t ty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:25 pm PT
Review:  If you played NFS Underground 2 you know what your getting, a hell of a lot of game, fast cars, 
 and good graphics. Don't get me wrong the graphics look great but they don't impress me after playing 
 PGR3. The thing that sets this game apart is the lighting it is incredible. The sound isn't half 
 bad but I was expecting better. This game has a really long career mode and the challenge mode 
 takes a few hours too so it is well worth the money as far as length goes. There aren't many customization 
 options which I don't like. The police chases add so much to the game. They are really intense and 
 just plain fun. 
  
  Bottom Line: I would have been happier with NFS Underground 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaach11687
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 6:05 am PT
Review:  Game play: The game plays great. Great controls and fun cars to choose from. But again they use 
 last games most annoying feature. The free-drive feature which makes you root around the city heading 
 to the next race. At first i was liking the "Police Chases" but soon after they were just getting 
 me more P. O. then when the vilian in the game talked trash.
  
  Graphcs/Sounds: Graphics looked good. Especialy on all the hot cars to choose from. The cars really 
 looking and sound amazing also. From the screeching of the tires to the hissing of the turbo.
 
  
  Value: Long and action pack story line and indepth online play makes this game last and long time 
 to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markt50
Rating: 2.9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:23 am PT
Review:  This game has a big problem on the 360. There is something wrong with the framerate, it's not that 
 the games framerate constantly gets low. The problem is that it stutters for a fraction of a second, 
 but it does this all the time making the game almost unplayable for me. I've tried this at normal 
 res, 720p and 1280x1024 via VGA cable and they all stutter.
  
  Maybe it's only picked up by certain people who are more sensitive to this kind of thing but it 
 completely spoiled what looks to be an above average racer.
  
  The graphics themselves seem nice and crisp, the cars handle ok, obviously very arcadey but they 
 seem solid enough.
  
  Unfortunately the problems with the framerate mean I just cannot bring myself to play the game.
 
  
  My overall opinion is the game has been rushed for release, with a bit more development time I'm 
 sure the problems could have been fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan29
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:03 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are sweet but not PGR3 sweet but they are still prudy. Nice array of kinds of races 
 some a bit harder than others but they are all pretty easy. The higher your heat level the intenser 
 the police chases are and you will want the get your heat level at least level three to get the 
 most out of the police chases. The blacklist has some werid names and i think its a little too 
 short and its also very nice when you get your rivals car becase on some ocasions the parts may 
 not be availble yet or in one case the car isnt even availble. Overall its the best game in the 
 series and probally the second must have racing game for you new shiney XBOX 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_pimpin32
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 9:18 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all, the best graphics and even better when playin on hdtv. Really good sound 
 when playin on a surround system, perfect gameplay, especially when pressin the x-button, it does 
 the slo motion to the car to make it look realistic, looks like the matrix. I love this game I 
 highly recommend this game to everyone that loves racing games and if you need some action in yo 
 life. Plus the buttons are easy to use once you play it for the 1st time, its not that hard to 
 get the hang of it. Plus it even has the elegant cars and you can fix them up. For example, the 
 Lamborghini Gallardo, Porsche 911 turbo, Astin Martin Vanquish V8, and much more cars. This game 
 is really realistic, especially when you can see the reflection of other cars on your car. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConMan09
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted is one of the best games for the Xbox 360 and is the best Need for Speed 
 game ever. In this game you fight your way to the top of the most wanted list and you have to also 
 fight your way to the top of the racing list. Beat your enemies and unlock the best cars. Not to 
 forget you can just cruise around any where you want, plus when your in free roam you can have 
 a huge police chase. But now to what the game is like. The graphics are truely life like and the 
 environment is also to real. The sound is amazing!! You hear the zoom or the crash as if you were 
 really there. The controlls are fun and easy to use. But overall this is a great racing game and 
 a great game overall. So go out and get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spooner007
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This is a great choice of game if you are looking to build your dream rice burner. Starting from 
 something that grandma drives around town going to the supermarket, to something that would impress 
 some of the greatest nascar drivers. My wife got this game because of the Mustang 05 all prettied 
 up and ready to role. When starting this game it is challenging to get going. Getting money and 
 racing with grandmas car is hard, but when you finaly get some money to soup up your car so you 
 can out run some of those pesky smokies. Key to outrunning them is starting with one or two and 
 taking them out before you get to many of them around you. They will pretty much do anything that 
 you do around the game. So have fun rockin n' rollen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fulltime_Killer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is really easy to get into and really fun! You get a great sense of speed and blur effects. 
 Its fun upgrading your cars and trying to become the most wanted. The one major problem is the 
 acting. They use real life images for it... and it sucks. The sound track is ok, its a mix of rap 
 and rock. Over all its a fun game that will keep you intertained with its 60 or so cars. The multiplayer 
 is fun and you can race people online. Over all its a fun game but it dose not re-write the racing 
 gerne. I defintally say buy though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StArKaStiK
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 27, 2005 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Not a bad game at all to tell you the truth. The cutscenes are outstanding, with real voice overs 
 and the graphics are just incredible. But then the gameplay kicks in and its a whole different 
 story. First off dont get me wrong, this game is great, the racing is off the wall, and the sense 
 of speed is way better that need for speed underground 1 & 2. But there are some technical problems. 
 First off i noticed that sometimes the framerate drops due to the graphics, i find it strange but 
 its not that bad. The A. I is straight foward in the beginning, but then towards the end becomes 
 VERY smart. The story couldnt have been better, i really liked it. Way better than need for speed 
 1 & 2. If your looking for an arcade racer to enjoy for the weekends, or even to buy, get this 
 one, it wont dissapoint underground fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Every good hardware launch needs a great-looking driving game. With the increased graphical power 
 that new hardware tends to provide, we've got yet another test bed for just how realistic computer-rendered 
 cars can actually look. For the release of the Xbox 360, Electronic Arts is serving up the latest 
 installment in its long-running racing series, Need for Speed Most Wanted. Its high-speed races 
 and police chases make for an extremely exciting game, which is further enhanced by the game's 
 terrific graphics. This is one of those games that makes the previous generation of hardware look 
 older than it actually is. 
  
  
  This racing game is broken up into multiple parts, but the largest part of the puzzle is the game's 
 story-driven career mode. You'll start out as the new guy in town, attempting to work your way 
 up in the city's illegal street racing scene. That scene lives and dies by the Blacklist, a top-15 
 ranking list that lets you know who the most notorious racer in Rockport is. The beginning of the 
 game serves as a prologue. You attempt to run up against the number-15 racer, Razor Callahan, but 
 this jerk isn't about to give up his spot. When you attempt to take him on, his boys tamper with 
 your BMW and you lose the race, your car, and your freedom, as the cops quickly haul you in. Before 
 long, though, you're back on the streets and starting fresh, thanks to the help of a mysterious 
 woman named Mia. 
  
  After you're back out and starting over again, the game's story is conveyed mostly via voicemail 
 and text messages from the various racers. But the entire prologue is delivered to you as a series 
 of easy races broken up by full-motion video cutscenes. These scenes mix CG cars and environments 
 with live actors. It's a neat-looking effect, but the best part of the whole game has to be the 
 characters and performances, because the acting -- especially from Razor and his homeboy Ronnie -- is 
 completely over the top and ridiculous. They're amazingly hilarious, and really make you wonder 
 if the comedy is intentional or not. Either way, they look neat and they're fully insane, and it's 
 a real shame that there isn't more of it. 
  
  Your career mode goal is to work your way to the top of the blacklist and take out Razor, who has 
 used your old car to get to the top spot. You'll have to take on each member of the list, one at 
 a time, but you'll also have to prove yourself by completing a series of races and other milestones 
 before you can face off against a Blacklister. The races are standard and come in a few different 
 varieties. Circuit races and sprints are as basic as they come. Knockout races eliminate the last-place 
 racer at the end of each lap until only one remains. Tollbooth races are checkpoint races against 
 the clock. Drag racing is similar to how it's been in the last couple of Need for Speed games, 
 focusing more on proper shifting and dodging traffic. Speed-trap races put a series of speed cameras 
 on the track. Your speed is clocked at each point and added to your overall score, and the highest 
 score at the end of the track wins. Each of the race types is slightly different, but the speed 
 trap and drag races are the only ones to make you rethink your racing strategy. 
  
  The racing is fun, but the game's artificial intelligence sort of gets in the way at times. The 
 three computer-controlled racers are definitely programmed to keep it close. If you fall behind, 
 they'll usually slow up or make a mistake that lets you regain the lead. If you're in the lead, 
 the AI rarely fouls up, ensuring that there's usually someone on your tail. It makes most of the 
 races really easy -- we set the controller down for 20 seconds and were still easily able to catch 
 up and win the race. However, the game suddenly gets harder when you hit the top five on the Blacklist. 
 The cars still stay on your tail, but they know every shortcut and don't stay too close after they 
 get ahead of you. It's a sudden and dramatic shift, and a more gradual difficulty slope would have 
 probably worked better here. 
  
  In addition to your race victories, you also have an overall bounty on your head and milestones 
 to achieve on the open streets of the city. The police are a major presence in Most Wanted. They'll 
 occasionally appear in the middle of a race, which makes the races more hectic and exciting. But 
 the real excitement comes from engaging in police chases outside of races. Once you've been spotted, 
 it takes some fancy driving to lose the cops. Chases usually start with just one car on your tail. 
 But as you resist, you might find 20 cars giving chase, in addition to a chopper flying overhead. 
 Losing the cops gets tougher as your heat level rises. Level-one heat results in the appearance 
 of just your standard squad cars. But by the time you get up to level five, you'll be dealing with 
 roadblocks, spike strips, helicopters, and federal-driven Corvettes. A meter at the bottom of the 
 screen indicates how close you are to losing the cops or getting busted. Stopping your car -- or 
 having it stopped for you by spike strips or getting completely boxed in by cops -- is how you'll 
 get busted. 
  
  To actually get away, you'll need to get out of visual range... and stay there. The initial evasion 
 changes the meter over to a cooldown meter. You'll have to lay low and wait for that meter to fill 
 up to end the chase. This is probably the tensest part of the entire chase, because you never know 
 when two cops might blow around the corner and spot you, starting the whole process over again. 
 It all sort of works like some sort of strange, wonderful cross between Grand Theft Auto's open 
 city and Metal Gear Solid's stealth mechanic. All the while, you'll be acquiring heat on your car. 
 This means that you'll have to keep a couple of cars around, because acquiring heat on one car 
 lowers the heat on the others. Also, getting busted too many times can result in your car getting 
 impounded, though you can avoid that by resetting the system whenever you get caught (if that's 
 more your speed) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassplayer27800
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 11:44 am PT
Review:  I am usually not a big fan of racing games, but I was like, what the heck I have some extra cash 
 so I'll buy it. I made the right decision. This is an excellent racing game, I love it. All the 
 cars, cities, and the whole environment look amazing in this game. In gamespot's review they said 
 something about stutters, skips, what ever they call it in the graphics. I have not seen any of 
 those. I also have to talk about how great the people look in this game. I was amazed. The sound 
 is awsome with all the car revs and all the noises of the engines and everything. It is just a 
 plain fun game. Make sure to pick a copy up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbuzman89
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 27, 2005 11:11 am PT
Review:  This is the best Need for Speed game their is. The cops are just amazing and i love being chased 
 by them and then evading them. I hope that they put cops in the future need for speed games cause 
 for one it is fun to out run them and two it makes the game more realistic. That is a huge upgrade 
 in my opinion in the need for speed series. The story i think is incrediable. Another upgrade is 
 the awesome new cars you can choose from. I love the mustang but i also love a lot of other cars 
 in that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AncientNecro
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 17, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Need For Speed: Most Wanted, I was amazed by its picture quality and game-play. 
 I remember thinking that it was amazing and revolutionary... I look back and am dissappointed.
 
  
  This new action-packed game surpasses its predecessor in only one way: its improved graphics. The 
 graphics are much more impressive on most wanted, even on a standard television. The graphics and 
 slightly improved sound do not outweigh the several faults of the game. The game-play is so similar 
 to previous need for speeds that its almost unbearable. The only noticeable differences are the 
 city layout and the challenges to overcome. The final and possibly most game-ruining fault of Most 
 Wanted is the repetitive steps of beating a member on the Black List (all require certain numbers 
 of landmarks and races completed, usually just more laps than the las) .
  
  In all this game is fun to play but if you have already played any Need For Speed games this one 
 will only remind you of your dislikes for the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotgun247
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:43 am PT
Review:  This game is AWESOME. Right from the start you love it once you start playing you dont want to 
 put it down. I think what makes this game so good is that you can use free roam just like you could 
 if you have played Need for Speed Underground 2. If you have been reading up on this game then 
 you will know hwta i mean when I say blacklist member. Another thing that makes this game good 
 is that When you beat a blacklist member you get a
  chance to win their car or get some cash and a get out of Jail free card. This game i would reccommmend 
 totally. You will love it right from the start. Go out and buy it!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 25, 2005 12:41 am PT
Review:  At first i t was very angry with this game. I could not steer cause the analog stick is very sensitive. 
 Then i realized you have to keep your thumb off and tap it to turn. The gameplay is great fun, 
 allthough they could make it harder. The graphics are good for the 360, and the sound is great. 
 GET THIS GAME GET IT GET IT GET IT GET IT GET IT GET IT GET IT GET IT GET IT GET IT GET IT GET 
 IT YEA YEA ITS GOOD BUY IT, WOOH GOOD GET IT OK BYE NOW GO BYE IT RIGHT NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cwesty21
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 24, 2005 1:25 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a need for speed with cops and this is finally what ive been waiting for. 
 SIngle player lasts 10 + hours and it never gets boring. You switch cars often because the cops 
 start to relize who you are, so you dont want to reveal who you are. The cars never lose any framerate 
 no matter if theres 10 cars in the pictures or just one. I am on my new gamertag and i have already 
 beat nfsmw and im beating it again.
  
  The sound for this game is very cool because you here the cops talking in there special language ( 
 10 4, etc) This makes it seem like you are really about to get arrested. I couldnt be more happy 
 about the sound:)
  
  
  The online play for nfsmw is not as good as pg3 if youre looking for good stat tracking and other 
 online options, but all the fun races are carried over to the online portion of nfsmw. I wouldnt 
 spend 60 bucks on this game if you play games 3 hours a day because single player will end quick. 
 But if you rent or buy you wont be dissapointed.:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  If theres one franchise that you can expect to make at least one appearance on every system, its 
 more than likely going to be Need for Speed. EAs long-running racing series is taken to new heights 
 with the fast, beautiful and next-gen Need for Speed: Most Wanted for the Xbox 360. Most Wanted 
 serves up everything youd want out of a rock-solid racer and then some. 
  
  In Most Wanted, you play as a newcomer to the city of Rockport. Almost instantly, youre introduced 
 to the games main characters and the attitude of the city. Among the characters youre introduced 
 to include Mia Townsend-a young and attractive young lady who helps you out throughout career mode. 
 Youre also given a rather unpleasant but oddly humorous introduction to Sergeant Cross-the big 
 boss of the police force who aims to rid Rockport of anything that involves street racing. Then 
 theres Razor, the big jerk of the scene who wants you out of the street racing scene ASAP. When 
 you first challenge Razor you lose the race along with your car after he messes with it. After 
 winning your car, Razor uses it to become number one on the Blacklist. Obviously, you want to get 
 revenge on him, but youll need to put in a lot of effort in order to beat Razor and get your car 
 back. 
  
  One attribute that Most Wanted has that other racing games dont is an actual story. While the 
 story isnt anything that will rival say Tom Clancys works its decent enough to help the game 
 stand out among most racers that have no plot whatsoever. Most of the games plot is told through 
 text messages and audio logs featuring voices from characters in the game. However, youll be treated 
 to the occasional full-motion-video cutscene to tell a few points in the story. These videos are 
 done very well visually and offer a few good chuckles here and there. After the first few cutscenes 
 youll really want to get revenge on Razor right then and there. The game creates a somewhat infuriating 
 feeling that will push you to defeat the other blacklist racers and get right to Razor. This is 
 one of the key factors to what makes Most Wanted such an engaging racer. 
  
  Now, some of you might be wondering what the blacklist is. In a nutshell, the blacklist is a list 
 of the fifteen most wanted racers within the city of Rockport. In order to challenge a blacklist 
 racer you must complete specific objectives set by each blacklist racer. Youll need to win a certain 
 number of races, gain enough milestones and rack up your bounty before you can race a blacklist 
 racer. Milestones are specific objectives that you must complete within a single police chase. 
 These milestones range from tagging a certain number of cop cars, running through multiple roadblocks 
 or spike-strips, owing the city money in the form of bounty and so forth. You gain bounty by causing 
 destruction to the city and disabling cop cars. After you win enough races, complete enough milestones 
 and gain enough bounty youll be allowed to challenge a blacklist racer in a series of races. After 
 beating a blacklist racer you get to choose between two markers. These range from unlocking visual 
 and performance upgrades, extra cash, or even a blacklists car. 
  
  What Most Wanted brings back to the Need for Speed formula is not only racing in the daylight but 
 also the cops. For the racing, youll take part in your typical circuit, lap knockout and sprint 
 races as well as the popular drag mode, which is much tougher thanks to the outrageously increased 
 traffic magnitude. Drift has been removed but you could say its been replaced by the tollbooth 
 challenges. Tollbooth challenges have you race through various areas and pass tollbooths to gain 
 extra time until you reach the finish line. While the tollbooth challenges are simple theyre surprisingly 
 fun and my personal favorite racing mode. While the races themselves in Most Wanted are fun, its 
 the cop chases that really make Most Wanted such a mind-blowing experience. Youll get to take 
 part in multiple cop chases throughout the game. As you progress the cop chases will only get tougher. 
 To enter a cop chase you can either drive dangerously around in free roam and look around for a 
 cop until he notices you or just select a milestone to complete or select an area to gain bounty. 
 How difficult a pursuit will be depends on your cars heat level. If you have a low heat level 
 on one car then youll deal with painless cop chases. However, if you have a high heat level on 
 the car youre using then youll be dealing with some pretty relentless pursuits. You can change 
 the look of your car to make it less distinguishable to the cops and lower your heat level. This 
 of course puts a heavy emphasis on the customization. However, the customization in Most Wanted 
 is unfortunately far less robust than the Underground games
  
  Your heat level is measured by how reckless you are in cop chases and how long a chase lasts. There 
 are a total of six heat levels to be found in Most Wanted. The first heat level has you dealing 
 with regular cruisers that merely try to keep up with you and attempt to run you off-road. Heat 
 level two has you deal with undercover cruisers that are slightly tougher than the cruisers in 
 the first heat level. By the time youve reached the third heat level youll be dealing with custom 
 GTO units which are fairly tough to ditch and will also unleash roadblocks to slow you down as 
 well as use light SUVs to ram into you. With heat level four youll be dealing with undercover 
 GTO cops, multiple roadblocks and spike strips, heavier SUV units and the haunting cop chopper. 
 Deal with the fifth heat level and youre dealing with every street racers nightmare-highly customized 
 Corvette C6 units, constant spike-strips, and a chopper that will try to ram you off-road aggressively. 
 The final heat level offered only at the end of the game has you deal with undercover Corvettes, 
 highly-tuned SUVs, a relentless chopper and worst of all-Sergeant Cross leading the pack. 
  
  However, dont expect to be able to get to the higher heat levels before beating the first 
 blacklist racer. The game sets a standard heat level depending on your progression so that you 
 wont be over-challenged. Not to mention dealing with Corvettes before the first blacklist racer 
 would be suicide. While the cop chases dont get particularly intense until heat level three, most 
 of the time youll be dealing with cops at that level or higher. Nonetheless, each pursuit from 
 start to finish provides exciting and fast thrills that other racing games simply cant deliver. 
 About the only problem with the cops is when they join in random races. While most races you take 
 part in are just regular street races, the cops will occasionally come in. However, when they do 
 enter a race they seem to just follow you throughout the race. After beating a race and if you 
 have a cop on your tail then youll be put into a regular pursuit and thats when the cops use 
 their real techniques again. This problem doesnt do much to drain the experience out of the game, 
 but it is noticeable.
  
  To help you see how far you are from getting busted or evading the cops, youre provided with a 
 helpful evade/busted meter at the bottom of the HUD. If youre about to get out of the cops sight 
 youll see the meter lean towards evade. However, if youre boxed in or wreck your car and find 
 yourself surrounded by cops the meter will get closer to busted. If youre meter reaches the 
 end of evade itll change to a cool-down meter. While the cool-down meter is on youll need to 
 keep a low profile in order to actually end the pursuit. You can enter marked hiding spots that 
 will fill the cool-down meter much faster. Or, if you find a safehouse-where you store your cars 
 you can end the pursuit by entering one of those. Thankfully, you dont just have your car to try 
 and ditch the cops; youll be able to use pursuit-breakers to leave the cops in the dust. Pursuit-breakers 
 are various obstacles scattered all around Rockport that, when you drive into one will cause a 
 chain reaction that will hopefully render most, if not all of the cop cars following you useless. 
 These range from radio towers, gas stations, water-towers and my personal favorite, collapsing 
 a giant donut from a donuts shop. In the event that you do get busted your car will be given an 
 impound strike and youll need to pay for the damage you owe in the form of your bounty. However, 
 you can use markers that you get from blacklist racers to pay for the bounty or pay with your own 
 money if you run out of markers. If your car gets three impound strikes itll be taken to the impound 
 lot until you can regain it. 
  
  As you may expect from an Xbox 360 game, Most Wanted dishes up some impressive visuals. The car 
 models; which have been laser-scanned from their real-life counterparts, look superb. If you look 
 closely, youll notice that you can see the inside of your car while racing, unless you have tint 
 on your car. Theres also limited damage modeling on each car. While your car wont get much more 
 than some scrapes and broken windows the fact that there is any damage is a nice little bonus. 
 Also, when your car does take damage, itll depend on how hard you crash. For instance, you might 
 ram into a car and just receive scrapes on the front bumper. But, if you ram, say a large truck 
 at full force your car will not only get scrapes but also damaged windows, even the traffic itself 
 receives damage. The cop cars also take damage, a lot of it. The damage cop cars take works similar 
 to your car, only they take far more. If you slam into the side a cop car next to you youll more 
 than likely shred some glass off of them or even make them lose their door. When you disable a 
 cop car youll notice that it might lose tires or wheels and that the engine will be smoking. These 
 damage effects help fortify the excitement of the cop chases and will very easily impress the gamer 
 when crashing through roadblocks and T-boning cop cars (ramming into the side of a car head-on) 
 as I like to call it. 
  
  As if great damage effects werent enough, theres also plenty of great detail and textures in 
 Most Wanted. The cars look nice and vastly detailed, as well as the environments. Youll see various 
 textures on the environments like cracks all over the road, sharp-looking buildings, and great 
 detail on the numerous pursuit-breakers. Not only does Most Wanted have plenty of great detail, 
 but theres also excellent lighting used in the game. Constantly youll see reflections on your 
 car change drastically. And thanks to the games dawn-to-dusk cycle, youll see your car get dimmer 
 and lighter while racing around. The shadowing is also put to good use in Most Wanted. When speeding 
 under trees and buildings youll see your car get darker and reflect not only the shade of the 
 trees but also any sunlight that exposes through them quite accurately. Most Wanted also has a 
 great sense of speed once you unlock the faster cars. The blur effects and slightly shaky camera 
 make for some great racing and pursuit thrills. Even with the all the chaos, speed and visual flair, 
 Most Wanted runs at a steady framerate and rarely dips. The damage effects, crisp detail, along 
 with excellent lighting and shadowing help make Most Wanted one of the most impressive-looking 
 Xbox 360 launch titles. 
  
  So, what exactly will you be hearing while playing Most Wanted you might ask? Well, youll be hearing 
 a lot, and most of what youll hear is good. The voice-acting is fitting because, well, the actual 
 voice actors were used in the full-motion-video cutscenes. Nonetheless, the voice-actors/actresses 
 add their own personality to improve the delivery of their performances. For instance, not only 
 is Mia good eye-candy, but her voice in the audio logs is always welcoming and positive; as opposed 
 to the negative and awful slang used in the Underground games. There are also plenty of police 
 voice-overs while youre in a pursuit, which sound strikingly authentic to cops in real-life. The 
 cars in Most Wanted sound pretty accurate to their real-life counterparts. Youll notice various 
 changes in the tune of each cars exhaust after putting performance upgrades on them. The rest 
 of the sound effects in Most Wanted are pretty good, some above-standard stuff here and there. 
 Youll hear plenty of tire-squeaking, crash thuds as well as some fairly impressive glass-shattering, 
 explosions, and crash noises when running into cop cars as well as pursuit-breakers. However, the 
 soundtrack leaves much to be desired, especially in the face of the nicely-done sound effects. 
 The only music youll get out of Most Wanteds soundtrack is mainstream rap and nu metal. Bands 
 like Nine Thou, Avenged Sevenfold, TI, and Celldweller can be found in this edition of EA Trax. 
 The bands and artists featured are pretty mainstream, but the overall package of the soundtrack 
 just isnt near good enough to compliment the game. With that, youll want to use your custom soundtrack 
 option for this game. However, aside from the games music Most Wanted sounds pretty good and is 
 well-worth using the surround sound on. 
  
  Most Wanted is a pretty challenging and lengthy game. The games AI is a mixed bag between the 
 dumb and aggressive. The racing AI while isnt too difficult and your opponents are generally easy 
 to pass. However, when youre dealing the cops, at the higher heat levels at least, youll be putting 
 up with some pretty tense situations. The cops at the higher heat levels offer some tough and long 
 challenges that will have you running from cops in ten minute-plus pursuits by the end of the game. 
 Cops will constantly ram into you, trying to force you off-road, box you in and even push you into 
 a spike-strip. The game will take you a good twelve to sixteen hours to beat. One rather disappointing 
 part of the challenges in Most Wanted is that you cant increase or decrease the difficulty, its 
 one regular difficulty. While this characteristic isnt exactly smart the game almost never seems 
 to be too hard or too easy for any gamer to beat. After beating career mode you can head to the 
 Challenge Series for some more single-player action. The Challenge Series is a sixty-eight event 
 mode that will give you specific objectives in a randomly chosen car. Youll get to use the same 
 car twice in a row in the Challenge Series-one for a tollbooth event and one for a pursuit. The 
 Challenge Series adds some good replay value to the game and will take a few good hours to beat 
 all of the challenges. However, Most Wanted has one glaring flaw that most racing games are plagued 
 by: mediocre multiplayer. While you could say the cops make the game for career mode, you cant 
 be a cop in, single-player or multiplayer-wise. Therefore, multiplayer is reduced to regular racing 
 in stock cars or cars from your safehouse as youre restricted from customizing cars in Quick Race 
 mode. 
  
  While Most Wanted does have some disappointing faults the game itself is a real thrill ride. With 
 excellent graphics, a decent storyline and the most intense and exciting cop chases ever experienced, 
 Most Wanted is arguably the best Need for Speed game to date. If you like fun and engaging arcade-style 
 racers with fairly realistic physics, Id highly recommend Most Wanted to you. In fact, even if 
 youre a fan of racing games in-general Id still recommend Most Wanted. This is one of those games 
 that you simply have to play to fully comprehend what it delivers. And after the disappointment 
 of Underground 2, Id say EA have redeemed themselves. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdefx
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 7:31 am PT
Review:  my favorite games were the hot pursuit series, and this is a great mix of things that have been 
 brought into the underground games like car customize, upgrade, and the things of old; cop chases, 
 circuit racing, no wimpy drag races. i love going fast and running from the police. im also diggin 
 the size of the map we can drive across now. EA turned out a really good game in this release. 
 This makes me feel like im playing hot pursuit throwin into the graphics and style of the underground. 
 I played this on my friends laptop and got immediately hooked, so i proceeded to download the xbox360 
 demo. the graphics blew me away. It makes me wonder what the games coming out in the future will 
 bring if this is just the launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninja_ferrit
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  OK, so this isn't amazing stuff, but it's fun and thats what games are all about. This game is 
 literally good old adrenaline fueled NFS action, made even more intense by the police chases... 
 which can range from a few squad cars chasing you, to a full blown chase including police corvettes 
 and helicopters! The online mode on this game is a bit poor, and the modding, seems to lack the 
 variety of NFS: UG2 but what it lacks in variety, it gains in quality, the mods now look very nice, 
 with some really nice body kits and paint jobs! Overall this is a solid launch title, nothing AMAZING, 
 but still fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tweety290
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I love the graphics and the cars and the graphics on the cars.... I dont like how they took out 
 the street racin where if u see anotha guy drivin.. u challenge him... and how the story would 
 end and there was nothin left to do.. BUT WAT I HATE MOST OF ALL is that they only SHOWED JOSIE 
 MARAN a COUPLE of TIMES... WHEN U HAVE A GIRL THAT HOT... u KEEP on SHOWIN HER in the game... thats 
 for the next game... othawise it's a tight game.. i like the customization.. and everythin... i 
 noticed the backround had some great graphics like the mountains and the trees at a far distance... 
 looked like southern california.. my home... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crshnbrn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 21, 2005 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Hot Pursuit + Underground series = Most Wanted!!
  In this new addition to the NFS series, they kept the style of the underground series, threw in 
 police, and made the races in the day time. All around the game is beautiful, especially if played 
 in HD (graphics score is for HD quality) .
  
  NFS: Underground I & II were my favorite NFS games.... that was until Most Wanted came out. I'm 
 not much of a racing fan, but something just draws me to those three games. Could it be the illegal 
 street racing? maybe. Or could it be the car customization? definitely!! 
  
  Not only do the police show up in MW, but so does some car dmg. By some I mean, you can scratch 
 the side of your car or bust your windshield. Oh and don't forget you can put cop cars out of commission. 
 Maybe the next game will focus on car dmg!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geoffdallas
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 21, 2005 1:38 pm PT
Review:  I love the game, and have played it more than any other game I own for 360. This is mostly because 
 it is super addicting. Everything that made Underground so much fun to keep coming back to returns 
 in Most Wanted better than ever.
  
  The racing mechanics are good, not amazing or groundbreaking, but solid. There is a plethora of 
 racing options, most are the usual, some nice new features. The drag is the only one that really 
 breaks off of the normal driving mechanic, and its a good distraction, but not a big part of the 
 game. 
  
  The cop chases are probably the best part of the game. Very intense and cinematic, especially when 
 you get into the higher heat levels. The first time you run through a gas station blowing up the 
 cops behind you, you'll know that this game is a keeper.
  
  The story is also awesome and really drives the game along and keeps you playing. The cutscenes 
 are AMAZING. You really have to watch them to understand. The acting is purposely over the top 
 and hilarious at times and all the voices are really well done. It really adds to the immersion 
 factor overall.
  
  There are some things that I dont like so much. I may be spoiled by Burnout, but the collisions 
 are so so, vehicle damage on your own car is minimal and running headon with a van does nothing 
 other than slow you down a bit. Overall though a really good game and lots of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Locke_Seven
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2005 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I new I needed a racing game, to my dismay NFS; MW was the only one Wal-Mart had in stock, so I 
 forced myself to pick it up and try it. Well all I have to say is WOW. I couldn't set the controller 
 down, I was hooked all day and night. Everything from upgrading your engine to painting your car. 
 Racing in the street to running from cops. This games got it, I was very happy to see some added 
 things that Underground 2 did not have. Such as when you finish a race, you go straight back into 
 Free Roaming where the race ended, which adds alot of reality to the atmosphere of the game. 
 
  
  The only thing I thought was alittle bad about the game is the controls seemed alittle sluggish, 
 compared to some of the other NFS games I have played. Other than that A GREAT GAME!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielthoday
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2005 2:34 am PT
Review:  YES YES NFSMW IS CERTAINLY A MUST HAVE LAUNCH TILE WITH THE GRAPHICS ,CUT SCENES DIVERSITY LIKE 
 NEVER BEFORE . 
  
  WITH A NICE AND LARGE LINE UP OF CARS AND SHED LOADS OF ADD ONS AND TUNING KITS ,VINYLS ,PAINT 
 TYPES .... MAN THERE IS SO DAMN MUCH TO SAY ..... LOL 
  
  SPEEDING AROUND TOWN ATTRACTS POLICE ATTENTION EVEN DURING RACES AND BLACKLIST RIVAL CHALLENGES 
 AND THIS CAN MAKE LIFE VERY VERY HARD ...
  
  THIS GAME IS SO EASY TO GET INTO BUT SO HARD TO COMPLET ONCE U GET TO LIKE 40 PERCENT COMPLETION 
 THATS WHEN YOU WILL NOTICE RACES GETTING SERIOUS !!! 
  
  DONT FORGET TO CATCH ALL THE BEST TUNES AND MIXES ON WWW. RAPTUREFM. CO. UK FROM THE WHOLE GANG ... 
 PEACE OUT ! 
  
  DAN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemesis1625
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 18, 2005 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This is the need four speed I've been waiting for. The police chases are what puts this game over 
 the top. Also on the 360 the graphics are unbelievable. I have the black version for the regular 
 xbox and it 's great, but the 360 version blows it away in every way. The engine sounds of each 
 car are destinct and personalized to eacjh car. I only wish it had the same customization features 
 as underground 2. I wish they fleshed out the back story of the blacklist drivers, that would make 
 it a little more gradifing when you take them down. thats just a minor complant though. This is 
 definatly a game i can't wait for the sequal for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Arbiter4444
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  NFS: Most Wanted brings to the table all that you would expect from a Next-Gen driving game, from 
 it's very addictive career mode, to it's intense races and police pursuits that will get your adrenaline 
 going and leave you breathless, this game has it all.
  
  The Graphics
  Look believably like real life, and are stunningly lifelike and well detailed, this is one of the 
 best looking games on the 360.
  
  The Gameplay
  Is INTENSE, you'll sometimes feel like you are actually there racing, and the Xbox Live play is surprisingly 
 addicting, it's really amazing. The Story mode has loads of depth, and lasts a very satisfying amount 
 of time before completion, not to mention challenge.
  
  The Sound/Audio
  There are some great really sound effects like the police sirens.
  The liscened soundtrack is 
 pretty cool, it has everything from electronica to hip-hop, it also has 2 of my favorite artists (The 
 Prodigy, Hyper)
  
  Overall this game rocks, and is the best Xbox360 racing game so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floydfire
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 17, 2005 6:36 am PT
Review:  When I first ordered my 360 I went and ordered PDZ, Quake 4 and Condemned but I changed my mind 
 and decided that I couldn't buy three FPS's so I ended up buying NFS MW I am not a fan of the other 
 games and only bought it because I don't like the PGR series and that it was the only other racing 
 game at the uk launch or else I would of got ridge racer 6 but does'nt come out until January over 
 here, I did buy PDZ and Kameo as I thought that was a good mix of genres.
  
  So NFS MW is the best in the series for me as the police pursuits really take this game to the 
 next level and become very tense especially for sustained periods, and also I'm not a big fan of 
 the other versions but the 360 version seems to play better possibly due to the pad, the graphics 
 are a big leap compared to the other 360 rehashes for once EA have gone for the high road and for 
 that I give EA props. I now this isn't really a review and I apologise for that as this is a opinion, 
 so for me this is a big thumbs up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WESTSIDECALI
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 1:24 pm PT
Review:  need for speed mosted wanted is one hell of a game. its everything u would want out of a racing 
 game, plus many more. the cars are great and graphics look pretty sharp well that is if u are playing 
 it on the 360. the high speed chases are great fun 2. this by far the best need for speed game 
 ever, but if u wantthe best experience with this game get it for the 360. need for speed most wanted 
 is great. the only hting i would do different in this game is maybe have a larger car selction. 
 dont get me wrong its good and all but for this game 2 b perfect there should b alot more cars 
 to choice from 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknight570
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 16, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is ... just great. The driving, the online interaction, and the cars all fit together 
 so neatly. The cars look so nice and the storyline is awesome. They did it right this time.
  
  This game isn't quite next-gen but it shows me that these games will look just wonderful and 
 new techniques can be used to further submerge the gamer into the game.
  
  The cut-scenes flow smoothly throughout the story line. They progress the story without forcing 
 the gamer to endure hours of footage that, although riveting, can take away from the value of a 
 game. 
  
  The driving is so involved that you won't want to race. Running from the cops is so much fun and 
 the increasing wanted levels are a nice touch.
  
  The music is a nice touch although I just played my custom tracks. In surround sound the games 
 feels so real. The sounds of the engine and the cars around you take you to the race.
  
  If you have a 360 then this is most definitely one of the games that you have to play and beat.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiitana
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 16, 2005 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed: Most Wanted is a fine example of what other companies should strive for. I've spent 
 many school nights squeeking out a few extra races. THIS IS A GREAT GAME!
  
  Gameplay:
  The controls are excellent, and the better cars and parts actually make a difference. The only 
 thing keeping this category from being a ten is there is no four-player split screen, only two. 
 Now, I understand the reasoning, it's hard to see the track with more than two, but hey, there's 
 really no good excuse for it.
  
  Graphics:
  The score speaks for itself. The lighting is outstanding, the car models look real, and the environments 
 are gorgeous. The only suggestion I would have is to show damage modeling while in the hood view. 
 That's it!
  
  Sound:
  Outstanding all around. The soundtrack is pretty nice, though I found the same songs got played 
 over and over again. However, the car engine sounds are great and there is a clear difference between 
 the cars. A Mustang and a Lamborghini actually sound different!
  
  Value:
  There is so much to do here. Unlock cars, unlock parts, new parts of the city, it's great!
  
 
  Tilt:
  Like I said, I can't say enough good things about this game. I highly recommend it for any racing 
 fan. You'll find yourself continually trying to finish one more race, or get enough money for that 
 next part. It's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p_vis
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 16, 2005 4:41 am PT
Review:  First thing of the bat is that the movies look great , not many of them but they are very good.
 
  
  The overall racing is great, if you like a real driving simulator you are going to miss some stuff 
 here, but if you like arcade racing, then this is you're thing for sure.
  
  The cars all look great, and add the body-kit's and visual upgrade's and you can make the car of 
 you're dreams ! spray it put some nice rims on it, spray those as well and try on a few stripes 
 or tribal's and get ready to smoke out the competition.
  
  The races vary from racing past checkpoints ( tollbooth's ) or get some nice speeding tickets or 
 just finish first.
  
  Evading the police and getting the set amount of bounty/property damage is worth the whole game 
 , pure fun. the harder you race, the more they HEAT you get the more creative they get ( helicopter, 
 spike's or head on HUV's you name it )
  
  It also has a few things that bothered me while playing the game.
  Often after ramming a wall 
 you tend to "stick" the hood in the wall, having to reset the car or boost ( very annoying while 
 having HEAT lvl 4 or up) .
  Or my personal favorite the "600 Mph" opponent , often when you have 20-25 sec. of distance the 
 Opponent just takes a huge ( impossible ? ) speed and just is back and is breathing down you're 
 neck... or zooms by, and keeps you wandering, wasn't i going full throttle????? 
  
  The last thing that REALLY bugged me and made me go screaming mad was ( spoiler ) the after beating 
 #1 Razor Callahan you get to HEAT lvl 6 and need to drive around for 5 minutes before you get an 
 opening for it all to end, and then you realize... no map... took me A LOT of time, but made it.
 
  
  Note: i played on an Xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 15, 2005 1:18 pm PT
Review:  OMFG!!! This game is soooooo fun. The graphics are amazing and the racing is out of sight. The 
 new cars, vinyls, and paints are insane. This game is soooo fun online on Broadband or XBOX Live. 
 If you loved the other Need for Speed games then this is the best one you'll ever play. The best 
 part in this game is that the cops chase after you and if you get caught you have to get out of 
 your car and run for your life before you busted. This game is too fun too turn down. NEVER AND 
 I MEAN NEVER REJECT THIS GAME IT IS SOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO FUN. This is by far the best Need 
 for Speed game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daltonalias8
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 14, 2005 8:57 am PT
Review:  This is a really fun game , but it was not what I was expecting from the next-gen console. Don't 
 get me wrong it's fun , but it could have been better.
  The multyplayer left a lot to be desired, if you actually have enough money to buy a second controler ($50) 
 I would not buy a second controler if this is all your going to use it for.
  The graphics are really good. The gameplay is OK. In my personal opinion this should not have been 
 a launch title, they should have worked on the gamplay for a little longer before launching this.
 
  Take my advise, rent it and save your $60 for the next Midnight Club game to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnbexplosive
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2005 7:25 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted (Xbox 360) 
  
  Gameplay 
  
  The gameplay in this game is excellent, you will love the high speed races and extremely fun cop 
 pursuits. 
  The game features a number of different modes such as Circuit, Sprint Tollbooth and Drag, but the 
 most exciting is definately the pursuits. You have a heat level from 1-5 which indicates the amount 
 of police after you. At level 1 you just have a basic police car chasing you, then at level 2 you 
 see more cops as well as roadblocks. By the time you reach level 5 you have 25 police cars after 
 you, a helicopter and a barricade of cards waiting with spike traps. Losing them at levels 4 and 
 5 is extremely tough and to do this you must lose them and enter a cooldown mode where you can 
 find a place to hide. 
  
  Just imagine, you start off, your being chased by a lone police car, the heat rises and more join 
 in, they keep driving alongside you to box you in at the side of the road but you resist and smash 
 them out of the way. You approach a roadblock but put your foot down on the accelerator combined 
 with your nitrous to smash through one of the cars. You reach level 3 and now they bring reinforcements, 
 armoured SUV's that charge right at you. You smack into a lorry carrying huge logs which then tumble 
 onto the road blocking the path of the police cars, but still some are on your trail. You then 
 reach level 4 and a helicopter flys above you giving your position to the other cars, they start 
 setting up a spike trap up ahead but you use your speed breaking to manouvre past it and head for 
 a hiding spot. The heli needs to refuel so now your in the clear, you head to the baseball field 
 and pull up into cooldown mode, you wait anxiously hoping they don't find you as cooldown ticks 
 down, finally the pursuit comes to an end. And if your wondering if your meant to have a fat on, 
 then yes!, yes you are. 
  
  The games career mode has you starting as a new guy attempting to make your way up the Blacklist 
 which is the top 15 racers in the city. As you do this you get to challenge one of them and can 
 even win their car if you get lucky. 
  Throughout the game you are also shown a few cut-scenes where the characters are hilarious, on 
 one where you are caught by the police he gives the officer a little slap then is thrown to the 
 ground or gets beat up by a woman. 
  
  A new feature to this Need for Speed game is the 'Speed Breaker', a button to temporaly slow down 
 the world to help on a difficult corner, or can be used to good effect in pursuits to avoid a car 
 charging at you or find a gap in a roadblock. 
  It is also great that you can now just press a button to bring up a menu so you quickly choose 
 what race you want to enter instead of having to drive around the map to get to it, but still having 
 the freedom to roam the city if you wish. 
  
  Graphics 
  
  The graphics are really nice, the cars look great and the environments are really improved from 
 the last game, you are also able to knock down certain obstacles to help your lead such as towers 
 or donut shop. The great lighting effects really come into play here and reflects of everything 
 and even at such high speeds it looks very polished. 
  
  I don't have a HDTV but if you can get one the graphics look even more smooth and crisp and make 
 it even more sexy. I played the game on the Xbox 360 but on the Xbox and PS2 the game still looks 
 decent and you should still enjoy it. 
  
  Sound 
  
  The sounds in the game are really great, cars sound good and all the little noises such as scraping 
 the car or ramming police cars sound great. The only thing I didn't like was the awful songs. The 
 EA Trax all seem to feature heavy metal songs which I hate, but fortunately with the Xbox 360 you 
 plug in your mp3 and it plays the playlist while your playing. 
  
  Value 
  
  This game is definately worth getting if your into fun racing games, the only small negatives about 
 the game is that it's too easy at the start because the AI isn't much of a challenge until you 
 get higher in the blacklist. There is some slight slowdown in the graphics, although it doesnt 
 happen too often and isn't that noticeable. 
  
  Lifespan 
  
  The game should take quite a long time to complete as there is is tons of races and cars to unlock, 
 as well as a split screen and multiplayer. 
  
  Positives 
  
  + Great Visuals & Sound 
  + Really fun cop pursuits 
  + Hilarious cut-scenes 
  
  Negatives 
 
  
  - AI is too easy in early stages 
  - Bad Music 
  
  Gameplay: 9 
  Graphics: 8 
  Sound: 8 
  Value: 9 
  Lifespan: 9 
  
  Overall Score: 90% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeeswin24
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Dawn Ladenheim, oops, I mean Need For Speed Most Wanted (NFSMW) is quite the spectacular game for 
 the next generation XBOX 360 console. Disregard the incredible graphics... The career mode is enticing 
 and brilliant. The customization and options in the game are nothing short of superb. I have yet 
 to test out the online mode, but from what I have seen, it appears to be in depth and provides 
 lasting appeal. The multiplayer action is somewhat limited yet what you come to expect from any 
 racing game. If you are looking to buy any game this holiday season I would certainly recommend 
 that you purchase this game. I give NFSMW a near perfect score, 9.9.
  
  Billy Jacobs
  Gamespot Head Reviewer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bartowman
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I have to say I've never been a huge fan of the Need For Speed series, but this particular 
 version caught my eye at first. I even went as far to ask for it for Christmas. Thank goodness 
 Microsoft cares about its customers and gives us a chance to try out demos first before spending 
 60 bucks on a game. Upon downloading my free demo through XBOX Live and booting it up, my first 
 impressions about the presentation were good, until actually got to play the game. I have to say 
 I was very disappointed. The next few things I'm about to say might upset some NFS fans, so please 
 don't take offense to what I'm about to say. First off, the controls are terrible, I've played 
 quite a few arcade racers in my life, but this game in my opinion falls below the curve of all 
 arcade racers to date and current sim racers when dealing the subject of controls. If you can't 
 control your car with accuracy, then why even play this game. Sure the graphics look good, but 
 that just ain't gonna cut it for me. Give me PGR or Gran Turismo any day, granted you can't upgrade 
 your cars that much in these two racers, as opposed to NFS Most Wanted, but at least I have some 
 control over my vehicles in the other games I mentioned. If you like, spinning out and banging 
 into walls alot , then I guess NFS MW is the game for you. Frankly, I can't imagine why anyone 
 would enjoy this game, based on the controls alone. I like racers to have a tight feel when braking, 
 steering, etc... NFS MW just doesn't have these elements I crave for, so I'll be putting my time 
 and energy in PGR3 for now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElRey216
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 8:06 am PT
Review:  I love this need for speed for the simple fact that it took all the aspects of the other need for 
 speeds and put it into one game. In nfsmw ea put more focus on the gameplay and less focus on how 
 designs on the cars. For example in underground 1 and 2 you can only race in the streets, only 
 at night, and the game focused more on designing your car. In most wanted ea focused most of the 
 gamplay on driving your car instead of making it look cool. Most wanted concentrates on the driving 
 aspect of the game. 
  Another great addition to nfs most wanted is the police chases. Trying to be "Most Wanted" by the 
 police brings a whole new feel to the game. They took the nfs Hot Pursuit aspect of police chases 
 and upgraded to 7.0 and maded spectacular. If your going to get a launch game for the xbox360 Need 
 For Speed Most Wanted would definitley be a good choice.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoConflict
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 7, 2005 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Graphicly, this game is amazing, every detail is covered, if you have really glossy paint, your 
 car shines, its absolutly amazing, espically on an HDTV. The mix of Need for Speed Underground 
 and the classic Need for Speed hot pursuit it just right. I have been playing NFS since NFS: Hot 
 Pursuit 2, and been loving it, this is definatly the best in the series. The plot is OK, but this 
 game is a must own if you like racing games. This game is insanly addictive, I find myself playing 
 it more than any of my other 360 games. I definatly reccomend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H2gtasarcua
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:32 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted is a great racer. First I'll start w/ the story. yur a racer who got 
 screwed over by this guy named Razor and u have to fight yur way up the blacklist fro 15 to 1 to 
 get yur car back from razor and get yur revenge. The gameplay is preety good and when u hit something 
 like a sign or somethign in the street it actually affects yur speed which is pretty cool. To race 
 the blacklist races u have to reach there expectations by finishng acertain amount of races and 
 other stuff then once u finish that u can challenge yur blacklist person and if u beat em u go 
 anto the next blacklist person. It sounds pretty straightforward but its actually preety addictive 
 trying to beat the next person on after another. A thing that they changed this year is in free 
 roam u don thave to go to 3 diff. places to get yu performance, parts , and visual parts for yur 
 car all u have to do is go to one place called a one stop shop for everything which is awesome. I 
 liked NFSMW but they could have made the story a tid bit longer an one thing i dont understand 
 is the free roam part... its like u really dont need it but idk i guess people like it. Anyways 
 NFSMW is a great racer but probably not as good as like lets say pgr3 which is probably the best 
 racer on the 360. Of yur debating on which racer u want fort yur 360 its a pretty good tosss up. 
 If u like sim racers more than arcade go w/ pgr3 but if u like arcade racers more i would proabbly 
 go w/ NFSMW.
  
  
  
  O yea i had to add this the girl thats in NFSMW which is Mia though in real life shes a real person 
 named Josie Maran ................ she is SMOKIN HOTT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rezlow
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 6, 2005 9:20 am PT
Review:  I played the original NFS on PC. I did not like it. Not one bit. But I like Most Wanted. I like 
 it a lot.
  
  I've grown somewhat tired of the simulation type games (GT and such) and this game is just too 
 much fun.
  
  The career play mode has a "well" packaged set of challenges that unlock 15 360 Achievements that 
 are appropriately scaled in value (up to 1000) . There's just enough tongue in cheek plot to keep 
 you interested, but easily ignored.
  
  While in career mode, you can roam the city checking off objectives as you explore, or just quick 
 travel to the events you wish to do.
  
  A Challenge Series mode has also been included with a set of 68, no more than 5 minute challenges 
 to give you a break from time to time.
  
  As for multiplayer, I've tried the split screen version which is as good as any other. I have yet 
 to try Live, but have read good things about it.
  
  I recommend this one without hesitation. Have fun in the streets!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arkangelsa
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 6, 2005 3:00 am PT
Review:  review of need for speed most wanted.
  
  well need for speed is one of those games that if you talk to any gamer will tell you it was the 
 first time they got behind a super car on a racing game,
  the need for speed name is know for fast cars and fun gameplay.
  
  this is why this game is 
 so good it goes back to its roots. cops fast cars and fun.
  
  lets begin.
  gameplay:
  the games controls are good not great but they do the job you will get the hang of each car quickly 
 but you feel they could have put more time into the controls.
  the driving around with a suped up gt40 is something you can only dream of and this game does this 
 well good choice of parts upgrades ect make for makeing everycar your own, this is were the underground 
 past cums in.
  the cops make this game great, no were else can you get hunted down by 15 cop cars run road blocks 
 and drive like you want to.
  it does this very well and has to be played to be belived.
  
  graphics:
  the game looks good the 360 one will only really sine on a hdtv, if you have a 
 360 you should have a hdtv, if not get one the game looks stunning the small things are wat matter 
 the motion blur and how real every car looks.
  they could have put more into the traffic cars but thats some thing you will over look doing 200mph
 
  
  sound:
  sound is good the voice acting is done well, the cops folling full codes and confirming everything 
 over the radio is something you really enjoy, plus its help full to know what there doing. the 
 cars sound good and its just a good job all round, plus the sound track is a very good one.
  
  value:
  tons to do, tons of cops tons of unlockables.
  your going to be here for a long 
 time tons of replay in here.
  
  tilt:
  the only thing i dislike is there is not as much you can do to the cars, it feel a bit limeted. 
 and the its such a good game but you feel they could have done more. lets just hope ea keep this 
 tone and keep bring out great nfs games.
  
  all in all get this game its worth the cash and you will love it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IloveGodcards
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:48 pm PT
Review:  The cars, the game play, the sound, they are all great!!!!!!!!!!
  The reason I did not include the graphics is because I thought that they could of done so much 
 more with the new tecnology that the xbox 360 introduces. The graphics are good, but they are not 
 good enough. I was expecting a better scenario and setting because the maps you play in are so 
 dark and dirty. They should of thought of that when they were making the game. One thing I did 
 enjoy about the game was that the police made the whole game so much funner. When they pop out 
 of no where and they start chacing you, that is the funnest part of the game. Then you make them 
 crash and you lose them, you feel a sense of accomplishment. WHAT A  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jclark82577
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:42 am PT
Review:  This game totally rocks. I enjoy playing it on my 50in. LCD TV. The graphics are simply amazing 
 in HD. There are times when I actually feel like I'm driving a real car. The physics are realistic 
 but not too much. There are many turns that would not be possible to take in real life. But who 
 cares this game is one that I will most definetely play for years.
  Most wanted is fun and addictive. If you are looking for a game that can be played for endless 
 hours this is it. If you are looking for a pure racing simulation go with PGR3. If you enjoy out 
 running the police, but could not in real life this is the game for you. Outstanding achievement 
 EA. Keep up the good work, and keep the great games rolling in.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Das_Spence
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is my favourite out of the Launch racers.
  Yeah sure, I know people will say PGR3 and Ridge Racer6 are out but I picked this instead.
  I 
 hated the Underground titles but I have to say this is a return to form in my eyes.
  Take the best bits of Hot Pursuit and Underground2 and throw in a little burnout to the mix and 
 this is what you get.
  
  The single player is a massive revamp and is strung together by some very nice cut scenes and other 
 messages from the lead characters to keep it moving. It also has many nice features to it which 
 previous installments lacked such as better varied race modes. Free roam mode is back fortunately 
 and has been re-done well along with many additions that are built upon the foundations of the 
 new core of the NFS games: The cop element.
  
  The new "Wanted" features are good as it gives more of a challenge to some races when you're neck 
 and neck with another racer and suddenly a squad car appears out of nowhere. Next thing you know 
 you have about 5 squad cars trying to hinder you and stop your car to bust you WHILST the race 
 is still going on. Also for once EA did a bit of thinking into what else this could do to the game 
 except make more exciting instead of it just being a gimmick with only one use. Every run in with 
 the cops you have is recorded and put into your record, the 'hotter' (more wanted) your car gets 
 the easier you are to spot by the police and how much more they want to get you. This brings in 
 the feature that you can buy more than one car to vamp up and use whilst your other car (s) are 
 at a high wanted level.
  
  I love this game tbh-best in the whole series and has lovely graphics. My only problem would be 
 a few dips in fps at certain times and the 'EA Trax' feature that is built into all their bloody 
 racing games -_-
  Good for those who aren't that keen on realism drivers (e. g. PGR3 and GT4) and if you like vamping 
 up your cars and customising them to your liking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthonygalati
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Intro: 
  1st installment on the Most Wanted series and its almost a carbon copy of The underground Series 
 besides the new story line which I wont give away and This is the the fact that there is cops the 
 HUNT you down!
  
  Gameplay: This just can't get any better for an arcade racer for the nfs series .Everything from 
 the Underground plus theres a new Matrix-Style slow down time when things get hairy it helps you 
 maneuver around gaps that you normally couldnt do without it. The only thing i noticed that was 
 different was the cars always need to be in the high-RPM range to have a good power-band. It gets 
 a 9/10
  
  Graphics: Nice job here nothing impressive but nice eye candy from the sun and car models.. for the 
 HD im not sure i dont have Hd YET but as soon as i do ill post what the difference is. But PGR3 
 Still has the best graphics for the race games for 360. Nothing Too exciting so 8/10
  
  Sound: Very NICE! The environmental sounds as well as the engine , tires, crashing noises are Great 
 ! couldn't ask for more really.. Especially the cops Voice-Over OMG ! its brilliant i give it a 
 9/10
  
  Value: Value on this game is a for Sure Buy ! For one you cant beat this game renting thats for 
 sure ! And the limited edition is a Must Have for 360 owners... The game just has soo many missions 
 and objectives it will keep you playing into the 45 hour range . 8/10
  
  Reviewer's Tilt : I've always loved the NFS series and to me this is my favorite for the fact it 
 was soo much to do and the map is soo huge i couldnt ask for more ! Thanks EA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newage_sniper
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 3:29 pm PT
Review:  As you readers already know, the need for speed games have been great, But unlike the former underground 
 games, need for speed most wanted has been made alot more interesting than the others. The cop chases 
 make this game most interesting ,its not all that challenging to dust the fuzz, but i must say, 
 it is fun. With my driving skills i can do just about anything I please. I have played it on Xbox, it 
 was pretty fun, its the best racing game I have played. This game seems more real and makes more 
 sence than the other underground games. Playing this game has been a good experience, I adapted my 
 skills to the game on the first day and you can too. The very best thing I like is when your about 
 to hit soming or your going too fast, you can slow down time itself. This game is good enough for 
 me, but its not perfect. (May the next game be alot better) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cherrybean_77
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. It the best NFS yet.
  The Gameplay is really good, the controls are great. The races are great but game feels arcady 
 at some points. The free roaming aspec it awesome, and the police chases even better. The first 
 chases are easy, but the higher ur wanted level goes, the harder the police gets. You can custimize 
 the cars, but its not complicated, and that is good. The graphics are aweeeeeeesome. And the cutsences 
 are the best. I've seen them on Xbox and 360, and the 360 ones are much better.
  
  This game is worth at the very least, a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2005 11:12 am PT
Review:  NFS: MW is just a really good racing game. The graphics are great, the cutscenes are cheesy and 
 fun, and the racing action is unmatched by any other racing game on the market. Many would argue 
 that Project Gotham is the better racing game. I personally dislike serious racing games. Much 
 like Underground 2, the main focus of MW is making a name for yourself.
  
  Pros- Making your own custom car should be a racing game standard. I won't touch a racing game 
 besides Mario Kart if you can't select your own paint, parts, and handling for your vehicle. And 
 MW does custom the best out of any racing game. Another important thing that I like about MW is 
 it's structure. Underground 2 felt like it had no direction. MW's blacklist system of selecting 
 races is a much superior method of structuring, which makes things just run smoother. The graphics 
 in this game definantly very good. Cracks and oil in the asphault make the road seem damn real. 
 With graphics like this, next gen is gonna be like playing a movie. With the cutscenes, custom 
 stuff, beautiful graphics, and great control you can almost over look EA's extremely bad taste 
 in music (except for Disturbed, the only good band to be heard) . Skinny Man??? Static X run out 
 of ideas for songs?
  
  Cons- The horrible music is what really gets me, lucky my IRiver plugs right into the xbox. Skinnnnnnnny 
 Mannnnnnn!!! What were they thinking. Static x- "I've got a great idea for a song. It's about a 
 guy whos, get this, Skinny"! Record label- "Brilliant, we'll sell it to EA".
  
  Final Word- If you like cars buy this game. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 1, 2005 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Why do you buy a racing game? The first thing that comes to mind is the sense of speed the game 
 gives. If you play in your living room with your TV 10 or 12 feet away, you may not notice the 
 frame skipping that occurs almost every 2 or 3 seconds during a race (especially if you like the 
 "driver's seat" view like I do) . But if you have a setup like mine, with a 30 inches screen, less 
 than 3 feet from your eyes (don't worry it's a LCD, not a Plasma or CRT) , this frame skipping is 
 very noticeable and takes away the sense of speed you might expect from a driving game. Yes, the 
 graphic is beautiful, yes the story is funny, yes there is plenty of action... unfortunately, you 
 don't expect that kind of frame skipping (it's that bad) , especially on a machine that should be 
 as powerful as a high end PC.
  
  Sorry EA, go back to the drawing board and start learning how to make better XBox 360 program.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaperPlate
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 30, 2005 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Good concept, but the graphics and sound stuttering is at best annoying and at worst ubearable. 
 ridge racer is a smoother arcade style racer, and pgr3 is a smoother realistic racer. This has 
 mediocre written all over it. The live action scenes are laughable, tho the filter the put over 
 them is kind of cool, i just wish every 10 frames weren't seperated by stop and go style animation. 
 also very flashy menus, not sure yet if that is good or bad. The way the car handled wasn't quite 
 pleasing either, i've played both RR6 and PGR3, and they have distinct and unique styles that were 
 much more intuitive than this, i wasn't even sure if i should ever take my finger off the r trigger... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patepacker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2005 12:48 pm PT
Review:  The game is not that deep as I think EA could have made it. Sure the Blacklist will give you hours 
 of challenging gameplay, but after that there is not much else to do in the way of a good challenge. 
 However this is where the ingenious part comes into play. The cops. The police are by far the greatest 
 addition to Most Wanted. I have literally played for three hours straight just doing the pursuits 
 and completely ignoring the whole blacklist thing. Also the tuning aspect of Underground 1 and 
 2 seems to be for the most part wholly present in Most Wanted. So in short for those of you who 
 just like doing the missions and things in games and not doing anything else then I doubt this 
 game will appeal to you. However if you just like to play the game for the sake of playing it then 
 this game will be right up your alley. This is the first game in a long time where I actually lose 
 track of time while playing. I get so caught up in the game that before long I have been playing 
 for long over what I should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greydragon17
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2005 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is down right a perfect example of how a series should start off on a new system. Great 
 gameplay with great graphic, great sound, great music, great multiplayer mode and online. Just 
 a great game to play and own if you haven't already. This being the first racer I played on the 
 new XBOX 360 has left me stunned with awe at how well this game looks and feels. The cars look 
 great and the enviroment you drive in is just too amazing. I mean when I was driving my new Supra 
 after playing for a while and getting a feel for it and I headed over a hill to find the sunset 
 that was breathe taking and blinding at the same time... but it felt so real! Just an example how 
 good this game is. The cutscenes is another good quailty of this game as it places real actors 
 into the game... they look very rendered but it's still a good touch. (personally the acting could 
 use some work, but you can look around this as your not playing the game for good acting... yet 
 it wouldn't hurt if they get some good actors for future NFS games) . And the police pursuits which 
 everyone surely has missed in this series have returned and is pretty good. The game starts of 
 slow for you to get a feel for being chased by the cops as it quite easy to lose them at first. 
 But as you progress throught the game and your bounty on your head rises the chases get more intense 
 and harder to escape depending how good you are. Good fun though all the way.
  
  The Story is nothing special but gives you a feel of what it might be like to climb a ladder of 
 bad a$$ street racers as everyone on the games blacklist is tough looking peeps who has a bit of 
 story to them but nothing major. But to me the real joy of this game after you have suit up your 
 favorite sport car with all the performance upgrades, body kits, nos and what have you is to go 
 online and race some of the best cars others have built up. There is barely any lag depending on 
 how good your connection is along with other players as a bad connection or slightly good connection 
 can cause a sort of ghost affect in the game at time when you see other players or yourself become 
 transparent or drive right through other cars. The mic on the XBOX 360 is great for this game as 
 there none of that strange noises in the mic or cut off while people talk. It's clear and crisp.
 
  
  I can't say that this is the best racer as I have yet to play the others offered on the 360 yet, 
 but this is because I'm so in love with this game at the moment. This is a must play and a must 
 own in my book and I believe no matter how well you like the other two I bet money that you'll 
 like this equally as much or more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remaGloohcSdlO
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I am not finished with this game yet (Blacklist #5 right now) but I felt I have done enough to 
 enter my 2 cents.
  
  First off if you have an HDTV the game looks fantastic. Alot of people are saying it's just a fancy 
 XBOX or PS2 port... well sit your TV next to mine with my 360 and lets compare.
  
  If you have played NFSU or NFSU2 you should already have a good idea of the concept and feel of 
 this game. We all know it's great so let me point out a couple of things you might not like.
  
  1.) I feel like the game is very unfair with it's "Rubber Band AI" I can't stand having a HUGE 
 lead and just watching the opponent arrow zip around the track like he/she had a time machine. 
 I don't notice this in reverse so it must be an unfair tilt.
  
  2.) Although I love to be able to go straight to races via the menu and even "jump to safe house"... 
 I think the game could have benifited from making you drive to all these events since one key aspect 
 is avoiding/escaping the cops.
  
  3.) One last small gripe is some of the upper level add ons and performance parts are way too expensive 
 for the little benefit the provide (if any)
  
  All things considered though it's a solid game that gives you beads of sweat when you just evaded 
 the cops with a 4X multiplyer after a 12 minute chase (real time) ... you just found your hiding 
 spot but the radar detector is going off like mad as the cops roll by the car wash you slipped 
 into. It definately gets thrills like that right.
  
  Graham 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atarii
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Let me say this first. I've seen this game on both an HDTV and a standard TV.... and HD some much 
 better. I'm saving up money now to buy my own HDTV. I've got a standard TV still and the game looks 
 great, but the real graphics shine through in high definition. Now that that's said, the rest of 
 the game is quite fun as well. The illegal underground street racing vibe is set well by the presentation 
 of the game. The music is again (thanks to EA's powerful liscensing money) great. The new slow 
 down button is great and comes in handy in many situations like sharp turns or when police cars 
 are chasing you. The story is cheesy as hell and I could care less for it, but the girl in the 
 game who sets you up with people is really hot so I don't mind the cutscenes. However, the game 
 isn't without its flaws.... I hate the fact that there is still no real damage modeling! I mean 
 we're into this powerful generation of hardware with the XBOX360 and still no real time damage.... 
 shame on you EA. But if you are looking for an arcade style racer with lots of visual thrills and 
 lots of customization, than Most Wanted is probably your ticket to good, clean (and legal) street 
 racing in the comfort of your own home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garsbaby
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 4:33 pm PT
Review:  In the long line of the NFS series, this game hits the nail on the head.
  Police chases are superb. NFS Most Wanted is loads of fun to play.
  The graphics on the XBOX 
 360 version are tremendous. If your a realistic race game fanatic, this game is not for you. If 
 you want a great game thats easy to play and tons of fun, look no futher than NFS Most Wanted. 
 If you like the Burnout Series, this game has the same fun factor. The sound effects are very well 
 done. I bought this game instead of Project Gotham Racing 3 and could not be happier with this 
 purchase. If you own the Xobox 360, you have to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haloguy85
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 10:07 am PT
Review:  If u like need for speed games or pretty much car games than this is the freakin game for u. its 
 really awsome police chases and the thrill of going super fast is really cool. ur going so fast 
 it makes u wanna scream like this a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a 
 a a a a a a a aa a a a a a aa a a. Ya... its that cool. the down side to the game is that the songs 
 r good but the sound of the cars kinda lack and the street textures arnt the best but other than 
 that its a friggin awsome game trust i dont like a lotta games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecooldmar
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2005 5:12 am PT
Review:  this game is bout perfect, but there one thing they should do to make it more real. wat i think 
 is that instead of havin the cop cars look like there rideing on nos all the time ea should make 
 it were u can get away from the cop cars but have somethen greater to get away from as a down fall. 
 like a lamborgini if u can out run the first wave of cop cars and if u get away from the lambo 
 they should send a chopper after u. and then if u some how get out the site of the they should 
 go full force road blocks, spike strips, and other stuff police use to stop illegal street racing. 
 wat im trying to say regular cop cars shouldnt be able to keep up. but this game is the best kills 
 pgr3 and i got it on the 360 wat can be better. thank u EA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotokan_42
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed: Most Wanted is a racing game that has the same being-on-top type gameplay, but 
 now has another tweak to the game. Not only can you do the same-old race-to-finish-1st place, but 
 now it has law enforcement chasing you, during and after, while you're racing. Now, there will 
 be a rating scale of 1to 5 when you do the "Top the Blacklist" missions when you get chased by 
 the cops. When it's Level 1, regular police cars just chase you, but at Level 5, they'll place 
 spikes on the roads, and you'll be chased by FBI cars and these huge SUVs that will ramp and trap 
 you in a corner long enough for a meter to pop up to get busted. The game's not much of an improvement 
 to its predeccessors, but the action and adrenaline of the game makes it a bit more challenging 
 for some. The graphics on the each of the cars in NFS: MW is much very well done, but if you have 
 a HDTV, you'll get a much better look on how sleek and snooth the cars look.
  
  Altogether, the is as astounding and fun as its other previous franchises, but it's not (as I've 
 said before) much of an improvement in the series. However, if you're a fan of the franchise, then 
 this game is definitely for you to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evildeadite666
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Being a HUGE fan of the Underground series, i was really excited when i saw the previews for this 
 game. All the great stuff from both undergrounds, with a few high performace cars and some bo browns 
 thrown in the mix and you have a great racing game. Although when your in the heat of a race, and 
 the screen goes blue, with cherrys flashing in the distance, can be a little annoying, but for 
 the most part, its fun as hell, the only thing better than playing this game in career mode, is 
 being able to play online, a MUST have for long time Need For Speed Fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stefano18
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Its a good game that lacking some things but is overall a very solid title. I cant believe there 
 are no Honda's in this game. The engine sounds are awsome and the graphics are really good. If 
 your a hardcore racer game fan then buy this game. If you like racing sims then dont buy this game 
 because its not a sim its more of an arcady game with a little bit of a sim twist. I rented this 
 game but I honestly wouldn't buy the game myself because I would get bored very quickly. The xbox 
 360 really hasn'y showed us what it can really do yet. Hopefully next year when ps3 is out, game 
 makers will have fully learned how to use the 360's hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinchimocote
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:58 pm PT
Review:  If you have played it for the ps2 or xbox i dont recomend you buy it. The game has pretty good 
 graphics and sound effects. All the car models look pretty good. It has alot of details that you 
 can even see the inside of the car. The cops chasing you is a step further in the Need For Speed 
 Series. The cops really dont put up much of a challenge but im pretty sure next series they will 
 be hitting you trying to slam you into walls. This game is one of the best Street Games so far 
 for the Xbox 360. Cant wait for Midnigh Club Racing comes out for the Xbox 360. The game is worth 
 $59.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_best
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:43 pm PT
Review:  yes! we got the cops back ,just what the game was needing ,the hot pursuit it had missed but from 
 now on they are back , the game looks pretty amazing by the way , i mean in the xbox console is 
 goos but in the 360 looks awesome not as awesome you want a game for the next gen of consoles but 
 good enough for the first effort, the carrer mode seems to be good enough to keep you busy for 
 a while an the extras ,mmm ,they should be great i think in the 360 version only , so dont miss 
 the series ,they are on the road again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lghtsbr
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2005 2:27 pm PT
Review:  NFS, the first thing that comes to mind when I hear those words is STREET RACING, and that for 
 1 is a good thing about the NFS series, street racing. Any game promoting racing in open ended 
 cities is ok in my book. But then the good part comes, all the other stuff they cram into the game. 
 My favorite had to be police chases, something I spent hours doing on the PC demo. All the cops 
 chasing you, complete presure, "Should I go left?" something I often caught myself saying was "Stupid 
 Cops!", but then I thought to myself, would this game be any good if the cop chases weren't a challenge? 
 I love the feeling of 18 cops behind me, a road block a half mile away, and a full tank of N20 
 waiting to be blasted! Exilerating really! I think that a good combination of street racing, cops, 
 challedges, great cars, vehicle customization, and a whole lot of speed makes Need For Speed: Most 
 Wanted a must get for the Xbox360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unstopablefreak
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2005 9:21 am PT
Review:  my review is on the dead or alive 4 i have that game with a pasion becouse they are making fun 
 of the master chief and if you mess with him your messing with me. so go and suck a dick and further 
 more i really have a problem with people who like to make me angery with all this bisness and **** 
 im so sick of people in general i think im just going to hid out in my room for the rest of my 
 life then get a job selling junk on ebay thats my goal plan. im reallly not sure what you may think 
 of this review im righting becouise i can't spell or even type very goood but that dosn't matter 
 any way im the man and every one knoes it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely fun.. I played it for 360 then on PS2 and XB and noticed how much the graphics 
 have been bumped up. The game is beautiful on the 360 every thing is soo clear. The graphics are 
 very nice and gameplay is great. The career mode is really long so provide you with endless hours 
 of gameplay. I like that their are actually police in this game like the older ones. Im a big honda 
 and Acura fan so the fact that they didnt have the Civic or RSX in this game bugged me... well 
 I shouldnt say there not in it the cop cars are civis at the begining. Overall a must have for 
 any NFS fans or someone looking for a fun race game that has you trying to evade 20 cop cars at 
 a time.... (that happens closer to the end when your heat gets up) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwcs15
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 20, 2005 6:42 pm PT
Review:  it looks the same as the reg xbox NFS and has the same customizing stuff. Over all for a next gen 
 system it disappointed me its not cut out for what its worth. Graphics were very bad for the system 
 and it would be better to keep the old one. Dont spend extra cash on a game that is nearly the 
 same as the last NFS. Gameplay was good nothing new it has nearly the same button lay out as the 
 last. Sounds fine no problem there. Easy game all around though. I was expecting more customizing 
 parts but it semmed to have the same stuff, maybe a few extra things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monobeno
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:21 pm PT
Review:  the best thing about Need for Speed Most Wanted is that it is just like Need For Speed Hot Pursuit 
 2 cros with Need For Speed underground 1 and Need For Speed underground 2 that is what makes this 
 one a reallly good game but ther is a down side to all the underground searies ie that it took 
 for evere to get from one side of the map to the outher side . this on you don't have to do that 
 all you have to to is go back to the main menu to get some where so that maks it really Cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sum1tookmyname
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2005 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted, is probably the best tuner / racing game you or me will ever play, 
 even though there aren't enough cinematics in the game, the cop chases are so AMAZING, but the 
 drag races ARE SOOOO ANNOYING, because you start off speeding down the road, in first place.... 
 then, WHAM! a freakin tuck just pops out of the side road, kinda like in 2F2F... overall, NFSMW 
 is the best thing since sliced bread.
  
  (Bread: 9.0/10, NFSMW: 9.5/10)
  
  FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN 
 FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN 
 FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artemisgone
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:40 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the NFS games since the very first one on PC. I remember the days of having 
 to go to DOS and type in the commands to get the bad boy started. From the get go, my favorite 
 portion of the game was the fact the cops chased you. I can't even count the hours I spent getting 
 into high speed chases and some insane accidents along the way.
  
  So we fast forward to many years down the line and we're upon the release of the latest NFS game: 
 Most Wanted. Talk about a breath of fresh air. The previous Underground games were fun, don't get 
 me wrong, but this iteration of the game is what I really think EA should have done all along with 
 the Underground series. It always seemed out of place, to me anyway, that there was absolutely 
 no police presence in Underground or U2... illegal street racing and no cops? I understand in many 
 respects that having no police let you concentrate solely on racing, but it still didn't have the 
 vibe it should.
  
  With NFS: MW, the thrill is back, and with a vengeance. Not only are the chases just plain fun and 
 exhilerating, but the audio and use of particular music in the game is top notch. From the sound 
 of cars and obstacles whizzing by, the realistic engine tones of your car, to the intense music 
 that kicks in when the cops get you in their sites, the audio production just helps set the overall 
 tone of the game.
  
  There's many other additions I could ramble about, but I'll let that to adventurous gamers to find 
 on their own. As stated above, this is the best in the recent series of the NFS games. Thanks goes 
 out to EA for finally making something a bit more worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _wannabe_
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2005 12:23 am PT
Review:  In need for speed you just need to tune you car en make sponsorschip deals and that **** en Most 
 Wanted You just got to tune your car getting chased by cops and that is it. but...
  the good thing of most wanted is: 
  1. more, newer, better and better in handling cars
  2. 
 more body kits
  3. more tuning applications
  4. more paint jobs and stickers
  5. more racing
  6. bigger island to drive along
  
  ^and that's why i bought it^
  actually 
 t is mutch better than underground 2.
  lets face it: more cars shops and racing applications :P
  i just wanna say:
  throw you nfsu 
 2 ourt of the window and go and buy yourself some 
  nfs Most Wanted.
  
  Gr. Brammiej 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohammad_reza
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 18, 2005 7:40 pm PT
Review:  am a good fan of NFS ever since its debut. However, when EA released the underground series, they 
 took away two important things to make it a street racing game: speed power and cops. This made 
 the NFS series go into the dark depths of rejection until NFS: Wanted appears. Here is my review.
 
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  As gamespot stated: You must have an HDTV to enjoy the 360 version of the graphics. Never-the-less 
 the graphics are clean looking and the cars look almost realistic. The cutscenes are hilarious, 
 cool, and sometimes gives you the urge to hit that guy who stole your ride. The downside is you 
 will have some minor slow downs and they will be a bit noticeable and there needs to be more of 
 those good cutscenes.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  I swear I hated the NFS Underground series. They took away the most valued part of the game: Cops. 
 Where as crashing pyro-dynamics is to Burnout, Cop chases is the essence of a NFS game. Here the 
 boys in black and blue are back, and they want to kick some tail. As you avoid our correctional 
 law enforcers, the heat builds up and the tougher the chases will be. If you thought one cop car 
 was bad, try avoiding 20 corvette cop cars, spike chains, and a helicopter on you. NFS most wanted 
 gives you that racing feel like the old school days and gives the underground feel with the story 
 and GTA/Grand Turismo like game. The downside is that speed cameras have speed issues.
  
  Sound:8/10
  NFS offers a variety of cars set with each of their own sounds. Though I think they 
 might have used similar sounds for certain types, it all plays out very well. The cop sirens, radio, 
 and helicopter sounds really give it that ambience. The down side to all of this is that "In order 
 to enjoy the sound to it's full capability, you must have a surround sound system"
  
  Value: 9/10
  If you want a driving game besides GT or Burnout, this game is a must have for all 
 hardcore and new school gamers. As for gamers like me: It's a good driving game that you would 
 get when you need a little more excitement in life than driving an average car following the every 
 day to day road rules. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZakmanZak
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 8:58 am PT
Review:  I am a good fan of NFS ever since its debut. However, when EA released the underground series, 
 they took away two important things to make it a street racing game: speed power and cops. This 
 made the NFS series go into the dark depths of rejection until NFS: Wanted appears. Here is my 
 review.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  As gamespot stated: You must have an HDTV to enjoy the 360 version of the graphics. Never-the-less 
 the graphics are clean looking and the cars look almost realistic. The cutscenes are hilarious, 
 cool, and sometimes gives you the urge to hit that guy who stole your ride. The downside is you 
 will have some minor slow downs and they will be a bit noticeable and there needs to be more of 
 those good cutscenes.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  I swear I hated the NFS Underground series. They took away the most valued part of the game: Cops. 
 Where as crashing pyro-dynamics is to Burnout, Cop chases is the essence of a NFS game. Here the 
 boys in black and blue are back, and they want to kick some tail. As you avoid our correctional 
 law enforcers, the heat builds up and the tougher the chases will be. If you thought one cop car 
 was bad, try avoiding 20 corvette cop cars, spike chains, and a helicopter on you. NFS most wanted 
 gives you that racing feel like the old school days and gives the underground feel with the story 
 and GTA/Grand Turismo like game. The downside is that speed cameras have speed issues.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  NFS offers a variety of cars set with each of their own sounds. Though I think they 
 might have used similar sounds for certain types, it all plays out very well. The cop sirens, radio, 
 and helicopter sounds really give it that ambience. The down side to all of this is that "In order 
 to enjoy the sound to it's full capability, you must have a surround sound system"
  
  Value: 9/10
  If you want a driving game besides GT or Burnout, this game is a must have for all 
 hardcore and new school gamers. As for gamers like me: It's a good driving game that you would 
 get when you need a little more excitement in life than driving an average car following the every 
 day to day road rules. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
