-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed Carbon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/needforspeedcarbon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More solid FMV sequences.
 loads of customization options.
 solid core gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frustrating boss battles.
 underutilizes police chases.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  1, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.8, 61 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 3,705 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Oct 31, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even though the wingman mechanics and canyon races don't quite pan out, it's still a stylish and 
 enjoyable street racer. 

  After rebooting the franchise with Need for Speed Underground, EA has continued to produce some 
 solid street racers under the Need for Speed banner. Last year's Need for Speed Most Wanted, which 
 featured hilariously over-the-top live-action cutscenes and seriously tense police pursuits, proved 
 to be a high watermark for the franchise. Now it's being followed up by Need for Speed Carbon, 
 which downplays the role of the police chases, introduces some simple team-racing mechanics, and 
 occasionally takes the action off the city streets and into the outlying canyons. The new gameplay 
 doesn't always improve the experience, but the racing can still be quite intense and still has 
 a pronounced sense of style.  

          That guy from Battlestar Galactica isn't much of a Razor Callahan substitute.     

 
  Carbon continues the story where Most Wanted left off. For those just tuning in, Most Wanted ended 
 with you recovering your stolen car and bailing out of the city of Rockport while the overzealous, 
 anti-street-racing Sgt. Cross continued his pursuit. At the start of Carbon, you're making your 
 way to Palmont City when Cross, now a bounty hunter, catches up with you and totals your car during 
 the chase. Before he can collect his bounty on you, though, your old friend Darius steps in and 
 pays off Cross. You are then put to work, taking over the turf of the other rival street-racing 
 crews in Palmont City. It seems that you've got a history in this town that predates the events 
 in Most Wanted. And during the course of the game, you'll learn more about that fateful night you 
 skipped town. Different characters will give their takes on the night you supposedly ran off with 
 a big red duffle bag full of cash. And by the end of the game, you'll not only find out what really 
 happened, but you'll have taken over all of the street-racing territory in Palmont City.  

  Outside of the actual gameplay, one of the more endearing aspects of Most Wanted was the way it 
 used live actors in CG environments for its story sequences. These sequences invariably featured 
 plenty of actor/model types, trying a little too hard to talk tough and failing spectacularly at 
 it. The technique remains the same in Carbon, though there are more story sequences now and a slightly 
 more self-aware tone. The heavy use of flashbacks is an interesting idea, but the story ends up 
 being kind of muddled. And none of the villains come off as particularly menacing. Although it's 
 hard to really qualify any of it as sincerely good, it's just over-the-top enough that folks who 
 enjoy stuff like  The Fast and the Furious , ironically or otherwise, should get some enjoyment 
 out of it.  

  Most Wanted had you racing to raise your visibility with the police and take on the most notorious 
 street racers in Rockport. In Carbon, it's all about turf. Palmont City is divided into four major 
 territories, each of which is predominantly controlled by a different street-racing crew. Each 
 territory is then further divided into zones, and within each zone, you'll find starting points 
 for a variety of different race events. Winning at least two events in a zone will put it under 
 your control. And once you've taken over all the zones in a given territory, you can take on the 
 head of that crew. As you continue to extend your reach across Palmont City, rival crews will come 
 back and try to retake territory the same way you took it from them, forcing you to accept their 
 challenge if you want to maintain control. Having to go back and re-race events that you've already 
 won is kind of a pain, but the open world structure is nice and gives you plenty of options to 
 take on races at any given point.  

  However, you won't be taking on all of these crews by yourself because Carbon lets you bring along 
 a wingman into many of the races. These computer-controlled companions break down into three different 
 behavior types -- blockers, drafters, and scouts. Blockers will run interference for you, spinning 
 out opponents at your command. Drafters let you slipstream behind them, giving you some extra speed 
 from the reduced drag, and from there you can pull aside and slingshot your way past them. Scouts 
 have a knack for finding the many alternate routes and shortcuts that can be found in most races, 
 and they have short neon tracers that follow them, making it easier for you to take advantage. 
 You'll definitely find yourself in races where your wingman's influence is the difference between 
 winning and losing. But often, your wingman's presence is either unnecessary or an actual hindrance. 
 Blockers are only really effective in taking out competitors that are behind you, and even then, 
 they're not very reliable. Drafters work as advertised, but the lengthy straightaway needed to 
 set up a proper draft is rare in Palmont City, which limits their usefulness. Scouts are the least 
 useful of the three because the neon tracers don't seem to get longer as the cars you drive go 
 faster, and eventually, there's just not enough time for you to anticipate an alternate route. 
 If you didn't call on your wingman, you might expect him or her to just hang back. But we found 
 ourselves getting bumped into and boxed in by our wingman on several occasions. It's not ruinous 
 to the experience, but sometimes it makes you wish they would just go away.  

          Canyon duels are challenging, but their repetitious structure can sometimes make them wearying. 
     

  The game relies on some pretty tried-and-true types of races, but it also throws some curves. You'll 
 find plenty of common stuff, such as lap-based circuit races, point-to-point sprints, and checkpoint 
 races. But there are also some unique races, such as the speed-trap race, where your standing is 
 determined by your cumulative MPH as you race through a series of speed traps. Most races take 
 place on the city streets of Palmont, but there are also drift events, which can take place either 
 on a closed race course or on the winding canyon roads that surround the city. The goal in the 
 drift events is to score points by making clean drifts around corners. The car handling changes 
 completely for the drift events and feels much more slippery than in the rest of the game, which 
 recalls the drift events found in Need for Speed Underground 2.  

  You'll also face off with the different crew bosses in the canyons, and these events may test your 
 patience. Once you've taken enough turf for a crew boss to challenge you, you'll first race against 
 him in a standard city-street event. If you beat him there, you'll advance to one of the game's 
 canyon courses, which are narrow and undulating. Here it's a two-part race, where you'll first 
 have to chase the boss through a point-to-point race, and then reverse roles for the second part. 
 Your score on the first half is based on how close you stay to your rival; then in the second half, 
 your rival tries to outdo you. These events can be quite challenging because the courses are technically 
 complicated, and the crew bosses tend to be better, more aggressive drivers than the average street 
 racers. There are also a number of ways in which you can instantly fail. If, during the second 
 race, your opponent manages to get ahead of you for more than 10 seconds, you automatically lose. 
 But on the flipside, if you can get ahead of your opponent for more than 10 seconds in the first 
 race, you automatically win both races. Also, each course is absolutely rife with cliffs. This 
 means that if you take a corner at the wrong angle or speed, you can launch your car off of a cliff, 
 immediately ending the race. All of these elements can make for a tough but fair race. However, 
 failure takes you back to the first half of the canyon duel, even if you failed during the second 
 half. It's kind of a minor point, but it's one that can turn a canyon duel into a real chore.  
    

  The structure of the canyon duels can be frustrating, but the way Carbon marginalizes the police 
 chases that were so instrumental to the success of Most Wanted is even more disappointing. The 
 cops still play a factor because each zone has its own heat rating that increases the more you 
 race there. The higher the heat, the more likely it is that cops will start coming after you. While 
 Most Wanted had you purposely baiting the cops, as well as attempting to wrack up huge property 
 damages and lengthy pursuits to advance the story, there's little reason in Carbon for you to attract 
 the attention of the law. With the ability to hop directly to any race event through the world 
 map, it's possible and quite easy for you to go through the entire story mode where you can count 
 the number of police encounters on one hand.  

          Carbon features an eclectic selection of more than 30 unique licensed cars.     

  Structural 
 imperfections aside, the core driving in Carbon is really solid. There's a great selection of licensed 
 real-world cars that you can purchase throughout the course of the game, which are sorted into 
 three different groups -- tuners, muscles, and exotics. And you'll find that each group handles differently. 
 In the tuner group, you'll find a lot of souped-up Japanese sports coups, like the Nissan Skyline, 
 Subaru Impreza WRX, and Toyota Supra. And the strength of these cars tends to be an ability to 
 slide around corners. Muscle cars are all Detroit steel, including new stuff like the Chrysler 
 300 and the Dodge Challenger Concept. They also include early 1970s classics, like a Chevy Camaro 
 SS and a Plymouth Barracuda. And though they've got great acceleration in a straightaway, they're 
 pretty loose in the corners. The exotics group is probably the most varied, with high-end offerings 
 from Mercedes, Porsche, Alfa Romero, Lamborghini, and more. These cars also tend to demand a higher 
 level of skill to use them correctly.  

  You can buy cars from dealerships or you can win them from crew bosses. And once you get them, 
 there are all kinds of upgrades that you can apply to them. There are tiered performance upgrades, 
 as well as a rainbow of paint colors, dozens of vinyl stickers, aftermarket rims, spoilers, and 
 body kits. You can also fabricate your own body parts with the game's autosculpt system, which 
 is oddly reminiscent of the Game Face feature in EA Sports' Tiger Woods PGA Tour games. It's a 
 novel idea and great for making some really physically impossible-looking parts. But it takes too 
 much incremental tweaking of settings to get something unique. And there's such a wide variety 
 of prefab aftermarket parts that don't require all that toil, which means only the truly obsessed 
 will get much out of the autosculpting.  

  If you keep your eye on the prize, you can see the credits roll in Carbon's career mode in well 
 under 10 hours. But if you want to beat every event, as well as unlock every last car and upgrade, 
 you can just as easily spend 20 hours. And there's even more racing to be done outside the career 
 mode. There are 36 increasingly difficult races to take on in the challenge series, and the quick-race 
 option lets you jump into something -- no strings attached. The Xbox 360 version of Carbon also provides 
 a pretty solid online multiplayer component, where up to eight players can participate in all of 
 the race types found in the career mode, as well as multiplayer-exclusive modes, where players 
 get to play as both cops and street racers. The rules in some of these modes aren't explained very 
 well, which can make for some pretty confusing moments. But once you get past the learning curve, 
 you can have some good, team-based fun. We also experienced some minor but pervasive latency issues, 
 even when we were nowhere near the eight player limit, as well as an odd bug where all in-game 
 sound would drop out for the duration of a race. It's kind of flawed, but again, the actual feel 
 of the racing still translates pretty well online. And an online experience system where you can 
 unlock additional cars helps make it a little more interesting. It's also worth noting that as 
 we played the Xbox 360 version, we received no less than four emails from EA encouraging us to 
 link our XBL gamertag to our EA Nation account, even though we had already done this before even 
 putting the disc in the tray. By comparison, the PlayStation 2 and Xbox versions get split-screen 
 multiplayer, which works pretty poorly and makes the omission of online play almost feel insulting. 

  With Palmont City apparently living in eternal night, the game's feel recalls the Need for Speed 
 Underground games, though the scenery changes in Carbon are much more varied. There's a distinct 
 West Coast feel to Palmont City, and you'll find yourself in districts that recall the more posh 
 parts of Los Angeles and Las Vegas. As different as it feels from the city of Rockport in Need 
 for Speed Most Wanted, keen eyes and ears will notice a lot of recycled elements here. Vehicles, 
 environmental objects, textures, and a lot of the sound elements have been cut and pasted into 
 Carbon, making for some odd dj vu. In some cases, it's a good thing because the squeal of the 
 tires and the growl of various car engines still sound great. But hearing the same police radio 
 chatter in Palmont City that you did in Rockport is just weird. There's some familiar, dramatic 
 music in Carbon as well. Although it's odd how poorly the game uses what is actually an interesting 
 licensed soundtrack of rock, electro, hip-hop, and grime. You just won't hear much of it because 
 the game seems to prefer its own music most of the time.  

          The missing online component in the PS2 and Xbox versions makes the 360 version an obvious 
 favorite.     

  This is a game that seems as if it was developed for the Xbox 360 first and foremost because the 
 Xbox and PS2 versions feel compromised. One of the most telling points is the fact that the race-wars-event 
 type, which puts you in a field of 20 racers, isn't even an option in the Xbox and PS2 versions. 
 This is likely because of technical limitations. The Xbox 360 version also has those addictive 
 achievement points to keep you going through the game. Although the single-player achievements 
 tend to be really tough, the online achievements also require you to put in a lot of time with 
 the game. The 360 version looks great, with some heavy-motion blur around the edges of the screen. 
 It also has lots of good-looking bump mapping, slick lighting and reflection effects, as well as 
 a generally more stable frame rate and shorter load times than Most Wanted. While the Xbox version 
 has a little less flash, it still looks sharp and runs smoothly. The PS2 version, on the other 
 hand, can be pretty ugly. Textures are muddy, there are a lot of jagged edges, and the frame rate 
 is all over the place.  

  Ultimately, Need for Speed Carbon doesn't make the best use of some of the strengths from Need 
 for Speed Most Wanted. Many of the changes made to the Most Wanted formula seem to be for the sake 
 of change, but it all still just comes back to the solid driving action, which Need for Speed Carbon 
 puts to good use.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (209 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ashbag
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:45 pm PT
Review:  The Good -
  - Awesome police chases
  - Over 200 races
  - Great online play
  - Acheivements and reward cards will keep you coming back for a while
  - Canyon duels are tense 
 
  - Game is reasonably challenging
  - Great sense of speed
  - Massive open world to drive around
  - Nice selection of cars and car types (muscles, tuner, 
 exotic)
  - Cars handle pretty well (not realistic, but arcade style)
  - Cars sound great and the soundtrack is ok aswell
  
  The Bad - 
  - Rather limited modification
 
  - Graphics are average
  - Wingman mechanic doesn't work very well
  - Driver AI could have been sharper
  - Rival gangs storyline is rather generic, boring and unecessary
 
  
  Need For Speed Carbon is not a big leap forward from Need For Speed Most Wanted, but it does tweak 
 it enough to make it worth the money. The adrenaline filled chases, tense racing and beautfiul 
 cars make Need For Speed Carbon an incredibly fun and enjoyable game and is garuanteed to bring 
 out the boy racer in all of us 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supa_C
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  To sum this all up, it's a 2005-2006 game made by EA. The people behind it are talented, but the 
 effort put in it is slightly lacking (in some areas) .
  
  I've been a huge fan of the Need For Speed Franchise, especially the recent console editions that 
 have been released since the early 2000s, but Carbon lacks certain things here and there (though 
 it has a lot of good things) . What is lacking, which may make you not care too much, is a certain 
 sense of community offline and also certain customization. The community deals with the story, 
 it's pretty uninteresting the further you advance... and certain key characters aren't key, and 
 other supportive roles are not so supportive or focused on (the officer from Most Wanted for example, 
 made me ENJOY my previous experience playing Most Waned and also looking forward to encounters 
 with him) .
  
  And like most people, customizing and tuning cars in Underground 2 was THE BEST and still remains 
 the best since you can't tweak specifically in this game. You only have (3!) manners of tweaking 
 with you performance parts and autosculpting, with no real way of testing it out other than driving 
 actual races.
  
  If you're a fan, then this game will be just fine. If you care about specifics and the feel of 
 a game, then I suggest you rent this and other NFS titles first before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Carbon is the first need for speed game I ever played on the Xbox 360. And it's 
 a lot of fun but for some reason I still thank Most Wanted is a better one than this one. But don't 
 get me wrong you got to play this one to because its a lot of fun.
  
  The graphics look really good maybe some of the best I've seen in a NFS game yet. Everything you 
 can thank of is very very detailed the cars, streets, buildings, and tire marks stay on the road 
 they don't disappear. So overall you should really like the way the game looks I know it's one 
 the things I noticed first and really like about the game.
  
  And the sound in Carbon is just a good to sounds really realistic hearing the cars and stuff you 
 notice that to when you start racing and stuff. That's another good thing about the game and if 
 you have always played the Need for Speed games and liked them then this one want disappoint you 
 at all well it didn't me and it's fun just like all the rest of them. I'd say go and get it or 
 rent it first to just be sure you'll like it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jnsrshwn187
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  then copy and paste it into the posting box below. Scoring: Submit your own rating for Need for 
 Speed Carbon
  Your Score 8.5 slide to rate
  Difficulty Select an Option Very Easy Easy Just Right Hard Very Hard Time Spent Playing, to Date 
 Select an Option 10 Hours or Less 10 to 20 Hours 20 to 40 Hours 40 to 100 Hours 100 or More Hours 
 Classification Select an Option All flash, no substance All it's cracked up to be Almost, but not 
 quite Amazing Ambitious Been there, done that Best Highly addictive Immersive Innovative Instant 
 classic Just plain fun Masterpiece Mixed reactions Old-school Overrated Pretentious Rent it first 
 Revolutionary Rip-off Rocks Solid Surprisingly good Too short Total letdown Underappreciated Uninspired 
 Waste of time Worth playing Worth the wait Post your own player review of Need for Speed Carbon
 
  Review Deck: This will be displayed on the community reviews index, so make it snappy!
  
  this game is awsome because it leaves off by NFS: Most wanted. 120-character maximum characters 
 remaining. Review Text: Need for Speed Carbon Quick Links
  Summary | Reviews | News | Previews & Features | Images | Videos | Hints & Cheats | Forum | Check 
 Prices GameSpot Score 7.6 reserved. | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Carbon was the first game in the Need For Speed series that I had played on the 
 Xbox 360, however I had played Most Wanted on the PsP and Underground on the original Xbox so I 
 was caught up to speed on what new additions had been added. Need For Speed Carbon does a great 
 job mixing the high speed police pursuits that were reinstated in Most Wanted and mixes them with 
 the Fast and Furious inspired nighttime street racing of the Underground games. The game also adds 
 some new race modes like the Canyon Races and the Street Wars. 
  
  Canyon Races are you and an opponent racing down a cannon. Now this game type is two parts. The 
 first part is that you trail the other racer down the canyon and you have to get as close to him 
 as possible without colliding with him or going off the edge, the closer you trail the more points 
 you get. Then in the second half of the race you are the one being trailed and if your opponent 
 scores more points than you, you loose. If you get more points than you win.
  
  Street Wars are like the Nascar of Need For Speed Carbon and they work out pretty well. The race 
 is two laps and it pits you against nineteen other racers in a heated street battle. These are 
 by far the most difficult type of race in the game because the streets are so tight and narrow 
 that they get crowded quite easily, and it is very easy to get into a collision and loose your 
 lead or whatever place you are in.
  
  Another new addition to Need For Speed Carbon is the idea of having a wingman on your side in most 
 of the races. The wingmen can do manythings for you such as draft, collide with other racers, and 
 other stuff of that sort. Hands down the best thing about the wingmen is that if you fall back 
 but your wingman is in first place, you win the race. I was really mad that you do not have a Wingman 
 in Drift and Street as they are the most difficult of the modes and the ones where I needed the 
 most help.
  
  All new game modes aside Need For Speed Carbon plays like every other Need For Speed game and like 
 almost every other racer on the Xbox 360. I must say that I am sick of the Need For Speed games 
 feel like they need a story. They dont! They don't need a crappy story with bad voice overs, they 
 just need good, fun racing gameplay which this game does have.
  
  The game's graphics are not the greatest, they are flashy at times, but at times it really feels 
 like they cut some corners. Every single race in the game takes place at night. Why not throw in 
 some day missions with some awesome lighting effects. It would have been so sweet if there had 
 been a canyon race that took place at daybreak and you are looking out into the horizon as you 
 are racing down the canyon. That would have been sweet!
  
  The game offers a robust multiplayer that can be played online and off. So there is lots of value 
 to this game. I personaly felt that this is the easiest installment in the Need For Speed series 
 in a long time, I mean I cruised right through this game. Its just as addicting as the other games 
 in the series but I felt like this game was finished way too soon, which is kind of disappointing 
 if you ask me, but oh well if you like the game there are so many modes that you will be playing 
 it a long time. Racing fans new and old should definately check this game out.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Value: 8/10
  Tilt: 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAMADEUM
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the greatest street racing games you will ever play in your life. It has decent 
 graphics, a decent selection of cars, and decent customization options... but that's just it.... decent... nothing 
 special, just decent... Sometimes this game can be frustrating (boss-battles, endless police chases, 
 and maddening canyon duels) , but it can also be extremely fun. The Slow-Mo has yet again added 
 value to this game. The story line is also quite indulgent. The multiplayer races are not very 
 exciting... i havnt played all of the modes but it is another one of those games that is 1V1 , which 
 isnt very fun if you are really really good and the person who you are racing just sucks.... there 
 needs to be modes with computer AI along-side human racers. And my biggest peeve about this game, 
 the Drag Racing shift meter. On one player it is a nice needle and you can pull off perfect shifts 
 every time, on two player, it is digital, and you have to guess. It usually ends up in an overshift 
 or only a "good" shift. There is just a big problem for me, it is really quite un-realistic. 190MPH 
 U-Turns, 0-60 in 1 second, 1 mile drags in 12 seconds, ect.... but it is still enjoyable nevertheless... You'll 
 love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  This is a good game but not as good as most wanted 
  
  The graphics The graphics are very good a little bit more advanced than most wanted's graphics 
 and the cars details are better and the detailing of the streets and roads and the buildings are 
 better even when you are in a lap race the tier marks that are on the road stay there. 
  
  The sound The sounds are very good a bit more advanced than most wanted's sounds and when you are 
 revving up you engine it sounds very much like the real cars engine that is amazing also when you 
 do wheel spins you can hear the tiers screeching along the road as they are trying to get grip. 
 
  
  My suggestion is that if you want to have a need for speed game I would suggest that you play the 
 demo of this game first to see if you like it, i sort of liked it but it can not beat need for 
 speed most wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: 7.5 - Great carry-over of story. Typically secuals are not seen, story wise, in the 
 racing genre. Picks up where the other left off only with a bit more drama. 
  
  Graphics/Physics: 8.5 - Graphics live up to everything and more in the racing genre. Carbon has 
 a darker more shadowy touch than its previous game setting. Car damage still doesn't effect gameplay 
 much. Fantastic cut-scenes, very realistic people even with the cartoony touch added.
  
  Sound: 8.5 - Pretty good choice in the soundtrack, a few "ewws" and a few "ahhs". Great car and 
 racing sounds, very realistic.
  
  Environment/Maps: 5 - Maps all seem overly dark or shadowed. Racetracks are way to winding and 
 turny for my relaxed preference.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 7 - Police seem like their always on your tail and they don't ever seem 
 to stop. Bosses are indeed much to difficult and ends up being more annoying than rewarding. Car 
 handling and performance is top notch as usual.
  
  Interface: 9 - Need for Speeds typical interface is still around, never fails at being ultra easy 
 to learn and control. Tons of customizable upgrades and tuneups is always a huge plus. Good choice 
 of Makes and models to choose from.
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 7 - Night time setting along with overly winding roads doesn't mix well. Tons of tuneups 
 and upgrades makes it enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinoadr
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Ahh, Most Wanted, one of the best NFS games they ever produced, so Im guessing the next one would 
 be expecting high expectations also eh? Yeah It sure did but didnt meet some of the things made 
 Most Wanted fun.
  
  Graphics wise the game did great, everything except at some times they were a little blocky, kinda 
 like the producers just said, "leave it, the rest has wonderful graphics" 
  
  OK OKKKKKKKKK Now for Career, the most fustrating part of the game! What fun. When it all looks 
 good as your gliding through the game with ease until you get to the 60-70% That tells you "lets 
 turn it up a notch" but turns it up 50million nothes. Up until then everything is a breeze. Oh 
 and how could I forget, they introduced a new racing system, in every racing match except Boss 
 races and racewars, you'll have a buddy that tags along and helps you. Eventually forming a crew. 
 Your main part of the game is to take over turf from other crews, which also brings in some pretty 
 cool but stressful 'canyonraces' Which everyturn counts and the next second you could be headed 
 to see the zoo. The plot is about money that someone stole and ofcourse the whole 'takeover turf 
 thaaang' It can be interesting and with some impressive graphics but can leave you saying throughout 
 it all "lets just race ok? No jazz before the rumble"
  
  In one big paragraph I just explained my expressions on tthe game! No wait, I forgot! The Police 
 Chases! (exactly the same as Mostwanted so nothing to talk here) 
  
  Out of all it doesnt rule over MostWanted but in someways, came close, rent it first before buying 
 If I were you.
  
  YEA I KNOW THIS WAS A CRAP REVIEW
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchykiz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  NFS Carbon opened up the world of racing games for me. It's amzing graphics. The feeling of racing 
 at night, the mod cars, the sights, the sounds, its terrific. It constantly reminds you of Fast 
 and the Furious Tokyo Drift. Has a great range of cars but i was disapointed in not being able 
 to use the Audi R8. The game has a great storyline and characters. A bad point is the police pursuit. 
 They are very invovled and fun but, they eat up so much time and when you get caught you immediately 
 get up in rage and turn off the game (trust Me) . The challenge series is amazingly difficult. But 
 the game is overall very good. The custimization of races and cars is very good and easy to pick 
 up. The canyon races can be very challenging and annoying at times but they are a brand new and 
 great way to race. Best in series.
  
  G unit
  
  Open Your Heart To The Darkness
  
  Axelhearts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_zone
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  Let Me Loose My Handbrake And Belt
  Let Me Sell Off All The Cars Which i Had
  Cuz I Only need a Single Car to Race,
  That's why i'm on the Single Player Pace.
  
  This 
 Review is meant for single player only
  
  Reviews will be made by portions mentioned below. Feel Free to skip to the portions you are interested 
 in.
  
  1) Story
  2) Career Mode
  3) Race Modes
  4) Gameplay
  4) Graphics 
  5) Sounds
  6) Overall
  7) Score Breakdowns
  
  ( ( ( ( ( ( (... Story...) ) ) ) ) ) )
  
  Need For 
 Speed Carbon is a sequel to Most Wanted,
  And Just like every sequels to be made in a year, 
  There's Nuthin much that could have been 
 added.
  
  No doubt the story continues from where Most Wanted left, 
  but this time... It's all about Taking Over the Territories. 
  Just like The Rockport City which 
 Most Wanted have , 
  Carbon is being made up of Palmont City, 
  
  Which is then broken down into four territories,
  Each owned by the Hot Rod Night Street Racers,
 
  So instead of defeating 15 drivers on the blacklist,
  You are only required to match up against 4 bosses.
  
  Sounds easy..? Not exactly..
  
  
 You are also a No man Show in the biz,
  There's no way you can see your characters likeness
  In the Story, you can find a little bit 
 of twist
  But the ending, is not one of its greatness.
  
  ( ( ( ( (... In the Career Mode...) ) ) ) )
  
  You start off by choosing one of the three different 
 types of cars that are available.. They are Exotic, Muscle, and Tuner Cars... And then You are required 
 to select your Crew Logos.. and urghh, though there are tons of logos to choose from, seriously they 
 don't look good. There's no way you can design your own logo as it all has already been preset..
 
  Following that, you are able to name your crew ,which i dont think so it's necessary, as throughout 
 the game.. you can barely feel that you are having Your own Group Of Racing Clans or teammates racing 
 together with you or even trying hard to Own a territory. U will still feel like you're a lone 
 racer with just one buddy helping you out during a race.
  
  So Once you have chosen your car, just like Underground onwards.. you can drive freely around the 
 unlocked areas... drive to any Indicated Spots to begin a race, Drive to car lots or your safe house 
 where you may tune, upgrade and visualize your car.. And if you are a reckless driver, you can eventually 
 crash on the traffic or smash the objects around Palmont City which will give the cops an opportunity 
 to bust you and your car.
  Otherwise, If You are tired of driving around... you can always select the "World Map" and Jump Straight 
 to the event which are located on the Map of Palmont City.
  
  Before And After some races, you will also receive SMS which will be displayed on screen. The SMS 
 acts as a text based tutorial, providing you more information you need to know about the game and 
 also Voice messages from your crew or rivals who will trash talk with you.
  
  As you progress through the game, you will unlocked crew members, who will act as your helper during 
 the races. There are three different types of crew members. A Blocker, who will help you to block 
 or knock your opponents during the race, A Scout, Who will help you find the shortcuts for the 
 track, or A Drafter, who will give you the Speed you need to win that particular race.
  
  AND PLEAESE NOTE THAT IT IS A MUST FOR YOU TO HAVE AT LEAST ONE HELPER ACTIVATED FOR EACH RACE 
 except the Canyon Race, Canyon Duel, Drifting, and Checkpoint Races. Also take note that you can 
 only use them for a certain period of time. There's a metre bar which regenerates after each time 
 you use them during the race. You cannot hire more than 3 helpers.. But they are not much of a help 
 except in the later stages.
  
  There are Four Territories for you to own in NFS Carbon. Each Territory consist of many races mainly 
 Sprint, Drift, Circuit and Speedtrap. Complete 95% Of the territory, and the boss of that territory 
 will challenge you into two different types of race, one is a lap race.. another is the canyon race 
 which is the most toughest race.
  
  Once you are done with each boss, you get the chance to play a guessing game. There will be about 
 6 Cards handed to you. Two of which will Consist of Visual Upgrades, and the other four are Question 
 Marks where You may get the boss car for free, get out of jail for a free, an extra impound strike 
 etc..
  
  You can have as many cars as you want in your garage provided you have the right amount of cash 
 with you. But Do Note that, you can only upgrade you car performance only for the car you drive 
 to win that particular race.
  For instance, after you finish a race, you will unlock a performance upgrade, that upgrade is only 
 applicable to the car that you use to complete the race. It is not accessible to the rest of the 
 cars in your garage.
  Another thing to take note of, is that each car is given three Impound Strike, meaning.. if you 
 were caught by the cops three times using the same car, you will lose your precious car. So better 
 have at least more than one car in your garage or else its game over...
  
  The Career Mode will last you about 5 hours long if you decide to jump straight to the events without 
 travelling to the race points. But if you decide to defend your territory whenever they are under 
 attack, and roam around to challenge against your casual rivalries roaming around the street, it 
 will probably last you about 12 hours or less.
  
  ( ( ( (... Race Modes...) ) ) )
  
  Well EA may bring back the Drift Racing mode that is missing from Most Wanted, but it's still unsatisfying 
 as they took out the Drag Racing that was in Underground and Most Wanted. Instead they've replaced 
 it with the Canyon Race,. which is actually a good one, but it would be more complete if Drag Races 
 could steer along with the wheels in Carbon as well.
  
  Drift Racing - requires a lot of practice to master... I have to admit that it's not easy for casual 
 gamers to pick up and play the drifting part, as i find it a little too fast and hard to control.. 
 I think that underground actually did a better job in Drifting.
  
  Sprinting, Canyon Race, Circuit Races - suits the driving pretty well... Though it still feels like 
 your Typical Need For Speed Games for the last four years. Just reach one end to the other, or 
 play by laps.
  
  Speedtrap - is almost similar to Sprint Races, Except you or you crew needs to be in the first 
 place in position as well as to have have the highest accumulated top speed captured by the Camera 
 points during the race. But this is one of the boring race besides drifting due to the frustration 
 you'll get from the A. I.
  
  Canyon Duel - are available when you face the boss.. the race is divided into two segments, the 
 first one is where your need to tail him from the back as close as possible, be sure not to collide 
 with his car, or you'll lose points, and if you crashed off the railings and off the hill, you 
 need to restart the whole canyon race over again.
  The second segment is where you need to lose the tail as far as possible... The further you get, 
 the more chances of you winning.
  it's repetitive for the boss races due to the limited race types.. but still.. it's intense yet frustrating 
 the moment you lose..! Oh ya... another thing.. don't expect your opposition to make a mistake, oversteer 
 or understeer coz they won't for the canyon race.
  
  RACE WARS - just like you are going for a war with other 19 cars.. it's not as good as it sounds 
 as it is also one of the toughest race to beat. The cars that you will face against looks the same. 
 only two or three types are diffrent. Quite a boring Race doing as you will be doin it in two laps. 
 
  
  ( ( ( ( ( (..... So here Comes The Gameplay.....) ) ) ) ) )
  
  Need For Speed were known to be the best when it comes to a racing game. But Not till now, as the 
 game is starting to show its age in terms of gameplay since Underground. Well What can i say, Need 
 For Speed Carbon is Definitely an Arcade Racer at the Top Speed. I wonder if theres really actually 
 a need for speed for this game as it feels like a Burnout game smashing through objects and traffics 
 especially in the later stages.
  
  Don't forget to check out the Car Physics. Need For Speed Carbon Includes the Same old Same old 
 Car Physics...!!! Just Like Underground, the cars feel Heavy, Stiff and Rigid. So you better brake 
 right or you will just drift to the sides scracthing your paint off.. You won't feel or see the 
 suspension of your Car working as jumps can sometimes overturned your car followed by the loud 
 bang which is unrealistic. And if you hit a Straight wall, or a 10cm curb, don't expect your car 
 to give an impact or drive over it, in fact your car will give a complete stop which is very unrealistic 
 and frustrating.
  
  The A. I in need for speed are dumb especially your crew... No doubt they are great street racers 
 and helpful at times.. But they can't seem to know where you are... they tend to collide with you 
 at times.. and block your way... So you need to evade them and your opponents during the races...
 
  Opponents A. I are quite perfect when it comes to driving. They still do the sharp funny looking 
 turns into corners which we cannot do. To me, we are having a huge disadvantage.
  
  Controls are a pick up and play game. it feels ok when driving, except when you are at the top 
 of the speed.. you tend to lose the control of your car more often. So not much complains for the 
 controls, everything seems to be mapped perfectly. But i don't find the handbrake a useful thing 
 to use in Need For Speed Carbon especially during races, coz your opponent will simply overtake 
 you the minute you are slowed down by your handbrake.
  
  Speedbreaker returns once again... It's a cool feature that EA have came up with... You can activate 
 Speedbreaker at any point of time even in the free roam mode. It comes along with a bar, which will 
 regenarates after usage. it will automatically refill the bar, so you don't need to do maneuvers 
 to gain it back. Speedbreakers slows down time just like the Matrix did, giving you the opportunity 
 to make a last minute tight turn, and it's also useful to evade cops and traffics, or use it to 
 crash into them which will send them flying.
  
  Cops are here one more time.. being Chased by them is quite fun.. but after some time you will get 
 tired of it. You can lose the cop easily if you smash on the Pursuit Breaker. its some kind of 
 a hotspot located on the map. You knock Huge Objects which will then fall off and land on their 
 cruisers. But the longer you are being chased, the harder you will find to lose the tails. They 
 will Road block you, spike trap and change their Classes which is much more stronger resulting 
 you to hault your car to a stop. It is very Annoying when this happens. As they will just keep 
 on bangin your car and block your way.
  
  ( ( ( (... Graphics...) ) ) )
  
  Need for speed always shine visually for each Era. It still has one of the nicest looking Car models 
 and roads. You can see the reflections on the car an the cracks on the road, the Blurrish Effects, 
 and have some good character models on the 360 version. For the Pc, you need a model Shader 3.0 
 card to enable a good character model and the blurrish effect. Though the blurrish effects looks 
 cool.. but it will make you feel a little confuse if you are driving at the top speed as you can't 
 exactly see whats where will be your next turn.
  
  Customizations are not as Satisfying as Need For Speed Underground. You can't customise your head 
 and tail lights, Change the colour of your smoke that came from your exhaust and not even the side 
 mirrors. So basically you are allowed to customise the rear and fromt bumper. side skirts, spoilers, roof 
 scoop, tires, hoods and exhaust tips. Autosculpt adds a bit deeper into the customisations as you 
 can define the size that you want in the parts which you have installed.. though it is quite linear 
 as some autosculpts need you to have a certain crew members. it is still quite fun when it comes 
 to adding Vinyls to your car. Though the vinyls are preset designs, you can still add more layers 
 of vinyls, up or downsize and change the angles and positions of the vinyls, then choose its own 
 colours.. They are really really a lot of vinyls to choose from! Rims and Windshields can be colouful 
 as well.
  
  Car Damage aren't a good thing to look at in Carbon. No doubt the cops car will smash beautifully, 
 but your racing car will only have scratches, and crack on your windshields... So don't expect your 
 spoilers or hood to fly off.
  
  Again and again, Carbon takes place at night. The nightime doesn't look too realistic, its a bit 
 blueish, maybe due to the light surround the roads. So no day and night cycles... Raindrops do wet 
 the streets and your display screen, at times affecting you to be more precise in controlling your 
 car. One weird thing, don't expect to have pedestrians around palmont City...
  
  Textures for Bulidings and objects are not as detailed as you've seen in some other games... maybe 
 thats the reason for the Smooth Framerates
  
  Last thing about the Graphics, are the Full Motion Video that EA has worked on for the cutscenes. 
 Where they use real actor models, and immerse them with the Computer Generated Environment in the 
 background. It is a Unique Style of doing the cutscenes, But yet, they are just talking to you. 
 These Models don't actually drive along with you and it's not filled with action packed besides 
 the normal in game cutscenes. They are also trying hard to be natural while talking to you, but 
 it doesnt seem to work quite well.. So an average acting by them.
  
  { { { { { {..... Sound.....} } } } } }
  
  Carbon Sound is almost perfect. Engines are superb, nitrous 
 and turbo burst sounds real.. and the cops sirens and communications between them sounds great when 
 it's filtered by the radio chatter.
  
  The only complain i have for the sound is that EA should work on the crashing sound, and some of 
 the lame music beng played during races... Otherwise... Sound is great...
  
  ********* OVERALL *********
  
  Basically Need For Speed Carbon is not an overhaul to the series 
 since underground. They changed one or two type of races and the story backdrop. Controlling of 
 cars still feel the same, and removing some of the parts that should be customised are a shame. 
 Also, it's quite an annoyance for the career mode to always have you to defend your territory as 
 it disrupts your progression. 
  
  Storyline also could be better and should add more actions in the cutscenes involving the real 
 actors. Cutscenes are a beauty but too bad it gets you yawn sometimes..
  
  Speedbreaker and cops chases are fun, but gets boring after sometime. EA should also include more 
 type of races, different A. I Reactions and Different ways of driving during each race.. Otherwise 
 it gets boring soon.
  
  It's a nice touch to have boss battles which bring intensity and pressure when driving. But i think 
 the y should tone done and at least let the bossess do a couple of mistakes during the race... 
 
  
  Graphics still look good and designing your car looks is something fun to explore.
  
  NFS Carbon is not a broken game, still good as the past games, But if you're a NFS fans, you 
 should get this, and if you're new to the series, you can give it a go too. But if you're someone 
 who expecting it to be like a Flatout Fun or Forza and some Gran Turismo simulator, this game is 
 not meant for you.
  
  Need For Speed Carbon is an Arcade Game. No replay value especially in the career mode. You don't 
 wanna go through all the trouble again once you are done with it
  +++++++++... Score Breakdowns...+++++++++
  
  Story   (6.0)
  
  Career Mode    (7.0)
  
 
  Gameplay    (6.5)
  
  Graphics    (7.5)
  
  Sound    (8.0)
  
  OVERALL SCORE....6.5
  
  No point of having a Great score if the game only have great graphics 
 and great sound, but still debuting it's old current gen gameplay. This game is just average in 
 terms of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeroxin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Carbon is a pretty fun game, you can't love it but you can't hate it. For the 360 
 the game is pretty good but not to many people online. The game has some pretty good ghrapics about 
 the same as PS3. New idea for Need for Speed partners, able to perform double moves where you can 
 use your partner to help you do better in the race. This is a very fun game and anyone from almost 
 any ages would enjoy it. If you don't believe it's good and you don't want to spend money on it 
 you should atleast rent it. 
  With this game able to play online like I said it's not very fun to play because there isen't to 
 many people on it and it's just not fun in my opionion. With story mode you can unlock new looks 
 and new cars with different features. The farther you get in story mode the more cars you can get 
 for multi player and you can perform alot better with better performaces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFF4N4T1C
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  First off, I love the Fast and the Furious movies, and that gravitated me towards this game. Honestly, 
 it's not that bad of a game, but there are certain aspects that drag down its score more than need 
 be. It is still a fun racing game and you will get hours of game play out of it, as well as multiplayer 
 fun if you so choose. Need For Speed Carbon is a great game for any lovers of the Fast and the 
 Furious series, but still may not appeal to everyone.
  
  GRAPHICS === 8/10
  First off, this actually happens to be the first next-gen game that I bought - period. It also 
 happens to be my first X360 game that I ever purchased. It was a wonderful way to start off this 
 generation, as its graphics far exceeded the expectations that I had developed from last generation. 
 The graphics were just crisp and enjoyable, especially in HD. Though it is noteworthy that they 
 weren't anything particularly memorable once I had made my way through other next-gen games.
  
  GAMEPLAY === 8.5/10
  The game itself is actually quite fun and addicting. You can play a 
 variety of racing modes, including Sprint, Circuit, Drift, Checkpoint, Speedtrap and a special 
 boss battle mode that is a special race which you must go through without the use of NOS. 
  
  These special boss races expect you to first beat the boss in a standard race, before moving 
 on to a race similar to the one illustrated in Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift - you will find 
 yourself in the hills/mountains racing against the boss without NOS. The first time through, your 
 goal is to stay as close to the boss as you can, and the second time through you are leading and 
 you are to get as far ahead as possible. 
  
  You will make you way throughout the world conquering areas. You begin by choosing one of 3 types 
 of cars, Exotic, Muscle or more street-like cars. These partially impact the cars you unlock throughout 
 the game, but in the end, you will get to see the beauty of supercars if you brave the game.
  
  The game isn't that difficult, though I did have a few problems with the drift challenges. 
 The thing that drags down the gameplay the most in this game is the police chases. The first few 
 times it is enjoyable escaping from the cops that are chasing you, but then it builds up to ridiculous 
 amounts of cops that aren't even fun to escape from, just a hassle. I hated this aspect of this 
 game after a while.
  
  STORY/SOUND/UNLOCKABLES === 6.5/10
  Honestly, the story is abysmal. Throughout the campaign, as you take over zones, you will slowly 
 uncover pieces of your own story. This story is broken and hardly enjoyable - luckily for you, 
 people buy this game for the racing, not the story! There are a few good songs spread throughout 
 this song, but several get annoying and repetitive. Several of the race tracks are quite similar 
 to one another and you might feel a sense of repetitive play, but it is nothing severe. 
  
  There is actually quite a good array of unlockable cars. Don't expect to see as many as you would 
 from a Forza game, but the cars are enjoyable nonetheless. 
  
  BOTTOM LINE === 7.5/10
  This game is worth a look at if you are a fan of racing games or the Fast and the Furious movies. 
 It will keep you entertained and is very fun the first time through, but after one playthrough 
 the main story, you will probably only use it to play when your friends are over.
  
  Don't be discouraged though, this game has enjoyable, though sometimes annoying gameplay, that 
 helps to capture the unrealistic racing-game mode well. By unrealistic, I mean that it doesn't 
 pretend to be Forza and shoot for realistic simulation, but rather sticks to the fast and furious 
 pace we all love. Overall, Need For Speed Carbon is a fun game, and didn't disappoint me overall 
 as my first next-gen game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jks22112
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  +Great graphics
  +Cutscenes are AWESOME, still.
  +Racing is just as GOOD as it always was.
  +A load of real cars with pretty good diversity.
 
  +Great Xbox Live intregration
  +Lots of customization options
  +Cross is back!
  
  The Bad:
  -No need for cop chases
  -Canyon Duels are straight up annoying
  -Racing is just 
 as good at it ALWAYS was.
  -Jumpy online play.
  
  The Ugly:
  *Who would build a city like this..
  *I'm glad digital Auto Zone will supply me with all these 
 parts.
  *Cross has conrows.
  *Story is cheesy (which isn't necessarily a bad thing)
  *That weird blue haired japanese girl..
  
  Need for Speed as been around for a WHILE now. The 
 main premise has always remained the same. Street racing, with expensive cars. 
  
  Need for Speed: Carbon leaves where the last game left off. You are escaping the last city, where 
 it is daytime, all the time, and coming back to the old city where it is night time, all the time. 
 The game starts off as just about all story based Need for Speed games started off. You start off 
 with an awesome car, something happens to it, you chose from a small selection of not awesome cars, 
 and start from the bottom. 
  
  Carbon has you taking on a few rival gangs, and taking over their turf, by racing them. You have 
 the typical Sprints, Circuits, Speedtraps, Time Trials, and Drifts. Missing is the Drag Racing 
 and knockout races, which they decided to take out. 
  
  New to Carbon is the ability to have a crew, though only one of them races with you. They can help 
 you out by knocking other cars out of the way, giving you a draft, telling you where shortcuts 
 are, ETC. And if they win, you win too. 
  
  Of course you can buy or win a bunch of different cars, ranging from fords, to toyotas, to Aston 
 Martins. Customize them any way you want, and upgrade them.
  
  As you progress you take on a few bosses, by doing what is called a canyon duel. Canyon duels aren't 
 really races at all. You gain points by following closer behind yoru opponent. the closer you are, 
 the more points you gain. Then your opponent has his/her turn to closely follow you and if their 
 points are higher than yours, you lose, and you have to start from the beginning. A little annoying, 
 and not as exciting as they could be. But certinly memorable. 
  
  Xbox Live consists of many different kinds of races, some very creative, like Pursuit tag. Though, 
 it's often pretty jumpy, and not really smooth enough to be truely great. The ideas are defintely 
 there, though.
  
  Need For Speed: Carbon is a good enough title to warrent a purchase. Plainly, if you like Need 
 for Speed, you'll like this game. It's more of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0felixis0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  need for speed carbon is a very good racing game. there are many good points of nfs carbon but 
 there are some big negative points which is good for a brand like need for speed. 
  the bad points are the boos races which are very very hard if you start and have no experiance 
 with it then you are going to be stuck for a big time (that happened to me, when i was with kenji) 
 and if you dont have a proper car and no money to tune it then you wont come far. the other point 
 which i had problems with are drifts. If you are very bad in drifts like me then you will like 
 never ever complete any drifts. the only way how i finally finished a drift was the nissan skylline 
 which has amazing handling but the drifts are still extreme hard. 
  wehn you never played anyothere nfs game then you are going to be lost in carbon cuz it has to 
 do with something which happened in most wanted and i never played most wanted. the whole storyline 
 didnt make any sense to me.
  there are many good points of carbon. if i would explain all of them it will take to long. 
  
 need for speed is a game you have to buy but before buying it you should play most wanted cuz you 
 wont get the storyline of carbon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Elijo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I finished this game yesterday and altogether it took me 3 days (about 5 hours a day) . I found 
 that this game was much shorter than all the previous games in the Need for Speed series and I 
 was very disapointed to see that they had taken drag races out of the game. Aside from that, the 
 visuals are good, the gameplay is fair except it can be quite difficult to win races and unlock 
 new parts after defeating a boss (After defeating Angie I nearly gave up playing) 
  
  Need for Speed Carbon is also very similar to Need for Speed Underground 2; It is always night 
 time, one part of Carbon Canyon is a big city, the other is a mountain, the airport and the fact 
 that you can challenge racers that you see in free roam. Also Need for Speed Carbon brings in a 
 new drift system. I found that this drift system can be extremely frustrating to pick up, but after 
 you've got the hang of it, it's not too bad.
  
  Overall Need for Speed Carbon gets a 7.5 because of the shortness, for removing drag races from 
 the game and the fact that it is so similar to Need for Speed Underground 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tr3vz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to my Carbon review!!! By now it has been out for a while and you can get a decent price 
 for a used copy.
  
  The cutscenes explore an interesting new kind of animation, with real-world actors in a fictional 
 environment, but never seem to clear up much of the story let alone make it more interesting. "oh 
 boy i won, crap now i have to watch a ***** cutscene about poop i dont care about."
  
  This game is really all looks. Autosculpt allows you to sculpt your car's body parts to further 
 meet your requirements of a great ride. Photo mode is fun to take shots of your cool ride in. It's 
 the getting and the doing with the ride that is the problem.
  
  Career starts off easy. You are introduced to everything and anything you would want to know about 
 controls, skills, etc. and as you progress through the first tier of cars you are faced with little 
 resistance. When you reach the first boss, prepare for a beat-down. They are extremely merciless 
 and will not hesitate to laugh at you if you crash or fall behind (seriously, try it) . The first 
 three bosses are all the same difficulty, so if you beat the first guy in your first car, it was 
 hard. Next, you have a tier 2 car and beat the next guy, average difficulty. As you meet the 3rd 
 boss with your heavily modded tier 2 car then he is easy. The fourth, which you should meet in 
 a tier 3 car, is VERY HARD (yes i know its out of pattern) .
  
  The real let down is the recycling of many race styles, etc. from Need for Speed: Most Wanted, 
 the best nfs game to date. The cops are organized into 5 "heats" and do not play any significant 
 role whatsoever in the career mode. Crew members are fun, however they do not last long and sometimes 
 suck. MP is just dumb. period.
  
  Do not expect to gain anywhere close to 1000 G in this game. The online **** is hard as hell, and 
 getting all reward cards is really, really stupid and hard. If you liked getting pink slips and 
 other reward cards in MW, then you are out of luck. Pink slips seem next to impossible to get, 
 and there are only 3 people you can get reward cards from. Not useful at all.
  
  If you are hardcore and like NFS, you may want to see what happens to the main character after 
 you complete Most Wanted. Playing through just winning races can be fun (125G for completing game 
 and conquering all races) . That's fine. Nobody plays online anymore, though. If you do not have 
 Need for Speed Most Wanted then you should really get that instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRookieGB
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Hi all.
  
  Thought that the need for speed series was going downhill, haven't played pro-street yet but I 
 can tell you that if you dismissed Carbon because of some of the poor reviews, then look again.
 
  
  At around &pound;12.99 ($20) second hand in the Gamestores this game is a must. I thought that 
 it was very well presented, easy to play, great visuals and cut scenes and customise options are 
 brilliant.
  
  ok so it can get repetive but what driving games don't.
  
  Only played online once and got trounced, but to be fair I didn't understand the short cuts or 
 Tier car system, which works out quite well.
  
  Currenty I own a db9 and a alfa, 27% complete and enjoying the game.
  
  I got the Collectors 
 edition with some extra cars etc, but the standard edition would probably be the same in career 
 mode as the extra cars are only for on-line.
  
  Worth the cash and should be a Xbox classic title now for &pound;19.99!!
  
  Don't waste your 
 time with the TOO Hard forza if you want a race for fun. Cops, online, console, speed cameras, 
 drift races its all here.
  
  Cheers all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prettygoodatit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  Another worthwhile addition to the Need for Speed series. I've been playing this series since I 
 picked up "The Need For Speed" for my 3DO. Needless to say, the game has progressed significantly. 
 I love that they have decided to give a storyline to the game. 
  
  The graphics themselves are top notch, sound is great, the acting is... well... ok. Game play is 
 great. Excellent replay value.
  
  The boss battles are kind of cool. Japanese touge battle style! They were a little tricky at first 
 to get the hang of, but they've really grown on me. I'm not too sure about the wingman aspect of 
 the game, though. They seem to be pointless if you are any good at racing games. The only one that 
 I like to use at all is the blocker, and normally I forget to use it. All in all though, they've 
 added quite a few elements to the racing genre that do not normally exist, and it's done quite 
 well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MYSTROW1
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  The EA servers suck and at least one person will get disconnected every race. It also freezes up 
 all he time causing you to turn off your system and wait for the game to load up again.... purely 
 frustrating ......... and you cant play two consecutive races with out signing out and back in the 
 servers are definitely not working right just like most of the other EA servers. Do not buy this 
 game if you are expecting good online play. Career mode is ok but not great it is way to short. 
 the graphics are too dark and they only use like four colours like black blue grey and purple. 
 but customizing your car is quite fun with lots of ways to do them up. i woundnt get this game 
 i think most wanted was better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danthegamer32
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game the day it came out. With NFS: MW still fresh in my mind on the xbox 1, i thought 
 i'd get this game on the 360 to get that extra graphical sheen. Then i played it. The graphics 
 in this game just dont seem next-gen to me. Yes, the cars look nice but the environments look boring 
 and grey with desperate splashes of neon to make it look 'pretty'. The other good point in the 
 graphics is the computer generated faces of your rivals/ crew are impressively realistic which 
 is quite impressive.
  On the subject of rivals/ crew however, they have some of the most annoying voice acting i've ever 
 heard in a game. They will repeat the same few lines of dialogue all the time which really grates 
 and the boss battles are worse what with them laughing in an especially annoying way every time 
 you crash or they pass you, which is quite a bit. The cutscenes look good however, even if one 
 or two of the characters are annoying (the first recruit anyone? seriously, who actually likes 
 that fat guy?)
  The best thing in this game though is the driving. It feels solid and handles just as it does in 
 Most Wanted, however, the drift sequences feel broken and fake compared to the normal driving because 
 all of a sudden, the cars drive very loosely which just feels wierd. Another point is that this 
 game feels like it has just borrowed almost everything from MW because the driving, including the 
 drag races, are played exactly the same way as they are in the prequel. On the flip side though, 
 this means its easy to play and the race wars in which you race against loads of cars at the same 
 time is quite breath taking due to the sheer scale of the race.
  The new features like the crew mechanics and the canyon races are good ideas but they dont really 
 get built upon. Crew mechanics feel useless because through most of the game, you can win races 
 just by driving well. I found that the scout class was the most useful because he highlights all 
 of the shortcuts on a course. The rest of them are either unreliable or just get in the way. The 
 canyon races feel cheap because if you do manage to fall of the side of the cliff, you don't even 
 get to see your car tumble down the mountain, like EA seemed to be saying would happen in the adverts. 
 The new customisation is good though, the autosculpt letting you let your imagination run free 
 and make your car look just right. The selection of cars is quite good, ranging from bog-standard 
 Golfs and the like to super cars like the Lambo Gollardo, all very nicely modelled.
  Overall, the game is almost exactly the same as Most Wanted in terms of gameplay and graphics. 
 The police chase aspect of Most Wanted seems pointless in this game as it is not focused on as 
 much and the new features feel under-cooked, not showing their full potential. This is a solid 
 racer but falls short in terms of originality and by the fact that there are already better racing 
 games out there that don't put an advertising billboard in the game around most of the map.
  
  Not bad, but not good either 6.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Carbon starts where Most Wanted ended. You are returning from Rockport to Palmont City and from 
 there its your job to take over the city by winning races. City is ruled by gangs and after winning 
 enough races in that gangs turf the chief enters and challenges you. Structure is basically the 
 same as in Most Wanted.
  
  Graphics and sound are really awesome and it really is a next-gen game. Lighting effects are lively 
 and the sound just makes the experience better.
  
  Gameplay is pretty much the same as in Most Wanted, but now there is a team-based mechanics involved. 
 This means that you can give orders to your partner, who is participating in the same race as you 
 are. It does not make much difference in the end though.
  
  Multiplayer is surprisingly fun consisting of a few different modes, but it is that feel when you 
 play with real people and not against an AI opponent.
  
  This is by all means a Need for Speed, but nothing more. The series is starting to get stale so 
 do not expect to see something totally new here. I recommend this game only for those who have 
 not played Need for Speed before or for those who just love it for what it has always been up to 
 this point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BruinFan33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This one is short.... NFS carbon is a decent game I would prefer working through a blacklist again 
 but none the less this games campaign is pretty good as you race your way for street rep and take 
 over territories to ultimately 
  face a boss in the new canyon race which is pretty much stay close and don't fall off the edge 
 then stay far away and don't fall off the canyon, I really don't play these games online so I can't 
 review that but anyway another problem is difficulty the game was fairly easy and shouldn't take 
 very long to beat so that and the Racing engine I guess you would call it, those are the cons and 
 Pros of course customization, a semi good story and, a good car selection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlord20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed - Carbon has a few changes in it from what we saw in the previous NFS so let me 
 start from the top. The Graphics have improved some what and the sound effects of the cars are 
 still great (with the exception that every single turn makes the car screech) . 
  
  When starting you get to choose from 2 different types of vehicles. These choices are Muscle, Tuner 
 or Exotic and they each have their ups and downs. Some with more speed and some with better cornering. 
 The ability to modify your car has improved and the selection of cars to choose from is pretty 
 impressive. 
  
  When it comes to racing, there is alot more drifting, which can be fun to some people, but the 
 game has absolutely no Sprints. I love the drifting but i also loved the sprints so i was a bit 
 disappointed about that but then again the makers cant please everyone. 
  
  In my opinion i think the game turned out pretty good and if you like racing games then this is 
 a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitair1012
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  This game may be a winner to many racing fans, yet for those picky gamers out there, this may just 
 be a rent. There a many differences from Most Wanted, yet many of the differences are for the better 
 of the series. This includes more customization options, better multiplayer, able to jump to any 
 event you want, and much better graphics. But, some flaws may be a letdown, like since you can 
 warp to anywhere you want, there aren't as many police chases. Also, there aren't as many hiding 
 places or shortcuts as there were in Most Wanted.
  
  This whole game is done during the night. Guess what, no more black list. Right now, you get back 
 in town with a new racing crew and you have to take over many territories. One you take over a 
 large portion of a place, you get noticed by another crew, who their boss challenges you. This 
 may be pretty frustrating, yet at the same time it is fun. Now, the new craze has been drifting, 
 taking from games including Ridge Racer or Project Gotham Racing, and now its come to the Need 
 for Speed series. There's a new race type called drifting where you have to score the most points 
 by drifting without hitting the walls. This game has all the great cutscenes it had before, which 
 are humorous.
  The customization is plentiful, and this is a great game to enjoy for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamebills
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Well. I don't like this game. I am actually appauled that this and Oblivion go for the same price 
 when their both used. So anyway, in the NFS games, you are some cool guy who messes with car gangs 
 and upgrades your car untill perfection.
  
  In theory, this sounds ok I would soppose. Untill you witness the just plain stupid cutscenes, 
 dialouge, and story that EA threw into this one. First off, I know EA can do racing. I've been 
 following the Burnout series before EA picked it up, and enjoyed Takedown to no end. Yet Carbon 
 does not impress me one bit with its sluggish controls
  
  The thing that drives me over the edge is the fact that the driving should be FUN since you took 
 so much time and effort into making your car look cool. Nope. The races are bland and repetive.
 
  
  And someone please tell me what the heck is up with the AI? Most races, you have a teamate, or 
 ally. They have diffrent kinds, including Spotters which tell you about shortcuts while your racing, 
 and Blockers who... basically block other players from catching up to you. Anyway, my Comrade tells 
 me about a shortcut to the left, takes it himself and being infront of me, crashes into the wall, 
 thus blocking the allyway with his car. And plus your friendly AI are always much faster and seem 
 to never obey any laws of physics, having the same car yet speeding up so fast it's rediclous. 
 And many times I'll be behind him, only to have him jam on the brakes and me slam into him. He'll 
 just have a voice over telling you how bad you are at driving.
  
  Sooo basically, if you just want to look at a pretty car with good graphics and thousands of tuning 
 options, go ahead and but this game. But if you want it for a decent racer, look somewhere alse. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metaldan85
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 17, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  the game is NOT the Best It's one of the worst they made so you mustant have played all of them 
 so. i suggest you get the other ones, park your assa nd get playing, and you will then MAYBE see 
 that the need for speed carbon wasent really all that good, ok it had better cars ( supposing-ly 
 ) with new kits n all and even modifying engines with the new stuff, obvioulsy newer upgrades on 
 need for speed carbon but to be honest, i found need for speed carbon to be the worst one, it was 
 really crap, the best one i would say is need for speed 2 because it has most things good tuning 
 great bodykits and all the visuals were great oyu had a LOT to choose from 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poison_strings
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  This was almost a good carbon copy (hehe) of Most Wanted but failed to deliver on replay value 
 and content that it's predecessor did. It simply wasn't long enough and the bonus material and 
 side races just didn't envelope me enought o want to put it in and play for hours on end like Most 
 Wanted did. This game seemed unvbelievably rushed. Lets hope they improve when ProStreet comes 
 out. I was also disappointed with the lack of story. I think that's what made MW so good was the 
 flashbacks, the cinematics, the storyline, and the end race! Damn that was sweet. This game had 
 no story and just sorta ended. Online was more than a letdown as well which is quite surprising 
 for the NFS series. Just disappointed overall. Gameplay &amp; controls seemed not too bad and the 
 graphics good but thats about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  The prologue to the beginning of the Career Mode, starts out with the player driving down Carbon 
 Canyon in his BMW M3 GTR, which the player won back from Razor (the antagonist in Need For Speed 
 Most Wanted) in the final Blacklist race in Rockport. The story is recalled throughout the game 
 with the use of FMV sequences, which are presented as flashbacks . The first flashback recaps the 
 player's last race before he left Palmont, driving Darius's Toyota Supra, in Palmont City (with 
 Kenji, Angie, and Wolf racing against him) . As the cars approached the finish, the Palmont PD ambush 
 them and use what seems to be an EMP device to disable all the cars, apart from the player's. Nikki, 
 the player's girlfriend throughout the game, rushes to the car to drop off a bag containing the 
 prize money. As she tries to pass the bag over to the player a 'cop' pulls her away, and the player 
 makes his escape through an alley that is strangely blocked by a Chrysler 300C after the player 
 escapes. The player opens the sack only to find it is filled with paper, implying there were two 
 bags, a decoy and a real one, and that they had been switched without Nikki realizing. As the flashback 
 ends, Darius advises the player to leave the city with his car rather than face the heat. The subsequent 
 introductory race involves Cross (the former Rockport Police Sergeant) , who is now a bounty hunter, 
 pursuing the player down a Canyon in his Chevrolet Corvette Z06, just as the player is about to 
 drive away. Like the intro race in Most Wanted, this race ends abruptly, fading out as the player's 
 car slams into a truck. The next cut scene shows the BMW M3 GTR totalled and cornered by Cross, 
 who is all too happy to finally settle their old score from Rockport. Eventually, Darius comes 
 to the scene in his Audi Le Mans Quattro. Darius compensates Cross to close the unannounced bounty 
 deal.
  
  As Darius explains to the player now the main concern in Palmont is the current war for territories 
 between rival Racing Crews. There are 4 dominant gangs ruling their respective areas of the city, 
 three of them headed by the player's opponents during the race that fateful night the player left; 
 as well as Darius's Stacked Deck , along with several minor gangs. Darius recruits the player with 
 the intention of using him to take over the city for Stacked Deck , to return Darius's favor of 
 saving him from arrest.
  
  As the player progresses through Career Mode and proceeds to win more and more races, the player 
 gains new territories and eventually wins complete control over a gang's entire district. After 
 taking all the territories in one district, the boss of the district's dominant gang challenges 
 the player to a series of two races: one on the streets of his or her respective district and the 
 second in the canyons. If the player wins, they are awarded Marker Cards similar to those in Need 
 for Speed: Most Wanted; the player can choose two out of a possible six cards, one of which is 
 the pink slip to the defeated boss' car. After that, a member of the defeated crew will ask to 
 meet the player, where he/she will then reveal their point-of-view of the night the player fled, 
 giving clues to help the player make sense of the suspicious circumstances of his departure, and 
 offer to join your crew.
  
  After the player defeats all three crew bosses, Darius offers to meet up with the player. Instead 
 of congratulating him, he accuses the player of stealing the money that was dropped off in the 
 player's car and asserts that the city is rightfully his own. He then has Cross, who was waiting 
 for the player; arrest him. Next, Darius takes the player's car keys and hands them to Nikki, asking 
 her to bring the player's car to his garage. However, Cross instead releases the player as Nikki 
 tells him of a deal she made with Cross, before handing back the player's keys. Nikki reveals that 
 the player's crew members' stories exposed the true nature of the police intervention: Darius had 
 set up the fateful race to allow him to become head of the dominant crew in Palmont and to drive 
 the player out who was a threat to him. Part of Nikki's deal includes her racing as part of your 
 crew.
  
  The player is then given access to Silverton, the final District the player has to conquer, controlled 
 by Darius's Stacked Deck . Here Darius is agitated by the player's dominance and recruits the three 
 other major crew bosses to race against the player; part of the deal presumably, providing them 
 with new cars as well. Once the player defeats of all of Silverton's territories, he is challenged 
 to a series of 4 final races, the first two against all three of the other gang's bosses, the 3rd 
 a street duel and the finale; a Canyon Duel with Darius.
  
  After Darius is finally defeated, he surrenders his Audi. Darius then leaves without much left 
 to say, but not before giving a final warning that there's always someone out there who's faster 
 than you are, and sooner or later they're going to catch up. After Darius warns the player, he 
 walks into David's Jaguar XK (which can be used in collector's edition) . Finally, Darius and David 
 leave Palmont City forever.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is based upon rival street racing clubs and teams. The player can pick specific street 
 racers to be in their crew, who fall into 3 categories: Scouts, who can help find shortcuts throughout 
 a track, Blockers who race alongside the player and target opposing cars during the race to knock 
 them off course, and Drafters who create a slipstream for the player to follow during a race, which 
 gives a significant speed boost. Although not included, there was also going to be a type of crew 
 member called the Persuader (see Cut Features) , but EA had programming issues with it. Also, each 
 crew member will also have a second specialty, again divided into 3 categories: Beginning with 
 Fabricators, who can enable you to modify certain parts of your car and enable AutoSculpt (a tool 
 which allows the player to customize the modifications themselves) , Mechanics who can give discounts 
 on certain car parts, and Fixers, who can reduce your wanted level after races, have extra cash 
 and get traffic like large Trucks out of your way. The new city setting for Carbon, Palmont, is 
 now divided up into territories owned by different racing Crews . The player is able to win territories 
 by successfully completing at least 2 races on that particular territory; rewards for winning a 
 territory range from car parts and enhancements stores to unlocking new crew members and cars.
 
  
  The game also features the return of drift racing, a mode that had been included in two previous 
 installments Need For Speed: Underground and Need For Speed: Underground 2, but omitted from Carbon's 
 predecessor, Most Wanted; and new style of race, Canyon Racing, based on Japanese Touge races. 
 Canyon Races are divided into two parts. The player first gains points depending on how closely 
 opponent's movements are followed down a mountain trail, and the second part involving points being 
 deducted from your previous score by how closely the opponent manages to follow you. If the player 
 manages to reach the bottom with points remaining, the player wins. Also, there are instant win 
 situation (pass or pull far enough ahead of the opponent) , and instant lose situations (be passed, 
 fall behind, or crash through the guardrails and off the sheer drop that follows.) The Drag race 
 mode has been omitted from Carbon, previously featured in Underground, Underground 2, and Most 
 Wanted.
  
  The Need for Speed: Carbon Collector's Edition features 4 exclusive cars, 10 pre-tuned cars (out 
 of the box) , 6 new races, 3 unique challenge events, 10 unique vinyls and a Bonus DVD showing the 
 making of Carbon and showcasing all the cars used in the game. The Collector's Edition also features 
 alternate box art and metallic finish packaging.
  
  There is also the ability now to upload one's in game screenshots to the Need for Speed website, 
 complete with stats and modifications. Also, the PC, Wii, and PS3 versions features an online only, 
 Be the Cop racing mode, wherein the fastest player has to try and evade the others who are all 
 police; once someone overtakes the fastest player they then become the hunted car.
  
  Features
  
  Car customization
  
  Carbon allows for a considerably larger number of car 
 customization options than the previous game in Most Wanted. The new AutoSculpt feature allows 
 you to take stock after market parts such as spoilers and rims, and shape and mould them to your 
 liking, adding and defining little touches, such as shape, contours, size, etc. It also allows 
 you to layer as many vinyls as you like, which was previously not possible in Most Wanted; and 
 pick from an enormous amount of colors, different paint types for your car, vinyls, rims and other 
 various accessories. There is also the option to tune the performance for your cars by tweaking 
 performance parts like Turbochargers for example, to have more or less Torque or Horsepower; or 
 choosing between Tires that have very good grip or very good drift characteristics. All the performance 
 tuning options have their advantages and disadvantages however; i. e. Nitrous Oxide systems that 
 have a high velocity provide a quick surge of high power but have much less capacity. This allows 
 for a much greater variation in performance among the same or similar cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GEARS1234
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  i like playing this game it is a lot of fun to play i would have given it 90 but there was a few 
 things that let it down. One the career mode was a bit to short i completed it in a day, second 
 was when the game kept freezing on online it really pissed me off it did it froze about seven times 
 in one day and third is that there is one achievement in the game that is glitched because EA will 
 not fixs the game ever still great to play and worth buying if you like racing games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avishkar14
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Well let me start off by saying that I have never been a huge fan of NFS games. As a result I borrowed 
 this game from someone to just try it out and I must admit that I was pleasantly shocked!
  
  After finishing about 25% of the short career mode I actually found out that I was having fun 
 with this game. The story was appealing as you had to win races to conquer enemy terriories. From 
 time to time we would see a flashback which would reveal us of the past life of the character which 
 would have been fun for those people who have followed this series. I played the game on Normal 
 difficulty and except for the last race, ( The canyon duel with the main guy, forgot his name! 
 I think it was Darius or something ) I didn't have problems with any other race. Gameplay was good 
 although graphics while racing were not up to par. It must be mentioned that the cutscenes looked 
 sweet! Overall, a good game to play. I played this game online a bit as well and it was pretty 
 fun. So you'll can try it out once. It definitely isn't disappointing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therealhotsauc2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 12, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  NFSC is fun and dazzling but they could have tried harder on the characters and the story line 
 but the gameplay is awesome and realistic with a little arcade action still in it it will keep 
 u playing for hours on end and keep u asking for more which is why they created xbox live. This 
 game has a high replay value and your can customize your car with infinite possibilities and could 
 take hours to do but you'll have fun doing it so if your asking yourself whether or not to buy 
 i have one question for you do you want the best racing arcade-like game in the universe and if 
 that answers yes than you should buy this game for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whyme122
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 11, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  NFS Carbon is definitely the best NFS out at this time. The graphics are amazing and the cars are 
 breathtaking. The overall game play is pretty straight forward, basic controls and the greatest 
 handling ever. The car customization is forever endless cause there are a lot of options and different 
 styles that will fit any taste. Need For Speed Carbon is a racing game that you can play forever 
 it really never gets old. Although they did take out drag races so that was a little disappointing. 
 Carbon has multiple race types and plenty of free roam space it will take you a long time to go 
 through every nook in the city. So give Carbon a chance and it might be your next favorite game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umer_fawi
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  In this installment of NFS ea has made many new things in it, like canyon races new type of challenges, 
 very very highly details graphics.. and when talk about its music.. so guys the is very rock than 
 previous versions.. The cars shadows, reflection and car reflection details, road reflection, world 
 details is also very very highly updated ...
  
  GRAPHICS: i give it 10 out of for its graphics.
  .
  SOUND: The sound is also good. so i also 
 give it 10 out of 10 for its amazing music.
  .
  GAMEPLAY: the gameplay is also very superb i also give it 10 out of 10 for its gameplay.
  .
 
  STORY: I think this actually based on its amazing story .. thats why i also give it 10 out of 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean-carsner
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon is the new edition to the Need for Speed franchise and has some new features 
 that adds more customization to your cars. The story of Carbon continues from Most Wanted's storyline. 
 Unfortunately, the name Carbon just doesnt go with the series at all. Every Need for Speed title 
 such as High Stakes, Hot Pursuit, Hot Pursuit 2, Underground, Underground 2, and Most Wanted all 
 went with the games genre of street racing but Carbon just doesnt deliver that.
  
  One of the new features in Carbon is the autosculpt feature, witch isnt really realistic because 
 it allows you to widen body kits, rims, ect. Another feature is the introduction to the american 
 muscle. Team racing and canyon duels are also available in this game witch kinda dumbs down the 
 realism even more, nor are they that fun to play. And drag races were removed in this title.
  
  The multiplayer can go up to 8 players and can be played with a friend as well through online 
 play. Ranks are also included.
  
  If less you dont care about the realism in the Need for Speed series, Carbon is the one Need for 
 Speed title that just doesnt get you into the game due to its unrealistic racing and autosculpt 
 feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danko91
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 3, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  if you have played the game on the ps2 like i did, then you'll fall in love on the 360 version, 
 the graphics are ultragood and the way those rims are shining..!! :D so, good graphics, the gameplay 
 is slightly better then on the ps2, it feels realer. if you listen carefully; you can hear that 
 the noise when you drift is different then on the ps2, much nicer!! good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good game !! just the last race is a bit more difficult than the 
 other ones, make sure your car is tuned up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameGodDerek
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  The boss battles may frustrate you, but the attention to detail and wide area easily makes up for 
 it.
  
  Graphics: Really great, and the addition to edit your cars allows you appreciate them more.
  
 
  Sound: Technoish sound track, great for the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: Smooth, sleek, the boss battles are tough, but aren't to frequent.
  
  Interface: 
 Does not get in the way, and sound conformations play when something is ready, so you don't really 
 have to look off the road.
  
  Genre: For the Racing Games, Need for Speed has always been a great game, and i love how it allows 
 Free Roam instead of having set races.
  
  Verdict: Buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodspeed1989
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 17, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  NFS Carbon isn't that bad a game the only major flaw in it is the amount of time it takes to complete 
 the game.
  it took me about 2 days to complete, although that was only career its still the best part of the 
 game, all there is now is little challenges which aren't that challenging and a little boring.
 
  Where the game picks up is its looks, the graphics are fantastic on this game, the guys at EA 
 have taken full advantage of the next gen consoles capabilities to make the cars and surroundings 
 work together to make just driving around an enjoyable experience. the new ability to 'auto sculpt' 
 gives you the option to make your car all the more unique, there are all so a far wider range of 
 visuals in Carbon compared to all the previous NFS's, even though to unlock all the vinyls is pretty 
 annoying.
  On the whole as the newest version of NFS it doesn't quite full fill the expectations, the could 
 have done so much more with it than they did and it could have been a really good game but as it 
 turns out it was only 'good'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  It has the most outstanding graphics amazing. But when i am driving and doing races the streets 
 all look the same to me. But lucky you get a variety of races to do.
  sprint - is where its a race that doesn't have laps you go from spot to another.
  circuit- lap 
 races. speed races - where you have to go get the most speed and hit these speed icons going really 
 fast to add up.
  drift - where you get points for sharp turning.
  canyon races- where you race a boss and its really to hard to explain.
  
  The parts you can 
 get are pretty cool to, they could of used a little more work though.
  
  Then you get cards that can help you out like i got one where you take the bosses car after winning. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  As being a new person to the Need for Speed series. I can't say if this is the best or worst game 
 in the series. But I can say this game is completely awesome! The story goes as yourself returning 
 to your local city, only to find it overrun by different car gangs, split up by car type. And what 
 you have to do is reclaim the city block-by-block for yourself. You start by picking your car class. 
 Tuners, who have great handling, but poor speed. Muscles, who have great acceleration, but poor 
 handling. And (my personal favorite) exotics, which are the most balanced. The city is controlled 
 by 3 main gangs, which vary by car type, and you take over their territory by beating them at races. 
 Carbon features a fair number of race types, including your standard 2-3 lap race, a sprint to 
 the finish line, drift events, and more. The coolest race types are Race Wars, which puts 20 cars 
 in one circuit race, and Canyon Duel, which features a 1-on-1 race on a narrow road where you can 
 fly off the cliffs. Graphically, this game's pretty good looking. Some parts of the city look really 
 good  while some areas look really dull. The game also has a slightly 
 slower frame-rate. But as long as you havn't been playing Burnout non-stop, you probably won't 
 notice. When your driving around town in free-roam, cops will come after you if you cause too much 
 trouble, and they get a lot harder as you cause more carnage! The game also features nice cut-scenes, 
 which blend real-life footage, with a digital look to it. NFSC has a great soundtrack as well. 
 When your freely driving around the city, licensed music plays in your car. The music genre varies 
 depending on what type of car your driving. Tuners have techno, muscles have rock, and exotics 
 have hip-hop. Unlike most EA games, Carbon uses its own soundtrack quite a lot. The game's own 
 soundtrack plays during almost all of the races. Carbon features very deep car customization. There's 
 a cool feature called autosculpt which lets you change the shape of different parts of the car. 
 The game also has several online modes such as knockout pursuit - which is where a bunch of people 
 race, and the person who is in last place at the end of the lap becomes a cop, this goes on until, 
 you have a bunch of cops against one car. Overall Carbon is a great game that any racing fan should 
 own. You might want to rent it first just to be safe though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zlayerz
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 10, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  In NFS Carbon everything was superb, the graphics, the cars and the racing experience. But the drifting 
 was a bit of a let down and unlike like NFS MW this was played at night so they should have added 
 an UNDERGLOW/NEON mod. It was quite a rip-of of The fast n the furious tokyo drift. The classic NFS 
 I think is still Need For Speed Underground 2. There were so many modifications you could add to 
 your car in that game, even a bass sound system! NFS Carbon still could be improved although I like 
 the Autosculpt feature. The cars were also nice TUNER, MUSCLE and EXOTIC. The tuners had awsome control 
 and was superb for drifts but some lacked speed. The muscles had unmatchable accelaration but not 
 so good a top speed and scerwed handling. The exotics had the top speed and accelaration as their 
 advantage but they really lacked handling. This how I rate the cars..
  TUNERS- BEST
  MUSCLE-WORST
  EXOTICS-GOOD/BEST (FOR PROS)
  I hope the next NFS will include neon and more mods 
 and of course the car brand FERRARI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 10, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  Although the map is a little dull and there are only a few added features, this game is great. 
 the graphics and the feel of the game are just spot on. Need for speed could definitely improve 
 in many ways. Doing te same old races over and over gets boring after a while, they need to add 
 more cool features, such as showing off your ride, making a sweet storyline. you start out as a 
 low time ameteur with a crappy car and eventually riding a sweet ride and showing it off. this 
 game is probley the best in the series, being on the xbox 360 , i thought it could of been better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunner6270
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 10, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  i woulda thought that the need for speed franchise woulda gone towards more of the drifting scene 
 but going they're own way with building crews is a new idea that wasnt used to is fullest.
  
  the main point of the game is to build a strong crew and eventually get the best cars and win 
 all the races. Of course they brought back the pursuits but they werent used as heavily as they 
 were used in most wanted
  
  this isnt neccesarily a bad thing but its wat made the series good and could've been emphasized 
 somewhat to what the game should've been
  
  i beat the game in under 5 hours so there isnt much replayability unless if you would like to go 
 to the challenge series
  
  im not saying this is a bad game but it lets me down as a loyal need for speed fan to see the series 
 take this turn
  
  the graphics are beautiful though
  
  hopefully i'll see what im looking for in pro street
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 9, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game just as I had since I first brought NFS Underground. 
 Every year EA would release a NFS and I couldnt' wait till Xmas. My kids spoil me see lol. After 
 Most Wanted I was hoping for more of the same but was surprised they had changed the game again. 
 There were some excellent features added to this one but some others taken out. I was although 
 happy to see they had brought back the Nissan Skyline. I love that car. Anyways the good thing 
 about this game is the new car classes. The idea if picking your type of class is grat. Muscle 
 cars are fast but cannot handle very well, Exotics are the middle cars and the Tuners can hit a 
 bend pretty sharp but don't quite have that top end. Also the idea of taking over turf was pretty 
 good and the improved graphics were nice too. However what does let this game down is the Story. 
 I like games which have a good plot and Most Wanted had the chessiest one going since the fast 
 and the furious. You really hated the main characters of the previous game and really wanted to 
 kick their asses but this game was a little boring on the story side. Also the canyon duals are 
 the most annoying races ever introduced into a NFS game. And they took out the whole Milestone 
 thing they had put in to Most Wanted so there was no reason to even bother getting chased by the 
 police. However despite all this NFS Carbon is still a prett good game and good fun if you're into 
 your cars and I would still reccomend it to any NFS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fratjoe18
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Although the map is a little dull and there are only a few added features, this game is great. 
 the graphics and the feel of the game are just spot on. Need for speed could definitely improve 
 in many ways. Doing te same old races over and over gets boring after a while, they need to add 
 more cool features, such as showing off your ride, making a sweet storyline. you start out as a 
 low time ameteur with a crappy car and eventually riding a sweet ride and showing it off. this 
 game is probley the best in the series, being on the xbox 360 , i thought it could of been better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcthaman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  So I finally bought this game last night after months of research and hesitation. I loved Underground 
 2 and really didnt care that much for the daylight racing in Most Wanted, so I was pleased to 
 discover that this game is basically Underground 3. No, the customization isnt quite as deep as 
 UG2 and the game isnt as long, but the cars are better, the graphics are smooth and beautiful, 
 the racing is crazy fast and there is a wide variety of events. I love the thrill of the canyon 
 races, although they can get frustratingly difficult at times. There arent as many police pursuits 
 as in MW, and your goal is not to rack up a ridiculous bounty by running from them, but then again 
 it was called Most Wanted so go figure. The police do still provide some tense moments, though, 
 and the canyon duels are also all about pursuits (with another racer instead of a cop) , so the 
 white-knuckle races are definitely still there. This edition of NFS is a very solid entry but not 
 ground-breaking by any means. Its more like a mix of features from the Underground series and 
 MW. It offers a huge city to explore, a great selection of muscle cars and tuners, an awesome sense 
 of speed, loads of customization options, and truly next-gen graphics and gameplay. Its still 
 kinda pricey at $49.99, so dont be a dumbass like me and wait for another couple of months for 
 the price to drop to $29.99. Pros: Night racing theme, tense canyon duels, smooth colorful graphics, 
 good sense of speed, semi-realistic car handling and physics, great selection of rides, slick menus 
 and presentation, funny (but retarded) FMV video cutscenes during career mode
  
  Cons: Graphics are not exactly photorealistic and give the game a sorta over-the-top cartoony 
 feel, some of the new features dont always work as they should (like the wingman feature) , shorter 
 career mode than in previous games, still costs $50, really doesnt offer anything ground-breaking, 
 customization is more limited than in UG2, not near as many police chases as in MW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 27, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  Hmm... Another Need For Speed, what? Isnt this like the 10th one in the last 2 years? Should'nt 
 my Need For Speed have been met by now? I finally believe that this installment has finally meshed 
 together all the great elements of the last 5 N. F. S' (i. e. Cops Most Wanted/Hot Pursuit Body Mods 
 Underground 1&amp;2) Which makes me a happy little camper. The game looks great especially on the 
 360, the controls sometime tend to be a bit sluggish going down the canyon's but then again no 
 one said it was gonna be easy going down a canyon at 100+ with an upgraded engine and NOS under 
 the hood now did they? I do really feel that EA is messing up with the whole Buy everything you 
 need in the X-Box marketplace Whatever happened to actually playing the game? Anyway, N. F. S. should 
 and shouldnt rejoice at the same time. I am a big fan of this franchise, but I did a rarity in 
 N. F. S. I actually went out and rented it first which I never do cause I usually know every new 
 game is gonna be good but when I played on the demo it gave me doubts which have led me to not 
 buy the game at all. In conclusion, if your too much of a fan and dont care what other people have 
 to say then buy this game as soon as you can, but if you actually dont wanna loose respect for 
 such a relevent and near and dear to your heart franchise, rent it first and see how you like it. 
 the game it OK more fun on the multiplayer for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riddle015
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 26, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  I liked this gam a lot. I found it reall addicting. th graphics are amazing and it has pretty solid 
 gameplay. It has good length too it. The drifting is kinda of hard to adapt too, but after you 
 get the hang of it , it is pretty easy. It doesn't get boring after you've played for a while (untill 
 you beat the game then I just dont see the point) . The multiplayer is pretty fun as well. The customization 
 options really allow you to personalize your cars and make it eve cooler! But overall it has great 
 graphics, nice gameplay, and a really entertaing story and that's why I think it is the best racing 
 game out there right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demondeano
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 17, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  its a good game, i had it on the ps2 before but got it on 360 and wasnt disapointed, everything 
 is diffrents! graphics are really good, controls are fine! got all sorts of car, mine (amercian 
 muscle) so suits me fine, online playing is great although mine keeps frigging crashing on ea nation 
 and i dont know why, but maybe just my game, its a great online mulitplayer and the modifing is 
 amazing, do what you want to your car, pimp it and the lot lol! its a good game, sounds are gr8 
 handling and that is fine, camrea angle is gr8! i love it dont think il get bored of it! if your 
 a boy racer or car fan this is a game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saxo121
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 11, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  If you played any of the previous need for speed undergrounds and most wanted you will like this 
 game . Need for speed carbon on the xbox 360 looks amazing the cars , the chicks everything looks 
 good and the sound and music in the game is good to . Career mode same as most wanted the police 
 chase you if you drive like a looney and even chase you in a race! there also alot harder to get 
 away from this time . Need for speed carbon is in my opinion the hardest need for speed game ,drift 
 racers are impossible just by pressing left the car completley does a 360 and then you keep hitting 
 walls and losing ya points and then you got race wars! another hard event especially when they 
 put you at the back of about 20 racers in a 2 lap race racing against modified lambos sitting in 
 first position!! then you got the boss battles first you race and then you do a 2 stage chase like 
 which on the second run if you screw up you got to do it all over again and usually they got double 
 the horsepower cars which you have to rely on the corners to win cause when the straight appear 
 they zoom by like your in a vauxhall NOVA!! and then when you taking over terrotry you have to 
 defend it from the rival streetracer you took it from - this meaning that hard race wars that took 
 you 1 hour or so to do gets called to defend it you got to accept it or do both race wars again! 
 which really pisses you of . beside the difficult of the drift and the race wars / boss battles 
 the game is still amazing . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poseidion
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 7, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  It's way too easy, the graphics are so violet they are unreal, and handling is not that bad but 
 I just miss Underground style of handling and colors. The music sucks and the tune-up parts, well, 
 so so. There are some rally nice wheels and Iiked to personalize some parts. That needs some more 
 work, but it's the first time I see that and it's definitely a good idea. And please take away 
 that stupid 100 words rule or I'll just keep doing this: It's way too easy, the graphics are so 
 violet they are unreal, and handling is not that bad but I just miss Underground style of handling 
 and colors. The music sucks and the tune-up parts, well, so so. There are some rally nice wheels 
 and Iiked to personalize some parts. That needs some more work, but it's the first time I see that 
 and it's definitely a good idea. And please take away that stupid 100 words rule or I'll just keep 
 doing this: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antonius86
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 6, 2007 5:15 am PT
Review:  I gotta admit, the need for speed series are improving. The graphics and sound have improved a 
 lot since Most Wanted came out.
  
  The storyline for this game continues where Most Wanted left off. But it is really confusing on 
 what the flash backs are trying to tell you. Other than that, it's still cool to see real people 
 fit right into the game.
  
  The new feature, Autoscupt , it a great new feature but they lack on creativity, because every 
 car you do autoscupt on comes out pretty much the same. So you want a very nice body kit, buy them 
 from the after market menu. They have wide body kits and nice rims.
  
  The Online part have improved, but its not very stable, because one time i wanted to play a print 
 race so i searched for a sprint race to play, but joined onto a circut or canyon duel race every 
 time. Why now make it so that you can create a lobby yourself rather than wait to become a host.
 
  
  I like the idea of having 3 different car types, Muscle, Tuner, and Exotic. Tuner is my personal 
 favorite because its easy to use to go around the corners in the story mode. Muscle is my worse 
 cars, i cannot handle driving the muscle car, always spinning the tires and being passed all the 
 time. Exotic are nice cars, they can be a little difficult to drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Froggy820
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 24, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  alright... i am a big fan of all sport games except for golf.. and to me racing is a sport..... 
 so there is only one thing to say.. this is the best need for speed game yet but not the best racing 
 game i have played.. i think nascar still has an edge on this game but not by much... so ea games 
 this is for u.... next racing game u make that is need for speed game that make it real like cops 
 dont ram the **** out of u and you can still go 100mph after getting spike stripped cause thats 
 not the real life standard you think you are experiencing... and to all the racers out there that 
 get chased by cops..... STAY AWAY FROM SPIKE STRIPS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenshark31489
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 19, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  While the graphics, controls, and car selection and customization were great several aspects of 
 the game keep it from being a great experience. I probably would not have bought the game knowing 
 what I do now. The cinematics, while graphically impressive, have a shoddy storyline that is poorly 
 presented; not to mention that they're simply boring and unexciting. The free roam mode is dull 
 and tiring due to the non-stop nighttime effect; and the rival crew challenges are a joke. The 
 saving grace of the game is in the sprint, circuit, and cop races. While the drift and canyon races 
 are interesting, it would be really nice to drift race against other cars on the track. The canyon 
 and boss races, while good, are downgraded by the disgustingly repetitive and bland interruptions 
 by the competitor in a corner screen. I can only stand to hear the exact same taunt or laugh more 
 than once or twice per race. The game lacks the substance and rush of Most Wanted. I would not 
 recommend buying it; although, the game may serve it's worthy place on rental shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nixd522
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 15, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This game first of all is underrated. It is one of the best car games I have ever played. The game 
 starts you off as a nobody with a bad past in the city and you try to prove yourself again by racing 
 cars and gaining territory. You first pick from three cars to start off with, exotic car, muscle 
 car, and a tuner car. After you pick the car you want to start with you start racing and when you 
 win races you get money, unlock new parts and cars, and you gain territory as well. The races themselves 
 are very exciting, the graphics in the races are really good. Such as the screen gets blurry the 
 fast you go. Handle and speed is pretty accurate on the cars in the game. The speed of the races... oh 
 the speed. The races in this game are some of the best races I have seen. Now the customizing in 
 the game is very detailed you could possibly spend an hour or more just customizing your car. After 
 you unlock parts from races you can go to your garage and buy performance parts for your car. When 
 you by the parts you can tune the parts to get the most of what you want out of it i. e. (tune in 
 engine for higher horsepower or torque) . You can do similar things like that to all the parts you 
 buy. For the look of your car, there is millions of ways to make your cars look how you want including 
 several different texture of paint. There is also body kits, wheels, hoods, spoilers, decals, exhaust, 
 ride height, and many more. There is also a feature in the game called auto scalp and it lets scalp 
 hoods and body kits, and things of that short. Whats wrong with this game? Not to much, the canyon 
 can be very frustrating and so can the last boss race. And I guess spending money can be a problem 
 too. You may end up spending to much on your car that have and you may unlock a new one you want 
 but you don't have any money or you you might run out of money for parts. So just be financially 
 smart. Enjoy being the king of carbon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geo2007
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  Most Wanted is in a lot of ways better than Carbon... In Most Wanted the graphics were excellent 
 and I liked Most Wanted more cuz it's not always night butt some kind of sundown witch it's so 
 nicely done... In Carbon it's all so still, nothing interesting... The roads are better than in Carbon (especially 
 that the roads in Most Wanted are cracked and full of leafs.... nicely done) ... The music in Most 
 Wanted, very appealing and sweet.... In Carbon, the music was boring... in games I usually like to 
 pay attention to the music and see if they correspond... And the girls... uuuh... the girls... Mia 
 is better than that chick in Carbon... way better... In conclusion... Most wanted is the best in the 
 NFS series, not Carbon.................... butt I liked the cannon races though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarwarsCJ
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun and addicting. Its really easy to learn how to play but certain parts of 
 the game aren't very easy. I'd say to try and beat Wolf 1st or 2nd because he is the hardest out 
 of the three. (Kenji, Anjie, and Wolf) . The graphics on this game are great and even better with 
 HD. Here are the best cars in each category and teir that I think are:
  Teir 1: Tuner: RX 8
  Exotic: Alfa Brueno
  Muscle: Camaro
  Teir 2:
  Tuner: Mitsubishi Elcipse
 
  Exotic: Lotus Elise
  Muscle: Ford Mustang GT
  Teir 3: Tuner: Nissan 350Z
  Exotic: McLaren SLR
  Muscle: Chevrolet Corvette Z06
  
  And also some hints for Canyons incase 
 you have a hard time, Muscle cars are pretty good on canyons because they get going really quickly, 
 faster than most other cars. Don't be afraid to break on sharp turns, and try to pass the opponent 
 as soon as possible. Once you're in front, don't let them pass you at all. (Keep an eye on the 
 rear view mirror once your in front to make sure they stay behind you) . One of the secrets to Drifting 
 is speed, if you can control the car while going fast and don't hit any walls, you'll get loads 
 of points. Don't turn too sharp though if you are going really fast. You'll propell forward and 
 hit the inside wall. Corvettes are good for Drifts.
  
  For Circuits/Sprints I normally use Drafters because they are extremely fast and they will hit 
 anything in front of you and still keep going the same speed.
  Scouts are useful if you aren't good at finding shortcuts. But they aren't all that fast. And last, 
 Blockers. Blockers are Neville and Samson. Samson is probably the better of the two. He uses Muscle 
 cars throughout the game. But Neville will use the type of car that you do. You choose Muscle, 
 so does he, you choose exotic, so does he, etc.
  
  This game was great, and I'd say you should get it, but if you aren't sure, try renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da1truehomie
Rating: 3.1
Date: Apr 1, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  ive got to say it, if your honest this game is far to easy, the graphics good have been alot better, 
 i completed this game in a week. and i work full time 9-6pm and playing it for a few hours on the 
 night. thats how easy it is. the graphics looks good in your garage when you change the body kit's 
 ect... buts that all. the sound track is class!!
  
  but out of all the 6+ NFS this has to be the worst. it's nothing to get exited about. i wish i 
 had a pirate copy rather than buying this. a bit of a waste of money to be honest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeo423
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 1, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  A short game that isn't really worth buying if you don't have it. I bought it the day it came out 
 and I was pretty disappointed. The game has good cars, customization, graphics and sound but the 
 story line is lame and too short. The online play is good along with the Xbox Live Marketplace, 
 but rent it first. You'll be able to beat it in a week. This series isn't getting any better with 
 the quality of racing either. The drifting now is all canyon or circuit, not street, and honestly 
 the canyon duels are fun, but they get really old fast. Although there is tons to unlock it's not 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingobaid
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  when i downloaded the demo for this game, i was a little optimistic as seeing how i was disappointed 
 with Most Wanted. The demo was simply electrifying and so was the real game. The graphics are stunning 
 and i especially like the blur effects. But, i do hate that all the races are at night and there 
 are none in the day. The car selection is great and customization will take u hours! the story 
 falls apart at the end, but u can't put ur controller down racing through Palmont City! a great 
 street racer with great gameplay mechanics. The wingman part needs some work, but adds a layer 
 of strategy, but could cost u. A highly addictive game that should not be missed by any racing 
 game fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wrona92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 24, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game on 3 systems
  Xbox 360
  PC
  Playstation 3
  
  And this game did not take me very long to beat it was very short and the story line was kind of 
 complicated. The achievments for xbox 360 were great and everything but it took me 1 day to beat 
 it on each so this game is ok if u want quick easy game.
  
  This game is very addictive though once you play it you will not want to stop playing it. As soon 
 as you play online it will suck you in automatically this game is highly recommendby me and a lot 
 of other players that play NFS: Carbon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3r7y
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  Carbon takes the Underground series and Most Wanted and mashes them together. Its like they didn't 
 even try to come up with something new. Yes I loved the Underground series and I REALLY loved Most 
 Wanted, but its like they just took the high detail of customizing of Underground and the cop chases 
 of Most wanted. Dont get me wrong I think the Autosculpting is awesome. You can make more than 
 four different style body kits useing just the one type of molding. Now for the bad news. The only 
 thing I truly hate about the game is those damn Wingmen of yours. They get in your way more than 
 anything. I mean really, something thats supposed to help you dosen't ram into you or cut you off 
 and win the race for you. They're supposed to help you win the race! If they just kept them as 
 crew members that just hook you up with kits, parts, or visual upgrades that would have been just 
 fine with me. But for the hardcore NFS fan you'll still buy this game, just try to deal with your 
 wingman as good as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BamTino024
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: They were ok... nothing to really write home about. The cars were detailed pretty well 
 to match the real cars exactly. That was probably the best thing about the graphics. Everything 
 was sort of nothing special... the FMV sequences were good looking, but didn't make up for the crappy 
 character acting. The environments weren't anything spectacular either. Everything looked good, 
 but could have looked better had more effort been put in.
  SOUND: The sound was about the only thing this game excelled at. The engine sounds were dead on 
 with what the different engine types would sound like in different cars. However, they didn't use 
 the same V8 engine sound for every car that had a V8. The Charger sounded different from the Mustang, 
 which sounded different than the Camaro. The same went for the other engine types. The crash sounds 
 were ok, and teammate chatter was a bit silly.
  GAMEPLAY: This was the game's weak point. The story of the game sucked, and didn't even really 
 make sense. The Autosculpt feature, although a cool idea, was sort of useless when you could just 
 pick normal aftermarket parts that looked cooler than anything you could Autosculpt. It was also 
 annoying that you needed to have a teammate that specialized in Autosculpting to do anything like 
 that, and was even more annoying was that different teammates Autosculpted different things. You 
 could need to autosculpt a wheel, but only have a teammate that autosculpted hoods and spoilers. 
 It was a very poorly put together idea. The driving controls were normal, and not very different 
 from any other racing game. It was very fun to screw with the cops and try to get them to embark 
 on huge chases to try to catch you.
  VALUE: I haven't touched this game since I beat it. You get the idea.
  OVERALL: If you want to 
 toy with cool new cars, like the Camaro concept, the new Dodge Challenger, or those crazy all wheel 
 drive V12 Audi's, then I would play this game. Otherwise, I would look for something better to 
 play. If more time had been put into the development of this game, it could have been a lot better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brnkid
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Game is far too short, and the races are too easy, the idea of having a wingman is good by doesn't 
 work, unless you're the computer. I like the territory concept of having to race a previously won 
 race against a new rival to reclaim the area. However; during the canyon races, you should be able 
 to save after you win a race, and not do them all over after a lost. The acting is even cheasier 
 than most wanted (which was at least funny) . The police chases were almost non-existant, and the 
 few that happened were boring. T, with pursuits lasting only a few blocks. Overall, I finshed the 
 game and bought need for speed most wanted again. I you want to cruise around at night (I wish 
 they had some day races ) and win races without much pressure, then this games for you. Myself, 
 I finished it in a few sittings and bought need for speen most wanted again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imfeelinpanda
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Carbon is about you and you have to pay back this guy that you owe money to. Then you have to race 
 3 bosses before u can get to hi m. Although i say that most wanted was a better game. The cops 
 arent as annoying as they are in this game which means u dont need a certant bounty to be able 
 to race a boss. When you face a a boss theres 3 stages. One where you race them in the streets. 
 Then you take them on in a cayon duel where you have to follow them. Then the follow you. there 
 are 3 types of cars in the game. Theres tuners which are likes you evos and you skylines. The mucles 
 which are like you Challangers and corvettes, Then theres your exotics like your lambos and your 
 benzs. The worst class i think is the muscles because theere all about acceslerations and not handling 
 because they suck for handling. If your like me and like handling go for the tuners because there 
 all about handling. Well i gave you some tips now use them. l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spitfire357
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  When i first heard about this game, i had to buy it. But a couple of my friends who had bought 
 it, said that you might want to rent it first since they had a bad expeirence. So i rented it, 
 and i acctually quite liked it. Except for the people you have to bring out onto the road with 
 you... They dont know how to shut up. Anyways i loved the graphics, i loved Emmanuelle (sp/) and 
 i loved the cars. THEY BROUGHT MUSCLE CARS!! To bad Razor wasn't there to make a cameo but i guess 
 hes to much of a star to be in it.. I loved the idea that we had to take over the city and i loved 
 the game, but i did not buy it since it does have flaws.. Like it feels like Midnight Club 3, and 
 i particularly didn't like that game so yeah.. Great game overall and i loved most of the parts 
 of the game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCO109
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Hmm... Another Need For Speed, what? Isnt this like the 10th one in the last 2 years? Should'nt 
 my Need For Speed have been met by now? I finally believe that this installment has finally meshed 
 together all the great elements of the last 5 N. F. S' (i. e. Cops Most Wanted/Hot Pursuit Body Mods 
 Underground 1&amp;2) Which makes me a happy little camper. The game looks great especially on the 
 360, the controls sometime tend to be a bit sluggish going down the canyon's but then again no 
 one said it was gonna be easy going down a canyon at 100+ with an upgraded engine and NOS under 
 the hood now did they? I do really feel that EA is messing up with the whole Buy everything you 
 need in the X-Box marketplace Whatever happened to actually playing the game? Anyway, N. F. S. should 
 and shouldnt rejoice at the same time. I am a big fan of this franchise, but I did a rarity in 
 N. F. S. I actually went out and rented it first which I never do cause I usually know every new 
 game is gonna be good but when I played on the demo it gave me doubts which have led me to not 
 buy the game at all. In conclusion, if your too much of a fan and dont care what other people have 
 to say then buy this game as soon as you can, but if you actually dont wanna loose respect for 
 such a relevent and near and dear to your heart franchise, rent it first and see how you like it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonius05
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 14, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  I gotta admit, the need for speed series are improving. The graphics and sound have improved a 
 lot since Most Wanted came out.
  
  The storyline for this game continues where Most Wanted left off. But it is really confusing on 
 what the flash backs are trying to tell you. Other than that, it's still cool to see real people 
 fit right into the game.
  
  The new feature, Autoscupt , it a great new feature but they lack on creativity, because every 
 car you do autoscupt on comes out pretty much the same. So you want a very nice body kit, buy them 
 from the after market menu. They have wide body kits and nice rims.
  
  The Online part have improved, but its not very stable, because one time i wanted to play a print 
 race so i searched for a sprint race to play, but joined onto a circut or canyon duel race every 
 time. Why now make it so that you can create a lobby yourself rather than wait to become a host.
 
  
  I like the idea of having 3 different car types, Muscle, Tuner, and Exotic. Tuner is my personal 
 favorite because its easy to use to go arounf the corners in the story mode. Muscle is my worse 
 cars, i cannot handle driving the muscle car, always spinning the tires and being passed all the 
 time. Exotic are nice cars, they can be a little difficult to drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StegrShmil
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 13, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  This game was great! I was instantly addicted to the speed and rush that I got from smokin the 
 other racers and cops. Unfortunately the speed and rush that I got was nothing new. If you liked 
 Need for Speed Most Wanted, then you'll definitely enjoy this one. I actually liked this one a 
 lot more. But its all the same. You are a driver that needs to climb his way to the top by racing 
 in underground races. This time you have a racing gang or crew that helps you take over enemy territories 
 by winning races and eventually beating the other gangs leaders. Or you can fully customize your 
 car with a new type of customization that allows you to practically make your own body kits, rims 
 and etc. Its pretty cool but it takes a while to unlock a crew member that you need to actually 
 use this option nicely. Also you can free rome the city and challenge enemy racers into a custom 
 race that you choose from start to finish. The game is disappointingly short and easy. (In till 
 the end.) The graphics are great and the controls are too. So in the end this turns out to be a 
 pretty good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_flog
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 6, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed carbon. Need for speed with a new twist OMG!!! canyon duels are sometimes annoying 
 and frustrating. But then you feel good when you beat them. One of the things I loved about Most 
 wanted were the cop chases exciting and interesting and besides a fine there was no problem with 
 getting 3 strikes. So, as long as you had cash you could keep your favorite car. Carbon 3 strikes 
 car gone. Unless you made a copy in your my cars then you may have lost the coolest looking car 
 ever. I love customizing cars and so i was really excited about auto sculpting. I loved that feature. 
 But the vinyls take a while to unlock and even when you make a really cool car you can't go into 
 free roam and just get into a big cop chase with no consequences or even just run around knocking 
 stuff over. This was big problem for me because i don't have my xbox live running yet and so my 
 cars where just for show. WHATS THE FUN IN THAT! so the game could use a few tweaks. It will be 
 interesting to see what new features they add. But I hope its not another heres a new feature BUY 
 THE GAME! . EA do us a favor and be innovative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 7, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  NFS: Carbon starts off with your character making his way to the fictional Palmont City. On your 
 way there however, you are chased by Cross - once a Sgt. in the police department in NFS: Most 
 Wanted who is now a bounty hunter - and your car is totaled. Eventually you are saved by a dude 
 named Darius who then pretty much makes you race to take over rival gang's turfs and become the 
 most notorius and famed racer in the city.
  
  I'll start by saying I don't know much about cars, but I can tell you this game is fun. You start 
 off by choosing 1 car out of three catagories (muscle, tuner, or exotic) , and each car has it's 
 own strengths and weaknesses. From there you can either do a number of different events like drifting 
 , sprinting , speed traps , and checkpoints . In addition, you can also explore the entire city 
 of Palmont at your own pace, however if you keep crashing into things and what not then the police 
 begin to chase you. This is cool for a number of reasons like 1) your actually getting chased by 
 police who use real life tactics to stop your vehicle, 2) you can actually kill the police if you 
 hit their cars hard enough, and 3) there are these things called pursuit breakers where if you 
 hit them they fall and stop the police (these things could be statues, billboards, anything so 
 long as they are standing up on pillars) . Like usual you can choose automatic or manual transmission. 
 Oh, I forgot to mention the Wing Men - these guys join your crew and actually help you out in races 
 by either smashing into other races to give you the edge, showing you shortcuts to get you into 
 first, and other jobs. It DEFINITLEY helped and was a welcomed addition to the game.
  
  If that isn't enough, then heres more. You are able to unlock and purchase a lot of cars including 
 Mustangs, Aston Martins, Hondas, Volkswagens, and so on. Ontop of that, you can unlock performance 
 parts as well as new visuals for all of your cars which include vinyls, new engines, body kits, 
 transmissions, brakes, nitros, new paints, etc. And ontop of THAT, there is this thing called AutoSculpt 
 where you can customize pretty much anything on your to your personal liking which means you can 
 change the size, the depth, the style... anything. I liked it, though the AutoScuplt thing costs 
 a bit to use.
  
  Online play is a bit unbalanced for people just starting out in the game as I have noticed in my 
 own experience. You can do a whole bunch of different game types like Pursuit Tag where someone 
 is a cop and must chase down the other racers, normal Circuit races, and so on. Why do I say it 
 is unbalanced then? Well, if you just started the game you are only allowed to use like 5 cars 
 (almost all of which are garbage) meanwhile the other players (unless they just started too) can 
 use fully customized and suped up vehicles that will leave you in the dust with only a few shifts 
 of the tranny. Unfair.
  
  The graphics in this game are beautiful. The city is gorgeous (though slightly dead with the lack 
 of actual people walking on the streets) , and the cars are highly detailed and realistic, as well 
 as extremley authentic looking. I really enjoyed the sheer detail of each car as they began to 
 take damage... the cars would gain scratches and broken windows.. it looked cool. The music in 
 Carbon is off the chain. EA did a really good job putting together a tight soundtrack that keeps 
 you hooked from start to finish. The sound effects are pretty awesome as well - I loved how powerful 
 the muscle cars sounded after you tuned them up to perfection. Also worthy of show is when the 
 police chase you - you can hear them talking on their radios and the sirens sound cool. So with 
 all this praise, whats my beef with NFS: Carbon? Easy - drift challenges and boss races. The drifts 
 were just lame: you must drift down the street and around corners to earn points and obviously 
 the more points you earn the more likley your going to win. However, if you even tap the wall you 
 lose your drift as well as points. The boss races were dumb - you race them in the city and if 
 you win then you must play a game where you have to stay as close as you can to them until you 
 reach the end of the race, and then they do the same. Whoever has the most points wins and you 
 lose... retarded.
  
  Anyway, Need For Speed: Carbon was a pretty tight game and is easy to get into for first timers 
 as well as experienced racers. I give it an 8.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marolia
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  When I bought Need for Speed: Carbon, and started playing it, it felt the same as in Need for Speed: 
 Most Wanted. Didn't change much, only this time it's night time.
  The other thing which immersed me is.. your Team-Mates. It looked cool, but it wasn't in handy. 
 You would even win without your team-mates.
  The game isn't very hard at all, you know you'll win in all matches.
  
  The acting from the 
 characters were terrible. They really didn't knew how to act.
  The cars looked awesome in the game. The menu in need for Speed Carbon wasn't soo immersive as 
 in Most Wanted.
  I prefer Need for Speed Most Wanted more than Carbon, I would stick with Most Wanted.
  I would 
 say rent it first, and than see if you wanna buy it, or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Known2regect
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  This is a good addition to the series, actually great. But its not all fun and ( video) games. Theres 
 still the blurry effect inherited from some of it's close companions. Overall its a good game. 
 The plot is a little weird and the occasional glitch. I didn't like the concept of the game: buddy 
 racing. I liked area control, but it should be kinda like this: You should be able to play your 
 guy alone or sim him and etc. on the other members of your team. i'mjust saying it's only right! 
 Everything is pretty good, exept for again, the blurriness. I give it a 8.1.
  
  Another reveiw by Tc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Most Wanted was an excellent arcade style racing game. It took NFS in a direction that the franchise 
 really needed and showed that the NFS name could have a lot to offer. Unfortunately, with Carbon, 
 EA has pretty much taken out the best aspects of Most Wanted and substituted them with gameplay 
 elements that do nothing more than detract from the fun. Whether it's the annoying canyon races 
 where you don't get to use nitro or slowdown (what makes NFS racing fun...) or the horrible crew 
 members that have the IQ of a jar of mayo, Carbon just simply falls short in everyway.
  
  The graphics, while nice technically, are bland with more of a shallow tint instead of using any 
 deep blacks. Any nighttime game should use high contrast to full effect. The city has very little 
 variety and soon enough every race feels like the same old tired dance. The canyon races, while 
 a good idea on paper, are usually more annoying than anything else. Not to mention the horrible 
 idea of seeing the guy your racing's face smiling and/or frowning all the time. Hands down one 
 of the dumbest ideas I've seen in a racer in a long time. The cop chases are not used well at all 
 the pretty much every character in the game gives you a headache from the bad acting and even worse 
 script. NFS Carbon is far less fun and has far fewer thrills to offer than does Most Wanted. To 
 be honest, I find playing the first 2 NFS games on my old xbox to be far more fun than Carbon, 
 it just doesn't do anything all that well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viryn_Sane
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 26, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This is my first Need for Speed game and all I can say is that I am thoroughly impressed. If you 
 are someone who doesn't really like just playing racing games because there is no point... look 
 no further. NFSC not only is a racing game, but is also, in its own way... an RPG. You have cut 
 scenes, some small character development, and ways to mod your car. The graphics are simply amazing 
 and the fact that you can pick from muscle (mustangs) , tuner (Volkswagen Golf) , and Exotic (Lamborghini) 
 cars makes it that much more interesting. Keep in mind, each car has it's own weaknesses and strong 
 points (read more about this in the hints and cheats section of gamespot) . Another cool feature 
 in this game in the crew function. You pick a buddy to come along with you in the races to sacrifice 
 his own position to help you win. He/she does this by giving you a boost of speed, scouting the 
 area ahead for shortcuts, and cutting other racers off seriously hurting their race. All in all, 
 this is a great racing game with little to no defects that can be seen. I highly recommend you 
 check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheIceDragon437
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  I bought this game in hopes of something that would be even better than Need for Speed: Most Wanted 
 (which I absolutely loved) . However I was kind of disappointed when I started racing and discovered 
 how easy the game's single player career was. You start off choosing between 3 cars (Muscle, Exotic, 
 Tuner) all of which are pretty easy cars to use especially when you are racing. Depending on the 
 car you choose is the territory you start racing in.
  
  Now if I was going to compare this to NFS MW, which I will, I am going to say that I remember Most 
 Wanted's races being a lot harder and took a lot more skill to finish. In Carbon you would have 
 to be driving backwards to lose a race. Even the boss races were a joke. With each boss you would 
 go into a regular city race where you could easily finish with a split time of at least 10 seconds 
 and then go into the Canyon Duel, where if you have a good start you can pass the boss up and literally 
 finish the race in 30 seconds. I think the only really hard race (and I use the term really hard 
 lightly) was the last race where you are up against the Audi Quattro.
  
  Another thing that was a lot harder in Most Wanted were the Challenge Series races which I still 
 have not beaten in the first one. In Carbon I think I spent maybe an hour on each level of challenges 
 (Bronze, Silver, Gold) . EA really seemed to tone the game down way too much.
  
  Online however is a lot of fun and I think the only reason I still own the game. The newly added 
 gametypes pursuit tag and canyon duels are a lot of fun if you get matched up with some actually 
 good players (which is also a little hard to find, not to trash talk the community) . It is also 
 nice to be able to download cars on the Marketplace. Thanks to the online I will probably not get 
 rid of the game until the next Need for Speed installment comes out.
  
  Customization of the cars is also very very nice. You can do practically anything you want to them.
 
  Crews are cool to use but in my personal opinion not something you really need in the game
  
  Summary-
  If you love racing online, buy this game
  If you love getting some easy achievements, 
 get this game
  If you only play for the Career or Challenge Series, I would advise against buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamedude2006123
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 24, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  OK the first thing I am going to Say is why in the world did EA go back to the dark setting. In 
 the dark everything looks the same and there is nothing really special about it . One building 
 looks like the next and all the scenery looks exactly the same . For difficulty I find that it 
 has been turned up by a wide margin, The cop chases are much harder which is a good thing because 
 I found that in Most Wanted they were much too easy. The races I say are about the same but in 
 this game the customization tools have been totally revamped giving you a much wider array of things 
 to do with your new ride. The story lines really suck . After One of those long cut scenes I was 
 like Ok lets get back to the racing and never mind this junk. At least in Most Wanted the story 
 went some where in this it's just a bunch of people going on and on for no good reason. With the 
 Races nothing was Really done except canyon and that is hard to get used to and really not that 
 much of an upgrade. Overall this is a game that any need for speed fan like my self and probably 
 many others would enjoy but if you can rent it first that is what I would recommend because if 
 you don't like it it's better to pay 6-7 dollars than paying 60-70 dollars isn't it . I think if 
 EA is going to continue doing this series for a while I think they have to pull up their socks 
 and put a little more into it next time then customizations and a couple new races. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafia_Hitman2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  This game has it all from cool looking and handling cars to great sounds coming out of them... if 
 you are looking for a car racing game that will take up a lot of your time and keep you busy both 
 online and offline then this one is for you!
  
  The achievements take a while to get esp. if you start off racing your career offline which I did. 
 I suggest you do the same as it will get you prepared for your online career and the Challenge 
 Series as well. This game features a lot of different options such as drifting, police pursuits, 
 race wars, checkpoints, boss races, free roam challenges and more. The hardest one to do and get 
 good at is the drifts esp. the ones in the canyons but once you do there is nothing like gaining 
 over 100K pts during a single run.
  
  The boss races are great also esp. if you pick the right cards and end up with their pink slips, 
 which I did on the 1st 2 but missed out of the other one...
  
  I wasn't much for the looks of the cars as far as tricking them out, etc. but the one helpful thing 
 they are good for is for police pursuits in that you can fly under the radar when they are looking 
 for you.
  
  Some tips for racing are to 1st start off with a Tuner car as they are the best all-around and 
 seem to have the best control for all the race types. You can even win one (Kenji's) if you beat 
 him in his boss race. As far as tuning goes, tune for top speed/acceleration and always get the 
 best NOS that you can. To win the last territory, Silverton, use the Lancer Evo which can also 
 be used to beat the final boss, Darius, if tuned to max speed/acceleration.
  
  All in all this is a great game that is well worth your $ esp. if you can get it under $40, which 
 is what I did, hence the Value of 10 for me :)
  
  Happy racing and see you out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miniceebs
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  I think this game is absolutely amazing, of course it's a bit on the short side but so are other 
 games like Gears of War etc. The Career is great, this Need for Speed is alot easier to get better 
 cars unlike Most Wanted where it took quite a long time to get a car that could really kick some 
 ass. It's a bit tougher aswell, you can't just bomb into a corner and expect to come out of it 
 all fine and dandy, you got a brake a little, judge the corner and even use a speedbreaker if you 
 need to ( that's when time slows down so that you can judge the corner to perfection) . This is 
 a really really good game, great graphics, a bit on the short side but it'll keep you going for 
 a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stratesfear
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  The need for speed series has been out for a while now but it took them this long to make the very 
 best racing game. The graphics are excellent and it sounds just like if you were riding in the 
 car. One major thing that I found great was the customization it was easy to understand but had 
 a lot of depth. Another thing that was great about the game was the feature to take a break and 
 just drive around the city it gave a cool down time unlike most racing games when you just keep 
 racing back to back. If you dont like this feature you can go directly to he races if you want. 
 The dialouge is great too, it sounds well rehearesed and it doesn't feel like there're reading 
 it off a piece of paper. Even if you don't like the racing game genre I think you should defintely 
 at least give this a try. I highly recommend this game to just about anyone who likes action and 
 fast driving. If you have a choice I would pick the xbox 360 version over the rest, but if you 
 have the playstation 3 I would still recommend the 360 version because there are more people online 
 on the xbox 360 even know the ps3 has better graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 15, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  You shouldn't need any introduction to the NFS series. Carbon is the next in what is probably the 
 best long term game series for racers availible on the xbox/xbox 360.
  
  Gameplay - Solid street racing is what the NFS series is all about, and for the last few games, 
 they have gotten it very right. Controls are tight and easily customizable, and handle how you 
 figure each car should (the american Muscle is great accel/straightaway, but don't try to do the 
 hairpin at top speed) . Carbon has a few gameplay changes, most notable the decreased cop presence 
 (which I found disapointing but I am sure others liked) .
  
  Graphics - Beautiful graphics for the cars in the game, and if you are patient, the customization 
 of the cars is pretty impressive. The backgrounds tend to be good, as long as you are travelling 
 at a decent speed. At a stop some of them are a little unclear, as if they were optimized for speed 
 and not for those that like to stop and take a look around.
  
  Sound - The sound effects are good, the cars sound right. I would have liked a few car radio channels 
 instead of the playlist that we got that you could turn off individual songs (why do so few 360 
 games let you use your custom soundtracks... anyone?)
  
  Value - Every year, a new race game. While this is currently cream of the crop, remember... next 
 fall there will be another NFS and the fall after that, another. You might be better served getting 
 NFS Most Wanted out of the bargin bin, but you will miss some of the customization. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pulakeshgoswami
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  Platform- XBOX 360 (Microsoft)
  Publisher- EA GAMES
  Release Date- 31st October 2006
  Genre-GT/Street Racing
  Over all Rating- 9.5
  
  This race was started after I bought the 
 Gears of War. I checked Gamespot. com, I was sad to see that it got just 7.6 in rating. I dont 
 know why. I played NFS Most Wanted in P. C. It was not good, its grate. Then I thought that being 
 the latest version of NFS why it got a pitifully small rating like 7.6. I have played Most Wanted, 
 so I was trying to quench my curiosity about Carbon. I bought it. I played it. I finished its Single 
 race missions. Now my opinion about this game is ITS AWESOME, though its story is shorter than 
 Most Wanted, its Graphics is grate. I cant express my joy about this game. It is a combination 
 of Need for Speed Most wanted &amp; Need for Speed under Ground 2. But its graphics is greater 
 than Previous Versions. Now come to set of Game Play. In CARBON I felt the real game play of a 
 racing game. WOW what a game, Its a all time shining game. But its Game play Music is not so 
 good as I expected. There is a new thing in Carbon, which is The Canyon Duel. Its a true challenging. 
 And the multiplayer gaming of it is Very fast, its impressed me very much. And so I rated this 
 game as my Favorite Racing game. So I think this will be a great investment or a Great Fun for 
 all serious racers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugh000270
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Carbon is one of the games which I like being the third after Gears of War and Rainbow 
 Six Vegas.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay of Need For Speed Carbon is pretty nice although its a little short but it will not 
 be in your first gameplay since you will find that your enemy racers will start to get smarter 
 and better in driving each time you manage to conquer more territories. What I most appreciate 
 in the game is its large number of parts which you can use to customize your own car or you just 
 go to the aftermarket to be able to customize your car automatically. They should have also placed 
 the landmark of the buildings though rather than just being black and what you only see are roads.
 
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics of Need For Speed are pretty nice although at a fast speed, the texture around you 
 gets a little low although its still nice especially the cars except though for the AI's. The building 
 details aren't much that great although still are good.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound is pretty great. The more speed there is, the more you hear your engines rumble especially 
 when preparing to race at the start of a race event to be able to accelerate quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironman3087
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is definatly one of the best need for speed/racing games out there. Graphics are very 
 stylish, the cars are awesome (most of which you get near the end) , the canyon races are intense, 
 and the police chases are pretty fun too. I dont understand why this game got low reviews. It definatly 
 desereved a little higher score than what gamespot gave it. If you're a need for speed fan or any 
 racing game fan at all, you must pick this up, or rent it. It is a little easy to beat, but it 
 makes it enjoyable. Definatly try this game out, it is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trukero08
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 6, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  The game starts out almost the same as any new NFS game doe's. You pick a car, meet the main people, 
 develop a poor plot/storyline. The game is only good for the first few races and then goe's on 
 to become a daunting task of races, in which they become repetitive. The wingman features aren't 
 bad, but they don't really add that much to the game. The car mechanics are decent, but should 
 be improved in future games. There isn't enough customization of the car and almost all of them 
 act the same. Not enough variety in makes and models.
  
  Basically the game goe's like this until the end, race, cut scene, race a few more times, cut scene, 
 boss race. It can be good the first time, but is only a half decent multiplayer game afterwards. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jk4life2
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  this is in my opinion the best need for speed and the best racing game just the way it is if u 
 listening to techno while ur playing this game its awsome the gameplay is awsome like ur actually 
 street racing and the game modes are awsome online pursuit knockout is awsome online also the fmv 
 sequence looks like real people and the sound is realistic u hear the engine fvrmm fvrmm also they 
 have great cars over 40 great cars mucle, exotic and tuner also when u drift its awsome its so realistic 
 the only thing bad about this game is its kinda short but who cares overall this game is amzing 
 if u love racing games go get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zage212
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 3, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Every since the launch of Need for Speed Most Wanted fans of the street racing series have been 
 waiting on the edge of their seat for the sequel. When word got out about the release of Need for 
 Speed Carbon on November 1st reservations pilled up for the upcoming installment. The game boasted 
 new graphics and dynamic ligthing along with several exciting boss battles, new cars, and a brand 
 new Autosculpt feature that would allow you to make your own unique body kits and vinyl. The game 
 fufilled all of its promises for the most part but feels as though it is lacking. The new canyon 
 duel boss battles are a unique and exilirating experience but throughout the game they are so scarce 
 that you cant help feeling cheated. Unlike the Most Wanted you can jump from one spot to another 
 without having to drive to their which at first seems convienent but in fact only takes away from 
 the police run-ins that made the first title so popular. The new Autosculpt feature is a very nice 
 touch but you may find yourself just putting all of the different aspects to 100% simply because 
 they look better. Making your own vinyl is a long tedious process but when you are finished and 
 you see your own custom vinyl it is a very rewarding experience worth the time. The sounds of the 
 cars are all on point and your ability to tune the parts that you buy allows for an even deeper 
 level of customization. In all, this game has a great deal of new content and if you love to customize 
 your cars this game is for you, but the game down plays the cop chases to the point that you can 
 just about go through the entire game with very few encounters. The car customization is very satisfying 
 but the lack of excitment makes you hungry for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  When switching from my PS2 to the Xbox 360, other than Nascar I didn't really care too much for 
 racing games. Neither Most Wanted nor PGR3 really hit the spot for me, however Burnout Revenge 
 really grasped ahold of me and lured my attention to the racing genre. After wearing out Burnout 
 Revenge, I had my eyes set on Need For Speed: Carbon as a possible replacement and/or backup racing 
 title. The game delivers exactly what I was looking for. Need For Speed: Carbon is an intense racer 
 with a boat load of very detailed cars. Its very easy to get into the racing and customizing of 
 your cars. The graphics are pretty dang good, with some nice touches on lighting effects. Police 
 chases are beyond the greatest part of the game as Cops will try several different methods of slowing 
 you down including deploying a spike strip. Some of the Boss battle are rather ridiculous and the 
 new wingman feature doesn't work very well most of the time, but overall Need For Speed: Carbon 
 is a deeply packed intense racer that guarantees some good times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uni057
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 30, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Solid game.... a little short but an overall good game. My only complaint would be is that it is 
 short, but other than that, it is a Need For Speed game so there is nothin else I have to say. 
 Solid game.... a little short but an overall good game. My only complaint would be is that it is 
 short, but other than that, it is a Need For Speed game so there is nothin else I have to say. Solid 
 game.... a little short but an overall good game. My only complaint would be is that it is short, 
 but other than that, it is a Need For Speed game so there is nothin else I have to say. Solid game.... a 
 little short but an overall good game. My only complaint would be is that it is short, but other 
 than that, it is a Need For Speed game so there is nothin else I have to say. Solid game.... a little 
 short but an overall good game. My only complaint would be is that it is short, but other than 
 that, it is a Need For Speed game so there is nothin else I have to say. Solid game.... a little 
 short but an overall good game. My only complaint would be is that it is short, but other than 
 that, it is a Need For Speed game so there is nothin else I have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poisonfire
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  NFSC is a great game, pretty much every aspect of it is great.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  It has a slight feel of Dynasty warriors empires but you race to win turf and have to do defence 
 races. You can recruit up to 3 crew members (whats withe the other crews having like 10 members?!?!?!) 
 which have abilties, There is a scout (shows you the shortcuts in the races) blockers (take out 
 other crews cars) and drafters (give you a pretty nice speed boost) . During the races there is 
 motion blur depending on your speed which may sometimes put you off. The new canyon races are frustrating 
 but when you get a sweet ride with good handling and speed they are not so bad. You can also free-roam 
 and be involed in pursuits which get quite tactical with the cops setting up roadblocks and spikestrips. 
 As your cars 'heat' increases the more likley the cops will come after you, even during races. 
 If you get busted your car goes to he impound where you have to pay to get it back if it gets took 
 on there more than 3 times (this can be increased) you lose the car. When you have you car and 
 no money its game over and you have to start ALL over again.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The cars look great and have a whole range of different types from a mazda RX 7 to a mighty Ford 
 GT. The civilian cars also look pretty good and have a bit of work put into them, unlike on some 
 games. Lighting effects are also good and at times it almost like watching a movie.
  
  SOUND:
  Like the graphics the sound is great too. The engines sound great and you can hear the 
 NOS kick in when activated. Also you can hear the cop radio so you know when there coming, its 
 nice to know that kind of info.
  
  OVERALL:
  NFSC is a all-round awsome game and NFS fans souldnt miss it. It can be hard at time but whats 
 a game without getting stuck at a bit you cannot do? I enjoy this game and completed it this morning 
 using my ford GT (hell, i love that car) NFSC also has xbox live play that I havnt been on. So, 
 again, NFSC is great and most racing game fans sound like it. For me I prefer this to PGR3, but 
 thats just me : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 15, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  ive been a fan of the Need for speed series ever since underground 2. Carbon does away with the 
 nearly unlimited customization for a new canyon duel mode and a wingman mechanic. The graphics 
 are quite good and the voice acting and characters are probably the best of the series. When your 
 going very fast you feel an intense sense of speed which makes you more submerged in the experience 
 of the game. NFSC is very short compared to the other NFS games. If you really trry you can beat 
 it in one day. The loss of the dragrace and unlimited customiaztion really takes a lot of juice 
 out of this game. The new wingman mechanic works farely well but can be quite annoying when your 
 wingman pulls ahead and then stops right in front of you. Besides these flaws NFSC is a good racing 
 game that should keep you entertained for about a week or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed is a series of games that has plauged us and blessed us for years now. This is one 
 of those game that are the best in series. Its a true sequal to the Need For Speed Most Wanted. 
 Your charcter is wanted and you start out the game with a BMW from the last game u crash it and 
 get captured. There are 3 Racing Factions in the Town that are out to get new territory. As you 
 progress thro the game you get teammates and they help you in races. You have hundreds of aftermarket 
 parts such as body kits spoliers and roof scoops, Also many types of vinal and 3 types of cars ( 
 exotic tuner and muscle) You race and race and race some more One very very cool feature is the 
 auto sculpt system. The after market parts u unlock u can shape ur self there is about 20 diffrent 
 things on each part to create. Sounds is amazing with each cars engine recorded 3 times sound improves 
 as your car does. The game is a not to cheap price of 59 bucks for 360 39.00 for others. A good 
 price if you want to contine the story line.
  
  The good: Lots of cars amazing sound and a huge area.
  
  The bad: Some minor Bugs here and 
 there, hard drifting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtermin8er93
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  My favorite and probaly the best racing game out now reaches all expectations of a good game. It's 
 gameplay, story, and graphics are all impresive. The gameplay is probaly the funnest of any game 
 I've played. The Speed Breaker gives the gameplay a big boost in fun. The only time the gameplay 
 sucks is like when you have a car that couldn't handle if your life depended on it. But other than 
 that gameplay gets a 9.9 out of 10 from me. The graphics are just a tad bit away from perfect. 
 The problem is when videos are shown the wheels don't turn when steering. Graphics get a 9.9 of 
 10. The story in Carbon is way better, easier to understand, and not as difficult as it was in 
 Most Wanted. In Most Wanted I give it a 7 of 10. But for Carbon I give it a 10 of 10. Overall I 
 think Need For Speed Carbon gets a 99 of 100. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonSumrall
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  Ok first lets say that I am a major NFS fan. I have played and defeated each release of NFS to 
 date.... minus Carbon. I had high hopes for carbon. However I did rent it first. Boy was I glad. 
 The graphics are great. The new cars are great. The modifications that you can make to the cars 
 are great. Theres one problem! Essentially there are 4 stages to NFS Carbon. Each stage releases 
 4 different stage of cars, which is all well and good. UNTIL stage 4. Starting stage 4 with a stage 
 3 car and facing the challenge of racing an Al driver in order to get your stage 4 car is next 
 to impossible! I spent 3-4 hours trying to win 3-4 different races in order to get my stage 4 car 
 and at some point in those 4 hours lost interest in the game. I was stuck and saw no way of getting 
 around or through it. So if your a great NFS driver and better than myself, give it a shot. I still 
 say you would be best off to rent it first. Several NFS fans that I have talked with have run into 
 the same dead end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Carbon is one of the those games that keeps the franchise both the same and both... well 
 the same. It feels tacked on as usual and manages to keep some of the Most Wanted stuff out... 
 (the Sun) and add some new and old stuff that has been done in the series. It might have the same 
 feel of previous games but Carbon can still make an enjoyable racer and reluctant purchase. This 
 is my review to tell you why it feels pretty much the same.
  
  
  Gameplay - They've taken out the Sun of course... to make it seem like Underground but they've added 
 a few new stuff and kept alot of the same things... There's about 40+ cars in this game. Three different 
 types of cars and they are the following.
  
  -Tuners
  -Muscles
  -Exotics
  
  Each with different statistics and abilities. Those cars may have all different feels and looks 
 but your going to be usually racing with Tuners or Exotics online... As they are the fastest. Muscles 
 are usually for One on One Matches which are now called, Canyon Races . This mode is both insanely 
 crazy and yet feels broken in a few ways. There is two phases or parts in the Canyon Races. One 
 is which one driver is trying to get the other, which is usually you being first on Career. Then 
 the other person you were chasing is the one to chase you next on the second phase, the amount 
 of points you earned getting so close to them is the amount of points they need to deduct to win. 
 If they touch you... your points minus 5000... and if they pass you or if you pass them, depending 
 on the turn... then you automatically win or lose. It's all based on speed and control. The other 
 new mode in the game is Drift. It's pretty much what you expect as your Drifiting around trying 
 to get Combos for turning and points for holding onto a drift. Whoever gets the highest points 
 out of the amount of laps or if it's a Canyon Track then the winner will be decided. It's pretty 
 simple once you get use to it... but it's pretty hard the first few times.
  
  They took out Drag Mode for some reason and I'll never know why. It maybe gone but they did add 
 Exclusive Online Modes as well as Canyon and Drift. Those modes are Pursuit Modes and they are 
 pretty fun when you have a full game. If you do then you either get kicked out and turned into 
 a Cop if you come in last place (which is Pursuit Knockout) or your a Cop already and trying to 
 get the racer or vice versa (which is Pursuit Tag) . They are both fun but leveling up in this game 
 won't be a good idea if you decide to just play those Modes online. The other modes are back of 
 course from Circuit to Speedtrap... along with four other modes... but two exclusive online and no 
 Drift online at all. There is about 30+ tracks and some tracks that usually just take a different 
 path as of other tracks. The gameplay is about the same which is good but could have been better. 
 We will have to wait and see. The upgrades in the game are nice but they aren't really the best 
 stuff you'll ever get. There is the usual Performance Upgrades to Visuals but there isn't anything 
 to surprising here. Graphics -
  
  They look nice... but it's pratically the same visuals we saw in the Most Wanted game... cept it's 
 darker and more city like. There isn't many blur effects or anything... but there is plenty of invisible 
 walls that just annoy me. They are impossible to see as THEY ARE INVICIBLE... and that there is 
 no way of noticing them... unless you hit one the first time....
  
  Sound -
  
  The music is alright... but of course I wish you can change the music in the game... Make like a 
 custom playlist but you can of course just listen to music of your Menu on your Xbox Button. The 
 car sounds are great but they aren't all the best.... some cars sound very strange such as the Gallardo. 
 Value - The game can last you a brief....50+ hours just to get level 50 online... but the Career 
 can probably take you 8 hours the most... and probably 12 hours max to get the achievements. It's 
 not that much but of course Online makes the game feel fleshed out.
  
  After playing this game for a brief amount of time.. It was okay but it feels too much of the same. 
 Maybe next time they can do something a little bit... wait... ALOT different then have the same ol' 
 same ol'. Well thanks for reading and go LEVEL UP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felipesanin
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Ok first of all lets talk about graphics... I don't have to much to say, really the only next-gen 
 graphics in this game are the ones in the car. the enviroment, rain and particles are really mediocre. 
 Ok now lets talk about gameplay, the gameplay is really good, specialy at cars, each car feels 
 diferent from each other that preety cool. The customizacion of the cars is excellent, there is 
 autosculp (you already know how it works) , and aftermarket parts (this is for the ones that don't 
 like to waste their time in autosculpt) Carrer mode is short, but with that new thing of reward 
 cards (It is a menu where you have to do some achievments to unlock special things) you are going 
 to be playing freeroam a lot of time. When you are racing against the boss you are going to be 
 laughing a lot, because they are so stupid, when they do somthing like pass you or crash, a little 
 square is going to appear at the upper left corner of your screen with them doing something, the 
 only bad thing about this is that the boss races are to easy. Canyon duels are cool and exciting, 
 you always are going to be worried about falling from the edges. What i liked most about this need 
 for speed is the online multiplayer, specialy the pursuit matches, in this matches you are going 
 to play like a police or like a racer, oviously the racer have to scape. Chellenges series are 
 are long and you play a lot of time there. Wins the one that have been the racer most time. Well 
 this is all, this is my firt review, and sorry about my wrong spelling and grammar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treb3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 10, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  this is the best racing game ever. the cut senes I actuly like. this has 5 diffrent modes,4 towns 
 to conker, bronze silver and gold challanges and great multiplayer but not more then two players 
 or else it just sucks. you need to buy it on a nex gen consle or eles its almost a diffrent game. THIS 
 GAME IS THE BEST DIRVING GAME YOU CAN BUY EVER. the darkness helps the game style and makes it better 
 looking. the in game advertizeing kind of adds to the whole street theme. but over all even when 
 you beat it its still fun because of the freerome and has great races which kind of changes the 
 series. so buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 10, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing visuals, storyline continues that of Most Wanted, tons of new ways to pimp out 
 your ride, new online modes are excellent.
  
  The Bad: Canyon and Drift race events aren't so good, single player is much shorter than Most Wanted, 
 achievements are hard to earn.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Need for Speed continues with Carbon, the second entry on the Xbox 360. Carbon is actually a continuation 
 of the storyline of Most Wanted, which is a nice touch. You just raced your way to the top of the 
 Blacklist in Rockport, but now you return to the city that launched your career to find it being 
 ruined by rival crews taking what was once your turf. To get back in the game, you must hire your 
 own crew and race to conquer the town that once belonged to you. One thing gamers who played Most 
 Wanted will discover is that the gameplay of Carbon is pretty much identical to that of Most Wanted, 
 so if you liked the last game, you'll like this one. Fortunately, there's enough new stuff here 
 to bring old players back. The biggest change is the crew. You now have a wingman who can help 
 you win a race at whatever cost. There are several different varieties of wingmen and each has 
 a unique special and car, so choose wisely which one to bring into a race. Also new is how the 
 boss races are done. Instead of just a couple of basic races to finish off a boss, you have one 
 basic race, then a canyon race. These races are tough, because on sharp turns, you can drive off 
 of the canyon and have to restart the race. It was suppose to be a new, intence way to race a boss. 
 Instead, it just get's irritating. Once you loose at least once, you can easily finish without 
 falling off the canyon. The other way to win is to pass the enemy car during their turn to lead, 
 which is tougher than it seems. There are tons of new cars to drive in Carbon as well as tons of 
 new ways to pimp them out. With the new autosculpt feature, you can make your car look exactly 
 how you want it to by designing a custom made body kit. Plus, there are more decals, vinals, paint 
 jobs and more to keep your rides looking fresh every time.
  
  One of the most disappointing things about Most Wanted was the online mode. it just wasn't good 
 at all. Carbon fixes this by introdusing new race types featuring cops. There's a persuit game 
 where one player is a racer while the rest are cops trying to bust the racer, and one where the 
 slowest player becomes the cop and get's points for busting racers. These new modes breathe new 
 life into the online of Carbon and are absolutely worth checking out. Overall, Carbon is another 
 great entry into the series and, while some of it's new features don't pan out, still is a blast 
 to play online or off.
  
  Gameplay: Carbon tweaks Most Wanted's formula enough to keep it fresh and new for long time players.
 
  
  Graphics: The visuals are at new heights for the series.
  
  Sound: Outstanding sound effects add a lot to the street racing atmosphere.
  
  Value: It's 
 a fully priced 360 game, but it's worth it for racing fans.
  
  Final Thoughts: Let's get drifting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJCaccy
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 9, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  The Need for Speed franchise has long been associated with two things. Large sales figures and 
 mediocrity. This instalment can only have one of those, as mediocre it most certainly is not. And 
 I do not mean this in a good way.
  This instalment is just dire. It suffers from 3 serious problems.
  
  1. PMS - No, not like 
 that. Poor menu set-up. It is initially very confusing to figure out what you have to do within 
 your garage. Need For Speed should be an easy pick up and play sort of game, and this does not 
 help.
  
  2. Slowdown - Why oh why is there slowdown in a below-par graphics game on my brand new Xbox 360? 
 Please, why? The graphics are not good enough for the slowdown to be in any way understandable. 
 And the 20 car races are largely pointless anyway, because you jet past half of the pack straight 
 away.
  
  3. Crew Mechanics - If it ain't broke don't fix it. Lets just say this needs one hell of a lot 
 of fixing. The crew just get in your way, or, in the case of scouts, just win the races for you. 
 Absolutely pitiful.
  
  I am fed up of wasting my life on Need for Speed games. They're the essence of what is wrong with 
 computer games. They are ridiculously average and sell based purely on the brand name. Hopefully 
 EA can suprise me with the next instalment, although I doubt I'll be all to eager to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbryant
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 6, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  After being a NFS fan and gamer since they first came out for the PC, and playing this game for 
 2 months, I am so disappointed and disgusted with this game (and the fact that I spent $50 on it) 
 that I am going to sell it on eBay as soon as I get done with this review. The story line is hokey, 
 but tolerable. The major flaws, however, exist in the racing and the handling of the cars. The 
 canyon racing is, by far, the most ridiculous and frustrating aspect of this game. The chase camera 
 view spins you all over the place, which makes it difficult to anticipate maneuvers, and the racing 
 itself is so extraordinarily frustrating that it takes the fun out of the game. When you get going 
 fast, things begin to blur so badly that your vision becomes doubly impaired, making it next to 
 impossible to compete with the AI. I should add that I'm not referring to the advanced levels of 
 canyon racing, but the easy ones, such as in the first levels of the challenge series. In the game 
 overall, the handling of the cars with the highest of handling ratings (such as a Toyota Supra 
 complete with upgrades) is akin to trying to steer while sitting in a saucer that's going down 
 a snow covered hill. In short, it's horrible. NFSMW and the prior NFS games are far superior to 
 the gameplay and enjoyment this game provides. The only reason this game gets more than 2 stars 
 overall from me is that is looks nice and sounds nice. My recommendation: rent it or borrow it 
 from someone else before you waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blakey832
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Very Short game, yet fun, these Need for Speed games, will never get old!
  This game was a gorgeous and is great for the XBox360, The online play is very fun, so I recommend 
 getting it! I personally enjoyed drifting on the Canyons, this game, I will admit is way , WAY 
 to short but fun, I only got it for online play. This game has a huge difference from the other 
 Need For Speed games since they added some new cars, and best of all, and my favorite DRIFTING! 
 The graphics are quite good and worth while. If you want to, rent first! I wouldnt see a point 
 since most people who have rented Need For Speed before will know what this one is like! The costomization 
 is good, again. This game is much better then Most Want since I didnt enjoy Most wanted, They should 
 have made that Blacklist longer. Yet this game is short, and as I have said before its worth while 
 and its a must have for the 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GjRjEjG
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon picks up where Most Wanted left off, so if you want to play the story mode 
 you might want to pick up Most Wanted first. You start out in your BMW heading to Palmont City, 
 but it soon gets totaled. After that you find out you have a history in Plamont City. What I like 
 about Carbon is that you get to chose what class of car you want to start in (Muscle, Tuner, or 
 Exotic) rather than being forced to buy a tuner (like in Most Wanted) . Also one of the biggest 
 new features in Carbon is the ability to have a racing crew. There are 3 types of crew members 
 blockers, scouts, and drafters. Unfortunately none of the crew members are really useful. Now the 
 cops are back in Carbon, but they're exactly the same as the cops in Most Wanted. The cars, the 
 radio chatter, and the tactics are all the same from Most Wanted meaning you won't have much fun 
 in police chases if you bought Most Wanted. Unfortunately it's very hard to get away from the cops 
 because there are very few straight roads in Palmont City and there are a lot less pursuit breakers 
 than in Most Wanted. This game is very easy and the main story mode is very short. Fortunately 
 after you beat the game you can try to get 100% completion by beating all the races and challenge 
 series races. Although very similar to Most Wanted, Need for Speed Carbon just doesn't feel as 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game but it wasn't as good as I thought Most Wanted was. I didn't like the single 
 player as much as I liked it in Most Wanted but I did like the online play with the new features 
 in it. Some of the cars had bad controls and it took me a while to do the final canyon race but 
 other than that, it was alright. if you have an xbox 360, just enjoy the online race modes because 
 there are some cool stuff in it. you can be cop in Pursuit mode and they even included Speedtrap. 
 but you'd be disappointed that some of the cars you had in Most Wanted you would have to buy in 
 the xbox live marketplace. In conclusion, this game wasn't as good as Most Wanted was, but the 
 online gameplay makes up for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mistwaver1985
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  If you're into the NFS series, NFSC is a must have. There are tons of unlockables here, which lead 
 to a lot of replay value, and Xbox Live support and leaderboards only add to the value of this 
 classic arcade racer.
  
  The graphics in NFSC are pretty awesome. Nice lighting, ultra-realistic reflections, rain drops 
 and some of the best textures you'll ever see in a racing game. period. One minor setback is some 
 people are experiencing frequent frame rate hitches while playing the game in 720p or 1080i, which 
 is a disappointment since the game looks good, but not good enough you should have frame rate issues 
 to the point where it's impacting your driving performance.
  
  The sound is pretty good as well. Dolby Digital 5.1 surround sound support, car engines sound very 
 strong, and each car has its own unique engine sound.
  
  When you first start playing NFSC very few cars will be unlocked, so you'll spend your first few 
 days playing the Career mode, which has a bit of story telling built in to it. It'll remind you 
 a lot of the Fast and the Furious movie series, afterall, that is what the game is based on. The 
 game is based on the latest Fast and the Furious movie, The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift . 
 You'll see pretty much any type of car made. it's also worth mentioning that NFSC is geared more 
 to being an arcade racer, so don't expect to see realistic spin outs you were acustomed to seeing 
 in the elder NFS titles. You can also hire a crew to help you out through your career, from drafters, 
 to blockers to scouts. Each crew member has a certain benefit they can provide you both on and 
 off the track, and you can only have 3 crew members at a time, with only one of the three helping 
 you out on the track.
  
  Once you're done with the Career mode, you can play online with the cars you built up in your Career, 
 or you can play any of the other cars in the game, too. The online support has a lot of filters, 
 so if you've only completed half of the game and don't have a decked out Tier 3 car, you can filter 
 it so a Tier 1 car is the best anyone can use so you can race competitively against people who 
 have went all the way through the Career mode. You can also play every game mode online, which 
 is a nice touch. There are also leaderboards and ghosts you can download to race against.
  
  Additionally, there are more unlockables via cards you can complete. There's no secret to this, 
 what is needed for each card is built in right there in the game UI -- you just have to get off 
 your butt and complete the objectives! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrTyson
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  After Need for Speed most wanted I was expecting ther next in the series to be absolutely amazing... 
 I was Wrong. NFS Carbon let me down dramatically. I mean sure it looks great on my 42 inch dlp 
 in HD. Nice looking cars and all but. The gameplay felt broken to me. The whole new thing with 
 having a Crew with a blocker, scout, ect... was just... lame... Most the time they didnt do anything 
 for me at all.. Usually they just got in my way and i ran into them. Overall not a very worthwhile 
 game.. its deffinitly a Rent and not a Buy. I mean.. They got rid of my favorite part of the game.. 
 The Drag Races.... Lame... Hopefully they improve on the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toyeboy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Somehow EA games can always suck me into their NFS games to where I play from start to finish in 
 a few days. They've done it again with Carbon. I've already beaten the entire career mode, I got 
 this game Saturday night and it only took 8 or 9 hours to beat all four of the bosses, so it is 
 quite short in comparasion to NFS Most Wanted, but it's still great b/c the challenge series will 
 keep me busy. The graphics are very sharp even on my SDTV it looks great and has a nice smooth 
 framerate for the most part. The career mode is fun, and being short makes it not seem so overwhelming 
 at the start. I was expecting this game to be much harder though. Most Wanted was tough, but since 
 your crew member can win the race for you it makes it really easy in most cases. The crew member 
 thing isn't perfect, the scout type crew seems to be the only one that actually can stay in front 
 of you and help you, the drafter and blocker were kind of useless IMO. The scout is cool though, 
 they tell you shortcuts, such as take the alley on the left it really does help you which is cool.
 
  In carbon, drifting is back and much improved over Underground 1 and 2. Cayon drift is very fun 
 and challenging at the same time. Getting up to 130 mph and drifting close to the edge of a clift 
 is quite thrilling. So if you like racing games at all definitely buy this game, b/c there's not 
 other franchise on 360 that does tuners this well. Great job EA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12919
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  ok. In NFS carbon you're the newbie from rockport rollin' in on the scene after being saved from 
 cross (gasp) by a shady charcter by the bame of darius. When it's cooled down a bit he asks his 
 lady friend to show you the ropes and she agrees after a little tantrum (both these people claim 
 to know you, but i've never even heard of them and they both say that you ran away with the cash!) 
 anyway in the beginning u can pick to represent tuners, muscles or exotic cars and as such you 
 pick your starting car from one of these catagorys. As your journey unfolds you take over more 
 territory and gain new crew members who will help you costomize your ride, lower the 5-0 heat and 
 give you extra money by winning races. As you near the end of your journey a surprising twist unfolds........ 
 The bussiness
  Ok. The game is great on career as you take over territory, defend your own and make money. There 
 are a few things missing ie, neons, sound sytems and light customiztion but these are replaced 
 with the new autosculpt, which enables you to pretty much sculpt your own body kit. The vinyls 
 are fully customizable too. Off career is really good to because you can do challenges to unlock 
 bonus cars, vinyls, rims and other various parts of your car. Aother good thing about the game 
 is that all the cars sound different not all the same which i think gives the game the leading 
 edge on all other urban street racers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominican_fines
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Well its kind of need for speed most wanted but i like it.
  I didnt really like racing games that much but for some reason this game is fun and i like the 
 graphics.
  They added the american muscle cars thats good.
  They also added some new moves like scout, etc its fun.
  
  I will recomend this game to anybody 
 i wasent really happy about getting this game but i was really impressed how good it was so i guess 
 this is your ticket to have fun lol
  
  I hope you like my review and i hope you will have me tracked even though i get the games like 
 5 days later (if there good games) i always write a review so please keep me tracked. Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 930ff
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  But that doesn't mean it's a bad thing. Most Wanted was a great game. The story follows the driver 
 to the city of Palmont with the driver returning from Rockport with his BMW that he won back from 
 Razor. The street racing in the city has changed since the driver left and now he is seen as a 
 thief and coward by the race bosses because of a crime he was framed for. Using many of the elements 
 from Most Wanted, Carbon continues EA's trend of popular street racing games. This is more of an 
 expansion of Most Wanted because it feels like the same game. I was happy to play another Most 
 Wanted because I enjoyed Most Wanted. Just this one is shorter and seems to have a weak storyline. 
 But in the end, Carbon is a driving experience that everyone should try at least once. The ending 
 gives a hint to another Most Wanted type game. I just hope EA spends more time on the next one 
 then they did for this Need for Speed game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincompost
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  Carbon is a fun racing game but its inability to make each car equal is a killer. The corvette 
 is the best car in the game plain and simple. No car can even come close except for the quattro 
 which isn't playable in campaign. Which is another vital flaw in the game. So many cars were in 
 the bonus collection that it ruined the game. Also the arcade style racing is fun but it is sad 
 to be able to hit a wall and keep goin 120+. The autosculpt was a great addition and i like the 
 teir seperation but the tope teir 3 cars sshould be equal as far as differences matching up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostleeGC
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  EA has recently showed us there ambition for the NSF games with the inversive Underground and simply 
 excellent Most Wanted NSF: Carbon was therefore a much hyped game that a little over a year ago 
 would not have been.
  You would expect Carbon to be very similar to Most Wanted due to the success of its name sake however 
 Carbon heads off in a different direction.
  
  Let me talk about the main mode, the career mode.
  
  It starts all too predictable if you are 
 a NSF fan. You find yourself in a downhill chase with a familiar bounty hunter, you lose this chase 
 and your car is totaled in the process. However an intervention is made, your life is saved and 
 the bounty not taken but of course in turn you must do something for this favor. The favor is to 
 return to the street racing, crime riddled city of Palmont.
  The story then continues exactly where Most Wanted left off and progresses throughout the game. 
 I am not going to ramble on about the story though, onto the game.
  
  You start off presented with the dilemma of which car to choose which although we will all denni 
 it, spend 5 minutes deciding on. 3 cars, one muscle, one exotic and one tuner. The muscle with 
 the acceleration, the exotic with the speed and the tuner with balance and possibilities.
  I chose the tuner, which I would not have done had it not been for your future wing-man Nevile 
 hinting on that he personally would have chosen that one with the nice rims so it was to be that 
 I chose red Mazda RX-6 to be my best friend for a while.
  
  So we have established that there are 3 types of car in Carbon and now onto the introductory of 
 the wing-man. You are explained to in the beginning that there are 3 types of wing men, the blocker, 
 the scout and the drafter. Also each comes with one of 3 skills, the skills being mechanic, fixer 
 and fabricator. Also each wing man will have unique race and career bonuses. You will start with 
 Nevile, some fat middle aged punkish bloke who will show you the ropes. He is a blocker, which 
 is good as it is the easiest technique to master and he is also a fixer. He drives a spruced up 
 Nissan 350Z which is not all it looks to be, but it does the job, he is also a entertaining if 
 not sometimes over the top character.
  
  Anyway after all this you will find out that the city is divided up into many territories, there 
 must be about 30 in total and they are distributed out to many rival racing groups. The main 4, 
 Bushido, 21st, Stacked Deck and TFK each owning almost entirely a section of the city each (1/4) 
 But a few bits of there territory are taken by minor groups that swap and fiddle around but are 
 of no threat. This is where you start off with your group of which you will get to name and design 
 a logo for and build up your crew!
  1 Guess what you have to do, own the entire city of course. And little by little that is what you 
 do to beat the game.
  
  Sprints, checkpoints, circuits, drifts, speed-traps and of course the Carbon Canyon races all await 
 you and your wingman on your road to domination and knowledge of what happened on that night this 
 being the story of Carbon and your motivation. Bash with your blocker, tease with your scout and 
 bemuse them with your drafter, its all there and damn its good. Earn money, respect and territory 
 in this game and of course piss off the cops in the process and take on some tense and exciting 
 high speed, nitrous powered chases that will have you on the end of your seat.
  
  I could talk for a long time about this game and I have not even said it all yet, nowhere near.
 
  
  Conclusion: NSF: Carbon is a innovative and ambitious game that offers unique and addictive game 
 play, stunning graphics and sound as well as many surprises and heart pounding moments, all in 
 the comfort of your home, buy it now!
  
  The good: Unique game play, great sound and graphics, multi-player/XBOX Live, interesting dimensions, 
 replay value and tilt, freedom to do what you want in the game and create your own path.
  
  The Bad: Races in career mode get repetitive and many cutscences reused over and over, unbalanced 
 attributes of cars, boss races unbalanced and sometimes boring/tiring, predictable game play and 
 story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebel_punk34
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  NFS: Carbon is the next instalement for this long running series. Like Most Wanted, EA focused 
 on the Street Racing World once again. But this time they go more in-depth, especially with the 
 new customization features, and the adding new styles of races.
  
  In my opionion one the main focule point for Carbon would have to be the on-line play. Now since 
 they have, specific races only for Xbox Live. Live also has certain cars, viynles, and parts that 
 can only be aquired by racing against other players. Many of the racing styles have stayed the 
 same like circuit, sprint, speedtrap, and so on. The newest types of races are Drifting, and the 
 Cayon Duels. Now that drifiting is becoming one of the most popular style of racing (also made 
 popular the by the movie Tokyo Drift, EA seemed it would be a fitting attribute to Carbon. Now 
 Cayon Duels are completey new to the NFS genre's, these duels are very competive..... especially 
 if you fall of the mountain. Thats the worry of Cayon Duels, the steel guard rails don't stand 
 much of a chance to a car coming down the mountain rode thats going about 80 mph's. So be weary 
 of those races.
  
  The Customization feature introduced a new body feature, now you can warp car parts to your liking. 
 This feature is called Autosculpt, take a spoiler for example. Pick a style that you like, now 
 depending on the spoiler you can warp the different zones of the car part. With that feature added, 
 you can create some of the most unique cars ever seen. Carbon is opens to gamers with much creativity, 
 especially for me.
  
  The campaign is like Most Wanted, you come to a city trying to make a name for yourself in the 
 Street Racing world. But here you return to a city that has been split into four sections, Tuners, 
 Muscles, and Exotics. Carbon challenges your ablities with these types of cars, so it would be 
 best to train yourself to become well-rounded with all these cars.
  To move on in the game, you must challenge street racing crews, to ultimately challange the boss 
 in a Cayon Duel.
  
  NFS: Carbon is a must for those die-hard fans, or if you want to experince something new. So theirs 
 my review of Need for Speed: Carbon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoov_B
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 27, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  Since the introduction of Underground, the EA's Need for Speed series has ridden on the coat-tails 
 of popular, illegal street-racing. Underground and Underground 2 focused solely on street racing 
 - emulating the cars most popular in the real world. To highlight this scene, there was a lot of 
 emphasis placed on modding not just your car's performance but also it's look. Drastically departing 
 from the Underground formula, Need For Speed: Most Wanted turned away from street tuners and excessive 
 body customization and instead placed the focus on destruction and mayhem, getting as much police 
 attention as possible, then successfully evading them. Although, much of what made the original 
 Underground so popular was lost, the new police chases in Most Wanted made it a refreshing and 
 enjoyable addition. It also clearly defined it from the other two major racing games that were 
 released along side it.
  
  Need For Speed Carbon's entry into the series picks up where Most Wanted left off and tries to 
 return back to the Underground roots all the while introducing a couple new elements.
  
  Story wise, Carbon is an improvement over Most Wanted. It's similar, soft-porn, Vaseline-lens, 
 live-action video is used much more extensively adding some good, cheesy, over-acting moments to 
 break up the racing action. Carbon's story starts right where Most Wanted ended, driving the same 
 BMW M3 and still being chased by Cross. It's plot however, is a series of flashbacks as you try 
 to piece together the events that led you to Rockport (the city of Most Wanted) in the first place. 
 In typical fashion, some hot girl will take a liking to you and hook you up with a ride because, 
 as usual, you're going to have to race your way out of this city as well. Your goal is to increase 
 your reputation by taking over city districts controlled by other crews. As you win races, eventually 
 you'll have to race against the crew boss in two events: the first being a standard sprint or circuit 
 race; the second a two-part Canyon race.
  
  The city of Palmont is conveniently located in the middle of three different canyons and is broken 
 up into four major districts. Each district being controlled by a different crew that has an affinity 
 for a particular type of car; either Tuner, Muscle, or Exotic. Apparently, the goal of having different 
 districts favor different cars was that they'd race accordingly and you'd either have to adapt 
 well or have a car of each type in your garage. In actuality, what you drive makes little difference 
 as long as you're half-way decent at driving.
  
  In order to defeat a crew boss, you'll have to complete a two-part race against them through one 
 of these canyons under their control. In each race, you're competing for points. Stay close to 
 the boss as they lead you down the canyon and you'll gain points. Let them get too close when it's 
 your turn to lead and you'll lose points. Lose too many points and the race is over. Making these 
 canyon races a bit more exciting is the ever present danger of sliding through the guard-rail and 
 careening off the mountain.
  
  Beat both the street race and the canyon race and you'll get a chance for unique part upgrades, 
 get out of jail free passes, or the pink slip to the boss's car.
  
  As you race and progress, you unlock the usual performance and body upgrades. Additionally, you'll 
 unlock people that you can hire as part of your Crew. The unique new addition to Carbon. Your crew 
 will provide different benefits depending on who you hire. And whomever is your active crew member 
 will accompany you on most races. Each crew member has particular role while racing as well a couple 
 other abilities that will allow you to perform custom body modifications, unlock performance upgrades, 
 or simply lower your notoriety with the police. In the end, who you race with makes little difference 
 though I personally found the Scout to be the most useful as, in addition to picking out shortcuts, 
 they'll often race past you and win tight races for you.
  
  Carbon definitely feels a lot more like the Underground variants. It takes place at night and brings 
 back the bright lights blurring as well as blurring the entire screen itself. It certainly feels 
 fast again. Although the control doesn't feel as solid as before. Cars seem to slide a bit more 
 easily - especially in the revamped Drift races. And although the Drift is back, it feels like 
 a shell of its former self. Otherwise, the gameplay is similar to the previous iterations, with 
 a focus on arcade style driving rather than real-life physics.
  
  In addition to continuing the story-line of Most Wanted, Carbon retains the police chase elements 
 and destructive environments. Although this was the essence of Most Wanted, here it doesn't play 
 any role other than causing occasional instances of frustration as you try to finish races. There's 
 no Blacklist and no reputation to build so engaging in chases and causes mass destruction is practically 
 pointless - aside from the pure enjoyment of high speed police chases.
  
  The career mode of Carbon is probably the shortest in the Need For Speed series and it isn't a 
 difficult feat to race through in a matter of hours. Seemingly in an effort to extend the game, 
 territories that you've conquered will occasionally be challenged by rival crews. You're always 
 given the choice to defend your turf or not but declining will result in an automatic loss and 
 potentially cost you the territory. Frustratingly, it's not uncommon to be challenged right after 
 winning a race - right when you told yourself that last one was your last. Personally, having to 
 re-play elements of a game you've already completed is annoying and a disturbing trend as more 
 and more games incorporate it into play. I find it a poor excuse for adding real content.
  
  The open, free-roam world is still there, as well as challenges from others drivers as your 
 drive through rival territories. But there's no way to challenge other drivers and you're not going 
 to find any hidden races. If you enjoy randomly driving around the map at high speed, or even taking 
 the time to drive to different events, then you're in luck. Otherwise you might as well avoid the 
 streets and select the next race right from the map.
  
  One of the most unique new features of Carbon is the ability to create your own custom body mods 
 - provided you have the right crew member. In an area that was seriously lacking in Most Wanted 
 this is a great addition, especially for online play. Your car can now be truly yours. The number 
 of customization options isn't unlimited but it does provide a decent set of bases with which to 
 start with and chances are you'll be able find a look that makes you happy.
  
  Other customization options have also been improved giving you back more control over performance 
 tuning as well as new paint and vinyl color schemes. And yet with all the paint options now, you 
 can no longer paint the brake pads. Kind of weird to me and frustrating as it can easily ruin a 
 great color scheme.
  
  The list of available cars hasn't changed much from Most Wanted either. Although, your M3 will 
 be nixed before you ever get to drive it, there's some new Classic additions to round out the Muscle 
 class and the GTR makes its return. What's a bit frustrating here is that most of the cars won't 
 become available until the final district is opened up, and then they come like a swarm of locusts. 
 There's also a peculiar requirement for performance upgrades that are dictated by the stock performance 
 level of your car. Essentially, you end up unlocking the same upgrade three times if you want it 
 on three different levels of cars.
  
  Graphically, Carbon for the 360 is on par with Most Wanted. It's still a great looking game that 
 holds itself well on the system and the new paint options as well as some new road reflections 
 help it stand out. The PC side is no different although you'll need a pretty hefty GPU to get the 
 most out it. But for PC users, there's also a multitude of options that will let you get a pretty 
 good look and maintain a decent framerate. It's interface has gone from the inner-city, graffiti 
 feel of Most Wanted to a much more slick, glossed over, Web 2.0 feel. Not bad, but it's getting 
 old these days - although more importantly, it's easy to use and understand.
  
  If you passed up Most Wanted, Carbon is definitely a worthwhile next-gen addition to the series 
 and the same enjoyable racing gameplay can be found both alone and online. However, for those of 
 you with MW already, Carbon may be better as a rental. The new customization options are exactly 
 what Most Wanted was missing and the story is certainly more enjoyable. But despite the introduction 
 of having your own Crew and the concept Canyon races, there is absolutely nothing new about the 
 gameplay. With only 4 boss challenges, the career mode itself is far too short, constantly having 
 to fight for you own turf gets old, and when you actually get the chance to use a crew member, 
 they prove mostly ineffective. And if you already own Most Wanted, you're going to get the exact 
 same game when it comes to player vs. player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimension4
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  so as need-for-speed evolved over time stuff was added and taken away from each newer NFS to come 
 out, the only thing missing in this one of the series is either the bright lights to make the night 
 time race style feel good or the daylight that looked beatiful in Most wanted... well i will put 
 it this way, they didnt put in the nice enviroments of the daytime look and neither did they make 
 this look Bright Lights, Big City either, but the canyons look great
  
  car types come and we get it all from the weak cars and the basic street racer and all comes down 
 to the race type cars like a ford GT. and all these cars have been seperated into categorys of 
 muscle: high acceleration, Tuner: high handleing, and Exotics: top speed.
  
  i like that mix because it ends the whole deal with any car being even after you tune them up and 
 makes a differnce. but the main things is that you have a teammate that can help you and might 
 win it for the team if you lose, and then you have auto sculpt that allows you to costomly decide 
 the dimensions and detail of the aspects to your ride
  
  i dont know why gamespot gave this game a 7.6 but it makes the game look bad when this game is 
 actually good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  NFS Carbon is the next instalment in the NFS series. The game starts off where you left in Most 
 Wanted. The game is like Most Wanted but it is really short. YOu can finish the career mode in 
 5 hours with 100% completion. You get to pick 3 cars at the start and then you go through some 
 training. You have wingmen in this game which help you out in the game and could also win you some 
 races if they come in 1st place. The cars are really cool and the game is set in the night. The 
 graphics in the game are really good and thr gameplay is very exciting. There are also new modes 
 in the game like Canyon Duel where you verus a boss and you have to stay as close as you can get 
 to get the highest score then you try to get away from the boss. Sometimes its really easy and 
 sometimes its hard and it depends which cars you have. The game is so cool but it is too short 
 and I reckon Most Wanted is even better than Carbon because MW had a longer career mode. If you 
 like car games or your a fan of the NFS series, I reckon you should get this game because its really 
 cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danniboi88
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 21, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Hey Gamers
  im just gonna do a quick one cos im in a bit of a hurry but i had to find time to review what now 
 is one of my favourite games on the 360. The gme does not seem to have a long story but for what 
 its worth, its a good one that keeps you involved and right in the action. The new concepts of 
 wingmen and body sculpting cuahgt my eye and i concluded that they were to awesome additions to 
 the nfs series. When i first booted this game onto my 360 i was with a friend who has carbon also 
 but on the first xbox. HIs eyes lit up and it was like christmas came a few days early for him, 
 i think right then he made the decision to cough up the 500 or so dollars it costs to purchase 
 this console they call the 360. Anyways back to the game then i im off, i think they used the power 
 of the console to there advantage with this game and the introduction of canyon duels and awesome 
 online features, this game sacores high in my books. one to go straight under the tree this year! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjwickstrom1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 22, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon is a great follow to NFS Most Wanted on the 360, becuase it gives you hours 
 of fun and enlass possibilities, but it's also a very easy game. The gameplay is decent, with the 
 only flaws being with the cars and driving style. Sometimes, when going through shortcuts or pursuit 
 breakers, your car gets slowed down by a gate you knocked you, garbage an, etc. when usually it 
 should keep on going at the same speed, or in some instances slow down one or two mph. Also, I 
 don't like how cop cars can drive right over spike strips in a pursuit without cutting a tire, 
 but you can't, and how they just randomly appear on the map. They should all come from a specific 
 location, like a police station or donut shop. For those reasons, I gave gameplay an 8 out of 10.
 
  
  The graphics are great compared to NFS Most Wanted, but they could be slightly better for this 
 being a next gen console. For instance, the only damage you can ever get on your car is paint scrapings 
 and a cracked windshielf. If a sequel were made I'd like to see more realistic damage, like the 
 damage you can put on the opposing police cars, which look amazing! the cars graphcis are good, 
 other than the traffic, which look decent, but could easily be improved. The surroundings on your 
 map are very realistic too, including the way the pursuit breakers destruct when you set them off. 
 That's why I gave the graphics an 8 out of 10.
  
  The sound in Need for Speed Carbon is great. The cars engines roar like thunder, just like in real 
 life and their screeching tires do the same. Also, the pursuit monitors are loud and easy to understand 
 during a pursuit to help you dodge everything the police throw at you. The only part of the sound 
 that disappointed me was the in game musci. The soundtrack was good, but in order to hear the music 
 clearly, at least for me, was to turn the car's noise and enviornmental sounds down to nearly zero! 
 Becuase of this, I gave the sound in Need for Speed Carbon a 9 out or 10.
  
  The achievements are very challenging in the game, which I enjoy. The majority of them are online, 
 which sucks if you don't have Live, but are a blast to work towards if you do! I've currently earned 
 32 out of 50 achievements in the game, and I'd say that about 20 of those have been from playing 
 online. Once you get the hang of the game it's easy to get most of the achievements. The game inlocks 
 that some of the achievements give you are sweet too, like customizable parts for your cars in 
 career and race now modes, and special cars for those game modes too!
  
  I own the regular version of the game, becuase the special edition didn't really appeal to me, 
 even though you can buy the special edition upgrade via Xbox Live Marketplace for $10, which I 
 might do in the future if I have some leftover money. All the special edition includes is a few 
 exclusive tracks and cars, which should be included in the game, but EA is trying to use it as 
 a scam to rip people from their money.
  
  I really recommend that you check this game out, becuase I know you'll enjoy it. I know most of 
 you won't becuase it's EA, and becuase of the recent bad history they've had with their games, 
 but you need to just forget about that and start looking at their positives, which lye in this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matadore
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  NFS: Carbon hits the underground racing scene running unlike its predecessor NFS: Most Wanted. 
 You already know what to expect from these racing games since NFS: Underground was released. But 
 NFS: Carbon goes back to the aspects of the NFS: Underground series that worked (racing strictly 
 at nighttime, a good number of upgradeable performance and visual parts, a decent number of unlockable 
 cars) and included some new features that while they may not be fine-tuned, they do add a bit more 
 customization to your illegal street racing experience.
  
  First thing to discuss is the gameplay. I would like to know why EA thinks they have come up with 
 the best possible controller set-ups to work with their games. Ive noticed this in a majority 
 of recently released EA games, no matter what genre it is. (Ultimate Marvel Alliance, NFS: Carbon, 
 and NFS: Most Wanted to name a few. Luckily, EA was gracious enough in NCAA 2007 to allow you to 
 completely configure the controls as you wanted. Otherwise, that game would be nearly impossible 
 to play with the default control scheme.) Anyway, I think that COMPLETE controller configuration 
 is a MUST for all games. When Street Fighter II for the SNES came out in 1992, you could fully 
 customize your controller. (And Im sure some games even before then gave you come custom control 
 options, but SFII is the first one I recall off-hand that let you fully customize your punch/kick 
 buttons.) EA apparently prefers the Dark Ages of inflexible control design. They do give you a 
 few presets to choose from, but that is still unacceptable to me if they dont also include a custom 
 option to fully customize the controller layout. The reason I bring this up is that I used one 
 of the presets (2, I think) , where the acceleration button was A, the handbrake was B, the 
 Speedbreaker was the L-Trigger, and Nitro was the R-Trigger. I would have preferred the L-Trigger 
 to be the handbrake, since in the canyon duels, you cant use the Speedbreaker as a pseudo-handbreak 
 like you can in most of the other types of races and in Free Roam. So, someone needs to fire the 
 close-minded control freak at EA and let someone take over who understands that flexibility and 
 customization are key in todays video gaming industry. Now that Im off that soapbox, I can talk 
 about actually driving the cars. Each car type (tuners, muscle cars, and exotics) has its own quirks. 
 If you prefer a stable-handling car that has some power under the hood, then I suggest you try 
 out exotics. (Even if you start the game out with an exotic car, that doesnt mean you cant buy 
 a muscle car or tuner. It just unlocks items for the type of car you choose at the beginning (usually) 
 before unlocking parts for the other 2 types.) Tuners and muscle cars are the exact opposite when 
 it comes to handling, but you can spin out just as quick in a tuner as you can in a muscle car, 
 for some reason. Plus Tuners are unbearably slower. I barely beat the game with a Tuner but had 
 no troubles beating it with Muscle Cars or Exotics. Really, it comes down to personal preference.
 
  
  The game features the kind of upgrades youve become accustomed to from previous NFS: Underground 
 games: Performance, Visual, Aftermarket Body Parts/Kits but a new feature has been added called 
 Autosculpt. This gives you the option to customize your hoods, spoilers, front &amp; rear bumpers, 
 side skirts, wheels, etc to a certain extent. I didnt really get into this very much because 
 in order to Autosculpt in Career Mode, you have to hire certain wingmen. Sal and Colin are the 
 Fabricators but Sal will only be able to Autosculpt particular parts, and Colin can only Autosculpt 
 particular parts. Plus, I liked the Aftermarket bodykits because they actually changed the look 
 and shape of your ride. Customizing side skirts, and front and rear bumpers wont make it look 
 very much different than the stock parts. Now, the best thing to do here to get the best of both 
 worlds is to purchase an Aftermarket Body Kit, then purchase an Autosculpt hood. You can purchase 
 the spoiler and wheels (and roof scoops, if you like those personally, I dont) as either Autosculpt 
 or Aftermarket, whichever you prefer. Personally, the only Autosculpt part I purchase is the hood. 
 The rest is Aftermarket. There just wasnt enough options or customization in Autosculpt to keep 
 me interested not to mention the fact that 99% of all Autosculpt parts are available as Aftermarket. 
 The only difference is that you can adjust some angles, width, etc and thats just too much garbage 
 when I want to race. If it gave you a totally different look than what you could get Aftermarket, 
 then Id be more excited about Autosculpt. It was a nice try, EA but it loses its flavor after 
 the third or fourth time you attempt it and realize that its just as cool and way easier to purchase 
 Aftermarket items.
  
  Another aspect that has improved over NFS: Most Wanted is the graphics and FMV sequences. The graphics 
 on the cars were too plain in NFS: MW, and in action, they tended to look grainy at times. The 
 cars in NFS: Carbon, however, are smooth and polished. I just wish there was more of a selection 
 to choose from. I also need to mention the FMV sequences, because compared to NFS: MW, these cut-scenes 
 are a huge improvement. The FMV sequences in NFS: MW were too blurry. I appreciate that they were 
 trying to do something different so it wouldnt be totally real life like, but when everyone 
 looks like a blurry Odo (the shapeshifter from Star Trek: Deep Space Nine) , then it just looks 
 bad. They did the same thing in NFS: Carbon, but it was toned down a lot, so the actors actually 
 looked like people. Some of the dialogue is a bit sketchy, but the storyline is eons better than 
 NFS: MW.
  
  The blacklist is gone, which is a huge plus now youre racing for territory, which makes more 
 sense to me. Each suburb has its boss that youll have to challenge after taking over all but 
 one section of territory in their domain. Thats when youll run across the new race type: the 
 Canyon Duel. This one can be fun at times, and frustrating at others. But, the best thing to do 
 is to get in front of your opponent during the 1st run of the duel. If you can stay in front of 
 them for 10 seconds, then you automatically win. I prefer doing that as opposed to going down the 
 canyon trying to keep up with the boss during the first run, gaining points depending on the 
 distance between your car and theirs. Then on the second run, the boss chases you down the canyon, 
 and you get points taken away depending on the distance. If you still have points left by the time 
 you reach the finish line in the 2nd run, then you win. But trust me, passing them then staying 
 in front of them for 10 seconds is a LOT easier and it really isnt that hard to do, as long as 
 you have a car you feel extremely comfortable with that can match or exceed the bosss car. I will 
 say this though, it is extremely tougher to pull that off in a Tuner than in an Exotic or a Muscle 
 Car. But, before you get to the boss, youll have a lot of the race types youve been through before: 
 Sprint, Circuit, Drift is back (which is great) , Checkpoint, and Speed Trap. There is also a Turf 
 Wars (or something like that) that you host after taking over a bosss suburb. Its a LONG circuit 
 race with 20 cars. You need to make sure you at least have a beefed up Tier 2 car before attempting 
 this. You will also randomly have to defend your turf, which is basically re-racing one of the 
 races youve won. (Kind of like Saints Row or GTA: San Andreas.) That gets annoying at times, 
 although usually you can beat the race over again no problem, but you get very little money for 
 doing it. Youll also have some 5-0 on you throughout the game especially when youre in the 
 last suburb run by Darius. The Zone Heat in each territory in Silverton is ridiculously high, but 
 you shouldnt have any trouble getting away from the pigs by that point in the game.
  
  Overall, NFS: Carbon is a definite step in the right direction. There are still some things EA 
 needs to work on with the overall programming. (The game froze a lot and sometimes the XBOX 360 
 thought it was a DVD instead of a game and nothing is wrong with my XBOX 360, in case you were 
 thinking that. This is the only game it has ever done that on, so it was a problem with the game.) 
 I recommend saving after each race, even if AutoSave is on just in case. If they make a sequel, 
 Id like more to the story, and a bigger selection of cars. Id also like for COMPLETE controller 
 customization/configuration, not just presets. Other than that, I thought NFS: Carbon was an excellent 
 game that revived this series. If you love racers, this one is one of the best out for the 360, 
 so get it while its hot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zdmetal2101
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  This game rules! I got it on release day and I just got over my obsession with it. The customization 
 in this game is very good and it is cool to make your own bumpers, wheels, hoods, etc. but the 
 ones that are preset are usually better than what you can make. I have spent a lot of time playing 
 this game and it amazes me how great the graphics are in my opinion they are some of the best I 
 have seen on the 360 right beside Gears of War and Fight Night Round 3. This game is very easy 
 for anyone to pick up and play my cousin was good at it and he never plays games. So if you are 
 looking for a good racer to hold you off until Forza 2 than I would reccomend this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stirud
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  At first, i thought that this doesn't look good at all... crappy PS2 graphics, bad sense of reality, 
 no interesting missions... BUT, then i decidet to buy a vga cabel to see if my pc screen could do 
 the job better than my 6 year old tv set.... and what a surprise! A whole new world opened up, the 
 graphics are more realistic than ever, and project gotham sucks compared to Test drive when it 
 comes to gameplay and loading time etc... Missions in this game can seem a little bit boring at 
 first, but if you give it a couple of hours of you're prescious time, a whole new world will open 
 up for you ! Various missions, stunning graphics, far more detailed cars than the ones in project 
 gotham... and the list goes on... Don't be fooled by the first impression of this game... the missios 
 WILL get better and more enertaining than the first ones! Can't wait to Take the tour of the island 
 race, but before that need a Coeniggsegg to do so! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haz_4x4
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 16, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game just for an idea if i might want to get it for xmas. i did like this game i 
 quite liked the idea on how you had crew members in pretty much every race and how you got them 
 to do stuff which helped you out which pretty much made the game easy. i liked some of the cars 
 involved in the game mainly the muscle cars. i also liked some of the races like drift. i do think 
 this game wasa let down as i found the graphics the same as most wanted and the gameplay mediocre, 
 it was fun but it got VERY repetitive so i just went off it on my last day of renting on it and 
 went on test drive, its a nice street racer but it cant compete to the classic need for speed undergrounds. 
 i have also noticed (to sum up) that they have boss races where they take you to the canyon which 
 gets on my nerves a bit and race wars when your racing against another 20 people. well on xbox 
 live i wasent overjoyed very boring quick races. sum up. nice easy game gets very boring. graphics 
 need to be improved and some of the gameplay they will some day make it perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhornet_314
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 16, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  Its a good game. and it almost, almost was better then NFSMW. I feel that the eternal night atmosphere 
 of Carbon, NFSU, and NFSU2 is slightly distracting. On the other hand, the graphics are ungodly, 
 the cars and autosculpt feature is a nice touch and the characters are actually believeable. In 
 comparision to Razor Callahan from NFSMW, i would say that the new guy doesnt quite measure up, 
 but is slightly less obnoxious, which can only be counted as a plus. On the other hand, the main 
 girl of the game was a complete **** aswell as a total letdown, but i like her car :P. If i were 
 to be able to offer some advice to the makers of this game, i wouild say that there needs to be 
 more variety in the races, and MORE MORE MORE cop chases. The cop chases were what made NFSMW such 
 an awsome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iman2050
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 15, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Ok when i first heard of carbon I was like Whoa i loved all the games before it like Underground 
 and MostWanted. When I got the game i was pretty suprised of what the game had in store. I loved 
 the music (Hype Boys and love me or hate me are the best) anways i started playing when I crashed 
 into those logs after running from cross and saw daruis i was like WTF this guy is supposed to 
 the Razo callahan. I started playing i loved the cars there AWESOME but like people said Since 
 when is racing a TWO man job? I think EA could of done better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAdam
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 15, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  NFS U2 was amazing still play it today and i was aexpecting better of carbon, i bought it yesterday 
 and played it for 20 mins and i was not impressed. Dint feel liek you were there, the graphics 
 were just graphics for the 360, sound i did not like the tires and poor quailty and gameplay just 
 boring.
  
  The way you modify your car i say was good, and the video graphics were ace, but the lac of feeling 
 and the sence of NFS just doing it again and the acual driving wasnt fun and dint feel involved, 
 didnt feel like a world. Poor!
  
  I have never taken a game back before this was my first. If you want a NFS go for NFS U2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatality1565
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is good, no doubt about it. But, it's just like almost every racing game there is. It's 
 just like Most Wanted. Except, you are always racing in the dark, like underground 2. The few things 
 that are better are, very good drifting system, slightly better graphics, and better turning system. 
 I also thing that the Xbox live on this game is very good. One of the worst things about this game 
 though is that there are 2 stories going on, and only one of them finishes when you complete the 
 game. So, when I beat it I was like What the hell just happened? I thought the ending didn't make 
 sense. Now, if you like racing games and the Need for Speed series, then this game is a good game 
 to buy. But if you're new to racing games, then don't buy this game. I found the story to be uninteresting, 
 short, and unrealistic. In conclusion, this game is good... but not the best game it could have 
 beem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik17
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  the game is good but it has to many turns and it is hard to get cars so you have to do the challange 
 series just to get more cares and when you get to the boss the carbon canyons you could easy fall 
 off and you seem to be doing the same thing but overall a pretty but overall a pretty and it is 
 worth check it out but i think you should rent it first so you can see if you like then if you 
 like it buy it if you love racing or need for speed you well like this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brettsuper14
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  This is a great game for the 360 with great grapics with in-game movies even cut-scenes and in 
 gameplay! With the abilty to send in helpers during a race to distract or bump people of corse 
 it is still hard but the upgrades will make it easier with boost or changes to cars. But to get 
 money for these you need to complete events in different ares like a race or drive away from the 
 cops. Once you have done all events in an area you will own that area. This game is quite easy 
 but long which means it will last for a while ( at least more than 100 hours! ) The good thing 
 it is not repetive or feel like its boring!
  
  This is a really fun game which i really recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CryoManiac08
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon is one of the few racing games that I think could appeal to all types of 
 gamers. With its fast and easy-to-learn, but challenging to beat game-play combined with stunning 
 graphics, it's a great addition to the Need for Speed series. New features like Autoscupt and teammate 
 racing keep the game fresh for NFS fans and interesting for newcomers to the series. Dift races 
 have been reintroduced into the game, and the time of day has changed back to the traditional underground, 
 night-time racing. Customization/ tuning of the cars is more specific than it was in NFS Most Wanted, 
 such as the option to choose individual side skirts, rear, and front body kits (unlike in Most 
 Wanted where you had to choose full body kits) . The cop chases seem to be as easy to escape as 
 they were in Most Wanted, perhaps even easier, but it's still fun to run them into oncoming traffic 
 and lose them in an alley. You better hope that it is fun --- it's still required to progress through 
 the game!
  
  As far as gaphics go, the in-motion visual effects dominate over the game's previous predicessors. 
 There is a better variety of cars this time, from American muscle cars to foreign exotics. The 
 sounds of the cars' engines and the screaming of the tires hitting the pavement gives you a realistic 
 experience at the driver's seat, however, you might not get to hear any of it over the obnoxious 
 sound track. The songs on the soundtrack are mostly crazy-loud metal or annoying hip-hop like Lady 
 Soveriegn. Don't blame EA for it though: it's not their fault that most music these days is crap.
 
  
  Overall, Need for Speed Carbon is a must have for NFS and racing addicts in general. If you're 
 not a big racing-type of gamer, it is still a good game to rent and play with freinds. Who knows? 
 Maybe NFS Carbon will make you a racing addict too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonstrative1
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 12, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  The venerable Need for Speed series has been going through a recent steady, albeit unfortunate 
 decline. The Underground games were the last two that really struck a chord with me as being just 
 good fun; recently I've become increasingly frustated with the games on multiple levels. But I'd 
 like to start with the positive.
  
  The aesthetic of NFSC is one I find very appealing. As a nightowl city-boy, I find the dark, neon-washed 
 streets of the Carbon world to be very attractive and appealing. EA did a pretty great job setting 
 the mood. Of course, if you'd like to escape from the night at any point this isn't doable, but 
 I actually prefer all the night racing.
  
  The car models themselves, though, leave quite a bit to be desired. It seems like they couldn't 
 quite decide if they wanted to go for a more stylized look (a la Import Tuner Challenge) or if 
 they were shooting for realism. In any case, it looks stuck between the two modes and winds up 
 coming off ultimately unimpressive.
  
  The tuning of the cars is now more in-depth with the molding system, but remains just as superficial 
 as it pretty much always has been. Wrenching up your horsepower is handled in the same manner as 
 it was in the past games; just buy everything you can as fast as you can and toss it in your vehicle. 
 It would've been nice to make you actually pick and choose your parts to give your car different 
 handling options, but since this isn't a sim then I can let it slide.
  
  I was torn on how to rate the game's sound. I absolutely loathe every last song on the soundtrack 
 for this game, but because I usually played with the music off and the engine sounds are well done, 
 I gave it the sound score I did.
  
  I rated the rest of the scores what I did based off of the gameplay and how just trashily done 
 it is. As in the previous games, there are a few different racing modes that you can choose to 
 engage in. Unfortunately, it kept the same formula that Most Wanted did and made you do races with 
 slightly different goals on the exact same track for literally hours at a time. Moreover, very 
 few of these actually amount to any fun whatsoever. I was especially frustrated by the drift races, 
 which completely alter your cars handling to obscenely drift-happy settings, which render your 
 car virtually uncontrollable. In every single drift race I did, I found that I had to find little 
 ways to exploit the tracks (i. e., driving full-speed towards one corner I knew was going to be 
 wide and cracking the wheel full-force one way or another) . In the rest of the races instead of 
 feeling like steering overkill they're far more mushy, and this is demonstrated in every aspect 
 of the driving experience. Brakes and steering alike are overall unresponsive and, for me at least, 
 infuriating. The cherry to top it all off, though, are the canyon races. There are 3 different 
 canyons, and a LOT more than 3 races. All of the races, though, take place on the same monotonous 
 tracks. They also don't really seem to ramp up in difficulty, though as a sort of racing game veteran 
 it could just be that they never really scaled to meet my skill level.
  
  In conclusion, I HIGHLY recommend staying away from this game, and satiating your need for speed 
 on another racing franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco0798
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  supringly that question is a bit difficult to aswer. If u are new to the NFS series this is a AWSOME 
 game go out and get it NOW seriously u will love this game it will feel so new and refreshing to 
 you must buy.
  HOWEVER if (like me) you are not new to the NFS series you might wonna think twice about it compared 
 to most wanted it is a better game. ok first thing you will most likely notice is the fact that 
 their is NO 206 thats right NO 206 what a shame also ALL cars are devided into 3 diff catogories 
 muscle (crappy clumsy american garbage) Exotic (good old beautifull european cars) and the good 
 ol kit'em cars (nissans, mazdas etc.) depending on what u pick for your starting car the area tat 
 u start will be dff. they have introduced a crew system basically this acts a bit like a rpg party 
 setup u can have 3 diff crew members at any time and u can hire more but u will have to fire a 
 member if u are already at 3. the crew members are devided into 3 classes drifter (i think this 
 is what it is called c ant remember) blocker and scout, later on u will use the blocker he basically 
 nocks people out for u. this is more or less the new stuff in NFS: C. its still a nice game that 
 will keep u busy for a few hours.
  in my scoring if u r not new to the frachise please deduct 1 from my score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wakka_SSj3
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 7, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  Since Most Wanted, ive lost interest with EA's racing titles. NASCAR 07 isnt any better than 06, 
 which isnt much better than 05, besides the team-mate thing. w/ Carbon, the only difference, they 
 brought back the Drifting, we're driving @ night, and the Autosculpt. Drifting is actually the 
 best physics ive seen. though, im not a drifting fan. Autosculpt is not bad, but not alot of peices 
 to 'sculpt'. Auto-Brake feature it total useless. EYE want to stop the car, not by its-self. Feel 
 of speed is TERRIBLE. Forza 1 seems faster. And plenty of cars CANT be used in Carrer mode, i. e.: 
 the Koenigsegg CCX, Audi LeMans Quattro. And WTF is with the price tags on the EVO IX MR, and the 
 STi??? 99,000 for the Evo, and 90,000 for the STi??? WHY so damned expensive? yes, they may be 
 a Teir 3 Tuner car, but why not have then @ 33K - 39K where they are actually being sold for!!! 
 I beat the carrer mode relatively quickly. and now thats done, ive shelved it (meaning i havent 
 played it since) Bring back UNDERGROUND, and no more crazy cop chases to gain achievements, in 
 fact, GET RID OF THE COPS, who are total idiots btw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tahir_021
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 6, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  A total new born features that makes the old fans to be excited as when they customize their car, 
 twe-aky police cars they're just so not getting into hands easily so you might scream out sometimes 
 but a great graphics with some new curves that made me think of becoming an game developer.
  So i hope that the EA Games will surely release another piece of thing that it won't let their 
 fans down to their heads. We believe you EA you're our very best company since 90's and we admire 
 your approach to these kind of games so what else to say about this game has a vary cool feature 
 of Trax, next time try it plunging more Genres into that Trax but we loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dee_j_chin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 6, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  Interesting addition to the NFS Series. I've always been a loyal fan of NFS. They've put back Drift 
 into the game which is a good thing, but it's either too easy or too unreal, almost like a Ridge 
 Racer kind of arcade drifting.
  
  Pros:
  Classes of cars. LOVE the (idea of the) added muscle car tier. New to NFS.
  Crew help is an innovative 
 idea
  Canyon Racing (Drift, Duel etc.) is the bomb.
  The idea of Territory attack is intriguing.
  Graphics are great, but not supreme
  Sound is 
 awesome (esp. RX-7 Rotary)
  Race Wars - Interesting Auto-Sculpting takes customization to another level
  There are more Pros, 
 just not clicking right now.
  
  Cons:
  Game too short. Instead asks you to try it in another tier of cars.
  Use of crews makes game 
 too easy. Crew members don't do what they should, sometimes to ur detriment. The added 'benefits' 
 of each crew member (eg. 10% less heat) - I didn't even notice anything much.
  Circuit Drifting is weird until you get the hang of it, AND a fast car.
  Camera angles swing 
 too much (esp in drifting) until you get more comfortable with it.
  Territory attacks are sometimes annoying (having to re-race)
  I just didn't get the urge to drive 
 everywhere in free-roam (maybe I'm getting old)
  I'm not sure I missed something, but what about Unique Performance Parts, like Engine/Turbo Stuff 
 etc. after you've beaten a boss
  Race Wars - Cars should be varied more in Race Wars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rradune
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  Not sure about the other reviewers but my experience with this game has been terrible due to frequent 
 lock-ups. I am giving it a higher rating than my frustration should allow but I want to be fair. 
 If the game would play for more than 10 minutes I would generally agree with the other reviewers 
 ratings. I think I would probably score this more like an 8 than a 7. Lock-ups seem to be the bane 
 of many of the 360 games... Whats the deal?
  
  Rent this game, do not buy it!!!
  
  Word 93
  94
  95
  96
  97
  98
  99
  100
  
  Done! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkmatrix614
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I've been an avid follower of the Need for Speed Series Since the Beginning. With a few mishaps 
 along the way. They come back big with Most Wanted, in my eyes the best in the series. Then, i'm 
 a movie guy someone who can't wait for the next great movie, i heard it Need for Speed Carbon was 
 coming out in November. I was stoked it was one of the main reasons i bought the XBOX 360. I couldn't 
 believe i was that excited about a game. So imagine my surprise when paid my $59.99 to get my first 
 360 game, hooked it up to HDTV told the wife hold my calls... then she said you don't get any .... ok 
 enough about that. Anyways i started playing and right of the bat the game just felt smaller alot 
 smaller. The turf wars... ok sure ... but having to beg and plead to get a good police chase going 
 was absolutely well BORING. Graphically not impressed i don't know what i expected but i know i 
 can play X-box games on the 360 just didn't think i would have to pay $59.99 to do it . I don't 
 want to get into the different races , the customizing or any of the more technical stuff its not 
 what i'm good at. So i'll just leave at the game as a whole leaves me feeling cheated in some way. 
 Well i have never written a review on this site but this game has agitated me so much just had 
 to tell someone. Hoping, like myself ,to take all reviews into consideration and make a reasonable 
 purchase. This might help that person. Don't buy this game ..... rent it twice... the put in Most 
 Wanted then have some fun. Here is to hoping that EA can get the s*** together and start putting 
 out good games . Thank you Kindly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_fox_man
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is very, very easy for the most part, then it gets just a little bit difficult at the 
 end. The races are similar to the previous games except for the canyon and new drifting. The career 
 mode lasts for a while but it won't take you too long, but to unlock everything in the game will 
 take you ages, possibly 50 hours or more. The online multiplayer is great! The addition of co-op 
 missions online, pursuit knockout and pursuit tag make the online very enjoyable. The graphics 
 are nice and smooth, but this time around they made the graphics a bit cartoony, possibly to be 
 a little bit like Initial D style. The cars sound awesome and the music fits in well, although 
 i haven't really payed much attention to it. Overall, i like this game and it will keep me occupied 
 for a long time until Forza 2 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sausn2002
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I don't care what people are thinking about this game, because I'm giving it a great review. I'm 
 not some person coming along that is new to the Need For Speed series either.
  
  This game has all the best elements from the Need For Speed series in one, but put into a better 
 design. You have great storyline that even links to the previous game, Most Wanted. There is innovative 
 visuals, such as being the first game to have a person's face mapped into the graphics engine (very 
 realistic face models modeled after a real person; like motion capture from someone's face) . The 
 game has a come back with police pursuits, but less frequent because the game has a more emphasis 
 on performance driving, so constant police pursuits would be annoying.
  
  Its awesome how the cars are put into different categories (that in turn make more cars selectable) , 
 such as Muscle cars (Domestics like the Ford Mustang) , Tuners (Cars seen drifting like the Mitsubishi 
 Lancer Evolution) , and Exotics (hard to afford cars like Lamborghinis and Aston Martins) . They 
 also put the cars in Tiers , which is like a class, to avoid having a powerful car race a weaker 
 car. I like the emphasis on performance/sport racing and having your own racing crew that have 
 different jobs, like a blocker, drafter, and scout. Better online multiplayer modes of play. Even 
 with the emphasis on performance driving, the game still allows free roaming (driving around the 
 city freely) .
  
  The game is set up like each racing crew you go up against have a turf in the city. You challenge 
 them to races to take their turf. They can challenge you for a piece of your turf too, which means 
 you have to defend it from time to time. When you take over a whole race crew's turf, you have 
 to race their leader, which the final battle is fought at the canyons surrounding the city, which 
 is reminiscent of the Initial D movie and Fast &amp; The Furious Tokyo Drift.
  
  They could have done better with online multiplayer performance. None of the players on the screen 
 run very smooth. Drift races aren't for everyone, but they did a good job with it. Drift races 
 aren't as frustrating as they were in NFS Underground 2.
  
  If anything, everybody needs to give this one a try by renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cedmln
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets get this over with:
  
  The good:
  
  The graphics are very good (but... review the next paragraph) and features one of the best looking 
 character models in any video game, the gameplay is fun and has some good new ideas, but (read 
 next paragraph) , and thats about it...
  
  The bad:
  
  The graphics are good, but this game look almost exactly like NFS: Underground 2 (but at a higher 
 resolution) , which means you will be racing around a extremely familiar looking and feeling environment 
 in the dark, where almost everything in the environment blends with eachother, there are framerate 
 problems, the gameplay is good, but there is very little new added to the game (this time around, 
 which leaves the game feeling old) , this game is hard and boss battles are frustrating instead 
 of fun, the cops are mostly useless in veryway except to acts as a bunch of bees that get in your 
 way as they don't have any impotance to the main game (which will leave you wondering why they're 
 in the game at all) , the game is somewhat short as you can beat this around ten hours (if you just 
 want to hurry up and beat it) , customizing your car can be usless as you progress through the story 
 as there are certain cars you can buy that will do the job without any effort put into tuning them, 
 and thats about all I can remmember...
  
  The tilt:
  
  This is a solid game. I would have felt like I wasted money on this game, but lucky for me its 
 my brothers game. I am dissapointed in this game because there isn't much of anything new here. 
 Sure there are fun new features to the game, but none of it makes me want to give the game another 
 go. There is some fun to be had with this game, but I would only recomend it to fans of the series 
 as this game just isn't worth anything over $40 or 10 hours of your time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  although the game is really short the racing in the game is well put together. the features of 
 the game inlcude splitscreen, career and online play. the game also has more than 36 cars to choose 
 from. the career goes by car classes like tuners, muscles, and exotics. the way the story played 
 confused me i dont even know if it continues mostwanted. the only person i know in that game is 
 detective Cross. even though the story is wackey the game has lots of fun racing for you to stay 
 in the game. EA has changed some races around like toolboth isnt that anymore it is checkpoint. 
 the pursiuts in the career mode have change drastically there are no more helicopters and the mos 
 you can go up to is heat level 5. the cops artificial intelligence is agressive so dont expect 
 to escape on heat 4 or 5. the game is practically good in a lot of cases but the game has the same 
 features as mostwanted if you havent played this game you better buy for 360 because it is the 
 best on this console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rthefunkeymonke
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 1, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon allows you to take the role as a street racer visiting the fictional town 
 of Palmont. You start out with the BMW M3 GTR but soon lose it after being chased by cross and 
 totaling your car. You will then set out to battle 10 crews, TFK, Bushido, 21st street, Los Colibres, 
 Scorpios, Inferno, Kings, ROTOR 4, Black Hearts and Stacked Deck. The game takes 4 hours to beat 
 
  The visuals look mediocre for a next-gen game. The cars look great but the scenery does not live 
 up to expectations, worse than Most Wanted. The new autosculpt feature lets you create your own 
 wheels, side skirts, hoods, roof scoops, and body kits. There is a wide variety of cars. There 
 are 3 car types; Exotic, Tuner and Muscle. Exotic cars have great speed, Tuners have great handling 
 and Muscles have great acceleration. As the game progresses you will encounter three tiers of cars. 
 Tier 1 cars being the worst and Tier 3 cars being the best. There are a variety of races in the 
 game. You will see sprint and circuit from previous games and you will see the return of drifting 
 and a new race mode called canyon. For many fans of Need for Speed, the removal of drag racing 
 may make you think twice before buying this game. The handling of the cars seems real except for 
 the drift mode. In the drift mode it feels like your car is on ice. That sounds like its a good 
 thing but if you dont hit the hand brake; the car is going to hit a wall. The boss races arent 
 sprints anymore, you take them on the streets, circuit race, and then you unveil the new canyon 
 race aspect of the game. You start out behind the other car and you get close for being close to 
 the car and for passing. Then once you finish the first stage you do it again only with the rival 
 trying to beat your score. If you fall of the side you lose the race. This is a fun new aspect 
 to the street-racing genre. Also boss races are new in Carbon. You and your crew go up against 
 20 cars at the same time. 20. Need for speed borrowed crew mechanics from NASCAR 07. As you progress 
 through the game you will meet three kinds of crew members. Blockers, will take out the opponent 
 of your choice, drafters, will give you the boost to win a race and scouts, will lead you through 
 all the shortcuts. Without your crew, you wont win. The police Chases are borrowed straight out 
 of Most Wanted. The Police cars feel like a toy car when you barrel into them and you car goes 
 out unscathed. Now you cant just jump into a police pursuit in the menus, you have to drive around 
 until someone calls the police and then wait until the police show up. Its a tedious process. 
 I must say that removal of the blacklist is a big plus.
  This game is one of the best street racing games to hit stores. Its new crew features and the removal 
 of the blacklist are a big plus. The autosculpt feature also adds an aspect to the game. This game 
 will please any hardcore racing fan and people who want to jump right into street racing games. 
 3.6 out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdmiller4life
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Heres what I dont understand. With the myriad of Need for Speed titles out, we know what its 
 going to be like. We know the plot is going to be hokey. We know the racing is going to be exciting, 
 and we know the developers are going to try something new. With exception for the bounty races 
 in Most Wanted, theyve usually failed with their creativity. I mean honestly, why should we expect 
 a heavy plot when we can use our nitrous to win races, get money, and pimp out our car? And Carbon 
 is just that  a fun game with great graphics for the 360, and a great ability to make your car 
 look skankalicious and beat the game.
  
  Gameplay is fun, especially when youve maxed your car out and blow by other racers. There are 
 two new features in Carbon  the wingmen and also the Canyon. The wingmen are useful at times, 
 and I found myself using scouts more than anything else since theyre fast and show you shortcuts. 
 The bangers are rather slow and the drafters are useless, seeing that there arent many straight-aways 
 in the game. The Canyon races are fun at first, but when you get the feel for it, you should be 
 able to pass the other racer. Again, the bulk of the fun are the tracks, the cars, and the ability 
 to max them out and make them look stylish. Graphics are great, the environments are nice, but 
 seeing that youll be basting past them at 200mph, you dont get a chance to take a good look at 
 them. Of course the car details are always nice, and there is barely any load time that could get 
 annoying.
  
  As always, if youve got a surround sound system, the sound is incredible. Unique motor sounds 
 like the Mustang and the GT can easily be picked up, as well as more exotic engines like the Murcielago 
 and Corvette. If you like your engines, then this is the game for you. Regarding value, the difficulty 
 of the game is pretty easy. I played on Exotic and only had some trouble with a few tracks. Darius, 
 the main boss, drives a pretty car which seems to have no real guts. He was not a problem with 
 my souped-up GT. I could imagine that the game would be harder on Muscle and probably a little 
 easier on Tuner. So the replay value is not great.
  
  If youve played the previous titles, go and pick up this game, its a worthy addition. If youre 
 looking for more of a fun time, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpm8000
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Top 10 things I love about this game and 10 things I think that EA could have done better.
  
  Love:
  1. The Drifting in the canyon it's fantastic because of the corners if you loose it 
 your airborn.
  2. Control of the cars are much better then the last version.
  3. The crew racers that help you out in circuits and sprit races.
  4. The Autoscolpt feature 
 in the garage because I love my kits low to the ground.
  5. The 3 choices for example tyres when you can choose from Drift, in between or Grip.
  6. Gotta 
 love the terratory you win races you take the terratory.
  7. Building your crew up after winning terratory.
  8. Choosing if your an Exotic, Mustle or Drifter.
 
  9. The canyon dual how you need to win in the city streets first then go down twice to take over 
 there turf.
  10. The video clips in the in the game.
  
  EA could have done better:
  1. The caracters in the game they look too weak from the last version.
  2. The tyres making that 
 noise no so reel too me it's the same sound not so real to me.
  3. And that you can't sell your cars and the ones you won (I've only played the game for 3 days 
 and I can't sell my cars that I won) .
  4. In the free roam you can't drift as well as you can in the drift comps.
  5. No sizzer doors 
 WHAT THE!!.
  6. Not enough mods I love doing that to my cars.
  7. The main caracter is from Starwars or what lol.
  8. One word NIGHT! come on EA next version 
 do both Night and Day mods like real life.
  9. Not enough Models of cars in the game.
  10. Make the damege cost the driver to make it more realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JinxSTL
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I'm not all that incredibly far in the game quite yet, but I'm already loving 
 it! The general GAMEPLAY is pretty much like the other NFS Games. However, there are some added 
 differences now. This time around you actually have a crew who you can use to block other racers, 
 or help you jet ahead. There are even crew members who can 'Scout' any shortcuts within the race. 
 Drift Racing has also been added to NFS: Carbon. It takes some getting use to , but it's certainly 
 a lot of fun! The game is also not as easy as the other NFS games have been in the past. However, 
 this keeps the game pretty interesting.
  
  The GRAPHICS are amazing! The landscapes, as well as the cars look VERY REALISTIC. Another change 
 from NFS: Most Wanted is that this game takes place at night, so it looks a lot more like the Real 
 Racing Scene. Also, the physics of the cars have been made much more realistic as well. When you 
 take a turn too hard, you can see the car pivot very hard. On top of that, the cars themselves 
 look very nice. Even the rims look more realistic. Last point here: The customization is better 
 that ever!! They've finally added layers so that you can place more than one vinyl on your ride 
 at a time!!
  
  The SOUND is okay, I guess. Better than some some other racers out there. Again, it's hard for 
 me to determine this subject because I mostly listen to my own music during Gameplay.
  
  ALL-in-ALL, I'd say it's definately worth $60. Myself.... I bought the Collector's Edition because 
 of the extra cars included. This game will last you a pretty good while considering it's difficulty, 
 and the fact that you can use your Career Cars in ONLINE PLAY, which can be very satisfying.
  
  -JiNX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambogr
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Unlike previous Need For Speed games like Most Wanted, Carbon feels more completed than older versions. 
 It still retains some bad aspects of Most Wanted like the police chases which are useless but overall 
 its quite good. In terms of visual quality an effort to make things better could have been very 
 good but as long as the refresh rate never falls under 30fps we're OK. Sound is very good and gameplay 
 could be characterized as excellent. Ah, and one more thing, it has drifting challenges...... In 
 conclusion, it's not the best racing game to own but it's a quite decent offer from EA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msudude211
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Despite a lot of negative opinions floating around about Need for Speed Carbon, I decided to pick 
 up the game to check it out for myself. That was a decision I won't soon regret.
  
  Onto the Gameplay. The customization is great; there is a very large number of parts and accessories 
 to customize your car with. It seems to be second only to Midnight Club: Dub Edition in this aspect. 
 I was also very pleased to see more cars in Carbon than in Most Wanted. Many people disliked the 
 cut scenes in Carbon for being too corny, but I felt the opposite. They seemed to get me more into 
 the game, and make me want to beat my rival racer, Darius, even more. They also kept me playing 
 the game to see how the story would pan out in the end. Overall, it was nice to play a racing game 
 that had a story line of some kind. Next, I liked what EA did with the new crew mechanics. During 
 almost every race in Need For Speed Carbon, you will have a crew member that will race with you 
 and either set blocks, show you short-cuts, or let you draft off of them. This idea was pulled 
 very well into the storyline, and I liked having some help during the races; whether setting a 
 block so I could cruise into first before the finish line, or drafting to get enough speed in a 
 speed trap race. The sound in the game was as expected, and the soundtrack, though not as spectacular 
 as Most Wanted, still lived up to expectations.
  
  Need for Speed Carbon isn't a perfect game, however. To put it plain and simple: the police chases 
 were worthless, and not as well integrated as in Need For Speed: Most Wanted. In Carbon, it seems 
 like you work hard to evade the cops and in turn rack up a lot of bounty, but your bounty is worthless 
 and doesnt help you in any shape, way, or form in career mode. As in Most Wanted, the random pink 
 slip marker got on my nerves. I always hate working my butt off to beat a boss, and have to start 
 over because I didnt pick the pink slip marker that weilds the rivals car. The tier system also 
 felt somewhat broken. In Carbon, cars were seperated into three tiers based on their stats, and 
 I found it hard to transition between the three. For instance, sometimes in the game you would 
 have a tier two car and race tier three cars, which made it hard at points in the game to get enough 
 money to purchase a solid tier three car. But despite its downfalls, Need For Speed Carbon is still 
 a decent follow-up to Need For Speed: Most Wanted, and a must-buy for fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09BA8053
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon is a great sounding and looking game. I love the new gameplay, taking over 
 parts of the city is cool. Their are many cars and options for that car. New custumization tools 
 make the game better than Need For Speed Most Wanted. Their are many cars in this game in three 
 different classes, Muscle, Tuner, and Exotic. Each car also has it's own sound and driving dynamic. 
 The city is large but since the game is set in a night atmosphere it all looks the same and you 
 feel like you are going in circles. The police chases are pretty much the same in this NFS as NFSMW. 
 But something seems different about these chases, they just don't feel the same, but are still 
 fun. Overall the game is fun but short, their are many races in career mode and even more out of 
 career mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  GOOD: Great racing action; new crew with abillity; Canyon duels DO excite you; better customaizations; 
 better cut scences
  
  BAD: Not very deep; pretty short; AI is'nt smart; police chasses aint exciting
  
  GAMEPLAY:
 
  In Carbon you play as this guy who drove away with alot of cash, but when he returns back home 
 (After Most Wanted) He finds out that the city he lived in has turned into territoral war, were 
 you must win races to own parts of the city, after when you owned some parts of the city, the boss 
 will duel you in the dangerous Canyons were you could fall of the cliff to your doom!,
  What it lacks is Dept, it does'nt feel together unlike Most wanted but its still a great game, 
 the customize's are even better, once you've selected a vynal you can change the size, rotation 
 and the potitions, making that more deep
  
  GRAPHICS:
  If it was'nt for the very still frame rate and no bugs or glitches, the graphics would've had 7/10, 
 i give it an 8 due to the fact it has non of them probblems, but the graphics aint top notch for 
 the 360 standerds, but still great.
  
  SOUND:
  It has brilliant voice acting, and decent music tracks, but the music was'nt as good as Most Wanted, 
 and you cant realy hear it propply, the tyers squiking on the road does your head in, cos every 
 slight movement you make it makes a squik 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okami195
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  Whether you love it or hate it, the Need for Speed series is one of the longest running racing 
 series that exists in the game market today. It's covered many bases, from high-end exotic cars 
 to intense police chases to underground street racing with unlimited vehicle customization, and 
 yet, each title seems to be missing something that would otherwise make it complete. Fortunately 
 for fans of the last couple of NFS games, Carbon finally combines all the best pieces from its 
 long-running series and refines its controls to make one solid racer that almost anyone will find 
 something to enjoy during it.
  
  Carbon begins its story right where Most Wanted left off, which immediately pulls fans of the series 
 into what is very obviously a well-designed sequel. The over-the-top cutscenes that mixed actors 
 and CG cars from the last game are back to further explain the background behind the player's mysterious 
 character, though the scenes aren't quite as entertaining and quirky as Most Wanted. Still, they 
 fit the darker theme of the entire game nicely, and, save a couple of laughs, will still leave 
 the player satisfied.
  
  Once in-game, players will immediately notice all the similarites to last year's NFS Most Wanted, 
 complete with the Speed Breaker technique, heat levels on each of the player's cars indicating 
 how hot the vehicle is in the local police eyes, and the clear classification in vehicle types 
 that lets players choose Exotics (i. e. Lamborghinis) , Muscle Cars (i. e. Camaros) , and Tuners (i. e. 
 Mitsubishis) . Aside from these and the overall feel of the game's setup and HUD, the similarities 
 with Carbon and Most Wanted stop here.
  
  The entire game now takes place at night, much like the Underground series, with many more customizable 
 options for your various cars. The Vinyl system has been completely re-done, and now resembles 
 Forza Motorsport's setup more so than the NFS formula, complete with hi-res vinyls that can be 
 set anywhere on the car. Brand new to the mix, though, is the Autosculpt system, which lets players 
 take basic body kits, hoods, roof scoops, and wheels, and lets them design the setup themselves 
 by tweaking the various shapes, cuts, lengths, etc. of the item on hand. This won't be for everyone, 
 though, so there are the typical slew of pre-made parts offered for players to choose from as well. 
 Performance parts also offer more customization than before, which will let players tweak their 
 vehicle performance much to their liking.
  
  .. And this is just the customization. Once playing, the player has access to a completely open 
 city, of which they can drive around to the various locations and races, or jump straight to the 
 events via the conveniently-designed World Map. The city, as expected, begins with a small territory 
 that the player and their crew will have to gain control of, which will then open up many more 
 areas to explore. All the while, players will be racing other crews (the game's equivalent to street 
 gangs) for territory ownership and defending what they've already claimed from old rivals. Each 
 territory will end with a Boss Battle, which basically consists of a two-part race down one of 
 the game's three mountain passes. This element feels ripped straight from the latest Fast &amp; 
 the Furious or Japan's Initial D anime series, but that's not necessarily a bad thing - the canyon 
 races, complete with the danger of flying off the cliffs, are a load of fun. Add on to this the 
 cop chases present from NFS Hot Pursuit II and NFS Most Wanted, and the street racing feels amazingly 
 deep, leaving players plenty enjoy.
  
  Graphically, the game looks decently on the Xbox and PS2 versions, but it really shines on the 
 next-gen consoles (such as the Xbox 360) when played in high-definition. The car models look gorgeous 
 enough to deserve an anytime-the-player-wants camera mode, which is a big step up for the NFS series, 
 and the environments look very nice as well. The sound doesn't shine quite as much as the graphics, 
 seeing as most of the effects are just the same sounds used in the last couple of games, but they 
 still sound clear as ever and fit accordingly.
  
  Finally, multiplayer over Xbox Live is a bit more immersive than previous NFS games, and offers 
 several options for players to choose from over the standard street race. It still doesn't feel 
 as deep or have as many options as, say Project Gotham Racing, but considering it's been improved 
 upon from the previous entries, it's definitely a nice touch.
  
  Overall, Need for Speed Carbon could be considered one of the best in the series. It successfully 
 combines all of the best elements from the past few NFS titles, while still adding in new features 
 like the Autosculpt and Crew mechanics. The entire game feels great, it plays well, and the storyline 
 and overall depth will give players one amazing experience that can appeal to just about anyone 
 that enjoys racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerminalEcho
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  EA has always done a pretty good job keeping this series fresh, and since this is the ninth offering 
 they've gave us, that's something they can smile about. While I do think they've just about done 
 everything they can do with the fast and furious style of gameplay, they continued to make it fun 
 with NFS Carbon. The style is very framiliar to anyone who has played either of the undergound 
 games, or the previous title, most wanted. Learning is nice and soft, and the gameplay in the early 
 portions is pretty easy, so you get a good chance to get some experience in before taking on anything 
 too rough.
  Some new gameplay features include a crew you can hire and use during races. Those members are 
 catagorized by their attributes in three types; there's scouts, blockers, and drafters. A scout's 
 job is too always stay ahead of you and look for any shortcuts they can find. A blocker's job is 
 to block for you (imagine that) . And last, a drafter is supposed to stay ahead of you also, and 
 create a draft for you to run in, which will allow a faster pace to be achieved. While all of these 
 can be useful if used properly, the blocker is by far the most valuable. On top of having these 
 teamates at your disposal, you can also trick their ride out to your own liking.
  Another great new feature is the autosulpt mode. This mode is used to create your very own look 
 while throwing on body kits. You can take on of five pre-molded full kits, and re-mold the ducts 
 and openings to your own liking. This increases the overall customization of the game, and decreases 
 the chance of finding someone on-line that has a ride that looks just like yours.
  Breaking down the gameplay to bare-bones, EA did away with the long-loved drag racing mode, and 
 re-polished the drifting to make it more challenging. They also added a very nice new racing mode 
 called canyon runs. In this mode, you go down the same canyon track twice in a row in a one on 
 one battle. On the first run you'll be in second place with the sole job of keeping as close to 
 your competitor as you can without touching him. You score points as you try to keep up, scoring 
 more the closer you can stay. The second run, you're they guy in front setting the pace, while 
 your opponent tries to keep on your bumper. Score more points than the other guy to win, simple 
 as that.
  Now, please don't think I'm hyping this game up to high expectations, because there are some flaws 
 that stick far enough out for even the beginner gamer to notice. The graphics are automatically 
 fighting a losing battle, because all the races take place at night which takes away some of the 
 lighting power of the 360. Quite frankly, the game looks like something the original X-Box could 
 power, and I must say I am very dissapointed at the presentation. The sense of speed has just been 
 lost, and some of the great sounds have also gotten the ax. With the graphical letdown, and the 
 short number of cars, some racers will automatically be unimpressed. The game is also kind of short 
 in comparison to previous titles. While the new drift mode is neat, I wish the cars didn't handle 
 so differently than in regular races. They kind of make you feel like your driving a shopping cart 
 in the parking lot of a Wal-Mart.
  The bottom line is, the presentation is not so good, the lineup is kind of short, and the game 
 doesn't take that long to blow through, the style is still there and the handling is still fun. 
 A great racer? No. But another NFS title you can spend some time and have fun with? Yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plantedchaos
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is highly addictive! It is another great adition to the N4S titles. And this one has 
 a real storyline, withr eal people! althoough it is hardto follow. there are more than 35 cars 
 to use in this game and many more to unlock. This game is very easy, im not sure if I just 1337, 
 or if everyone else sucks, but many ppl say this game is hard! its soo easy! Some of the acevements 
 are though though, like collect 1mil.
  online is addictive, you finally get to be a cop and ram other cars. you also get to race up in 
 thecanyons with other online players.
  Overal this is a fun game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKKF
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon a followup to Most Wanted, your cop friend has gone bounty hunter, but no 
 Razor Callahan! Oh well. Maybe there is some hope for Carbon. It's an alright game, but the conrols 
 are really clunky and it the game is pretty generic. It actually feels like a Most Wanted expansion 
 pack, and for all we have been told it could be. The only thing that really stood out was your 
 Wingman. They will do all kinds of things for you, like tell you how far away the other racers 
 are without trying to look at your GPS, and knockout some of the other competition so you can win. 
 To test this, I said Shake-&amp;-Bake in the mic... He didn't do crap. If only there was light. 
 Not everything looks good in light, plus if there was light it would add some more realism. If 
 you want an okay racing game, this might be for you. Or just rent it like I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 19, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed : Carbon is not as good as Need for Speed : Most Wanted but its fun and the deeper 
 customization is great but as far as a racing game, the game is simply falling short of Most Wanteds 
 greatness for a readily apparent reason. Less races. That said, this is understandable when one 
 takes into account the short one-year production schedule EA normally affords their overtime payed 
 staff per game. If you're going to go deeper with the customization options to bring back the Need 
 for Speed : Underground crowd and make a game for everyone, then obviously the game is going to 
 have to fall short elsewhere and thats clearly what happened here. Since there are deeper customization 
 options, then there are less races and 2/3 less bosses to beat. The crew feature is alright but 
 at heart is flawed due to the fact that only one crew member is essential and thats the blocker. 
 Everyone else during a race is irrelevant and honestly I stayed away from them because I wanted 
 to finish the race, not have some lame A. I. crew NPC finish the race for me. The game is simply 
 TOO SHORT. I finished career mode playing casually in 3 days........ thats the first three days 
 after the game launched. Sure there are achievements and online racing too unlock but for some 
 reason, I feel uninspired. Plus the tracks are shorter, smaller and more enclosed.......... its 
 obvious this game was rushed even though the polish is there.
  
  There are lots of great new things the game introduces but thats no reason to backpedal and not 
 include previous successful features like daytime racing and more races. What you clearly realize 
 by the time you finish career mode is that EA as a developer/publisher needs to give their creators 
 some leeway and give them MORE DEVELOPMENT time. Note to EA executives with rank and power: Give 
 the inhouse studios 2 years rather than one year to make a game and you will clearly see the results 
 in the form of games that INNOVATE, raise the bar and become the benchmark for the industry thereby 
 translating into little to no critics, but higher profits and high production quality and value. 
 I mean HONESTLY, you can tell the talent at EA is there, only thing missing is follow-through due 
 to lack of TIME. Right now, in all honesty, opinion of EA is at an all time low among young and 
 old generations and its for a reason. RUSHED games which translate into MEDIOCRE titles = low opinions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blballerboy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 18, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome but it could have been better. The xbl for it is awsome but not that good. Still 
 the career mode is really really fun and the cutscens are more detailed and really really deep 
 like a movie. Its also really cool how you can race with a crew and all. Thers also a new type a 
 race called race wars that is awsome. Race wars are is a 20 car (yes you herd it a 20 car race) circut 
 race but its hard to beat trust me. The graphics are good but not revoulutionary. This game is definitly 
 the best game in the need for speed racing series. I personaly love this game and think that any 
 racing fan would love it. So trust me go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3rev
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I am a really big import tunner fan and i have waited for this game for a very long time. This 
 is pretty much your typical racing game you start with a crappy car and your able to win races 
 and make it faster. In this one you have 3 types of cars-tunner exotic, musscle. and you got 3 
 tiears to deal with. so if your favorite car is the rx-8 dont expect to do to much to it its in 
 the first tiear. In this need for speed game you have to go around and take over territory thats 
 about were the fun ends. this game is all at night no day all night. there are cops but they have 
 no reason to be in the game. story line is very confussing. you still cant do as much as you could 
 do to your car as you could in underground 2 like underglow and all that fun stuff. The sound in 
 this game aint all that bad. The graphics on a non-HD tv aint bad at all. But gameplay to me could 
 have been alot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harm0n1ca
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  Police Chases and car customization.. Those are the 2 main reasons I love Most Wanted. That and 
 the fact it took place during the day also helped.. This game makes advances with the customization 
 aspect, with a new feature that allows you to 'mould' almost every part of your car. This is both 
 unique and innovative, as you can now take your totally personalised car online and know that its 
 highly unlikely someone else is running with your design..
  
  Unfortunately, the game falls down where it stood so strong in the previous game. This is something 
 I really can't understand. The police chases were easily the best part of MW, and the fact that 
 now your aim is to take over territories (GTA: SA, SR anyone?) rather than cause five-0 to tear 
 down the city trying to catch you is a little bit of a let down.
  
  Despite this, the game itself is fun, and I personally have enjoyed the canyon races up till now. 
 Lets hope the next game sees an improvement on the fun aspects of the game, like police chases, 
 instead of the 'urban', like gaining a new hood I mean 'territory'... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-PRIME90
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  If you've played Underground and Most Wanted, you'll realize as soon as you turn this game on that 
 it has the Underground racing style with police chases like Most Wanted.
  
  This is the first racing game that I've ever played that has an actual storyline, even if the storyline 
 is based off of what happened in Most Wanted. And the storyline is surprisingly good, though if 
 you've never played Most Wanted you'll probably be lost with the storyline.
  
  But just as Most Wanted, this game is pretty easy. I only rented this game this morning and only 
 have about 5 hours of gameplay on this game and I'm already 30% done.
  
  If you are looking for achievement points, they maybe hard to get since the things you have to 
 do to earn them are sometimes very hard to do. The only easy ones I've seen are Complete Career 
 (Finish Career Mode) and Conqueror (Finish Career Mode and Complete All Races) .
  
  The graphics are pretty nice, though the warnings, etc. do sometimes get in the way and make it 
 hard to see where you're driving. Its nice how EA did the characters as well, even though the characters 
 seem a little cartoon like.
  
  The sound of course is very good. EA usually doesn't dissapoint when they do the sound for the 
 Need For Speed series.
  
  So my final advice is, if you've played Underground and Most Wanted and liked them both, you'll 
 like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXLINK
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 16, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Carbon, another installation of EA's Need for Speed series. How does this installment 
 compare to the last games and other current racers? Lets find out.
  
  Need for Speed: Carbon seems to be a mixture of EA's last two Need for Speed games, Underground 
 2 and Most Wanted. It contains much of Underground's customization, including the new Autoscuplt 
 feature, and much of Most Wanted's pursuit aspects and cars.
  
  Gameplay - 8/10
  Need for Speed: Carbon plays like many other racers but has the special EA attribute of Speed Breaker 
 which helps enjoy the game. The customization has been brought to a new level with the Autoscuplt 
 feature which allows you to customize your car to a new level of precision. Free roam and challenges 
 are very intriguing as well (especially if you get into a pursuit and move past heat three) . Races 
 include: Sprint, Circuit, Checkpoint, Speedtrap, Drift and a new style called Canyon. Canyon is 
 where you race down a canyon against a boss and try to stay as close as possible to your opponent. 
 Overall, gameplay hasn't been altered that much from game to game, but Carbon does contain some 
 unique aspects.
  
  Graphics - 8/10 Graphics seem to be the same as the Xbox 360 version of Most Wanted. Few tweaks 
 here and there with lighting and reflection, but overall graphics remain the same. However, keep 
 in mind that these graphics are still quite nice, and that is why the still receive an 8; there 
 was just no huge improvement to make it receive a higher score.
  
  Sound - 7/10
  EA seems to have dropped in this section. The soundtrack that they picked up for this game was 
 one that I was too fond of. The actual in-game sounds were good, except for the constant screech 
 of tires even when going in a straight line; that tended to sort of annoy me at points.
  
  Value - 8/10
  Without rushing through and actually taking time to play the game, it took me about 
 15 hours to beat the game. While that is a pretty short time, I have to admit playing this game 
 on Xbox Live! made it last about another 10-15 hours. There was nothing like showing off your personally 
 customized car to other racers thanks to Autosculpt. Or to beat a loud mouth saying no one can 
 beat them.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - 9/10
  Despite the minor setbacks presented by this game, I really, REALLY enjoyed playing it. I feel 
 that this game was a little under appreciated with the rating it got from Gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  I know everybody wants BRAND NEW stuff. Well, whta's wrong with some of the older things?
  
  Graphics: This game looks SWEET! When you are about to start a race and it shows the cars, 
 you about drop a load! It seriously looks that nice!
  
  Gameplay: Drifting has never been pulled off so well in a game. The vehicles also handle differently 
 which really makes you feel like you are driving a muscle car as opposed to a rice burner.
  
  Audio: Great engine sounds. That's all you need in a racer.
  
  Overall it's the best in 
 the series easy! It's a very fun game that is a solid rental since you can beat it pretty quick. 
 Fun game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessefromh-town
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 16, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  the game seemed to start out really easy but all of a sudden when i got to the last area of the 
 map everything got hard. it just jumped from easy to hard. i got very frustrated. also the cops 
 show up during your race sometimes, depending on the heat of the area, and ram you the rest of 
 the race and after the race you have to lose them. on average it takes like 5 minutes to lose them. 
 that gets way annoying. it is fun and i would recomend it. at first i didn't like it but once i 
 got into it, it was pretty good. the customising is very good in this game i think. i love just 
 decking out the cars. its worth buying despite its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crxhybrid85
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 15, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This latest need for speed game is the best yet since they came out with NFS Underground. The graphics 
 are great, especially in the canyon run's.
  One of the best things about it is the free roam mode where you can get into random skirmishes 
 with other racers or the police.
  
  The customization aspect of this game is pretty good too if you are into modifying the visual aspect 
 of cars. The game will let you pick a basic shape for a bumper or wing and then tweak it's length, 
 height, vent shape etc. I'm a little bored of the performance mods you can get though. Basically 
 as you progress through the game you unlock upgrades. I would prefer to have everything available 
 at the beginning of the game so you can choose as you earn money to either upgrade speed or style.
 
  
  Overall though it's a decent enough game and I like the addition of the Japanese style canyon runs 
 to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadaSpeed1
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Do not get me wrong... I love the Need for Speed Franchise... after playing Most Wanted more often 
 than any game in recent memory... except maybe Halo or Half Live [s] ... I was SO looking forward 
 to this game.
  
  Do not get me wrong - it's a good game. Just too short, and missing on the mark in a few key areas.
 
  
  However... the canyon races in 1080i HD in first person perspective will give you goosebumps. Well 
 Done here EA!
  
  The city racing was good... but too easy. However the cops entering the race with you was really 
 good touch.
  
  Now... the cops... racing in the canyon... that would be sweet.
  And being able to bump other drivers off in the canyon race... a plus.
  
  But... Most Wanted 
 did it better... on all counts except the canyon races.
  
  EA... PLEASE contact us and asked us what we loved in the games to make the next one 10/10. ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iceman4ice378
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  I was so excited about this game because I have been loving Need For Speed since the first Playstation 
 versions. I loved Most Wanted. This game disappointed me so much. I only have one problem that 
 I will state because it drowned out the rest of the bad problems. I cannot believe that there is 
 a game out there that by the time you beat the whole career mode, you only have 2/50+ achievements. 
 If you are going to make a game that sucks, at least give me my 1000 achievement points for all 
 the money I payed for the game. This is not the Need For Speed quality that I remember. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotgun4292
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 12, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed is another runoff of Need for speed Underground and is a fun racing game but nothing 
 has changed. You race a bunch of races until you beet the game whitch dose not take long. The good 
 parts of the game are the flashy graphics. The racing is still there and like they say if it aint 
 broke dont fix it. The game has solid XBOX live play but thats about all you can say. You will 
 done with this game before you get it home. This series has not ben good sense Underground 2. I 
 hope that this series gets fixed and fixed soon because this game is really dissapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garpothia1813
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I just got the game along with my system the other night on friday, and I just beat the game about 
 an hour ago, but the thing is is that I didnt play it hard core, only about 3 hours a day.. I figured 
 it would be the best seeing how gears of war wasnt out yet, but idk maybe they will make a better 
 one with time to come. They also need a better car slection tho, like how forza or grandtrismo, 
 seeing how yeah its a street racing game they shouldnt just get forgein cars all the time and just 
 a few american cars. they should have car dealers of differ types 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coxmartin
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Well, got the game on Friday and had a pretty mixed set of reactions to the game.
  
  Initially it came accross a very shallow limited game, this changed after I hit the free roam sections 
 theses can involve being chased by the police and if all goes well evading them and escaping and 
 they are fantastic fun. So I decided to give the game another chance and retried the carear mode 
 and all was well until I realised a flaw to the carear progression path.
  
  You basically have a series of three race types;
  
  1&gt; Straight Race
  
  2&gt; Check 
 Point Race
  
  3&gt; Drift
  
  Now the Straight Race is fun, with the Check Point Race being slightly more challenging but rewarding, 
 then there is the Drift Race where you basically have to let the back end drift and link several 
 of these to add up multipliers to get the highest score. These are in my opinion not racing and 
 a total waste of game time (that I am not any good at them) .
  
  So what does this mean, well it means that I will never progress in the carear part of the game 
 until I suceed in these race types which I know that I will not as hold no interest for me in any 
 respect so Game Over
  
  It could have been a great game that has been made less than average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swishahoops
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  Need for speed is a great game to start it off.. fun gameplay and everything.. and if you played 
 the last need for speed most wanted and need for speed underground.. and liked both.. than you'll 
 like this game. Lets kick it off with the gameplay
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is pretty much idential to the previous need for speed most wanted slick 
 ideas nicely designed streets and races anyhow you will find yourself going down some of the same 
 roads in some races. A letdown to me is the most loved Drag racing mode. I Dont know why they would 
 take it away it was a really fun part. You can also sense they took parts from need for speed unerground 
 and mixed it with most wanted with the night maps and the blurr effects and such.
  
  Graphics: This has to be probaly the biggest let down of the game for me. Need for speed most wanted 
 didnt have bad graphics but they werrnt amazing either. I felt after seeing games like gears of 
 war and others that the graphics could have been better than what they are. At some points of the 
 game when your racing it would be hard to tell the 360 version from the ps2 version. Now when your 
 car is at the safehouse the cars look amazing but racing is a differnt story.
  
  Sound: The sound is a solid and has always been a solid part of need for speed. The are super realistic 
 with each car hearing the exaust actually makes u feel like its the real car sounds and its extremely 
 cool. Most people use the custom soundtrack feature now but the soundtrack on the game isnt bad
 
  
  Closing Comments: In all need for speed is a solid game they fixed some things but failed in other 
 areas. IMO Midnight Club 3 Dub has been the closest to bringing out the best street racing experince 
 with its supurb gameplay and graphics Need for speed carbon still needs work. but is no where near 
 a bad game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 11, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  I could not stop playing this game. I love how you can go from chalenge to challenge in Career 
 mode without having to drive everywhere. Look, I played this game for like 3 or 4 days straight..... it's 
 all I would play and I had lots of other new games. I'm almost completed the career mode. I do 
 plan on finishing but I got some other games going now (a bad habit of mine is I'll start new games 
 before finishing the last one) . I'm a recent newcomer to the Need For Speed Series. I bought the 
 last one - Most Wanted and loved it but this one is even better. I'm finding I disagree alot with 
 Gamespot's reviewers now. The story line goes good with the action and I don't know what else to 
 say except this is one of the greatest arcade racers ever. Drift-racing on treacherous mountain 
 roads!!! Sick. One wrong move and you're over the edge baby. Don't be stupid....... buy this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed: Carbon is the latest iteration of EA's annual racing series, seemingly destined 
 for the top of the sales charts once again. With the series traditionally offering a speedy arcade 
 handling model, customisation options galore and a cheeesily acted'career' story progression, this 
 years version certainly sticks to the 'if it aint broke' EA mantra which must be part of the corporate 
 guidebook by now.
  
  Delving into the career mode for the first time you'll notice that the warm auburn glow of last 
 years game (Most Wanted) has been replaced with a step back to the Underground series total darkness 
 and neon-bathed streets. After last years version was well recieved partially because it didn't 
 cast the player in darkness throughout the game, its a strange decision to place the game back 
 into this environment. However with ads for the film 'Need For Speed : Tokyo Drift' permeating 
 the games numerous billboards, its not hard to see where EA has drawn its inspiration.
  
  The main career mode now sees the player tasked with taking over sections of the city of Palmont 
 from rival gangs. In order to do this you must win a variety of races on that particular patch 
 of the city. The race types are mainly culled from last years version, so you'll get the traditional 
 sprint, circuit and checkpoint races, along with the return of Underground's drift racing. Fans 
 of the drag racing mode from previous games are unfortunately out of luck. Once enough sections 
 of the have been reclaimed, the action is then transported to one of three canyon's set outside 
 the main city, the largest of which being the titular 'Carbon' canyon. The player is then tasked 
 with a one on one battle with one of the stories main characters, in a new type of race. The first 
 round involves the computer character gaining a head start, with the player tasked with staying 
 as close on their tale as you possibly can down to the bottom of the mountain. You gain more points 
 the closer you manage to stay to the other driver. The race then reverses, with the player starting 
 out first, and the computer chasing. Your points total for the previous race then diminishes the 
 closer the CPU manages to race to you. Winning involves making it to the bottom of the mountain 
 with points to spare, or alternatively you can attempt to overtake the other race for a total of 
 10 seconds in the first leg, or simply attempt to shunt them off the side of the cliff. The canyon 
 races inject a nice change of pace into the career mode at key points. The narrow track and the 
 lack of any nitrous can lead to some excellently balanced gameplay, and you get the feeling that 
 these are amongst the fairest races in the game. That they show up the rubber-banding AI in place 
 in the more traditional races however, is not a good thing. Indeed this is more prevalent in this 
 years game than ever, to ludicrous degrees at times. I understand the need to keep the game exciting, 
 but just occasionally it would be nice to reward the player by allowing them to build up a considerable 
 lead if a course if driven well.
  
  The other new feature in the game is the 'crew' mechanic, which involves the player drafting in 
 another racer from your 'crew' to provide assistance throughout certain races. These come in three 
 flavours: Drafters, blockers and scouts. Drafters allow you to follow in their wake and gain an 
 extra speed boost, blockers fall behind on activation and attempt to block the progress of other 
 racers, and scouts race in front of the player, looking for short-cuts through the map. In general 
 these are largely a pointless addition, with only the blockers being of occasional use in certain 
 situations, and it always feels slightly wrong to effectively use them to 'cheat' your way through 
 races. Come on EA, some challenge would have been nice.
  
  The career mode is fairly enjoyable while it lasts, which unfortunately in this case is no longer 
 than 9-10 hours at most, even with the backtracking through previous races that the game will occasionally 
 make you do. The story and acting is generally less engaging than last years over-the-top efforts, 
 although it does have a slick, well-produced style of its own. This format is well-worn now though, 
 and EA would do well to introduce a different structure next year.
  
  The car selection in the game is just as well thought out as last years offering, with a good selection 
 of machines in the games three classes, 'muscle', 'tuner' and 'exotic'. You'll likely settle on 
 one car to see you through most of the career mode. Upgrading to one of the tier 3 cars only becomes 
 necessary in the final stages of the game, which again somewhat negates the purpose of having such 
 a varied selection. Customisation options are of the usual high standard, with EA even using its 
 'game-face' technology to allow users to sculpt all sorts of monstrous parts to add to their ride.
 
  
  Online support is generally well implemented, with most of the race types represented from the 
 single-player game, along with some new variants specifically created for this version. The races 
 are not particularly laggy, and kudos for EA allowing the players to take all of the customised 
 vehicles online, rather than having to use the stock models. Achievement whores will be interested 
 to note that a large portion of the points in this years game involve online racing, with completion 
 of the single-player career mode only netting 120 points in total. The rest are divided up between 
 the other offline options and the challenge mode. No easy pickings in this release.
  
  The visuals in the game are generally sharp and well produced, although the blur and other post-processing 
 effects are layered on a little too heavy for comfort at times. The frame rate is generally good, 
 and certainly a step up from the rather rashly introduced downloadable demo, although this can 
 spike a little in the canyon and drift races. Sound quality is largely average throughout. Engine 
 noises are generally good, although you will recognise lots of environmental effects recycled from 
 Most Wanted, even the police chatter is the same as last years game. The licensed soundtrack will 
 only appeal if you sit in the Rap, Rn'B or Jungle camp. Thank god for custom soundtracks.
  
  Overall this is a solid, fun title very much in keeping with the series recent lineage. Whilst 
 the return to a night-time setting will grate with people that enjoyed the open-freeway light and 
 bright style of Most Wanted, if you can get past this the same addictive core of races are present. 
 The lack of challenge in the single-player however is the biggest concern, and EA seems set to 
 continue pandering to those that want to progress through the game barely stopping to pause. thats 
 fine for some, but following the steep and addictive challenge offered in Most Wanted, Carbon comes 
 across as limited in value. Good fun while it lasts, but dont expect that to be very long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woozy_Gem
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is very original! It wouldn't be a need for speed game without the police chases and 
 the custimizing cars. I really love the autosculpt part! Buying parts are pretty confusing though. 
 There are a few things that I have noticed that I would really like. Drag Racing. Oh God that was 
 fun! I like going under eighteen wheelers. I also miss neon. Neon lights aren't availible in this 
 game... at least I don't think so... I have never unlocked them yet. I don't like how you have 
 to unlock all the parts for every differnet car. It's more realistic, but takes more time.
  
  Otherwise, this game is highly addictive and very fun! I recommend to all car and gaming lovers!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonelezz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  There has been many different types of Need For Speed racing games that has hit the racing genre. 
 Many fans of racing will remember Need For Speed because of its licesnsed vechiles and arcade type 
 racing, from having exotic cars to import cars has show how far Need For Speed has become. Last 
 Year EA had released Need for Speed: Most Wanted, a type of racing genre that lets you customize 
 your new to old rides and take it up against other players as you progress through the game. Adding 
 new features like cop chases, and letting you win other racers rides was the biggest step in making 
 import racing a fun game. Now that EA has got the hang of the import racing, Need For Speed Carbon 
 is a game that uses the elements from its predecessor to make a step forward in import racing game 
 yet something seems to be missing.
  
  In the story of Need For Speed Carbon, you play as a annoymonus racing character from RockView 
 Port. This character was also in the last NFS series Most Wanted . You are back and have just came 
 out of jail, things have changed in the city. Cross is back again, and this time hes a bounty hunter 
 trying to seek you out. Clans of racers have taken territories and clam that its theirs. Each of 
 the racing clans will fight for territory while you do the same and try to make rep for youreslf 
 in gaing territories. There are up to 4 different types of clans that you will encounter and try 
 to take their territory. Each of them consist of a boss which leads the team into races. EA has 
 gone into making not just import rides but also adding muscles and exotics giving you a wide brand 
 in choosing the rides you want. You as the annoymunus racer will take these challenges and try 
 to take back Palmont City and claim it for youreslf.
  
  In the beginnig of the game, there is different modes that let you play. You can play solo which 
 is also called the career mode, Quick races mode and online mode. Having to choose online mode 
 youll be able to choose your own rides through career mode or just a set car that is made by default. 
 Quick races are just races that you can choose from and having default cars to play with. There 
 are 3 types of cars you can choose from in the beginning of the game including Exotics, Muscles, 
 and Imports. Now depending on which car you choose from youll have to stick with that genre for 
 a while before you can choose a different type of ride. Youll be able to customize each of the 
 car genres depending which you like. Customization comes from mufflers, roof scoops, front, side, 
 and back skirts, etc... These features have been upgraded more so that now you are able to set 
 sizes, width, length of the kit. These can look great at most times, yet it jsut seems to be a 
 watse of time doing it when you dont get much prizes for it. Having not just customization on parts 
 of the car, you can fine tune many parts of the interior of the car like engines and sort. Depending 
 on how you progress through the game, each level you finish youll get new customization tools added 
 into the menu of customizing your ride. There are 3 different levels of engine customization including 
 amature, intermidate, and pro. These will increase the stats of your ride by bits by bits depending 
 how you want to upgrade it.
  
  As we know the latest racing movie of the summer was Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift. A racing 
 movie that added a new technique of racing called Drifting. Drifting is a technique invented by 
 the Japanese during the street races in the mountains of old times. What this implies im simple 
 terms is that a car basicaly slides around turns instead of using a simple turn. So EA has took 
 that technique and implement into NFS: Carbon. This is a great idea, yet it does not seem to work 
 at all. Youll be able to customize your rides for drifting but depending on the car you choose, 
 just a simple turn will be enough to get you around the corners. The problem with drifting is that 
 many of the cars just dont work and can spin out of control like lets say the exotics. Lambougins 
 are nice rides, and we all like to drive one in reality. But the car is just so fast that you can 
 spin out of control on each turn leaving the cpu pass you by with no problem at all. Having not 
 just the controls bad, the useless cars driving around the city are back. Each time you run into 
 these types of cars or even slightly bump them your car immideiatly slows down to 0 MPH. This can 
 get frustrating for most gamers and espically on the last lap of a sprint mode. EA tries to implies 
 this game is arcade type racing yet when you hit a car you totally stop in motion. How is that 
 arcade racing i dont know.
  
  Now there are differnt types of races in this game. They include sprint, drift, free roam, and 
 racing. Sprint is basicaly like your time trial races to get to one point and to another. Drifting 
 is a new type of racing added in which lets you take your ride and drift as much as you can to 
 get points to take the lead. Free roam just lets you drive your car around the city and check out 
 different shops that are around town. Free roam is nice but you really dont need to use it much 
 because you can just select world map and travel to the location you need to go. Last is racing, 
 which could use a little more tweaking. IN racing there are 2 different areas that youll be able 
 to race in. The city and the mountains. When your racing in the mountains youll be able to do a 
 mode which like cat and mouse chase. If your the cat, youll have to try to sta ahead of your opponent 
 to when the race, and vice versa. The other mode is in the city in which youll race up to 6 different 
 cars. Each car will have a side kick that helps out including Blockers, Drafters, and Scouts. Blockers 
 are basically guys that stop your opponent from racing and advaning further form you. Drafters 
 are speed demons, that let you travel at a faster rate when your behind them. Scouts are racers 
 that can give you hints on short cuts through the maps. In racing, blockers are basically all you 
 need because they can stop your opponent from advancing further from you. Most gamers wont even 
 need scouts because while your driving and looking at your map, youll be able to find the short 
 cuts youreslf and while looking on screen. Drafters are speed demons so called, but jsut get in 
 the way. They will try to give you a boost if your behind them but sometimes they will just stop 
 driving and youll hit them and making you slow down totally.
  
  Graphicaly this game looks great on PC and xbox 360. There are nice glossy looks on the cars paint 
 and on the roads. The motion blur is back again, but this time its just gets in the way. When your 
 racing and going really fast the motion blur kicks in leaving you totally blind from the road and 
 not being able to see where you go until you slow down. The city is big and gives the gamer a lot 
 of areas to explore when racing or using free roan mode. Cars look exactly like the real models 
 in reality and is a great impresssion that makes you wonder how much one of these cars really cost. 
 When your driving your car through the city, you can pretty much hit anything in your way. But 
 sometimes youll hit a dead smack wall and youll think it was a lamp post or parking meter. Things 
 get destroyed in this game as your racing which is a unique game play style that works well for 
 NFS Carbon. There are CG cutscenes in this game depending how far you progress through the game. 
 The characaters are made using motion capture and looks great yet a little corny at times when 
 it comes to speech. EA has gone so far in making this game in graphics that they should've jsut 
 sticked with one or 2 console systems. Having it look great on the PC and 360 is great, but when 
 gamers buy the game for the DS or PSP they will get a whole different feel of the games graphics.
 
  
  We all know that import racing is all about fast beat soundtracks or big bass themes. These types 
 of songs are back again and has a great feel when your racing. Youll get music from techno mix's 
 that are really upbeat and big bass R&amp; B soundtracks that make you feel like a high roller. 
 They work well when your actaully racing against your opponents and even on the hill side. Sound 
 effects are not so great in this game and yet rather annoying. When your racing during the streets, 
 your side kick will literally annoy you like no tommorw by telling you what position you are or 
 how close you are to the finish lane. When a gamer plays they dont need someone else tell them 
 what to do, thats the whole point of a game is to learn for youreslf while playing. Another issue 
 is the car tires and the screeching. When your driving and even a slight movement of the car, the 
 tires screech like it was doing a 360 degree loop or donuts. This can get very irriating and can 
 drive a gamer insane while racing. There are some bad side effects of this game, but the car engines 
 and turbo for the cars sound great when you turn the music down and let the engine purrrr like 
 a kitten.
  
  All in all i think that most gamers will feel disappointed in this great franchise of racing. hopefully 
 the next NFS game wont be that bad and will make it like Most Wanted did. For you fellow gamers 
 that want to try this, rent it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snwbrdr13
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 10, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Carbon is a game that is good all around when it comes down to it. The new aspects of the game 
 make me think what the next installment will contain. Story mode: No longer has a most wanted aspect 
 of it but contains a couple new views to take it's place. 1st is your crew that you are able to 
 hire as you go throught the game. The Scout: is a crew member that while activated shows you all 
 the shortcuts available. Good for the most part but can also be bad when it comes to not knowing 
 the course.
  The Drafter: a crew member who while activated drives in front of you so as to give you an extra 
 boost while drafting them. Good when it comes to needing a little extra speed, bad when going around 
 corners or oncoming cars. The drafter may drag you into a car and it's often hard to get out of 
 draft once in it.
  The Blocker: is a crew member who blocks opponents while activated. This is my least used member 
 and I can't see it working much when into the game a bit, it's hard for him to keep up. Territory 
 is now what you are expected to take over and once done you race a boss in two races first is a 
 sprint or circuit type of race and second is the brand new Canyon Run's. You follow for the first 
 trip down the canyon and stay as close as possible. Points are gained for the closer you are to 
 him. You can also pass and if you pass him for ten seconds the race is over, if either one of you 
 flies off the edge the race is also over. Don't wait for him to fly off because it won't happen 
 10/10 times it's you. Also be careful while trying to pass him because if you bump him you lose 
 5000 off your score. Second trip down it's the opposite while you lead and he tries to stay close 
 to you. Your goal is to have points when you get to the bottom of the second run, if not, you lose. 
 Cars are good like usual when it comes to NFS and a new customization feature called sculpting 
 is available and allows you to modify bumpers, hoods, side skirts similiar to the face sculpting 
 on create your own player games. Online I haven't done much of, but it's a usual racing game with 
 a few new modes to race in.
  
  Overall this game is a great game and has a reletively high replay value. But then again what NFS 
 doesn't. I would recommend renting first and then you will end up buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackthegame
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I don't even know why gamespot gave this game a 7.6 if it has the same features of most wanted, 
 but it also has more and better cars, and the graphics are 5 times better, gamespot should of thought 
 twice before giving this game a worst grade than most wanted's grade, because it is way better 
 than most wanted. i want to inform you guys that the new feature (canyon racing) is the best thing 
 ea ever invented for the need for speed series. This is a really good game if you like or don, t 
 like racing games. And hope you don't listen to other reviews that midnight club fans write. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Saul
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Thumbs Up: presentation; police chases are still great; more then 3 competitors in races; customization
 
  
  Thumbs Down: police chases no longer core of the action; customization in no way required for anything; 
 wingman could have used some more work; online matchmaking is way off
  
  Another year, another Need for Speed. The true EA formula, getting people to buy follow ups to 
 a franchise each year. Basically no problem, but then you'd expect the follow up to improve on 
 the previous. Carbon doesn't do much to give you this feeling. Although there are some new race 
 modes in Carbon compared to Most Wanted, the game from last year, those modes were just put back 
 in from Underground 2, the title to appear the year before Most Wanted. Race modes such as drift, 
 where you need to drift your car through tight corners to score points, were already in Underground 
 2. They were, for some reason, stripped from Most Wanted and now put back into Carbon. Although 
 it's great to see the much wanted drift back in the game, it still is no improvement. The only 
 new mode to be found in Carbon are Canyon races, which is pretty much the core of the boss battles. 
 In Canyon races you chase your opponent on a cliff road. You need to stay as close to him as you 
 can or even pass him to score points. The second round of these Canyon races you oppenent chases 
 you. If he does a better job on sticking on you, you lose the race. The interesting thing about 
 Canyon races is that it's all about cornering, which is something Need for Speed isn't known for. 
 For instance, you do not have the ability to use NOS in these races, so you can't catch up if you 
 made the mistake of slamming into a wall. That being said, at tight corners there is no wall and 
 if you don't take the corner well, you will fall of the cliff and instantly lose the race. Looking 
 at how long these Canyon races can be, that can be frustrating if it happens. Luckily for that, 
 Carbon is not a hard game to say the least, so this will not happen allot.
  
  Differences with last years Most Wanted are there, but scarce. If you take Underground 2 to the 
 package, they are pretty much not there at all. Carbon is basically the combining of Underground 
 2 with Most Wanted. Everything once again happens at night like in Undeground 2, but there is also 
 police like in Most Wanted. Sadly, the police chases are no longer core of the action and I dare 
 say they only chased me in about 30 to 40% of the races. You can't trigger instant police chases 
 like in Most Wanted in Carbon either. You'll have to free roam and cause damage and drive fast 
 for the police to notify you and engage the pursuit. There is no last time cop chase as well like 
 the brutally awesome one in Most Wanted. Overall the cops play a very little role in Carbon because 
 of this and it's a shame to see it. Because the cop chases are once again probably the best time 
 you'll have playing Carbon.
  
  Differences with customization are also minimal. There is a cool new autosculp feature which allows 
 you to enhance or decrease the wideness of your bumpers, spoilers, rims and so on, but it's really 
 not very noticeable either way unless you set everything low to everything at a high setting. It 
 could have been worked out a little bit more. Other then that the customization still lacks of 
 that that Underground 2 use to have. Where you could install subwoofers in your car, change the 
 mirrors and headlights or even put neon under your car. Yeah, sweet neon. It wasn't available in 
 Most Wanted which was a shame but then again everything happened in the middle of the day. But 
 in Carbon everything happens at night, so the outtaking of neon seems a bit off. Carbon also does 
 not encourage you a tiny bit to customize your ride. There is absolutely no reason to do it then 
 for your own eyes. But are you going to spend cash on visuals or on performance when you have a 
 rough time racing? Yep, performance obviously gets the benefit of your cash and customization seems 
 more of a waste then a gain. They could have at least applied the feature of Underground 2 where 
 you gain respect by customizing your ride.
  
  There is a slight difference in racing though. You now race in teams. You'll have a wingman in 
 most races. If he wins, you win. However, they rarely win. Aside that they do can do little tricks 
 like bash competition of the road, giving you the advantage. Or they will scout out the circuit 
 in search for backalleys and such to help you gain some time. Another thing they can do is drive 
 in front of you while you sit in their draft. While you give the signal you drive out of the draft 
 and get a decent speed boost that seems, when done right, to be more powerful then using NOS. Each 
 wingman can only do one of these things though, so you'll need to pick the right wingman for the 
 right race. At least that was the idea. You don't really ever need these wingmans because the game's 
 difficulty setting is... weak. It's very easy as you'll always have the fastest car if you performance 
 tune it. Unless at some point you totally run out of cash, it's hard not owning the fastest ride. 
 The wingman feature is a nice idea, but it also could have used some more work.
  
  Other then the game differs little from it's predicecors, it's still fudumentally a good game. 
 The gameplay is still fun and the presentation is terrific. The sense of speed is once again totally 
 part in this game. Even more then before with very nice blurring effects. The cars all look very 
 good and detailed and there are a pretty good number of them too. More then in previous Need for 
 Speed titles. There are now also muscle cars added, which drive different from other cars. They 
 don't handle that great but they have alot of power to cover it up.
  
  The career mode is fairly short. If you complete every race you should take no longer then 8 or 
 10 hours to complete it. It's not required you do every race though, you can skip approximately 
 30% of all the races. So essentially you can clear it in less then 6 hours. There is a challenge 
 series mode in it though, which goes from bronze and silver series to gold series. Each series 
 has 12 challenges you need to complete. It only gets challenging at the gold series though, so 
 it could have used some more difficulty. The online portion of the game is quite minimal. It's 
 basic racing, sprinting and so on, with the exception of some fun cop based modes, it's very standard 
 stuff. The lack of a online drift mode can be felt and is talked about frequently. 'Man, why is 
 there no online drift mode!' you'll hear newbies shout out frequently when they adjust the settings. 
 The matchmaking also is terrible. You can choose alot of stuff but it doesn't do anything. If you 
 pick you want to do a Sprint race and search for games, you will 80% of the time find yourself 
 in a circuit of speedtrap race. And when you realize you are not in the race you want to be, the 
 game room locks itself so players can't exit. This extremely frustrating and just extremely bad. 
 Although it's fun online, the matchmaking is just way off and it needs a patch as soon as it can 
 get one.
  ----------
  
  In the end, Need for Speed Carbon is basically a good game. But it just feels like EA is trying 
 to leave much improvement for a next title. Carbon could have been so much more and it feels like 
 it. But as long as the career mode lasts, it's still a fun, goodlooking and an exceptional presentation 
 game that tuner freaks will probably have no problem spending their time with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fps_king
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  I was disapointed with need for speed carbon : great graphics , but their is no much more then 
 the previous version you must rent it first i dont think its a good to buy the multiplier isnt 
 that good like th previous version
  
  l ll ll l l llll l l l l l l l l l l l l ll l l l l l l l ll l l l l l l l l l l l l l ll l l l 
 l l l l ll l lll l l l l l ll l l l ll l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Northstar1215
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 9, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  When it comes to EA's new racing monster I have to say I was a bit disappointed. The story is nice 
 for a racing game though it was a bit dull and could be summed up in a matter of minutes. But the 
 game like always gives you fast paced racing at a pretty decent quality and the customization in 
 this version was up to par as well. The main problem I had with the game was that it was very short 
 compared to previous titles and for a racing game especially a street racing game the car selection 
 was a definite disappointment. This is a great title to play with a few friends but I would say 
 with the length and the content, its a rent only and not one for the game shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _R3SP3CT_
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 8, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon (Xbox 360)
  
  I wasn't expecting much from this game, and didn't get much. The game is an overall dissapointment. 
 Not worth a purchase by any means.
  
  Pros:
  
  + Graphics are somewhat good.
  + Gameplay while rehashed is still addicting.
  + New features have been polished ie boss battles 
 are bigger now, more personal
  
  Cons:
  
  - The gameplay is getting a tad old
  - The cutscenes are horrible
  - No real big improvements over last years Need for Speed game
 
  - To get everything in the game you'll have to spend another $50 on Downloadable Content
  
  In closing this game is a rehash, something you can expect from EA after all. Not a great game 
 by any means. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  If theres one game franchise you can expect to see released with each year, its Need for Speed. 
 Electronic Arts isnt exactly a company thats willing to let one of their biggest series go on 
 without hitting store shelves at least once a year, and this year is no different. Last years 
 Most Wanted could be called something like a long lost brother since it added what made the games 
 released prior to Underground great: the cops. Not only was Most Wanted looked at as one of the 
 single greatest Need for Speed games, but also a solid racing game in its own right. Now Need for 
 Speed is back with Carbon, and EA has decided to bring the racing back to the nighttime scene as 
 well as add a few new features to the mix, but most of them feel either unnecessary or just dont 
 work out that well.
  
  The games setting takes place in Palmont City, shortly after the end of Most Wanted, which had 
 you narrowly avoiding arrest from Sergeant Cross in the city of Rockport. Carbons story kicks 
 off with you being chased down by Cross, whos now a bounty hunter as hes basically been kicked 
 out of the Rockport police force. You then-like in most Need for Speed games-trash your ride, get 
 confronted by Cross but are then saved at the last minute by Darius, who was actually a friend 
 of yours at one point. You also get introduced to the next Need for Speed babe: Nikki played by 
 Emmanuelle Vaugier from Saw 2, who apparently was your girl prior to the start of Most Wanted. 
 Nikki isnt exactly enthusiastic about your return to Palmont, but Darius sees potential in you 
 and decided to give you the chance to retake control of the city, since you at one point ruled 
 the city of Palmont. From there on, youll need to work your way through race after race until 
 you reach the top again.
  
  The story actually grabs your attention quite well at first and theres much that it does to maintain 
 your interest for the majority of the game. There are many flashback FMVs in Carbon, and the characters 
 in the game are actually much more tolerable than the more obnoxious faces from Most Wanted. However, 
 by the time you come close to completing the game, the story starts to lose its grip and might 
 actually leave many let down by how it wasnt quite tapped into near the end as opposed to the 
 strong start to the games story. On the other hand, good stories in racing games are exceedingly 
 rare and basically nonexistent, so its at least nice to see that EA put some time and effort into 
 making some sort of story.
  
  The city of Palmont is rendered fairly well by the games graphics engine, but certain locations 
 look like rehashed areas from previous Need for Speed games, particularly Underground 2. The environments 
 deliver fairly well on the amount of detail put into the game, but the buildings do look a tad 
 bit rough and grainy at times. Part of this is due to the games use of motion blur and lighting 
 effects, which are effectively used to create a great sense of speed, but seem to get in the way 
 of some sharp-looking surroundings. But what really makes Carbon look great are the car models 
 and animations. The use of reflections and lighting on the cars is used so effectively the cars 
 glimmer with so much detail that the game really sells the illusion that the cars look real. So 
 while Carbon might not be crisp around every piece of landscape, the sense of speed, lighting effects 
 and car animations really add a great visual flair to the game.
  
  So, how exactly do I retake control of the city you ask? Well, how Carbon sets up the system for 
 retaking control of your lost ground is that youll have four main districts to control, each of 
 which are divided by multiple territories. There are about ten territories per district and about 
 two to three racing events in each territory. In order to take control of a territory, youll either 
 need to win all or a majority of the racing events in that territory. Once youve taken over each 
 territory in a district, youll have the chance to take on that districts leader, which take place 
 in the form of the games boss fights. How these battles work are that youll race against a boss 
 in a standard race, and if you win then youll challenge them in the Canyon Duels.
  
  The Canyon Duels are a two-part racing event, the first has you following the district leader trying 
 to acquire as many points as possible; the closer you are the faster you accumulate points. The 
 second part has the leader following you and your objective to stay as far away from them as they 
 start draining the points you earned in the first run. If your opponent takes all your points or 
 you fall off the canyon through the weak railing along the hairpin turns in the canyon you lose 
 the match. There are also ways in which you or the boss can automatically win the race. If either 
 racer passes or pulls away from the other racer for ten seconds, then that racer automatically 
 wins both parts of the Canyon Duel. The Canyon Duels are a neat idea and add a bit more tension 
 to the game, but the boss battles frustrate more than they do exciting, which does make the Canyon 
 Duels less entertaining.
  
  There are several racing modes in Carbon, some that are as old as the racing genre itself, some 
 that make a return from Most Wanted as well as a couple new modes. Youve got your typical Sprint, 
 Circuit and Checkpoint racing modes as well as the Speedtrap mode from Most Wanted in which you 
 win by crossing checkpoints at the highest speed possible. Other racing modes that appear in Carbon 
 include the return of Drifting, which works out good enough, but requires an acquired taste to 
 really appreciate since mastering drifting on the games courses isnt necessarily a simple task 
 per say. Finally, theres the occasional racing mode known as Race Wars, which are basically races 
 that take place after a district leader has been defeated and in which more than twelve racers 
 show up for a bit of extra money. Race Wars is mostly used to show how many racing bots the game 
 can handle on-screen at once, but other than that theyre barely even a note-worthy addition and 
 seem more like another way to hinder your progress from one district to the next.
  
  The racing in Carbon is solid enough and shows that the series can still be fun while sticking 
 to basic gameplay mechanics for racing. The interface and options you have available to you while 
 racing and roaming around the city-if thats your style-is really unchanged from Most Wanted. Then 
 again, there wasnt much technically wrong with Most Wanteds gameplay, so Carbon really goes for 
 an If it aint broke dont fix it approach, and for the most part it works well. About the only 
 real thing that makes the racing in Carbon stand out from Most Wanted is that the racing is actually 
 a bit more fun and a lot more addicting as a whole. Its quite possible to sit down and play this 
 game for a good six or more hours without stopping, its really one of those games that tosses 
 so much excitement and fun at you that you just dont want to stop. While the racing is more addicting 
 than most games, its still a pretty average game as far as how it plays and handles when it comes 
 down to the racing.
  
  But dont think that youll be doing these racing events all alone, because for most of them youll 
 be accompanied by a Wingman from your Crew. Youll start the game with only one Crew member, but 
 as you progress, youll be allowed to hire more members to add to your crew. You can have a total 
 of three Crew members but can only take one Wingman with you to a race. There are five types of 
 Crew members: Blockers, Drafters and Scouts, who race with you in the races and then theres Fixers 
 and Fabricators, who work outside of the races. Each Crew member has two attributes, so youll 
 have one Crew member that might be a Fixer and the Drafter or one thats a Blocker and Fixer. The 
 use of your Wingmen in races is temporary, in which you build up time for them by racing until 
 you can activate and deactivate them at your free will, except for Scouts who serve their function 
 throughout the whole race.
  
  Blockers basically take out other racers for you, but only one at a time. Drafters get in front 
 of you and after you follow their path and deactivate them, youll slingshot ahead. The only problem 
 with Drafters is that there arent many straight paths, so the amount of times youll use them 
 is limited. Scouts, who do their job throughout the whole race find shortcuts for you and try to 
 point you in the right direction to those areas. Although the idea of Crew members sounds cool 
 on paper, the way theyre executed is less than stellar. None of the Wingmen ever seem to have 
 any real use in a race and actually tend to get in your way and accidentally ram you from time 
 to time. Its a nice idea that couldve been tapped into, but there really isnt any need for Wingmen 
 to return in future Need for Speed titles.
  
  The only exception to this would be in the Fabricators. Fabricators allow you to use the games 
 new Autosculpt feature, which is the new real touch to the customization this time around. What 
 Autosculpt allows you to do is use select parts rather than Aftermarket merchandise and alter them 
 the way you want. How you adjust the settings for the parts is divided by Zones, which, depending 
 on the part of your car can reach as high as nine zones. While Autosculpt isnt a required feature 
 in the game, it does help add more options and variety to the customization, its just a shame 
 that there are only about five selections for each Autosculpt part. The customization in Carbon 
 itself is far more extensive than the limited amount of options in Most Wanted, but it still seems 
 like more parts couldve been added to the mix. As for Fixers, they only help you with your rep 
 with the police if you find the pressure of dealing with the 5-0 too much, so theyre purpose is 
 actually quite useless.
  
  Speaking of the cops, they make a return in Carbon, although they barely serve any purpose in the 
 game. Unlike Most Wanted in which the game encouraged you to take part in police chases and rewarded 
 you for taking part in chases by making you progress, the cops are just there because theyre there. 
 You dont get any real pay-off for getting chased by cops other than the adrenaline and rush from 
 taking part in cop chases. In other words, cops are just there to hinder your progress and other 
 than being used for the occasional Reward Card remuneration-which are rewards for taking on certain 
 difficult tasks-they dont make much of an impact on the games core racing and gameplay. And the 
 sad reality of the matter is that the cop chases are actually less exciting than Most Wanted since 
 Palmont just doesnt seem like it was constructed with cop chases in mind and youll actually find 
 yourself avoiding the police rather than challenging them for entertainment.
  
  In regard to the games music and audio, Carbon is a good mix, like just about all of its predecessors. 
 The soundtrack is composed of a variety of rap/hip-hop, rock and electronica/techno songs, and 
 its actually one of the better, more balanced EA Trax yet. The audio and sound effects are similar 
 to those found in Most Wanted, but some have been tweaked and altered to make the sound of engines, 
 tires screeching, and crash noises far more convincing. While the sound effects and music in Carbon 
 is very good for the most part, the voice-overs and dialogue are where this aspect of the game 
 goes downhill. Throughout the races, youll hear your crew members keep ranting on about things 
 relating to the race, and it gets rather annoying after a while. The voice-overs all sound very 
 similar and dont sound that great in their own right, not to mention some dumb and corny jokes 
 that they toss in randomly for the heck of it. And for some odd reason, the game will have short 
 clips of district leaders pop up on the side of screen when you racing them and theyll typically 
 make a dumb, insufferable laugh whenever you screw up, which is totally preposterous to say the 
 least. Aside from that annoying issue, Carbon sounds like a good, solid game and gets most of what 
 makes a game sound good right.
  
  Carbon's Career mode is of a fairly decent length and should take most people about twelve hours 
 to beat if they strictly focus on beating the game. If youre one of those that aims for getting 
 through every single race, it should take you anywhere from fifteen to eighteen hours to take depending 
 on your skill level. Carbon isnt the most challenging game out there, but the boss fights and 
 Racer Wars do take some time to get past considering they tend to be quite tough. That said, between 
 the number of racing events in the game and the typical amount of difficulty in the game, Carbon 
 is rather short compared to many other racing games. But the game still has a bit more enticement 
 to keep you coming back such as the Challenge Series and the recompenses for completing Reward 
 Cards, which add a good amount of challenge and replay value to the game.
  
  Need for Speed Carbon isnt a big step forward for the series and it may not be quite as balanced 
 or impressive as Most Wanted, but its still a decent, well-rounded game. While the game shares 
 little in-common with its predecessor, which is debatably the best Need for Speed game since Hot 
 Pursuit 2, Carbon still manages to hit the nail where it counts: entertainment. With a nice amount 
 of variety to the customization, fun and addicting racing, along with sharp animations and great 
 music and audio, Carbon is a game that most any Need for Speed fan should ultimately be pleased 
 with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXBenZz54Xx
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  GOOD:
  Graphics look amazing in this game. Its shiny and all crystal. the lighting effects were made very 
 well.
  Autoscuplting is a great new addition. You can really customize your cars the way you want it to 
 look.
  Muscle cars brings a new look into NFS. Very great addition, especialy to all muscle car lovers.
 
  The canyon is pretty good to. It feels real when you fall off and start the race over again. BAD: 
 No drag racing. Yes they did add Drift but they took out the classic drag. The new addition of 
 drifting is not that great. I thought they could have made it better and a little easier. Game 
 way to short and easy. Honestly you do like 20-30 races and you're almost done with the game. Nothing 
 like Most Wanted. You can finish the game in a day.
  All night races get very boring. Feels like you are playing the same levels over and over again.
 
  
  Overall:
  If it was as long as Most Wanted and not take place all in the night time, it would have been a 
 great game. But it lacks too much in the single player and could have been better. I would recommend 
 everybody who doesnt have it, to either wait for the next nfs game (which will hopefully be better) 
 or rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vcarter2006
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 7, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  They say that the need for speed carbon is not a good game because ithere they dont like the game 
 or they don't know how to play because the game is great. Need for speed carbon is just like The 
 Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift because u have to play like if your using a stick car.
  and for the people that dont like it they just didn't learn how to play.
  I give you advice to 
 learn how to drift in the game faster is to make the shifts manualy and us the ebrake to take the 
 turns don't hold it all the way, just press and released fast and u would see the results and then 
 you will like to change the review and u will 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foultzie689
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 7, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is so fun it's not even funny. It has the best graphics. The graphics are better than 
 all the other Need For Speed games. The game is about you comming back and everyone you run into 
 say that Things have changed since you've been gone and it has been awhile. You have to try to 
 take back territory now that things have changed and stuff. I talked to a Microsoft represenative 
 at my work and he told me that they combined Need For Speed Hot Persuite and Underground together 
 so that's why is so much better than the rest. The only thing that sucks about this game is that 
 they didn't put any drag races in it or anything which I think they should of cause I think cuz 
 it's called Need For Speed they it should be testing the speed of the car you created from the 
 ground up or bought off the the Xbox live Marketplace. So inconclusion this game is the best to 
 play . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 7, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  &middot; The graphics and sounds are great for a Need For Speed game. The character models are 
 downright creepy at times. The cars are sexy looking and &middot; Muscle cars and canyon racing 
 adds so much more to the game. Basically, in canyon racing, you have to watch out for certain edges 
 so you want plummet your car off of the side of a canyon. The muscle cars are cool, if not anything, 
 for the fact that you can cut a whole in the hood and pop the engine out.
  &middot; Good online play. Cops and Robbers is always fun.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  &middot; All night 
 racing gets kind of old. There needs to be a variety of day/night &amp; weather settings.
  &middot; Way too dang short. You can complete the entire Career mode in a day.
  &middot; No drag 
 racing? Why was this taken out? It wasn't the best mode but it was fun in multiplayer modes.
  
  :Overall:
  &middot; A decent Need For Speed but I'm kind of getting tired of this series 
 sticking strickly to the 'Fast &amp; The Furious' style. As an overall game, you'll have a lot 
 of fun with it... but I'd wait until you see a price drop because it's almost just like Most Wanted 
 with a few new tweaks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M00N-CAT
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 6, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent need for speed game but this game does have some issues that they have to 
 deal with! Here are some key points before buying this game here are some: No Guns, Gangs, Violence 
 just simply racing that's what this game is about. The graphics details are amazing the gameplay 
 overall isn't that great the stroy doesn't really go anywhere except where you'll be racing. There 
 are some good things like The tracks are always fun online but if you don't have online then well 
 don't waste your'e time! Overall this is a good racing simulator except the fact it has some flukes 
 and that's about it! I give this game a 8.6 good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justn519
Rating: 5.1
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  The EA servers suck and at least one person will get disconnected every race. It also freezes up 
 all he time causing you to turn off your system and wait for the game to load up again.... purely 
 frustrating ......... and you cant play two consecutive races with out signing out and back in the 
 servers are definitely not working right just like most of the other EA servers. Do not buy this 
 game if you are expecting good online play. Career mode is ok but not great it is way to short 
 and it was too easy to beat wait for the price to go down on this one because it is not worth the 
 money. Annoying game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tok3d
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  Need for speed carbon is good. Not amazing, and bad, its good. What Carbon looks like on the outside 
 is not all it is when you actually get into the game. The presentation of the game could have been 
 better, the drifting could have had a more innovative feel to it, and there could have been alot 
 more modes to add into the game. Looks like the need for speed franchise has took the path of sports 
 games; a new game every year, but none with miraculous changes.
  
  Gameplay
  Carbon plays alot like most wanted, except the game takes place in a diffrent setting. Everything 
 is pretty much the same, except drifting (the motion of a car making a very sharp turn, but not 
 turning its wheels) is a bigger part of the game. The game is actually quite frustrating though, 
 exspecially against the bosses you'll have to face throughout the game. Carbon also has a new, 
 innovative idea where you can have 3 diffrent types of racers on the road that will help you out, 
 but that idea really didn't live up to it's potential, and in turn, could have been much better.
 
  
  Graphics
  On the Xbox 360, the graphics are extremely well done. The cars and the enviorment look realistic, 
 and everything has great textures, and great animations, as usual. Some cars and enviorments, however, 
 could have had a little more detail, but that does not drag down on the gameplay experience at 
 all.
  
  Sound
  As usual EA has great soundtracks implemented in the game, and vehicles sound great. The only problem 
 is nothing really stands out at you, so the experience doesnt feel at all diffrent.
  
  Value
  The online mode is only on the xbox 360, so it drags alot of content away from other versions, 
 but carbon still holds its own. Overall
  Need for Speed Carbon could have done much better, but isnt at all bad. Certain minimal changes 
 just make you feel like you have already played the game, and you dont always want to go back to 
 it. If you havent played a need for speed game, carbon would be a really good start, because it 
 is a good game. I wouldnt say its better than previous titles, but its not horrible. Although some 
 new mechanics introduced this time around, such as the wingman tactics, dont work too well, Need 
 for speed Carbon is still an enjoyable title, although it doesnt change alot from previous need 
 for speed outings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: United-States
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 6, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, It's better than Need for Speed Most Wanted. In fact, it is similar to Most Wanted with 
 a few changes to it. You get to form your own crew and race with them. But what takes 1 point off 
 of the gameplay is that it kinda reminds me of Juiced (only because of the crew thing) . The graphics 
 look excellent, infact, it is the best graphics for any next-gen game. The sound is just perfect. 
 It has the coolest songs you may want to listen to. This game is recommended for anyone even if 
 you are under 10. If you don't have game yet, pick it up now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phip-phip
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 6, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  First off... EA, you're loosing fan base by emphasizing marketplace so much. And this game might 
 just take the cake. Don't expect many cool cars unless you want to pay more money for the game 
 you already bought. Graphics aren't any better than Most Wanted (an awesome game I might add, and 
 now a good second hand game if you don't already have it) . The night racing gets really old at 
 about 25% complete. Cop AI is different, they're not as likely to just magically spawn all around 
 you at once and some of the 'techniques' that threw the cops in most wanted don't work so well 
 in Carbon. That being said, I'm +/- 70% complete and they haven't come close to catching me. I 
 keep my cars repainted and my crew have 'abilities' that keep the heat off. I haven't really gone 
 looking for trouble, though...'cause I'm pretty sure I could find it if I wanted to.
  
  Now for some de-constructive criticism of drifting. If you thought F&amp; F Tokyo Drift was realistic 
 and something you would like to try in real life... you'll love drifting. Otherwise... you won't. 
 N'uf said.
  
  Final Impressions:
  Just not an acceptable sequel to Most Wanted. After 3 days of very casual play, I'm about 70% done 
 (I just unlocked the 4th and final world) and I'm going to trade the game in because it's been 
 nothing but frustrating. On top of that, I'm joining the rapidly increasing group of loyal 360 
 fans who hate the 360 marketplace. I mean... I'm all about loyal fans buying cool stuff to **enhance** 
 gameplay. But it shouldn't be mandatory to get your $$ out of an already overpriced game. NFScarbon 
 just proves that game companies, errrhammm EA, are going to pi$$ all over the little guy to make 
 an extra buck. I gave it a 5 just because it had some big shoes to fill with Most Wanted, but it 
 failed miserably in its attempt to fill them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Kev
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 6, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  OK... MY LAST REVIEW GOT DELETED BECAUSE I WAS RUDE TO THE PEOPLE WHO DONT LIKE THIS GAME. IM NOT 
 GONNA START DISSING THEM AGAIN BUT ALL IM GONNA SAY IS.... YOU HAVE TO GET THIS GAME !!!!!! ITS 
 THE THE BEST RACING GAME EVER (IN MY OPINION) AND THE BEST NFS GAME (DEFINATLY) , ITS GOT THE AMAZING 
 GRAPHICS, THE AMAZING GAMEPLAY WITH THE CREWS AND THE CANYON RACES AND ITS GOT THE AMAZING CAR 
 SOUNDS AND THE TRAXS ARN'T EVEN THAT BAD. YOU DEFINALTY HAVE TO GET THIS GAME IF YOURE A FAN OF 
 THE NFS SERIES AND IF YOURE A RACING GAMES FAN, AND I GUESS YOU MIGHT NOT LIKE IT SO MUCH IF YOURE 
 A NEWCOMER TO RACING GAMES OR THE NFS SERIES BUT THIS GAME WOULD BE A GREAT STARING PLACE TO GET 
 GOING ON THE NFS SERIES BECAUSE ITS SUCH A GOOD GAME, EVEN THOUGH THIS GAME HAS ITS FLAWS HERE 
 AND THERE (TOO EASY) IT IS STILL A BRILLIANT GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flawie
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  + Need for Speed is still a very stable foundation to build on. The Core gameplay is still fun 
 and has the perfect arcade / sim blend.
  
  + Boss battles have become more personal with the help of more run-ins with them before you finally 
 face them and a small window in the corner of your screen that shows their faces during the duel 
 with them. They also have a specific car type and own territories as well as crews.
  
  + Your crew. They are all actually pretty useful once you know how to use them. They also add a 
 kind of cozy teamfeeling to the racing. It feels good to have someone backing you up over voice-com.
 
  
  + Wonderful, charming and cheesy cutscenes all made with real actors and a kind of stylish filter 
 over them. Much like the NFS - Most Wanted cutscenes, but cooler and with even more humor and feauturing 
 some great B actors.
  
  + Really, and i mean really impressive facialanimations on the bosses wich you encounter in the 
 ingame engine this time around. Their faces on the little cornercamera during the bossbattles animate 
 fantasticly.
  
  + The tuner / streetracing / gang feeling is pretty thick throughout the game. Ever since NFS Underground 
 they have really captured this streetwarsfeeling incredibly well.
  
  + The best enginesounds ever in a racing game. Yes. Its true. The enginesounds have been slightly 
 improved with every game that has been released. Just like with the streetfeeling, the enginesounds 
 started kicking in with NFS: U and has ever since been improved on. Enginesounds these days almost 
 always sound waaay to much like a chainsaw or an electric toycar of some sort. in Carbon the cars 
 sounds FANTASTIC. Every clunk, turbosound and deep wroooms of the engine sounds just as manly as 
 they should and varies greatly depending on car and what you have done to the engine. Hearing your 
 Nissan Skyline go wrooooooooom, pppssschhhh as you gear up and hear the turbo let go of air is 
 just nice as h*ll. same thing with a huge V8. Its great to see that they have realized how extremely 
 important this is to the feeling of a racinggame.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  - Its STILL 
 only Need For Speed. They should try to stop this 1 game per year thing they&acute; ve got going 
 and take some serious time to do a NFS revolution and a completely new graphicsengine. This series 
 wont live forever like this. Especially not as fullprices products since this feels more like an 
 update to NFS - Underground 2 at times.
  
  - Some customization options from the previous games have been taken away and on top of that the 
 whole customizationsystem is very clumsy and very poorly made. Its easy to get lost in the menus 
 and you end up not really knowing what performanceupgrade is best and how you actually change some 
 parts. Also, you can install a new bodykit, then go to autosculpt a tailpip only to be met with 
 the message that you can only do this if you have a non stock bodykit...
  
  - The Autosculpt system is not really nessesary and I never use it. It really dosent give you anything 
 new. You might as well just buy the parts that looks like the part you just made instead of wasting 
 time in the autosculpt system.
  
  - Still no Day / Night cycle. Why? How hard can it be. The Underground games were night-only games, 
 Most Wanted was Day-only and now carbon is night only again, using, im guessing, the same engine. 
 Why not put it together. Silly...
  
  - Just plain unfair difficulty at times in the career. Its not like the bosses you meet later on 
 are skilled drivers, they are just plain cheating. The difficulty just gives them rocketcars. Its 
 not fun, just plain annoying when games get hard in the wrong way. NFS - Carbon does just that.
 
  
  - The Canyon. The canyon is just 1 big minus really. The camera in this mode is like the wierdest 
 racingcamera ive seen and it makes it really hard to take the steep turns of the canyon. Its also 
 very annoying to just go flying over a cliff every 30 seconds because of this and because of wierd 
 breakable railing in every U-turn. The framerate here also tends to dip from time to time making 
 these turns even harder. Put cheating bosses and some kind of magic that makes all of your cars 
 understeer on top os this and you have one big annoying mode.
  
  - The whole open city deal is just plain out not needed. You just use the menus to jump fram race 
 to race anyway so theres really no reason at ALL to be driving around town. A town wich is still 
 very dead and boring.
  
  - Extremely STUPID Achievements. Yea. This shouldnt really affect the score of the game but in 
 this case they are so very stupid. its been 1 year since the 360 release and these achievements 
 do not show that. I got an achievement for lagging through an online race but you dont get 1 single 
 achievement on your way through the carrermode... Just read up on the achievements and see them 
 for yourselves.
  
  - Unstable onlinemode. I get kicked out of almost every game. Once i get in a good race i almost 
 always get kicked out making the online part unplayable. I have people on my frindslist reporting 
 the same thing.
  
  - Non existant soundtrack. What happened to the really nice soundtrack of Most Wanted. You probably 
 wont even notice a soundtrack in this game. Why? Why take away feautures from previous titles at 
 all?
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Final Score: 7.7
  
  Its still Need for Speed. its still fun and extremely stylish. But 
 it wont last for another title. Also some really wierd designchoices were made with this one. Might 
 be worth the buy just for en enginesounds tho.. mmmm...
  
  Tested On: Xbox 360, HDtv 720p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-tronicum
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  OK, lets start at the beginning of the Game: I was totally surprised when i sah that graphics on 
 my HD Television. Good Videosequences, good storyline, good Cars........, but then ------THE AWAKENING!!!! 
 WAY TOOOOO SHORT!!!!
  I mean the Story Mode!!! Whats that, A JOKE!!??
  I played about 7 Hours, and the credits flown over the Screen!
  
  And i thought, WHAT, THATS IT! WHAT 
 YOU DONE THERE EA????
  
  Then the Tuning Options: NO NEONLIGHTS, NO POSSIBILITIES TO PAINT THE PARTS LIKE: MIRRORS, SPOILERS.....
 
  
  NO LIGHTS TO CHANGE LIKE HEAD AND BACKLIGHTS.....
  
  VERY RARE ON DETAILS!!!!!!
  
  The Good, of Course, is the new AUTOSCULPT Function.
  
  But too, there are not so many Parts to 
 Tune yourself.
  
  The Controls are Pretty good and Online Mode is Funny!
  
  BUT THERES ANOTHER VERY DISAPOINTING THING: NO DRAG 
 
  
  This makes me so angry, because thats the best thing in Online Races, so where are they????? I think 
 Drag Races are a part of Need for Speed and definetly a part of the RacingScene!!!! And a lot of 
 People going to miss this Action and Adrenaline loaded Midnight Races!!!
  
  So, EA, you didnt really done your homework!!!!
  
  Sorry for the Grammar
  GreetZ from Spain 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larskaos
Rating: 2.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed is the perfect example of what's wrong with the gaming industry. Instead of trying 
 something new, we take the same gameplay, graphics and sound that we used in the previous four 
 games ... add some new tracks and that's it. The really nasty thing about Carbon is, that on the 
 outside it seems to include loads og new ideas, but it is all so superficial. Instead of buying 
 new skirts and wheels for your car, you can 'morph' everything yourself. Sounds good, but whats 
 the point? No point. The modification has no impact on gameplay what so ever. Now you can call 
 your buddys for help during a mission ... but you don't really need their help. It feels like something 
 that's just been added to make it sound like theres a whole new gameplay available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ynohtna2412
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Its an overall great game, but its too short, and too easy until you get to the last area... thats 
 when it gets horribly hard ( for most at least ) its too much of a jump... The gameplay itself 
 is good, they have way better physics... in MW they were just horid... a car going 0-60 in less 
 then a second? Not this time around, which is a good thing.. this time the only super fast accel 
 are the tier 3 muscles... and since their handling isnt all that great it evens them out. The Vehicle 
 sounds were right on, at least from what i've heard so far, and know in my opinion... The graphics 
 dont dissapoint , and the online is a hell of alot better from most wanted, its the reason why 
 the story is so short. They were focusing on online alot more, and they did alot better. They need 
 to fix the servers, too much lag.. Look at PGR, hardly any lag whatsoever, except the occasional 
 horid one.. Down to the point its career length is too short, cutscenes are great, could have been 
 much better. The online is alot better as i've said... I'd give it a thumbs up, but one last thing
 
  
  IF YOU DONT HAVE ONLINE, JUST RENT IT UNLESS YOU LIKE REPEATING A 5-6 HOUR CAREER ( which is very 
 short )
  
  If you like online, go ahead and buy it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JYGFluffy212
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  what can i say, its a need for speed game. of course its great and fun. graphics are the best ever 
 and playing with friends is the best. although the game was a little easier than most NFS games 
 it still kept me playing all night but after playing for so long it gets kind of repetitive. but 
 if you into all of those racing games than this is a must buy but if your not than i suggest renting 
 it first. so the bottom line for me it good but not great. i give this game a 8.0. Oh yeah and 
 did you know you dont really have to upgrade fully you can do the minimum upgrade on your car and 
 still smoke every other car haha but yeah this games aight 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 5, 2006 3:22 am PT
Review:  The Good: cool graphics and the carrer mode is also pretty good and there is a lot of cool cars. 
 and there is a good amount of modes and the online-mode is also pretty cool as always in nfs games. 
 and when u play multiplayer someone can play as the police and the other play as the thief, and 
 that's really good well it was so in nfs hot pursuit 2 but in carbon it's of course cooler and 
 better. The Bad: it's much like need for speed underground series beacuse it's all in nighttime 
 races and not in daylight like in nfs most wanted. Overall: this game is a great nfs game for nfs 
 fans and for normal racing game fans but if u're not a racing game fan or a nfs fan then i doesn't 
 think that this is something for u! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonage007
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 4, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  When i first put the disk in and was ready to play, I was sure that this game was gonna be another 
 great all around racing game from EA. but as i did a few races and saw some of the cting in the 
 clips they have, i thought to my self, why, why did i get this game. Its not a big turn around 
 from mast wanted. I did enjoy most wanted simply because it was good. EA wasnt trying super hard 
 to get it perfect because if they did, it would of turned out like carbon is. An over fabricated 
 racing game that has passed its limits of good. Now from my opinions to the hard evidence. Gameplay 
 is the same as most wanted. They still have the blur on the sides as you reach higher speeds and 
 use nitrous. And of course they have changed the nitrous once again. I wish they would just make 
 it look like it does in real life. And not over do it and make it look like a damn flamethrower 
 is indstalled. As for the graphics, they are decent. Still some minor flicks and bings with the 
 road and car contact and collisions. It is again an all night racing game so you still get the 
 great light reflections from your current surroundings. The sound is so-so as well. I wish they 
 would have taken more time for each indvidual car to get their own distinct sound. But they didnt. 
 And as everyone knows exhaust upgrades change the way your caaaar sounds. But it still doesnt in 
 Carbon. The value is at a low this time around. Effort was put in but also left out in some of 
 the most important aspects of the racing in the game. Overall NFSC is another so-so racing game 
 that just needs more work before being released to the gaming community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MastaShake247
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Well I was never really a big fan of Need for Speed Underground 1 or 2 but my friend let me borrow 
 Most Wanted and I loved it. The cop chases were intense, the heat level was always fun so you could 
 experiment with different types of looks on your cars and the boss battles while over the top and 
 laughable were fun to beat. Carbon I sadly can't say the same about. Dont get me wrong I like it, 
 smooth driving, more cool cars to customize, turf to take over, and you can make your very own 
 clan. But those are things in my opinion dont make up for what is wrong. The reason I love Most 
 Wanted not Underground I remembered when I did my first drifting challenge... GOD I forgot how stupid 
 and pointless those challenges are. I dont know about you but when I think of of a good illegal 
 street race, trying to slide my car around corners for points doesnt exactly tickle my fancy. Also 
 the boss battles in this game are frustrating and overwhelmingly hard you cant mess up once or 
 you have to start from the beginning. The last factor that dissapointed me was that the cop chases 
 in this one are pathetic, there are only a few mandatory ones which are easy to get out of, no 
 specific goals to complete just get away. Carbon is for the die hard fans of the series, dont waste 
 the 60 bucks on it if you dont NEED it in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViolentVincent
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 4, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for a couple days, and all I can say is wow, what a piece of sh*t. 
 The game is way too short, the cars are sparse, alot of things are reused. I don't see how EA released 
 this game and thought it would be ok, oh wait its EA and they don't care. Who prices an Evo for 
 110,000? The game play is basically the same, so I dont really have any gripe there. The game crashes, 
 and its not like its once or twice, its done it at least six or so times for me. This game blows, 
 save your money and wait for a better arcade racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayne2k7
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Well i got this game 2 days before its UK retail release date due to GAMEs awesome delivery and 
 must say it took me only them 2 days to complete the game!
  The graphics on this game are a big step up from the previous NFS games and the gameplay much similar 
 but with a few new twists due to the all new classes of cars (Muscle, Tuner &amp; Exotic)
  This game i felt was a mix of all the good features from UNDEGROUND and the best features from 
 MOST WANTED.
  Altho there are a few new cars and features to the racing aspect, this feels a lot like the previous 
 game MOST WANTED in many ways.
  The game was seriously easy i thought until the last portion of the city, the canyon duels probably 
 being the hardest part, but even they weren't too challenging.
  In all a good game for games new to the series but alot left to be desired by to the hardcore fans 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joeylt14
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 3, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely my favorite game of the serious thus far. The graphics are superb and I 
 think they did a wonderful job with the sounds. I also loved the story line and the cinematics. 
 They did a great job with that! Although the Career was really short I still found it entertaining. 
 I personally beat it the day it released, but I played it for awhile... I was also a little disappointed 
 with the customization. They took out some minor things they had in some of their older games, 
 but since they added the new auto-sculpting feature it made up for it. All in all I think it's 
 a great game and if your a racing fan you should get this and if your not then it's at least worth 
 a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GregoireA
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 3, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This Game is for guys or girls with a need for speed.
  
  There is finally some physics related to a cars suspension, so now when you hit walls the car doesn't 
 just flip in a random direction.
  Drift makes no sense, some cars just don't do that in RL.
  
  Boss challenges are a real challenge, 
 or a complete joke.
  Since there's only one difficulty in the game, the 'enemies' strenghts change depending on how 
 you are driving. this can be very annoying if you are good but not awesome. EA should really work 
 on the realtime, flexible difficulty.
  
  other than that, it's pretty cool, and really fun at time.
  But wait, crew members are pointless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 3, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  First let me mention that i'm new to the NFS franchise thanks to the most recent addition (Most 
 Wanted) . I was never really a big fan of the series until (MW) got me hooked on it's amazing physics 
 and jaw-dropping grahpics.
  
  After sampling the new demo i thought that they were going backwards but was i ever so wrong. I 
 can't believe that they acrually have upped the notch a bit on the graphics, albeit, they are kind 
 of cartoonish but hard to describe.... to me it's looks loke eye candy.
  
  I wasn't thrilled about a 100% nightime game like (UNDERGROUND) but they actually pulled it off 
 perfectly. Maybe it has alot to do with the power lent by the 360. The great thing they did is 
 they kept the challenges in the game ( aside from the Career Mode) . If that was not included i 
 would have lost interest in this game real fast. So if your wondering, YES, they built a new challenge 
 mode from the ground up which includes the drift as one of the challenge series you may have played 
 in the demo. In conclusion, If you LOVE racers of any kind.... this is top notch. You will not be 
 dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: porgibi
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 2, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  What do you expect ....!? This is a racing game. Its all about new cars , new tracks and new game 
 modes. The game kicks out the older members of the nfs platoon. Nobody can expect smoething revolutionary 
 from that game just yet. This game is passion and adrenaline for those who likes dynamics and high 
 speed . The new car models are just perfect and quite in numbers than MW . Some of the legends 
 are back (Nissan Skyline ) . Also there are new racing modes and the drift is back (better than 
 before and faster) . I like it more than MW !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moriconus
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 2, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Being a real world drifter with a Skyline in the US I have a better feel for drifting, its good 
 to see that they are making a solid effort at the drifting aspects. Driving and braking still a 
 bit slow in reaction and traction. This is normal for all driving games for most platforms. Graphics 
 are good and clean, they included a large number of good cars, GLAD YOU PUT NISSANS IN THE GAME!! 
 I was about to boycott NSF game after Most Wanted. PORSCHES SUCK ASS! Solid game guys keep moving 
 forward in a positive way and you will have a player for life from me... PUT REAL TIME DAMAGE IN 
 THE GAME!!! Teach people slamming in to cars and wall will not just change your direction and momentum.... 
 it can kill you :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 2, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  Yes so it seems like you use to be from Palmount City before you went away to Rockport in Need 
 for Speed Most Wanted. The game start you driving around and you run into Cross from Most Wanted 
 and he's chasing you because of all the problems you caused back in Rockport so as you're being 
 chase by him you get stop by some old friends you knew back then from Palmount City. They end up 
 paying your bounty you lose your M3 and you're back in Palmount City to start all over again. You 
 have 4 Local gangs completing for territory in Palmount city. Which territory has a boss. You have 
 4 types of races you have sprint, circuit, drifting, and speed tap. As you do more races in each 
 territory you'll have to race the boss in the canyon. Once you beat him you own that territory. 
 They'll be times that other gangs will come and try to take up some of your territory back. So 
 you'll have to race them off. Also you have a crew in the game broken up to 3 as well. You have 
 a Blocker, Drafters, and Scout. Blockers they help you block out some of your rivals in a race. 
 Drafters will give you stream of boost when you ride behind them. Scouts will usually give you 
 all the short cuts through out the races. I don't think you really need these guys too much but 
 then could come up helpful sometimes not all the time.
  
  The Graphics in the game look great nothing over the top since we seen these types of graphics 
 before in Most Wanted. In most wanted is in the day and carbon it's the night like look just like 
 Underground 2. It looks nice and colorful at night and the city looks amazing. The sound of the 
 cars all have their unique engine sound and when you're racing you really see how fast you're really 
 going from the blur affects. If you're a fan of the Need for Speed franchise and you're looking 
 for another arcade type of racing with online MP where you can take your customized rides than 
 you should definitely check out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aakash16
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  The Latest and the greatest of NFS Series. The best change is the great Graphics. Graphics of environment 
 is great , cars is Fantastic. Sound is Superb And Music Tracts are great , peasant tohear which 
 acceralate your mind's freshness and you feel to win the race. Gameplay is very good . it has many 
 features like free roam, Shops ,etc Races are simply the greatest thing ever in NFS .The crew willhelp 
 you sort out certain races but you still need to make a lot of effort to win. the new races would 
 be surely enjoyed by the player . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  This next go around..... way easy... if Need For Speed: Most Wanted frustrated you than this one will 
 have you jumping for joy.
  
  Don't want to be running from the law, in this version after you snatch your rivals territory your 
 can jump right into the next challenge without having to prove your driving prowness by outrunning 
 and outwitting the police.
  
  But if you choose to... the cops are so dim-witted in this version. It will get kinda boring, since 
 they have no clue on how to catch you, stop you or find you when you go into hiding.
  
  My car of choice is the Camaro SS, a lil heavy but after customization. I dropped the car down a 
 bit and added a different spoiler in the back now he'll glide with the best of them.
  
  The Wingman can be a pain in the behind and for some reason my guy reminds me of the actor who 
 played Nacho Libre guy.
  
  Cut scenes or cinematic scenes add a little flair to the game but at times they can annoying ,when 
 you would prefer just to get the next race without the load time and anemic cut scenes.
  
  But, this game isn't for everyone, if you have been playing Need For Speed for sometime than by 
 all means pick it up.
  
  If your just getting into Need For Speed, in this version, the races might seem repetitive of each 
 other which might equal boredom for you.
  
  The grahics have way improved from last year's launch title Need For Speed: Most Wanted
  
  Fans 
 of the series this has to be the easiest one out of all of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathbal888
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 1, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I picked up my copy right after work, and I have to say.... the moment I started the game, I was 
 hooked!.. I was playing it for like 4 hours until I decided its time to give it a rest.
  
  Graphics are very very good, better than most wanted.
  Cars are very good too, I like the cars 
 that they put in the game, much more variety to choose from.
  Modifying cars is very nice so far...
  The gameplay is great! I like the driving, the feel of 
 the cars its nice... and in my opinion it is better/more realisitic than most wanted.
  Drifting it new in this game.... can be entertaining if your good at it.... you need to practice 
 though.
  
  This is one of the best NFS games Ive played..... so far, I still only at the begining of the game 
 so I could change my mind but so far so good.
  I recommend buying this if you liked most wanted! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wareagle23
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 4, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  If you're a fan of the NFS series you will definitely love Carbon. It stays true to the gameplay 
 you've come to be used to in the Underground series and in Most Wanted. The game is like like Underground 
 and Most Wanted, but yet it is new and very different. Those familiar with recent NFS games will 
 be able to get used to the gameplay very quickly. The graphics have some minor problems but are 
 overall great. Customization is ridiculous, bodykits, spoiler, rims, etc. are different this year. 
 You can choose from aftermarket parts which are just like in Most Wanted, or you can go with Autosculpt 
 parts where you can modifie every dimension of each part. Performance parts are basically the same 
 but vinyls are totally different. You can pile on vinyls and stretch, turn, and move them all over 
 your car providing infinite possibilities. All these things are great but for people who are hardcore 
 Forza or GT4 fans, this probably isn'tthe game for them. But for NFS fans, this is the best racing 
 game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BraindeadRacr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  ~INTRO~
  
  Alright, we have Need For Speed: Carbon.
  What i can tell you it's Need For Speed: Underground, Need For Speed: Underground 2, Midnight Club 
 3: DUB Ed &amp; Need For Speed: Most Wanted mixed on one disk. Now, I don't say that's a formula 
 for crap, that's yet again, an Need For Speed formula for an instant hit.
  
  Also, this game features an whole new toy to the tuning series: Autosculpt . Just read on to find 
 out what it is...
  
  ~GAMEPLAY~
  
  The gameplay is like you can expect an arcade-racer to be, you pick an class of cars you start 
 with; either muscle, tuner or exotic. You race for cash, you beat the main villains with face-off 
 races and done.
  
  It does seems much longer than it looks like, there are more cars, there are more modding abilities 
 and there are much more tracks and challenges. The basic types of races you can expect are the 
 classic curcuit, the sprint, speed trap, our NFSU1 friend: Drift and an all new race: The canyon 
 drift. The canyon drift takes you to the Carbon Canyon around the city, there you will have an 
 face off with another player, you can earn points with drifting but in the same time you must overtake 
 an opponent and stay atleast for 10 seconds ahead to win.
  
  Also, there is an 20 player race in the single player category.
  20 racers from all 3 classes 
 of cars will battle eachother in one race.
  
  And in the Collectors Edition there are a few more exclusive challenges.
  
  Oh yeah, Autosculpt.
 
  Autosculpt is EA's new tuner toy, you can mod your parts even more advanced than ever before. 
 I have to say that EA is showing this part off too much, it isn't a major big of deal other than 
 what you've seen today: Every part is able to be adjusted to your taste. Rims, parts, paints even 
 vinyl's can be placed how you want it.
  
  There's only one downer - it's all nighttime play.
  
  ~GRAPHICS~
  
  The graphics can't 
 be discribed in a ton of words, for the Xbox 360 &amp; PC they are amazing, no questions asked.
 
  The city is nicely lit, the cars look not choppy at all, the framerate is nothing special, and 
 every car feels different.
  
  ~SOUND~
  
  There is a large selection of music in the game, i cannot say if you like it or not as it's not 
 real much better than the Most Wanted soundtrack.
  
  ~VALUE~
  
  The value of the game will last long. Each single storyline , tuner, exotic &amp; muscle will load 
 you with 30+ hr's gameplay. Each around 10.
  With autosculpt, the large stack of cars, the extra challenges and the CE challenges it already 
 can count an extra 20 hours more with those 30.
  
  The replay value is like every racer, worth replaying.
  
  ~CONCLUSION~
  
  Well, it's an 
 arcade racer, and if you're reading this you'll probbally be an racing fan. This game is only worth 
 buying if you either like racing games or you played Most Wanted. If you both like racing games 
 and you played the previous NFS games, go for the Collectors Edition. -9.3 SUPERB- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fgjnfgh
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 31, 2006 5:02 am PT
Review:  Uh what to tell. Need for speed was a game that I could never miss any series but they changed 
 since need for speed most wanted. Carbon does not change that much of the last series most wanted. 
 actually carbon is like repeating most wanted but with different cars and levels. I would say that 
 it would be better just to sell those new stages and cars on xbox live marked. I played that game 
 and with two more things differ graphics and the controller. simple: graphics+++ got better, controller --- 
 worsen. you won't be shock to play this game not like when I played need for speed4 dammit 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
