-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed Undercover
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/needforspeedundercover/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plenty of cop chases.
 Instantly join races with press of a button.
 Isn't long before you're driving a cool car.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lots of quirks and nagging gameplay issues.
 Emulates Most Wanted, but doesn't necessarily improve upon it.
 Story isn't much to get excited about.
 Frame rate isn't great.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.5, 50 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 977 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Vancouver
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Nov 17, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Need for Speed returns to its roots with hokey cutscenes, wild cop chases, and solid racing action. 
 

  For the most part, the reaction to the last few Need for Speed games was the same: "Why aren't 
 they more like Need for Speed Most Wanted?" "Where are the cheesy cutscenes and the over-the-top 
 cop chases?" It seems as if EA heard those cries, because for better or for worse, Need for Speed 
 Undercover feels like Most Wanted.  

  In Undercover you play the role of... wait for it... an undercover officer. Along with agent Chase 
 Linh, played by the attractive Maggie Q, your job is to take down a group of street racers that 
 have somehow become involved in an international smuggling ring. The story is told via campy cutscenes 
 that fail to capture the charm of Most Wanted thanks to uninteresting characters and a predictable 
 plot. Having a story provides incentive to make it through race after race, but the whole "this 
 is cheesy so it's cool" thing feels kind of forced this time around.  

           It won't be easy -- we'll have to use our powers of acting to take down the street racers. 

  Like many other Need for Speed games, all of your racing will take place on the streets of a fictitious 
 open-world city -- here it's the Tri-City Bay area. You'll start with a lousy vehicle, but it won't 
 be long before you're able to snag a pink slip to a nicer ride. As you progress you'll earn cash, 
 which can be used to unlock (50+) new vehicles from manufacturers such as Nissan, Dodge, Cadillac, 
 Ford, Porsche, Lamborghini, BMW, Aston Martin, Mitsubishi, and more. If you're into tuning individual 
 aspects of your ride or purchasing individual parts you can do that, but if you're not into tinkering 
 you can purchase an upgrade package and be on your way.  

  Not only will you earn money for winning an event, you'll earn driving points for dominating it -- basically 
 beating it really, really bad. You can power up a number of your driving attributes, but they don't 
 have a noticeable effect on how your car handles. As long as you drive fast you'll probably dominate, 
 but there are occasional races where you'll totally obliterate the time needed to dominate an event, 
 but you'll still lose to the CPU. The game also encourages you to drive with style and drift, draft, 
 and drive really close to other cars, but other than increasing your nitrous there's little to 
 gain from doing so. That said, the new J-Turn mechanic, which lets you bust quick 180s, is invaluable 
 when chasing down rivals or evading the cops. You'll use it because it's useful, though, not because 
 it gets you heroic driving points.  

  The cops are back in full effect in Undercover, and for the most part, their return is welcome. 
 The challenges in which you must ram and take out a certain number of police cars are great fun, 
 as are the challenges where you must cause a certain monetary sum of damage. Of course, you don't 
 always have to ram cars to take them down; you can also run into log trucks, electrical towers, 
 billboards, and more to leave a little surprise for your pursuers. It's too bad that some odd quirks 
 hamper the cop chases. The environmental hazards that you can unleash certainly look cool and are 
 effective, but quite often you won't see any police cars get hit by the objects, yet when the cutscene 
 ends the cars are trashed. Sometimes you won't have to do anything at all to evade police -- the 
 game says "go" and you stay still and nobody finds you. Cops are capable of laying down spikes, 
 but you can go the entire game without them ever doing so. The biggest problem, however, is that 
 the cops don't do much other than bang on the side of your car and yell at you, so if you last 
 long enough they sort of fade away on their own. This makes the chases less challenging than they 
 could have been and also makes them feel artificial, like you're just fulfilling some sort of time 
 requirement until the game decides you've done well enough to escape.  

  Undercover isn't just about messing with the Man. There are events where you need to maintain a 
 lead for a specific amount of time or get a certain distance ahead of your opponent. Sometimes 
 you'll have to shake the cops while trying to keep a stolen ride in pristine condition, and there 
 are checkpoint races and circuit races as well. There's not a whole lot that's original here and 
 the races are generally extremely easy -- you might not see another car for an entire race once you've 
 cleared the starting line. They're difficult on occasion, but this is usually because of the choppy 
 frame rate, which is often dreadful on the PlayStation 3. It's not as if Xbox 360 owners are getting 
 a smooth, fast frame rate, but it's significantly better than the PS3's slide show, which is often 
 so bad that it makes the otherwise great-handling vehicles a chore to drive. What's odd is that 
 there's really no obvious reason for the game's poor frame rate; the city doesn't look much different 
 than those in Carbon and Most Wanted, and the car models have aliasing issues.  

           You might not want to crash into a cop car in real life, but here, it's all good.     

  That said, the game does do a few things very well. The online cops and robbers mode, where the 
 robber tries to pick up money and take it to a drop-off point while another person plays the cop 
 and tries to ram them, is quite a bit of fun. But mostly what the game gets right is its pacing. 
 The races are short -- sometimes as short as 20 seconds, and almost never longer than five minutes. 
 Another cool thing the game does is it lets you instantly jump to the closest race by pressing 
 down on the D pad. If you want to find a specific event you can press up and you're taken to a 
 GPS map, where you can instantly go to the race of your choice. It'll save you a lot of needless 
 backtracking, and combined with the short races, makes sure that Undercover never gets boring. 

  If you're one of the many people who loved Need for Speed Most Wanted, flaws and all, you'll find 
 a lot to like in Undercover. It's not very original and the slow frame rate is a downer, but there's 
 no denying that it's just good fun to run from the cops and wreak havoc on a city in the process. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (66 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ricepuppet
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 5:25 am PT
Review:  It's been a long time since iv'e played such a bad game.
  
  The game starts promising; after a great police chase, short cut scence, you begin out on the street. 
 But..
  
  Wha'ts the reason for even being there on the street? You can just easily press down on the d-pad 
 and you're next race starts. In Most Wanted you had the option of either choosing your (next) race 
 out of list, or race up to it. In this game, there's no point of standing there. Anyway, the races 
 themself are extremely easy; step on the gas without braking. If you have that in mind, you can 
 outrun the rest of the opponents with 10-20 seconds.
  
  The police doesn't even interfere in those races, so there isn't a second challenge either. And 
 when you're first place, it feels like 'Road Rash' (Sega Megadrive) you just yawn you're way to 
 the finish.
  
  The most atrocious part of the game are the cops; they really ruin the gameplay. They're not like 
 in Most Wanted, where they are fun to mess with. No, they're annoying as hell. Why? They're on 
 every street corner when you need to escape. This shouldn't be a problem, you think. But the thing 
 is; they don't take any damage when you hit them!
  
  If you want to lose them, there's no other option but to step on the gas and make them dissapear. 
 No more hiding, taking exits to lose them (this is truly a pain in the ass, cause the radar on 
 the left bottom looks more like blue mess, a heart with vains or something) or smashing them. The 
 police cruisers don't feel a thing when you slam them, they won't even budge.
  
  Even the missions where you need to wreck stuff in order to gain 'damage done to the state' are 
 obnoxious. The only things you'll find to wreck are busstops, oil cans and benches. And they are 
 worth truly nothing. So ranking up that damage counter is so annoying.
  
  It's possible to get some good damage count if you lead the police in a setup trap, but there are 
 just 1 or 2 of them in every chase, and you have to know exactly where they are. With busstops 
 and oil cans, you're often not going to make it.
  
  This could've been done much easier if you had the oppertunity to wreck those police cars for damage 
 points, just like in Most Wanted.
  
  The final point of annoyance must be the music. Where in Most Wanted you had a varied track of 
 rock, metal, rap and electro, this game contains just sad Ambience electro and washed up rock music. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gobears2k6
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I played NFS's MOST WANTED and fell in love with the game, I played and beat the game multiple 
 times, even though the game did have flaws I loved it. So when I bought NFS UNDERCOVER I was expecting 
 more of the same. That isn't necessarily true. Unlike MOST WANTED, in UNDERCOVER you play an undercover 
 cop. You basically go around racing in the city and races pop up for you to select on the D-Pad. 
 That feature makes the game feel like there is no point to it. The races are fun, but the cars 
 handle very poorly unless you have a Tier 1 car. The car selection is better than it has been in 
 the past, there are a lot of cool cars to pick from. Ranging from Exotic cars like Lamborghini's 
 or Muscle cars like a 1970 Dodge Challenger R/T. This game just isn't nearly as fun as MOST WANTED 
 was, I grew bored of it quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashspike1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 1:49 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing on any difficulty. The factor of being able to have a much larger variety 
 of cars just improves its status in my mind. In this game they have also brought back the free 
 roam ability which improves it even more! Customization of the cars is never ending with over 100 
 vinyls to choose from you'll never get fed up of tuning or improving your car! Also the cars you 
 race against depend on the car you're driving so if you are in a crap car then you'll be against 
 other crap cars and not Bugatti Veyrons or Pagani Zonda's! Also there's anoptional car pack for 
 the xBox 360 which I think you should consider buying. The pack provides you with one odf the best 
 supercars in the game. The Koenigsegg CCX is found in this pack along with a Mercedes, BMW, Porsche 
 and a few others. The scenery shows nothing but pure brilliance and I strongly recommend this game 
 for whatever age group as the fun never stops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarfreak15
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 8:05 pm PT
Review:  The review deck pretty much sums it all up. The graphics in the game are good. The genre of the 
 game is fun. But there is a lot more potential in this game then the NFS team are getting out of 
 it. Once again, 200+ to 0 in less then a second due to a cement wall does nothing more then scratch 
 up your car a bit. Perhaps dent the hood up and mess up the front end. But we're still waiting 
 for the car to be ripped to shreds. Well, at least I am. It's not hard to get a good car in the 
 this game. You get one almost instantly. The car customization is limited and when you go online, 
 it's even more limited due to the fact you can't display graphics on the car.... So what's the 
 point? Once again, there are a crap load of races to do. That is indeed the genre of the game, 
 but can get quite repetitive before long. Sure they try to mix it up with police outruns and cost 
 to state and all that jazz, but we've already seen all that with Most Wanted. The realism of this 
 game, again, is most disappointing. When your car gets near top speed, motion blur kicks in. Some 
 may find that cool. But I, as a gamer, strive for realism and never have I heard of people getting 
 motion blur like that. Sure it's only something small but there are bigger things as well. When 
 you get to the higher up classes of cars, they're capable of taking a 90 degree turn at roughly 
 150 mph. The road system is unrealistic, and no matter how fast your car seems to go, there always 
 seems to be that one car that's just a bit faster. Sure it adds to the competitiveness of the game, 
 but again, realism is key. And for some reason all the cops in the game seem to be unbelievably 
 fast. So much for 'outrunning' the cops. I wasn't a fan of this game before, and I'm still not 
 much of a fan. 
  
  
  If you're looking for a good, real, racing game. I'd recommend GRID. Fantastic game. Although it's 
 track racing, it's the best I've seen to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 22, 2009 10:10 am PT
Review:  The 12th game in the Need for Speed series is unfortunately not as good as the others. It seems 
 big but it keeps a bad secret. Behind the huge map including 3 states, the encounter with the police 
 cars, and the car's horsepower which is bigger than one hundred stables, it is desparatingly trying 
 to gain your love. It is continously offering you gifts."Take some points"
  "Try those new tunning packs", "Why don't you take this car". All would be OK if they had been 
 offered after the introduction.
  
  At first this approach functions well. You think that it is all right if you lose the first 20 
 races. When every success offers you so much you start thinking like this and you can't find anything 
 bad in the game. But as you go on you see that the free roam map is in relity limited and not a 
 little! And the biggest problem in undercover is that with all the stuff you "gain" the success 
 loses its value. And in a while more problems appear.
  
  The funny thing is that despite the generousity of the game, the new Heroic Driving Engine of Need 
 for Speed is completely the opposite, especially with the framerates. If you speed up a lot the 
 visuals get so bad that you may not be able to see the road in front of you. And it's a pity because 
 the game is good designed.
  
  Then we have the Undercover's bad approach in the player's freedom. The map of the 3 states is huge 
 and amazing. If you complete all the missions you will be able to explore every place. But in comparison 
 with other games (burnout , midnight club) it is much more limited. And this happens because you 
 can't drive free in a race. Undercover limits you to the places that it consider suitable to play 
 and complete the mission.
  
  Fortunately in the getaway missions with the police you are completely free. Nevertheless these 
 events are sometimes limited by stone blocks, etc.
  
  But Undercover is not a WEAK game. There has been a big improvement from the last game (Prostreet) . 
 It comes back to the troubles with the "cops" and it is an original NFS game. The game offers a 
 very good experience especially for those who love chalenges. The variety of the cars is vast. It 
 includes "simple" cars like lotus elise to exotic and anbelievable cars like the forbiden Buggati 
 Veyron. The events are revolutionary and sometimes have a combination of objectives. So you don't 
 easily get bored.
  
  As for the multiplayer mode it includes a big variety of events. You can play getaway missions 
 except from single races. There is really a lot of fun!
  
  Now if the game is capable for your game list; the decision is yours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynamix22
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 5:02 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Undercover is a racing game, as you might have imagined. There's a lot of cool 
 real-life cars, good tuning options, but the gameplay is mediocre. First of all, it's buggy - there 
 are a lot of pop-ups, the framerate is unstable at most times, and the races are really cake. It's 
 nice to play a racing game once in a while, but this one just isn't that good. It also includes 
 what probobly is the most stupid open world in gaming history - why the hell would you make an 
 open world racing game, if all the races are in closed tracks within the city. The creators of 
 this game should really take a look at Burnout Paradise. Anyway, it's playable - but it's definately 
 not worth a lot of money. Oh, and did I mention the horrible story?
  
  Pros
  
  Nice sense of speed.
  Cool cars.
  Good tuning options.
  
  Cons
  
  Glitches and bugs 
 on every corner.
  Too easy.
  Can be finished in a few days.
  Outstandingly horrible and laughable story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amitagarwal
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2009 8:53 am PT
Review:  Since its release I had been hearing all bad things about this game. But being a fan of the series 
 I just had to play the game. and.. to my surprise the game is not all that bad.
  Game manufacturers have released a patch to take care of the frame rate problem.
  so with the 
 game patched you now have:-
  nice car models
  a huge map
  intense cop chases
  nice music and sounds
  racy cut scenes
  a decent story for what is primarily a race game
 
  wide variety of races although the drift races are missed by a long shot.
  world graphics are ok.. but the brightness is too loud...
  
  overall as you start playing the 
 game, it tends to suck you in and after a while you are addicted to finish the game.
  Although not quite like a few previous nfs but still the game is good enough.
  May be the expectations 
 are too high now that we have played all the previous versions but I would still say that this 
 game is a decent fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turokdude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 4:16 pm PT
Review:  AWESOME GAME!!!!!! this game is awesome!!!! i would of givin it a 10 if it hadnt been that the 
 game is super short.... lets hope the up coming need for speed called need for speed: shift is much 
 longer.... need for speed under cover has lots of action driving and it is way too easy...... the 
 only challenge is the cop chases.... the cop chases are so real that you will probally just mostly 
 do cop chases during the story mode..... the xbox live part of the game is pretty cool with cops 
 and robbers and stuff but the story is the best part..... your an undercover cop whose boss is named 
 chase.... i wont say more so i wont spoil it for all of you need for speed fans..... all i need to 
 say is that this game is awesome but short.... i completed it 2 tiimes in 2 and a half days.... so 
 just renting this game from gamefly would b plenty but i just like playing games over and over 
 again..... thats why i got it..... so i can just play it alot and make my cars better and faster 
 and smash the cops in cop chases...... this game is alot like need for speed most wanted but this 
 time your the cop!!!!! chase gives you missions to take down racers all the time..... thats all 
 i need to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carmine_The_Man
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 19, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  There really isn't much to say about this game aside from how boring and slow it is.
  
  The story is terrible but it's a racing game so it gets let off on that one. There is a minuscule 
 amount of cars to choose from compared to GOOD racing games (Forza Motorsport 2) and the amount 
 of modifications you can use on cars has been lowered. No neon lights? No hydrolics? Sad face.
 
  
  The game play itself is repetitive, boring, slow and extremely easy. That is all I can say about 
 it. No matter how many new cars I get, or how much I modify a car, or how many races I win (All 
 of them looking at how easy it is) it remains boring. 
  
  The graphics are ok I guess. Nothing new or revolutionary, not that having great graphics would 
 save this games terribleness.
  
  It has online, your average online for a racing game at that. You've got your normal racing game 
 modes and an option to choose between your own cars or un-modified stock cars. 
  
  In short, don't buy this game, it's abysmal. If you are looking for a good racing game get Forza 
 2 or any other racing game for that matter (GRID, PGR, Test Drive Unlimited, etc.) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze_adeel
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 18, 2009 12:16 pm PT
Review:  first of all i would like to say that i am a big fan of nfs series i hav played every single nfs 
 there is .but now ea games has officially lost the edge!
  after most wanted nfs games have started to degrade and now nfs undercover is a piece of crap !
 
  it sucks from gameplay to settings (I mean the city) to races!!
  First of all there is no main menu .u straight away get into the car .man I think there should 
 be a main menu. secondly u don't have a garage but just shops .there should atleast be a garage.
 
  The so called heroic driving is BOGUS.. burnouts drifts 180 turn dude wtf that could be done in 
 previous nfs like prostreet.
  Some cars handling (I dunno what to call it) like audi tt .that car can turn at 290 km/h .on the 
 other hand in cars like Toyota supra u hav to cum even below 100km/h to turn.
  There are only sprints circuits & checkpoints .other include highway battle (wht a ripoff) and 
 outrun. Ea what happened to drift and drag (the most enjoyable events of racing) . every race requires 
 u to just get a better handling car like audit t and u can beat even bugati lolzzz.
  Police chases were the best thing about nfs but now these r also events. police chases r also become 
 boring.
  The tri-city seems so unrealistic I mean the building look like boxes. and last thing the framework 
 of this game game is awful it will make u feel sometimes as if u watching a slide show.
  This year nfs undercover is a must NOT have game .so unlike me save ur money (as I have bought 
 it and I am suffering 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcarver
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2009 10:40 am PT
Review:  This is more like one of the best ever racing games, NSF: Most Wanted, although without clear goals 
 and status.
  
  The racing is fun, although more arcade-ish then Most Wanted. You don't get a feel for the weight 
 of the car, and cornering is way to easy. I still enjoy flying around and just all out racing, 
 the jumps are there and still fun, out running the cops is back and is a blast like you'd expect.
 
  
  Most wanted I couldn't put down; I couldn't wait to finish it. This one I don't get that sense 
 of accomplishment, and what my immediate and long term goals are. So it feels very repetitive after 
 a while. Luckily there are many different jobs/missions you can go after to get your street cred' 
 up to advance in level. To bad some of those are won in the first 10 seconds, and easy as long 
 as you don't crash or make a major mistake.
  
  Upgrading cars has been made easier, for better or for worse. Once you have enough cred' and money 
 you can just get a complete upgrade kit. Which is what you want to do, because the individual upgrades 
 don't do much, and only change either your power, steering, or turning. There's no finesse to getting 
 faster shifting, or creating a drifting beast. 
  
  Overall its a fun game, its still fun to outrun the cops or course. Although if you are looking 
 for more the an arcade game and for some good depth and accomplishments you are better off somewhere 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rasika
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Graphics and Sounds are quite good, but the storyline sucks big time !!!. I must admit, its like 
 a carbon copy of NFS Most wanted, with a very poor storyline. The game looks good, with some nice 
 graphics and special effects, and soundtracks were also quite good.
  
  Cars look awsome with the shadow effects and custom paint jobs. Customizing a car can be a bit 
 hard for a new player, since the menu system doesnt help at all.
  
  Soundtracks are quite good when racing, but not quite with a police chase or in the menus. Sound 
 effects are awsome, gives a good feeling about racing.
  
  Gameplay is quite easy, as soon as the player have a fully upgraded tier 1 car (which is not hard 
 at all to get) , winning races are like nothing.
  
  Online gameplay is good, enjoyable playing with friends and also in other playlists.
  
  Overall, 
 carbon copy of Most Wanted, but not better than it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deth_Walkr
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Undercover. Been anticipating this game for months. It is good that the one I played 
 was borrowed and not bought. As with all my reviews let's start with the good.
  
  The graphics are great. You'll find the cars perfectly modeled and the background in races is superb 
 and filled with colour and clarity. The music really drives the excitement when you are racing 
 as well. Though some choice of songs I could have done without. Jumping right into the action and 
 getting right into a race is easy as you like. The controls aren't to hard to get used to.
  
  Let's move on to the average parts of the game. The choice of races to choose from are nice. 
 Two new types have popped up. Highway battle, where you try to get ahead of your opponent by a 
 certain distance, usually 1000 metres or at the very least be ahead of them by the time the timer 
 runs out. There is a chase as well where you have to chase down your opponent, pass them and stay 
 ahead of them for a certain amount of time. Drag races have been dropped and everything else is 
 the same.
  
  Customizing your car is comparable to the last two previous games. You can place vinyls wherever 
 you want and do just about anything you want with them. You can also shape your body parts. The 
 customization of the performance of your car however has yet to reach the brilliant peak of NFS 
 Underground 2. The 5 or so bars with cursors make a reappearance.
  
  The story and the acting aren't too bad either. It's on par with Most Wanted. Police chases aren't 
 too changed up. Some new tactics here and there but in general the cops are pretty easy to get 
 away from. But, the spike belt is much harder to spot.
  
  Now for the bad. Almost all the cars feel the same. There is no real variation to driving. In a 
 racing game with many different cars this is a no no. The actual driving doesn't feel challenging 
 in the slightest. I have used brake twice in the game and once was at the beginning when I thought 
 you had too. Using the slow mo button or simply letting go of gas will see you stopping within 
 a few seconds. It's amazing how fast these cars can go from 150+mph to 50. The slow mo bar is shorter 
 but it is way more powerful. For most corners it's more of a hindrance than an asset.
  
  Could someone please tell the developers that numerous checkpoint races are meaningless and pointless. 
 It makes sense if it is part of a story and there is a reason to get somewhere in a specific time 
 but other than that they fail to make an impact and are more annoying to complete than anything 
 else. And why can I only take a picture of my car if I am a Live Account member? I have a hard 
 drive only for saved games? Why shouldn't I be able to keep the pictures local?
  
  This game isn't bad really but it's name is its curse. If it was not NFS not much people would 
 pay attention to it in the first place and because it is NFS people expect a better game than what 
 was produced. The masses have spoken. Undercover should do like it's name says and stay undercover. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: houseofpain2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing it for awhile now, customization is great, car selection is great and the over-all 
 game play is fantastic. But the difficulty makes too big of a leap about midway through the game. 
 Your still driving a roughly modded tier 3 car racing against fully loaded tier 2 sometimes tier 
 1 cars. AI is highly advanced but too aggressive. The race goes from the original great Need for 
 Speed street racing to a demolition derby, with the computer opponents trying to push you into 
 the wall, sometimes t-boning you and still accelerating preventing you from moving at all. Lack 
 of camera angles are horrible. 4 total camera angles but you can not rotate, it is a constant fixed 
 position, sometimes preventing you from seeing traffic or other racers.
  
  Love the game but don't know how much more i can take with the instant 'easy' to 'hard' difficulty 
 change, and very good but also very stupid "pushy" AI mechanics. Crap camera angles... whats the 
 right thumb stick for... nothing, its something they could have used to let us rotate the camera, 
 but instead, a constant fixed position and a full thumb stick on the controller with no use.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pranjal87
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 8:59 am PT
Review:  I waited for this game for many a days. Finally got my hands on it on X Box 360.
  
  OK, the game has very good music, much better graphics, surround sound, and good 'ol car race. Another 
 nice thing was the amount of customization you can do with it. Cars can be modified with after market 
 visuals, to a level which wasn't available before.
  One is npt limited to the space designated by EA for mods. YOu can custom equip your car, placing 
 vinyls on any parts of the body, finally they are movable, instead of sticking to "Front left","Rear 
 Right". Impressive
  
  BUT
  
  The game is very very repetitive, any one who has played most wanted knows what the game is about. Story 
 progresses very slowly. Nothing mind boggling in it. Highway run, you chasing the bad guys are the 
 only two new things. While playing, it felt that you were playing newer version of most wanted. Driving 
 gets boring after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grubes26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 3:38 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people have down played this game as a horrible game, but I have to disagree. The people 
 at EA have brought Need For Speed back to its original roots with cop chases but still kept it 
 with the street tuner scene which gives players the best of both words. The story line is great 
 with infiltrating each of the gangs, doing their dirty work for awhile, then having to take them 
 out one by one, all while keeping it on the down low. There was a time while playing the game that 
 I had a hunch that your so called 'boss' was actually was one of the bad guys within the force 
 from the cut scenes but I couldn't believe that it was true because it would be such a dramatic 
 twist to the game (and speaking of the cut scenes, I thought it was a great idea of having real 
 life people as the characters instead of the computer generated ones that you usually get with 
 video games) . It was definitely a different twist to the game but that's what makes it such a great 
 game. Another great attribute to the game was the 'Speedbreaker' button which allows you to be 
 in slow-mo but it also allows you to make super quick adjustments in your driving especially when 
 your on the highway battles. I can't even remember how many times I had to use that to dodge the 
 oncoming traffic that were all packed together with only a small opening. And the fact that you 
 didn't have to drive around the how world of the game to find races but had the option to just 
 click the down button and go to the next closest race no matter what was great. Then again that 
 made the game go by really fast rather than getting immersed into it and exploring to find the 
 races like in NFS Underground 2. That had to be my only downside to the whole game was that it 
 didn't take that long to beat. Hopefully in the next addition of NFS, it will have a longer storyline. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwh1te24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 11:53 am PT
Review:  No, I have not played this game all that much. I have played it over a friend's house and have 
 played it myself and have watched my friend played it while he has gotten far into the game. All 
 I have to say is the game is explosive. I played with a new save file and the car you get at the 
 beginning is a little hard to handle but is nothing too problematic. It's something that you can 
 definitely deal with with no problem and it's not hard to win races with. After playing a bunch 
 of races with a new save file and finding the game a lot of fun, my friend loaded his save file 
 where he was towards the end of the career. My friend and I switched on and off with the races 
 and the chases. Boy is it fun. I played a race which was a little challenging, but I managed to 
 dominate on my first try. After watching my friend chase down a thug, I had to accomplish the same 
 task in my next challenge. It is a lot of fun chasing down cars and as the chase goes on and on, 
 the chase grows on you and gets to be very epic as the AI is excellent and exceeded my expectations 
 by doing three-sixties after I would stop it and swerving around trying to evade my grasp. But 
 then, we had to go somewhere. After I played Need For Speed: Undercover, I thought the game was 
 very exciting and I want to pick it up myself! Although I didn't play it that much, I recommend 
 picking it up a lot especially if you like racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameObserver
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 5:40 am PT
Review:  Electronic Arts is known for a lot of things: popular sports games, trendy production, gobbling 
 up smaller developers and being the root of all evil. The most consistent of all its labels has 
 to be EA's incessant milking of popular franchises (The Sims anyone?) . Need for Speed falls into 
 that category. Ever since Distinctive Software (EA Canada) first released the title in 1994 for 
 3DO, a slew of sequels followed. Last year's Need for Speed Pro Street took a break from the all-pervading 
 need to escape authorities while devastating innocent bus stops, much to the chagrin of many fans, 
 but for better or worse the franchise is back to its roots. 
  
  Need for Speed: Undercover continues in EA's shameless tradition of re-releasing virtually the 
 same game with a few tweaks. At this point, the franchise practically begs for something fresh 
 in the "cops vs. street racers" formula, but as it stands, this version is a no-nonsense, straight-to-the-action 
 experience without the metrosexual undertones of Need for Speed Carbon. This time, it's all about 
 gritty racing with fewer Barbies and Kens in plastic toy cars arguing over who is better "groomed". 
 The game seriously lacks in originality so beware; it's the same old NFS, albeit in a lighter package. 
 This new street racer is perfect for people dipping their toes in the world of Need for Speed for 
 the first time, but it may feel a bit exhausted for veterans of the franchise. 
  
  
  MEET THE NEW NEED FOR SPEED "LITE"
  
  The best way to describe Need for Speed: Undercover is 
 by comparing it to a new diet soda with cherry flavor and a zipping label... It's still the same 
 popular drink with an absurdly recognizable brand name and taste, but it's apparent that the makers 
 are too scared to try something new. Similarly this new NFS installment offers what its predecessor 
 had, though in a corporately diluted kind of way. Undercover is a good game, but the formula -- 
 right down to the way players find events -- has been used so much, EA is practically begging its 
 core fan base to stick with the old format, even though many would rather move on. 
  
  Nevertheless, it's a slimmer, improved package. Gone are the "wingmen" of Carbon. Also absent is 
 the testosterone and artificial "attitude" of previous NFS games. Players take on the role of an 
 undercover agent trying to infiltrate the world of street racing. Action is told through decent 
 cut-scenes with bearable acting. No Oscars here, but at least things aren't as bad as in Pro Street 
 and are less campy than in Carbon from an artistic point of view. 
  
  Everything is trimmed to accentuated action. Players are thrown into the thick of things at the 
 intro with a race through a Tri-City highway and an entire police precinct giving chase -- as clear 
 a disassociation from Pro Street's track racing as you can get. It's back to old business with 
 in a magnanimous police barricade collision at the very beginning.
  
  The tempo is what mainly sets Undercover from Carbon. The story is told through a series of MTV-paced 
 scenes depicting special agent Chase Linh (ya, clever) coordinating your undercover operation 
 from dimly lit sky rise offices. You are tasked with infiltrating the world of street racing. The 
 first missions revolve around getting the attention of potential gangs. Players must ransack public 
 property (bus stops) and other drivers to get the attention of the police. Once cops give chase, 
 you run like hell in an open-ended city 
  
  Missions eventually evolve into to more traditional street racing events. Circuit races, Sprints 
 and Checkpoints are back. Drift is gone and Duel no longer begs the issue, having been revamped 
 and rechristened Outrun and Highway Battle, both offering a few improvements while maintaining 
 the "duel" quality. No more "quickies" on the streets; no more annoying crew mates during events 
 and gimmicky skills, and no more turfs. Players are simply asked to burn rubber, and burn it good 
 and often. Controls are responsive and crisp, as usual.
  
  
  SOMETHING OLD, SOMETHING NEW, SOMETHING RED AND BLUE
  
  Police chases have a more pronounced 
 role than in Carbon, and unlike the latter, players will have a much easier time getting away from 
 the men in blue, at least while free roaming. Most chases will last a minute or two. This is mainly 
 due to shaky police AI and destructible objects available to slow cops down. Ramming destructible 
 items like construction material will always stop the law in its tracks, which is an improvement 
 from previous games, but unfortunately the effect needs some tweaking as squad cars that can clearly 
 pass or avoid debris are usually stopped dead in their tracks. The feature feels a bit unnatural. 
 
  
  The game features a variety of law-evading missions, the most common being Escape and Cost to State 
 and Cop Takedown. All three offer a variation of destruction and evasion and give more experience 
 points than the standard racing missions. Experience improves various skills -- tires, transmission, 
 engine, breaks, earning bonuses, parts discounts -- independent of physical car upgrades. Points 
 are given out after every race, depending on how well the player drives, but cop missions are specifically 
 designed for that. 
  
  A handful of complimentary "grand theft auto" Escape missions are injected into the plot on occasion, 
 breaking the monotony of roaming the Tri-City area in your personal ride. Said missions are preceded 
 by a cut scene of you leaving a parking lot with a stolen car, only to be chased by the law. Success 
 is measured by evading the police and reaching a mark on the map with the vehicle intact. A few 
 variations of the same game type exist, some of which don't have a "car damage" meter, but more 
 depth here could have done the game type some major good. I'm not asking EA to have an "on foot" 
 aspect similar to GTA, but the ability to pick your cars before stealing them, or the option to 
 buy the hot car or its parts at a discount at the end of the mission would have been sweet. Basically, 
 a million things could have been included, but weren't.
  
  
  AS LONG AS THE ROAD DOESN'T END
  
  Outrun events put players behind a single opponent with 
 the objective to pass and stay ahead for a certain amount of time. The concept is fun but needs 
 improving. The car in the lead can drive anywhere it pleases with the trailing adversary having 
 a limited amount of time to take the lead. Sounds good, but the free-roaming nature of the mission 
 can be head-bangingly infuriating. I personally experienced failing to pass an opponent despite 
 approaching at a speed that would normally put me in the lead, simply because the opponent decided 
 to turn at the last second on an intersection while I kept driving forward. The rule of the event 
 is to stay ahead but that rule is blurred when opponents are neck and neck and the leader simply 
 decides to take another route without the player's knowledge, since one can't glance to the sides, 
 only to the back. Who leads is also muddled when making u-turns. Doing so puts AI into a knot with 
 the computer always having to pass the incoming player before itself doing a 180 maneuver and attempting 
 to catch up. Computer controlled opponents will also get stuck trying to pass through solid objects 
 to catch up.
  
  Highway Battle resembles Outrun except players are asked to put a maximum distance between their 
 opponent. The game type is in first perspective. Unequivocally, it's not the easiest of modes, 
 because after driving around in 3rd perspective the switch to 1st perspective will leave more than 
 a few drivers disoriented, especially since action takes place in heavy traffic. Players will often 
 misjudge distance between passing vehicles and hit them, resulting in failed races. Such missions 
 can be a bit frustrating but they are often brisk and fun when things go well that is. Many later 
 Highway Battles produce strange results. I have had races where I was competitive throughout the 
 event and other instances (same race) where my opponent literally flew away at warp speed from 
 the start. The sight was downright comical, but it left me scratching my head, since I didn't do 
 anything different between attempts. Having said that, at later stages players will often rely 
 on their opponents making a mistake in order to win.
  
  A few missions will ask you to take down opponents or protect other drivers. Here players will 
 see icons above their aggressors and colleagues. Overall such events are fun, but the game's AI 
 again fails the test on a few points. Computer opponents, like their police counterparts, react 
 to who is in their line of sight, regardless of what is in front of them. I had an instance where 
 three "black" cars (bad guys) got stuck behind a concrete barrier around a building while trying 
 to get to me. All three idiots attempted to pass the solid object for a few minutes even though 
 the barrier was only a few feet wide.
  
  Like in previous Need for Speed games, cars accumulate "heat" points that draw unwanted police 
 attention. Players can no longer spend money to remove "heat" off their rides, which is a downer. 
 Money in Need for Speed: Undercover is only used to buy cars, upgrades and visual changes. 
  
  All of the aforementioned game types (except cop missions) give cash, though Tournament races 
 (the equivalent of circuit but more "important") offer cars as prizes. Esthetic customization has 
 been clearly toned down. Players are no longer able to place art on their rides anywhere they please, 
 or reshape them for that matter. This aspect clearly took a hit. 
  
  
  LADIES AND GENTLEMEN WE ARE SPOILED
  
  What can be said of the levels? Everything takes place 
 in rather impressive-looking cities and surrounding areas. They are on par with what has been released 
 in most driving games with open-ended elements. Clearly, such designs should wow and awe anybody 
 playing for the first time, but they won't impress all the spoiled gamers out there (and we're 
 all spoiled at this point) . It should be mentioned that unlike Carbon, everything takes place in 
 the day, which is disappointing because cities would have really looked nice in neon, or any other 
 weather effects for that matter. Furthermore, after playing for a few hours players will notice 
 many familiar-looking areas during races. The Tri-City bay only looks big on the surface.
  
  Graphically Need for Speed: Undercover tries a bit too much. High speeds cause blurring, like 
 the ones found in many 70's soft-core porn movies But in general, everything looks very realistic. 
 High speeds will sometimes confuse players with all the details, especially on sharp curves, but 
 in general the game looks great. Now if only Need for Speed would finally add some pedestrians.
 
  
  Sound and music are a mixed bag. Some tunes are memorable while most are downright forgettable. 
 The tack list also seems a bit leaner compared to previous racing titles. Players will notice the 
 same handful of tunes recycled countless times, maybe because few tracks stand out. The ambient 
 music in menus is quite good, though. As one would expect from an EA game, sound effects are topnotch 
 both in police chatter and car engine noises. Different engine pitches when glancing back or changing 
 the camera view should have been added.
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  Overall, Need for Speed: Undercover is a decent game but it is disappointingly similar to its predecessors. 
 It doesn't try to break the mold, opting to trim things by focusing on racing rather than plot. 
 The story's pacing and mixture of plot-driven events is spread out evenly. They always come at 
 the right moment. This NFS is definitely not boring, but it is stale production-wise. Gameplay 
 is also in need of a major shift. EA should focus on adding pedestrians and life on the streets 
 in future Need for Speed games, as well as more customization options and all the elements leading 
 up to races. The world of street racing is complex from an underground point of view, and this 
 installment of the series does little to tap its full potential. 
  
  
  GRAPHICS 82
  Realistic city designs and nice cars, though a bit overdone in some effects. Locations become repetitive 
 with time. 
  
  GAMEPLAY 70
  Numerous issues with the new game modes, but racing is crisp and responsive. Stupid artificial 
 intelligence. 
  
  PRODUCTION 65
  Game definitely took a major cutback in production, offering fewer plot features. The underground 
 street racing world is barely skimmed. Meaningless plot.
  
  SOUND 84
  A few memorable tracks, but in general racing tunes are weak. Menu music is great. A colorful orchestra 
 of sound effects.
  
  LASTING APPEAL 73
  Plenty of racing events puts game time at around 15 hours in single player, with online play extending 
 the action somewhat, but the formula is getting old.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakckl
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2009 3:54 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Undercover is the latest installment of the popular EA series, Need for Speed. After 
 the previous game in the series, ProStreet, was dogged due to the shift to legitimate, circuit 
 race days, the series has returned to illegal street racing. As the title suggests, you assume 
 the role of an undercover policeman, trying to take down 'an international crime syndicate of car 
 thieves and street racers.' 
  
  Shortly after starting the game, you are introduced to Inspector Chase Linh (played by the beautiful 
 Maggie Q who guides you through the storyline) as well as other gang members. The cut scenes in 
 this game are not convincing at all and the plot made no sense. There is a lot of obvious plot 
 dumping and the characters all try to act tough but really just come out as 'wannabe gangster.' 
 
  
  The game takes place in Tri City Bay, a conglomerate of four main areas, connected by a massive 
 highway system. While EA calls it an open world map, it really isn't. Unlike Underground 2, Most 
 Wanted or Carbon, there is absolutely no need to free roam. There are no hidden shops and races 
 and your car can be modified from a non  existent garage from within the START menu. Even when 
 you are in the free roam, you don't need to drive to a race, you can just press down on the D-pad, 
 and you will be transported to the nearest race event, even if it's on the other side of the city.
 
  
  To get around, there is an array of over 50 cars to choose from (bike lovers will have to look 
 elsewhere) . The car range is wonderful  namely the Bugatti Veyron, the soon to be released Nissan 
 370Z, Nissan GT-R, Lamborghini Gallardo LP560 - 4 and the Audi R8, to name a few. Each car is ranked 
 into a tier (1 being the fastest, 4 being the slowest) . Tuning has returned so you can upgrade your 
 car with the latest in peformance parts to get an unfair advantage over the competition, as well 
 as sculpting bodykits and spoilers and adding them to your car.
  
  The racing modes include Circuit, Sprint and Highway Battles  an exciting concept where you race 
 a rival down a traffic filled highway. As part of your undercover duties, you must also perform 
 gang missions  i. e. steal cars and deliver them without totalling them; as well as make trouble 
 with the police. The races are both incredibly short and the AI are unbelievably easy to beat. 
 In some cases, you may not see another racer until you cross the finish. For beating the record 
 time on the stage, you will 'Dominate' it; even this is child's play.
  
  With a criminal town as the background, the police do play a part in Undercover. In certain missions, 
 you will have to destroy a certain number of police vehicles, or evade them in a certain time limit, 
 or rack up a certain cost to state. Pursuit breakers (objects which conveniently fall to destroy 
 any pursuing police vehicles when driven into) and cooldown spots have returned from Most Wanted 
 / Carbon to aid in evading the police. At times, the police can be incredibly hard to deal with, 
 with their spike strips and SUV units which ram into you at high speed. At other times, you can 
 evade a Federal police chase by using only the highways. 
  
  To be honest, I cannot actually recommend buying it, as much as I cannot recommend letting it pass 
 by. I do encourage you to rent it. While Undercover was a bit of fun for a couple weekends and 
 it does have some addictive qualities, it lacks replay value and originality, so I guess the decision 
 is yours.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: damodar_thade
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 11, 2009 6:11 am PT
Review:  Undercover started off very good the best thing about it is the acting and cut scenes. 
  The gameplay was goods but the master events became more like demolition derby's than races and 
 once you unlocked new parts or car tiers your NPC opponents were scaled up regardless of the fact 
 if you could or could not afford the new parts or a better car.
  
  This results in forcing the player to try and complete repetitive countless events/races to make 
 cash for new parts/cash i would not mind this but you get very little cash for most races except 
 story mission and "master" events which were often near the end very difficult or as i said more 
 like demolition derby's. 
  
  The cost to state, cop take down, escape events were some of the most fun and some of the most challenging 
 but awarded the player NO cash rewards what so ever.
  
  I have been a fan of and played NFS games since PS1 and loved them upuntill most wanted. I enjoyed 
 the game for a while but gave up as it became irritating and often infuriating to play it deserved 
 to be alot better and should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengefulwill
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 10:33 am PT
Review:  It's actually a really good game. It does get repetitive after a while, but the multiplayer does 
 make up for it. It's actually a really good game. It does get repetitive after a while, but the 
 multiplayer does make up for it. It's actually a really good game. It does get repetitive after 
 a while, but the multiplayer does make up for it. It's actually a really good game. It does get 
 repetitive after a while, but the multiplayer does make up for it. It's actually a really good game. 
 It does get repetitive after a while, but the multiplayer does make up for it. It's actually a really 
 good game. It does get repetitive after a while, but the multiplayer does make up for it. It's actually 
 a really good game. It does get repetitive after a while, but the multiplayer does make up for 
 it. It's actually a really good game. It does get repetitive after a while, but the multiplayer 
 does make up for it. It's actually a really good game. It does get repetitive after a while, but 
 the multiplayer does make up for it. It's actually a really good game. It does get repetitive after 
 a while, but the multiplayer does make up for it. It's actually a really good game. It does get 
 repetitive after a while, but the multiplayer does make up for it. It's actually a really good game. 
 It does get repetitive after a while, but the multiplayer does make up for it. It's actually a really 
 good game. It does get repetitive after a while, but the multiplayer does make up for it. It's actually 
 a really good game. It does get repetitive after a while, but the multiplayer does make up for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sivasiva
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed is a solid game that has open world racing that will attract your attention. It 
 is different from last year's prostreet and i have to say that EA has created a successful game. 
 Not only with its open-world racing, it has plenty of cutscenes, cop chases and boss takedowns. 
 Races are interesting and follow the storyline. There will be some betrayal here and there that 
 will keep you preoccupied as you go undercover in the city. One big addition to NFS: Undercover 
 is that there are now cop chase races that were absent from NFS: Prostreet. There are cop races 
 types such as outrun where you will have to outrun the cops in a limited time, cost to state where 
 you will have create destruction in the city before evading the cops in a limited time and police 
 takedown where you have to destroy a certain number of police cars before evading in a limited 
 time. There are also other races such as circuit, time trail and canyon races. But surprisingly, 
 there aren't any drag or drift races. It would really be good if EA added those because those were 
 my favourite. And in this game, there are new cars and old ones from previous installments. There 
 are plenty of European, Japanese and American cars. So you will have a wide array of cars to buy 
 from.
  
  The storyline in this game is interesting. You go undercover to bring down those top car gangs 
 in the city. You will be accompanied and instructed by the hot Maggie Q. There are plenty and plenty 
 of races and those races are easy. By the time you finish half the game, you will have enough money 
 to buy some awesome cars. And you will probably buy all of your favourite cars by the time your 
 career completion reachers 100%. I had bought Lamborghini Gallardo, Lamborghini Murcielago, Chevrolet 
 Corvette, Mclaren F1 and Pagani Zonda by the time i completed the game. Graphics in the game are 
 a bit down. Car models don't look that great. Framerate tends to drop a bit. The soundtrack is 
 also not that great as there are little songs. But most probably, you wont think about that as 
 you will be busy escaping cops in the game. The environment is detailed in the game. Its like a 
 real life city although there aren't any pedestrians in the game. Cutscenes are delivered well 
 in the game. The actors did a great job in acting out their roles. There have been some complaints 
 about not being able to drive to the event races. Instead, you will have to launch the race from 
 the in-game map. I think what EA did was right as it would be really tiresome to drive to all the 
 events in the game as there are so many races. It is great to explore the whole city. You can use 
 your favourite car and zoom through the streets but watch out for your heat level. Maintain the 
 heat level as if it is too high, cops will come after you.
  
  NFS: Undercover is a solid game that will most probably be bought by every racing fan and non-racing 
 fans. It is a great game. Although hardcore games will be pissed off by the difficulty level, it 
 is still a great game and is a great start-off for new racing fans to try out their racing skills. 
 For those who want a challenge in a racing game, I suggest go get Midnight Club: Los Angeles instead 
 as that is a really difficult game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaiah502
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 30, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  nn nnn nnn nnnnn nn nnnnnnn nnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnn nnnnnn nnnnn nnnnnnnnn nn nnnn n nn nnnnnnn nn nnnn 
 nnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn nnnnn nnnnnn nnnnnn nnnnnnnn nnnn nnnnnnnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnn 
 nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn nnnnnn nnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnn nnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnn 
 nnnnnnnnnnnnnnn nnnnnn nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn nnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnnnnnn nnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnno good a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a i already wrote a review I dont wanna write 
 it again leave me alone jerks. aaaaaaa hhhhh aaaa aaa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a I am 
 your father motha ****er. h a a a a a a a a a a a a a why so serius lets put a smile on that face 
 sssssssslash your dead black guy time for try outs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 30, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  I have been a long time player of Need For Speed games. I remember the original Need For Speed 
 and how great it was. Then came Need For Speed Underground which took the series in a new direction. 
 Very fun and new. Then Most Wanted came out. Another surprisingly good game, but a disappointment 
 from the Underground series. Then we had Carbon, Most Wanted with a few new cars - a waste of time. 
 The came the horrid Pro-Street, a game that shamefully wears its Need For Speed license. So this 
 game had high expectations to meet.
  
  Sadly it only half fulfills them. The game starts out rather disappointingly, you're thrown into 
 a pre-customized car with no option to pick your first car and build up as most of these games 
 do. The cutscenes are as stupid and pointless as ever - you're a undercover cop and you're trying 
 to get the bad car smugglers and save the city. Sure you are, you just happen to smash hundreds 
 of police cars in the process and rack up hundreds of thousands of dollars in damage for the state 
 - which you work for. The whole plot is very hokey and obviously there only to provide reasons 
 to race. As well as provide a reason for the racing, the sexy Maggie Q is nearly popping out of 
 her top in some of the cutscenes making something else besides your car rev up.
  
  When it gets down to the racing, it is as it was in Most Wanted. However the controls seem sloppier 
 and less fine tuned. Adding to the frustration are absurd collision detections. You'll be flying 
 along at 150 mph and merely hit a curved part of the wall and instead of deflecting, you come to 
 a sudden stop and the car rocks forward, then back, then forward, and then lands flat - leaving 
 all that time for you to be passed by the AI.
  
  That leads into the AI. It starts out relatively easy - too easy. Then the difficulty majorly ramps 
 up. The old rubberband makes its way back in and irritates to no end. You can be screaming along 
 at 214 mph and sure enough, you bump a wall and drop to 180 mph and all the other cars whiz past 
 you gave up. Worse yet is the traffic and their AI. I always wonder if they program the traffic 
 simply to piss you off - they do a great job if that's the case. You will be driving along a road 
 with no cars and POOF right around a blind corner is a car. You may think you'll hit it and it 
 flys off. Oh but no, it slides and scoots and seems to stick to your car trying to bring you to 
 a near stop or as close to it as possible. Other times, a car will be driving along on the opposite 
 side of the road and out of nowhere turns across the road as if to turn onto a street and simply 
 hits an unmovable barricade making a nice trap for you when you come barreling around the bend.
 
  
  Worthy of noting is the inclusion of the Bugatti Veyron. To my knowledge, this is the first game 
 to come with the exclusive car. At $375,000 it isn't near it's real MSRP but it does take a long 
 time to save up to. Disappointingly though, other cars unrealistically whiz past it. I had recently 
 purchased a Veyron and did four performance mods and the first race I get into, I get beat by a 
 Corvette. Handling thrown aside (This is an arcade game anyway) , there is no chance a Corvette 
 would beat a Veyron. The Veyron had difficulty keeping up with the Pagani Zonda and Audi R8 as 
 well - both utterly absurd claims. Given the rarity and power of the Veyron it is far underpowered 
 in this game and not worth the time and effort to purchase.
  
  While Undercover doesn't do much badly, neither does it do anything outstanding. It is at best, 
 another NFS game to tide you over until the next one. This is rather disappointing on EA's part 
 - hopefully the NFS series will not be reduced to mere filler games. It seems as if that may be 
 what they want though, they have refused to do anything as it was in Underground which was one 
 of the most popular series among NFS titles.
  
  While I won't say this game is bad, it's not worth more than a rental. In a few sparse days I have 
 nearly completed it. The races just lack the excitement and thrill given the unrealistic nature 
 of the physics of the game (even being an arcade racer) . If you desperately need a new street racer, 
 this is a far better choice than Midnight Club: LA - that game I would not recommend to even my 
 enemies! However, don't expect much new material here - the car lineup is updated but the rest 
 of the game is a carry over from Most Wanted and Carbon.
  
  I only hope the next NFS game will try to be more than this mediocre attempt - NFS is capable of 
 so much better. This is still a far improvement over that horrid Pro-Street, no questions there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnyC25
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  If you like realistic racing games this game is definitely not for you. Where else can you crash 
 your car at 240 MPH into a car going the opposite direction and only have a scratch on your front 
 bumper and an angry driver honking his horn off, exactly the NFS!
  This game really reminds me of the NFS III Hot Pursuit for the PC, it really brings back some of 
 the core values of what made NFS so popular in the first place, exotic cars and easy to race. 
 
  Sometimes I got a feeling I was playing an old PC game with crappy video card the graphics were 
 so horrible and laggy, but that doesn't take away the fun! Yes, this game is just plain fun.. 
 
  The cars are rendered ok, not fantastic, but the surroundings are very limited and basic, but 
 eventually you get used to it.
  Think of it as a simple racing game with cool cars and a storyline (yes a racing game with a story) . 
 A storyline where you have to go undercover, race a lot to gain trust, meet people, find out who 
 the major players are and wipe out the organization in the end, at least that's the plan. I played 
 this game all the way until 100% and sometimes the races get kinda boring because it's a lot of 
 the same. 
  Also most races are always set during sunset or sunrise, which gives and orange, yellowish gloom 
 on your car and surroundings at all times and sometimes it's hard to see where exactly you are 
 racing because some shadows are very dark, especially in alleys or off road settings, I don't know 
 what 3D engine they used but it looks hideous, but it's still cool.
  The game is easy, maybe a little too easy. You almost never break and even if you crash against 
 a wall speeding 200 mph the car quickly goes back on track and off you go again.
  The only thing I found hard was how to keep track of your missions, what needed to be done and 
 why. The only thing you have is a huge map of the Tri-City area and dozens of icons of different 
 racing 'opportunities'. Sometimes I found myself racing tons of rounds without one main single 
 mission popup. The racing menu itself is also a little on the 'clunky' side, but it will do. There's 
 also a useless level up system that I call the 'who cares' level up system. Normally get pretty 
 excited about leveling up my car or character but in the NFS it really makes no big difference.
 
  But this game is old-school and brings it back to basics. A nice easy and simple arcade racer 
 that I see in the discount bin in the near, near future. If it does pick it up for a good price 
 because this game is certainly not worth the whole $60.
  Rent it if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: No_Better_Gamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  First off let me start by letting you know that if you are new to the series and you think that 
 its boring because you don't know how to "hook up" cars and all you do is race and run from cops.......... thats 
 just how the series is. Its always been like that. NFS has always tried to focus on you fixing 
 you car and racing it on the street with cop following. Now to those who are playing NFS from a 
 long time ago........ the game is the same right? I think it is because NFS has never been a perfect 
 game and this game needs work. I still love it but it's not the game everybody wants. When I bought 
 the game I was exited as hell and expected it to be super great. Turns out after playing a while 
 it was the same as every other game. The thing that I really really hated was when I bought my 
 M3 because I love that car...... I fixed it as much as I could and got out on the streets to get 
 it impounded. Turns out you can't get it BACK!!!!!!!!! OH MY GOD WAS I MAD!!!!!!!! THAT MIGHT HAVE 
 BEEN MAYBE THE STUPIDEST THING THAT NFS EVER... EVER THOUGHT OF!!!!!!! I kept playing and finished 
 fixing my Porsche when I try a cop takedown and I didn't have enough money to pay the fee so the 
 car was lost and you can never get it back!! OMG!! I was so furious that right on the spot, I turned 
 off my 360 and fell asleep on my bed........... THAT IS THE WORST PART OF THE GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2008 2:28 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying... finally it's a need for speed worth playing. I'm not saying all of 
 the NFS games were bad. I'm just trying to say that Carbon and ProStreet weren't so great.
  
  You start off the game with a decent car - "Nissan 240SX".. as you play through the game you 
 get pink slips.. earn a lot of cash.. do lots of races.. police chases.. highway battles.. runaways 
 from cops.. even new special missions added to "need for speed". It's the first NFS with the actual 
 missions and a decent story. I'm not gonna talk about the story because i don't wanna spoil the 
 game.
  
  Undercover has European, Japanese, and American cars. There aren't too many cars to pick from.. 
 but at least there is decent amount of some good cars like, lambos, porsches, lotus, supra, corvette, 
 ford GT, skyline, zonda, and even a "Bugatti". Graphics look alright on cars but.. it's just like 
 every other NFS.. graphics on everything else aren't so great.
  
  Once you play through - about 40% done with career.. races get kinda of hard. Cop chases get crazy.. 
 delivery missions get hard! But some races (just the usual ones) are alright because you don't 
 play for a lot of cash.
  
  I also noticed that after you play for a while (few hours) and you drive something pretty quick 
 game starts to lag. Yes there is lag in a career mode. Frame rate isn't so great. I think it's 
 worth to rent it.. i wouldn't recommend to buy it. It's sort of similar to "Most Wanted".
  
  Overall.. it's alright. Races get boring after a while.. seems like you do the same thing over 
 and over again. But those extra story missions do help and make the game interesting.
  
  It's not long at all.. you can complete the career in about 10 - 15 hours. It depends how you like 
 to play through the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergod317
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I am used to playing the need for speed series so it was not a shocker that this game is still 
 being built the same. Now need for speed do have some great looking cars with my favorite being 
 the BUGATTI!! If you dont have the skill or time to advance with the more high end cars, then you 
 can always do what I did and use microsoft points to buy cars; which is original to me!!
  I feel that the old story of yo uhave to race for a purpose is getting old. They should come up 
 with a way to make the Need for Speed series more appealing to customers all across the bored. 
 For example, why do they have to make it a game with a storyline in the first place? Why cant it 
 be a game that offers you the choice to be a good guy or bad guy. More of a RPG feel but give us 
 options. 
  I get so tired of buying the same series of something that will always come out with the same feel. 
 I do not understand why come out with the same game and same play; you should just resell your 
 past efforts of a game! But my opinion is just my opinion. I just wish that they would get more 
 dynamic with their game series like all the rest of the gaming companies who are starting to cater 
 to their customers* (us) * needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZ180
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This years new Need for Speed Undercover is by far what I would say is one of the best games in 
 the long running series of need for speed games. In Undercover you play as an undercover police 
 officer along with the very attractive Maggie Q as Chase Lynn, that is assigned to investigate 
 a group of stolen cars from the city dock. The races you in career mode are pretty easy to win, 
 but also still fun at the same time. 
  
  As you keep winning races your wheelman level increases, and rarely after winning a certain race 
 you get pink slips to a new car to be put into your garage. The cops are back in full swing in 
 Need for Speed Undercover, and are as brutal as ever. As your heat level increases and goes up 
 the cops will try tactics such as ramming you off the road and setting up road blocks. The police 
 also have some sharp new vehicles such as the new 2008 Challenger and the new Corvette. 
  
  The games graphics engine is great, the cars and the city itself is stunning to look at, the only 
 problem I had with it is that some places are so dark you can't even see where you are going. As 
 for the controls in the game, the control layout is well put together and is easy to learn and 
 master. The controls also include this new feature called the heroic driver which is to where you 
 can make your car do cool things such as a 360 turn and a burnout as well. The new soundtrack/music 
 featured in the game is great and really fits the game. The music is a mix of everything like rock, 
 techno, and more.
  
  OVERALL 9.5/10: Need for Speed Undercover is a great addition to the series. The return of the 
 cops is great, and the best part of the game. The graphics are a joy to look at, the soundtrack 
 is perfect for the game and gets you pumped lol. All in all, Undercover is a excellent new addition 
 to any racing fan, or any newcomer alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ausutorarisu
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 11:52 pm PT
Review:  What do I mean by "Crash, Crash, Crash"? You really crash the cars a lot and I would just restart 
 (if it's a takedown/ outrun/ highway battle) .
  
  This NFS game features a bigger tri-cities network than Most Wanted and Carbon. Sounds cool, doesn't 
 it? But I actually find the game disappointing.
  
  Drawbacks:
  
  1) Dawn- Everything glows yellowish in dawn sunlight. Makes it very tough to avoid crashes.
  
 
  2) Too many objects to crash into on the road. Some locate in front of the finish line. So you 
 can bump into something and lose the match just a few metres from the blue smoke.
  
  3) Overuse of vibration- I already turned it off. Driving off sideway is just so normal so I got 
 so annoyed why the controller vibrated even harder than being bumped.
  
  4) Takedown battles are retardedly hard (relieving when completed doesn't not mean it's fun in 
 essence) - One has SUV boxing you in (I yelled: Don't you cops have better things to do than to 
 ruin an undercover mission?) and another has you take down 2 opponents. If either gets loose, redo 
 the whole thing.
  
  5) Punishing fine due - Realistic but definitely a nuisance when getting busted.
  
  6) No way 
 to lock onto a pursuit breakers. You can view it in the map but you have to recognize which way 
 to go to find it. Lame!!! So I happened to use the same breakers that is the easiest to find. What 
 a waste.
  
  7) Boring cutscenes - Neither Inspector Chase Lihh nor the gangs really capture the soul of FMV 
 cutscenes. You don't feel at the place. Most Wanted and Carbon were superior in it.
  
  
  Merits:
  
  1) Smarter cops- Even Level 1 cops can keep up with you and take a substantial amount 
 of damage.
  
  2) Heat doesn't drop until a pursuit challenge is complete- self-explained
  
  3) A stripe of the Most Wanted BMW M3 GTR (which Razor stole from the player) is there for 
 us to customize the BMW M3 E46. Great fun and feels nice to see the legend reliive.
  
  4) Looks nice. Must experience reaching 200 km/h on a highway (given no crashes)
  
  5) A lot 
 of different pursuit breakers to try.
  
  6) Highway battles are quite innovative in the series. Though frsutrating, it is still exhilarating 
 enough to keep people trying. Some say it was easy? Well I don't share their views. Maybe I was 
 borne as a shooter and I prefer a straight fight (and a straight line to sprint) .
  
  7) Easy money- Each race gives ten thousand dollars or more usually. Carbon sucked due to a severe 
 financial deficit and it is gone in Undercover (I skipped ProStreet so forget about that one) , 
 thank God. You can now buy more rides and upgrade them to max. If cash is running low, doing a 
 couple races will add a considerable amount of credits.
  
  All in all, this game still doesn't compare to Most Wanted. On the technical side it may have exceeded 
 MW but it doesn't make it stronger than MW. I heard NFS went wrong in ProStreet and Undercover 
 should serve as a redemption or what. I like it but do not love it fanatically.
  
  I completed The Force Unleashed before this and TFU played a lot more greater in terms of storytelling 
 and adaptability. NFS Undercover is only worth a rent. I bought it out of no other choices in my 
 country but I doubt I would be playing it a lot after I beat the game and got the achievements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NEMESIS2008
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  so..
  the new EA disappointment for us..
  The new Need For Speed : Undercover
  
  although the game has some cool stuffs
  like the very cool long high ways
  and the high way 
 battle
  and some cool challenges
  and the cool driving system
  and lets not forget about the amazing Cars
  and it has a BUGATTI Veyron 16.4
  now all of that 
 is true
  
  but when come to the bad things in the game
  first of all
  the Graphics is in my opinion lower than it was in ProStreet
  i mean we should advance not going 
 back :S
  
  and the cops
  omg.. they r so **** boring!!!
  i feel sleepy everytime they chase me
  nothing compared to MOST WANTED!!
  
  the story is 
 so ****g dead
  and boring
  and the ending is.........
  **** STUPID!!!!!
  
  and this chick called Maggie Q or something
  is not hot
  she's ugly!
  ohhh.. i missed Brooke 
 Burke and Josie Maran!!!
  
  the bottom line
  need for speed undercover has some cool stuffs but it's very short and u'll finish it in like 6 
 hours
  and it's very boring and disappointing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axeman87
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 8, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  First up, if you dont like the NFS series steer clear because NFSU has gone back to its roots and 
 does what it does best. Unfortunately it just didnt' do it very well this time. It looks, sounds 
 & plays well, & there are some great race modes. The highway pursuit rocks!! but......
  
  If you've ever played Most Wanted you can expect more or less the same thing here. That made sound 
 bad, but its not. MW was all out fun, & more of the same is just fine by me. The problem is, there 
 are just to many very minor errors, that, had they been fixed before release would have made this 
 game so much better than what is currently a very average game. 
  
  Why is it so annoying? 
  
  1- NFSU has a great sound track..... that you have no control over. 
 You cant remove or even skip the bad tracks. Once a song starts you have no choice but to sit through 
 it. If you hate the song, this can end up driving you nuts. WTF!
  
  2- The menus, including the garage feels unfinished, broken and busted. Half the fun of NFSMW was 
 customizing your car. This could be done very easily, & very quickly. The new interface in this 
 game is just plain stupid. Normally I can spend hours just tickering with paint, vinyls, and custom 
 gear but I found myself completely fed-up with the difficult menus and horredous load times. In 
 the end I just gave up & stuck to just the racing & this got tired real quick. 
  
  3 - The story is... well... not realy there... Razor, from MW was so cheesy & annoying I wanted to 
 climb the ladder just kick his ass. In this game, there is a brief intro, then you are suddenly 
 just given a 'mission' without harldy any reason, characters or incentive to do so. Without 'some' 
 kind of story behind it or a feeling of accomplishment the game turns into a track racer which 
 the game wasnt meant to be so it ends up failing. 
  
  If the menu and sountrack can be fixed with an update then the lack of story could be overlooked 
 as you be able to have your fun. Until then though, just wait, hope and rent it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hahnasty
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  The game has some new race modes that are really fun. However, they get a little repetitive. The 
 game is really easy to learn and the competition throughout the game isn't very hard. The boss 
 battles may take a few tries, but pose no major problem. The cars are really cool though. Large 
 range of different types and everything, but the vinyls and designs are not as cool as the last 
 few versions of the game, but overall are still very fun to play with.
  The plot of this game is pretty interesting, however you can guess that a plot twist is coming. 
 Although you may not know what the plot twist may be, you can expect it coming through the game. 
 With that being said though it is still interesting.
  The new battle mode where you smash into the computer's car is fun, but frustrating at times. It 
 is hard to gain the speed and angle to dish out sizable damage, so the whole race takes some time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enchanter_G
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Undercover is another offering by EA for the Need for Speed Franchise which has 
 received a lot of attention in the past five years.
  The premise is much the same as most of the franchise's titles thus far: driving a selection of 
 high end cars around or through a series of increasingly complex courses. In this story, you play 
 the role of an undercover cop who must infiltrate a local smuggling ring by working his way up 
 through the ranks of the street racing world.
  This is a promising concept, and as was adequately demonstrated by the film "Fast and the Furious" 
 would seem to be an automatic hit. The sad reality however, is that this Need for Speed falls far 
 short of expectations.
  
  For years, EA Games has pushed out a new Need for Speed almost every year. It would seem that finally 
 this has caught up with them. The lighting and use of colour is vivid and bright. Indeed, there 
 is nothing like weaving a Lotus Elise, with such beautiful colouring and attention to detail, through 
 the intense streets of the Tri Bay area to hype you up a bit. But that is where the fascination 
 ends. The first wow of the game arrives when you see some cosmetic body damage appear on your car, 
 and the immediate reaction is, "Awesome!" Then, you realize it is ONLY cosmetic and quickly, the 
 modelling begins to get on your nerves. Add to this that once again the game only allows you to 
 race in the daytime.
  The frame rate on the Xbox 360 wasn't all that bad, but I had the feeling during several races 
 that I was simply losing frames of the picture. It then occurred to me that that was a deliberate 
 design, to make the car feel 'faster'. Indeed, as an idea to make you 'feel' that the car is travelling 
 at a good 200Km/ph this idea works, but again a great idea is flawed by cheap implementation. Perhaps 
 because of this concept, the controls of the car feel exceptionally choppy and plastic. Slight 
 pressure on the stick produces a sharp turn that gives your car a brand new, suicidal feeling. 
 
  The load up screen (of which there are very many) is also pretty uninspirational, with the same 
 phrase been repeated over and over again. The load times between the open world and your GPS map 
 is also ridiculously long, and before long you'll be a little thankful for the hot key function 
 that takes you straight to the nearest race to you from the open world. Though even that little 
 gem brings up a fantastically long load time.
  The music in the game is still of the standard EA quality, and as it is subject to taste, I will 
 say very little. But it's there, and we'd be upset if it wasn't!
  As far as the story goes, the acting by the characters is nothing short of weak and disjointed. 
 In the opening it was put forward that the premise of the game was that you play an undercover 
 agent. This is not exactly accurate. True, you are an undercover agent, but it is not true that 
 you play an undercover agent. You drive your car, rack up 'experience' in the form of 'rep' which 
 propels you through the story (or at least unlocks certain races that do) and develop certain skills 
 as you race. But all of this is done totally without any choices for you as the player to make. 
 In fact, you are not even able to choose which skills improve when you dominate a race! Ultimately, 
 you get one real world choice and two game choices for Need for Speed Undercover. In the real world 
 you'll have to ask yourself "Do I play this game?" In the game, your input is more limited, and 
 involves you choosing which car you'd like to drive and what colour you'd like to paint it. Oh, 
 and you can of course select which race you'd participate in, but that's only if you're willing 
 to put up with those aforementioned load times.
  
  The acting during the various cut scenes is mediocre, and does not compare with previous productions 
 buy the franchise. Similarly, the story is essentially explained to you through voice messages 
 from various characters. The problem being, that half the time you have no idea what they are talking 
 about!
  So much could have been done to make the player feel immersed in the story, but all you get is 
 some occasional, disjointed voice message pointing you in another direction. Even the plot is predictable.
 
  
  Sadly, it is clear that EA dropped the ball with the production of this game. Choppy graphics and 
 handling, horrendous acting and weak and predictable story combine to produce a game that was obviously 
 intended to sell on its name, and not on its merits. Fans of the series will most likely feel disappointed, 
 while new comers to the game will have been better advised to spend their money elsewhere.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raqueem
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  
  They did keep the cheesy part, but the story is missing.
  
  This is typically the kind of game my girlfriend hates. As she lays to sleep, she can hear me burn 
 those tires in the corners and when burning out. However, this time she was pleasantly surprised 
 and happy that I bought this game.
  
  I hoped that this game would be much like NFS Most Wanted. I really liked the crappy story, the 
 fake characters and the fact that you were the centerpiece of this entire story. This time however, 
 undercover would prove to be of a different kind.
  
  Let me start off by the thing that really surprised me. I'm myself a very sporty driver and in 
 my daily life i usually drive like a psycho. It really surprised me how much the sound and the 
 feeling of driving a car in NFSU was the same as in real life. Even to the way you can take a curb, 
 speed up and feel how your car starts sliding. This is as realistic as it can get , except for 
 the fact that some of these cars have too much grip; but what do I know, i don't own a Lotus to 
 say that it isn't so in real life.. so...
  
  Apart from that, i'd have to say that after one hour of playing, i was totally bored. The side 
 missions keep repeating and story goes from bad to worstertestest (or some word that is worst than 
 worst) . I find it difficult to keep playing the game when there is no real objective inspired by 
 a cheesy or good story. This time, all you get, is a story that looks as if somebody made it up 
 in 5 minutes time... 
  
  So I didn't really get far in this game, and honestly, the only good thing about it, is that it 
 feels realistic in the way you can drive and slide with the car. The screens look OK, but the lack 
 of a good story that makes you want to look for more makes this a game that I wouldn't put on my 
 priority list if you don't have it yet. Buy if you like driving around and enjoy bugging the police 
 you might think about it, but other than that; don't expect too much from it.
  
  The only person that was really happy with this game, was my girlfriend, as I stop playing after 
 an hour, which is not what I usually do. And when your girlfriend likes a game you bought, you 
 know something's most definitely wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  I feel that the developers of the NFS series should go back to the success of Most Wanted. Now 
 there is the best NFS game that I've ever played.
  
  In this short review I'd like to talk about all the pros and cons of this game.
  
  Pro:
  
 Well the graphics are definitely something to look at. While not as awesome looking as Burnout: 
 Paradise, but it dishes out a steady 60 frames per second. And most importantly, has no glitches 
 during an actual event. Then again, you'll be hard pressed to find any glitches with this game. 
 The story is okay, I guess. But thats never the reason you enter the NFS world. The cops are back, 
 and with the full swing of Most Wanted with them. The new menus and the cars look awesome as well. 
 Now those are the reasons to come to the NFS world.
  
  Cons:
  Well, I don't really have any cons on the game. Other than its really poorly done story. The acting 
 by Maggie Q and Co. was superb though. Just wish that there was a twist in the plot to make it 
 interesting........... But other than that, the game is one of the best racers I've seen the entire 
 year.
  
  The summary:
  All in all, its a great racer. You should give it a chance. While it doesn't have a whole lot for 
 newbs to the series, it definitely is an entertaining experience for the NFS faithful. Definitely 
 better than ProStreet!;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CliX098
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This game was a tiny bit of a let down of what i expected it to be like. i thought it would be 
 as good or maybe even better than most wanted but it was almost as good. has an ok story line to 
 it. i love the car customizing and the racing. it has very nice graphics that make the game look 
 almost real. it happens to have the fastest car in the world in it which is the Bhuggatti Veyron 
 16.4. you have quite a choice of colors to choose from. It is cool that you can do awesome stunts 
 with your car like the 360 turn and the j-turn. fffkgdgjh gfjdgdfkjgjrftuirw eyutyqjeifjjxn bjkvxcbgjusd 
 fghsdjgsd tuwjafdko kaqwelse pidsfjgkgn fbjnjgbuifds ghfhghfdghd fghirtgiorhgir juityhjyk wqpoeik 
 pr [itgjfd kbmmzb mlm, cbvmcv kxlbnjx nfrdggjfdhgfdh djfgsjghurdethyeru qwuywqoitjporj fgjdrejtoihgoi 
 idsfgoihg dfgjhiodjgio goijfigojdf isofgjodfhjo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  The Good: very nice graphics and environments, a bigger selection of cars then any of the NFS combined, 
 car customization is good, the cops are back and much more aggressive and smarter, new and old 
 race modes are enjoyable to play, wheelman expierence system works well, christina milian is sexy.
 
  
  The Bad: frame rate can not keep up with the fast paced action at times or when there is to much 
 motion on screen, story is not interesting at all, the cutscenes are very cheesy and the actors 
 cant even act, online multiplayer isn't as interesting as the previous NFS
  
  ahh the smell of burning rubber in the morning. Undercover story starts you off as an undercover 
 wheelman for gangs. the story mode is not what it should have been meaning its not as interesting 
 as most wanteds or carbons but it definitely is better than pro-streets. the game has minor problems 
 with its frame rates, and you only notice it when your driving really fast and the other a. i is 
 around you or when your being chased by a swarm of cops and you activate a pursuit breaker. im 
 glad the cops were put back into the series as well as the free roam. the cops in undercover are 
 more aggressive than the ones in mostwanted and carbon. the city of undercover is a lot bigger 
 than the previous NFS giving you three areas to explore, the docks, the countryside and the city. 
 some people may think that the highway battle mode is new but it really isn't, i recall this feature 
 being in underground 2 but it still is fun blowing by your oppenent and weaving through traffic 
 at 200mph. the new modes such as the hot job which lets u steal cars and bring them to a designated 
 location is challenging, sometimes you will encounter cops or thugs that try to ram you off the 
 road. there are also old modes we all remember like sprint, circut, checkpoint, and outrun which 
 is exactly the same as highway battle but instead of leaving your opponent in the dust you are 
 challenged to stay ahead of your opponent for a certain amount of time which can be difficult at 
 times. all the races are short and can be finished in under 5 min, but with that also comes an 
 overwhelming amount of races to complete. the online is very basic and theres nothing special to 
 it other then the new cops and robbers mode which is enjoyable.
  
  overall NFS Undercover is a great game that shouldnt be over looked by any NFS fan and most fans 
 will se it as a rebirth of the series (and sorry to mention it but for those of you who dont know 
 NFS will no longer be releasing every year the next one is projected to debute in 2010.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeHawke
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Being a need for speed fan (carbon, most wanted) i was really looking forward to playing this game 
 due to the previous titles being so much fun. Yet in the end it really just fell short on my radar 
 and is why you should really rent this before you buy it.
  
  When i saw the game on tv, and in the end on my xbox i was so excited to start ripping around in 
 the new R8's and GT-R's that id kill to own in life but i was sadly let down because of the similarities 
 all the cars ultimatly share. I really didnt feel a diffrence in one to car other, other than the 
 speed of course, from my 370z to my GT-R. It might also just be a nit picky thing but the speedometer 
 on the side is so blah and unintresting, in some of the nfs games you were able to change this 
 which made it more exciting and added to the customization of the game. And the whole idea of being 
 able to put two different types of rims on a car really is unnecessary and makes it annoying when 
 your adding rims to your car. 
  
  Ultimatly the game really didnt feel like it was aimed at a more mature audience but more for the 
 10-14 year olds, my 11 year old brother loves the game and would probobly give it a 8 or a 9, but 
 when you go and play a game like forza 2 and you see the diffrence between the two, it really makes 
 you think about what they could of done with this game. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameslgs
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  So this is my first review and its not even on my account but hey i feel like i need to write this,
 
  
  Firstly, i dont own any racing game/car games/ sports games for that matter so for someone like 
 me, a  finatic, its a big step. I often read people reviews 
 on here and when i heard about NFS: Undercover i flicked open the first review i could find, unfortunatly 
 it was written by a little 12 year old who hadnt the slightest decency of realising just how terrible 
 he was at spelling AND at NFS: Undercover. He ranted on about how lame it was and how the cops 
 were just waayy to fast for his little green car (because we all know red cars are faster anyway, 
 its been proven) . So silly me ran off to the game store and bought NFS: Undercover.
  
  Now in the 12 year olds defence, he is 12 years old.
  
  First some flaws i INSTANTLY ran acrross 
 in the game;
  1. Camera Angle: OMG, because of the rediculously inconvenient camera angle i had ( it was the 
 choice of watching the road from the front numberplate of my car, through the drivers seat or two 
 different (hardly) 3rd person views of my car. this means coming around corners i was almost looking 
 at the road from a midgets POV, which may seem funny, just not at 360kmph. 2. Lack of Direction 
 Signs: Ahhh, i would be on a mission with half the states officers behind my super-cool (red) cars 
 hiney when i came acrross an intersection on the highway with several exiting lanes to myleft and 
 right, unfortunatly they were all almost parrallel to the road i was traveling on and the journey 
 marker ( being a fat thick vivid line on my gps road) took up a good 2 - 3 road widths so as i 
 rolled up to this intersection i would have to pick which lane to cruise down, most of the time 
 it leading to me gaving to do a 180 turn, evade all the cops behind me, and try out the other twnty 
 million lanes i had an option of driving down, all this keeping in mind i had to beat the clock 
 too.
  
  1. I loved the cop chases, even though frustrating at times
  2. i looove how you can barge into power poles and other contruction site scenery and watch all 
 the cops pile up beneath the rubble.
  
  This having been my first racing game since NFS: Pro Street, which i eagerly returned in exchange 
 for Mass Effect, was a good change from all the horrible shooting and killing im used to. Even 
 though im not a car person myself i enjoyed Undercover given that it had a terribly basic story 
 line to it. but keep in mind that this game is not intended to be clocked overnight, its intended 
 for cool hard core boy racers who play this game once a week to get that kick and be inspired to 
 strive to be the best at what ever they do. Sorry for the first part being more my life story of 
 how i came to this game but yea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fernandes171
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Need for speed undercover goes back to the most wanted type look. You race in the day witch can 
 really get annoying because of the glare and when you are in the shadows you cant really see anything 
 at all. Another flaw is the cutseens they are really stupid but some people will not really care. 
 There is a lot of good things about this game. the graphics are really good there is a lot of cars 
 i think about 65, you can tune your car they way you want, another thing is that all the critics 
 say its really easy but wouldnt you want to have a easier game than one you can not beat like midnight 
 club? And the cop chases got more realistic they dont spawn right in front of you and you can actually 
 lose them by going really fast. Need for speed is a great game with few flaws if your a racing 
 fan you would really like this game if you never played racing game i suggest that you try it im 
 giving it a 9 out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew_vartuli
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  NFS is a great game that grows on you, which makes it become highly addictive. The game features 
 great cars which you could be driving in 3-4 hours in the game. The customization program offers 
 different categories to upgrade on, i do think that it could have been a bit better. The storyline 
 is confusing at the beginning but throughout cut scenes you kind of get the drift. The cut scenes 
 are actors, not animation, again. This doesn't really give you a good feel about the story. Cop 
 Chases and Highway battles are my favourite. These two races and escapes are mad features and sometimes 
 takes you ages to conquer. Pressing down the D-pad takes you straight to a race, which is good 
 if you don't want to travel across the world to get to a race. 
  
  NFS Undercover is a game which some people love and other people hate, rent this game first, then 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Intro
  
  We all loved most wanted it was exciting and a solid effort by EA and after the letdowns that are 
 carbon and prostreet i was hoping EA had finally manage to make a solid racer but sadly they have 
 only managed to make a decent racer read on.
  
  Story
  
  Not really a story cutscenes galore with no reason for them half the time but with that said they 
 are real people in these cutscenes and they are cheesy yet pretty good at the same time. The game 
 has some fun races like highway battle or cost to slate so your getting a good varied choice of 
 events however all your doing is an event then at some point a cutscene pops up and there was no 
 reason for this but it still does and thats about it but if this had been a movie i could see car 
 freaks actually liking it.
  
  This game has some flaws i would like to mention first of all i decided to waste 250 microsoft 
 points on a bugatti veyron thinking i was getting the 253mph W16 car instead i got a very quick 
 car that topped out around 225mph or something not 253 and even after wasting massive in game money 
 i achieved 246mph still 8mph off the real thing this is a joke not only because i used points but 
 because the fastest car in the game does not do its real world speed and thats not mentioning how 
 all cars top speed are staged none top out realistic like the needle slightly pushing a bit on 
 nop it just tops out at the same speed constantly. The other problem is the police suvs yes thats 
 SUV can actually and im not joking out pace a 1001bhp veyron i had a whole highway of space to 
 get the powerdown and within seconds my speedo was at 215mph and all of a sudden a police suv blasts 
 by like a rocket no SUV on the planet can achieve 215 not even porsches cayenne turbo and thats 
 forgetting that they still keep up even 230+ its pointless unbalalanced fake silly and frustrating.
 
  
  The games car list is great you get a great selections of cars to choose from and its very varied 
 unlike midnight clubs and theres a great choice of modifications you can do to your car.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  This is good fun actually if you do buy this game play the MP for a while it 
 gave me a good bit of fun.
  
  FRAMERATE
  This game has the worst Framerate of any racer i have played on the 360 its terrible and to think 
 the 360 has the best framerate cant imagine the other consoles.
  
  Pros
  movie like cutscenes work ( kinda)
  Varied car choice
  Great sense of speed ( when the framerate 
 works)
  
  Cons
  
  Terrible framerate
  unbalanced chases
  No real story just cutscenes with you racing in between
  Visuals have too much bloom to them 
 it looks bad actually
  
  
  Verdict
  NFU undercover is GOOD at best but it has some serious flaws that better never touch another another 
 NFS game so heres hoping the next NFS has a better development time so buy if you adored most wanted 
 and rent if your having doubts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMang111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Undercover feels very similar to earlier games in the series like Most Wanted. But 
 it's almost a step backwards for EA and Need for Speed.
  
  Pros:
  Racing is still fun
  Lots of different types of cars
  Tuning actually affects car's performance
  Beautiful city, 
 cars, and effects in HD
  Still an addicting game
  Frame rate never stutters
  Controls are excellent
  
  Cons:
  Driver points are useless
  Difficult to disable cops
 
  Pursuits are almost forced on you sometimes
  City is hard to get a feel for... everything looks the same
  No GPS lock onto events
  Story 
 is completely useless
  Race courses lack technical difficulty
  Damage is there, but even GTA 4's damage system is better
  No in-car view
  Annoying heat updates
 
  
  f this was EA's first racer with cops, it would be amazing. Unfortuantely the only imporvement 
 here is the graphics and nothing new has been added to the the actualy racing. Highway battles 
 are fun, but where did drifting and drag racing go? The cops have taken a step back from Most Wanted 
 despite the addition of helicopters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dimension_X
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Ok, so this new Need for Speed to me is a good game. Now, I have been a need for speed fan since 
 Hot Pursuit 2 on the GameCube and this game just doesn't live up to its predecessors. The previous 
 games like Most Wanted and Underground are awesome games. All these games (Undercover included) 
 have a very large world to explore. You may notice as I did that Undercover has very similar locales 
 as Underground 2, I drove around and though to myself "this is Underground 2's City in day light."
 
  
  Gametrailers gave this game a very poor rating and brought it down a lot with its complaints about 
 frame rate issues and the game being too easy. Well at first it is very easy, even without modifications 
 I found I was winning every race no problem. As far as frame rate issues go I experienced only 
 minor frame rate issues when I would crash into a pursuit breaker or if there was a huge accident 
 and it involved a lot of eye candy, it would lag up a bit, other than that straight up racing doesn't 
 really lag all that much and to its credit Most Wanted would do the exact same thing. 
  
  I was so disappointed in a the fit an d finish of this game I almost returned it, even though I 
 would not get 100% refund... but I kept it for one reason but first my disappointment. First off, 
 you cant rename your profile.... you are stuck as PLAYER. I have looked on all the NFS forums and 
 everyone else says the same thing. Black Box was just lazy and to me that is just sad, that would 
 probably not take a lot of time to program that in. Also, there is no Main Menu, its a little teaser 
 at the top when it says "press start" their is a listing of: Main Menu, Options, Video. You cannot 
 select these. Its like they were supposed to be available but someone forgot to put the code in. 
 One thing I enjoyed in Most Wanted was the EA Trax option, where you could select what music played 
 when or even turn off some music, which I would like to do in this game but oh well. Now, what 
 sealed the deal and made me continue to play it was taking out the other gang members. That was 
 so fun I wanted to keep playing it and you get to do this later in the game as well. You join a 
 new gang, befriend, then take them out.
  
  Also, gametrailers commented on the horrid acting.... O_O its Need For Speed not Final Fantasy. 
 I think we all recall "First im gonna take your ride, then your girl, be ready for that." that's 
 Razor for NFSMW. So yes the acting is laughable but its not meant to be taken seriously. Also, 
 the rim selection is ridiculous. There is no organization to them at all and I would rather not 
 pick rims at all then to sift through the endless list. There would be a 5Zigen rim on the top 
 of the list and one near the bottom, so that is a definite con of this game.
  
  The graphics are amazing, I skipped carbon and prostreet because I did not like they way they looked 
 or played. Carbon was wayyy too smooth whereas Undercover has returned to the arcade-ish controls. 
 Speed breaker is your friend but not like it was in Most Wanted. There is no more hitting speed 
 breaker and then doing some crazy drift. I find I use it more on the Highway Battles (which have 
 replaced DRAG from the Underground series where you can total your car resulting in starting the 
 battle over) I mainly use speed breaker to avoid traffic more so then making crazy turns.... e-bake 
 suffices for that. 
  
  So overall this game is awesome if you like Need for Speed. If you are not a a fan this game will 
 most likely disappoint. Its got some great modes and graphics, though the car selection is a little 
 slim this game does deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathcy
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 25, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  EA proved that with out hard work you dont get the results you want. NFSU failed once again to deliver 
 what "Most Wanted" did a couple of years ago.
  Not an interesting story, very bad acting and poor graphics.
  
  If you have extra cash dont 
 spent it on this title. Borrow it from a friend. It would be better.
  
  I finished the game in only 3 days. Took about 12hours. What was very annoying it was that the player 
 character didnt speak at all in the game.
  Cars where ok but the could added few more.
  RX7, Subaru Impreza STI, Honda Accord Type S, Ferraris could easily be added any time.
  
  So much 
 hype about the open world... its kind of dumb considering that you could enter a race with out even 
 driving to the event. You just prees a button on your GPS screen and voila your there :/
  
  This is my first review in Gamespot, many more will come since its a very promising winter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbyb2003
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Despite all the negative reviews, people should still give NFS Undercover a chance. Overall the 
 game isn't all that bad, and some of the problems people claim to have aren't that big a deal. 
 One of the major issues people claim is the frame rate and while I have experienced a few hitches 
 here and there it never poses a huge problem.* In terms of difficulty the game starts out easy 
 and varies depending on what Tier car you're driving in what events. For instance, I been in races 
 where it is not actually possible to win because the race level is higher than that of my best 
 car. However, I've also had races where I win by 40 seconds. Another source of complaints is the 
 GPS mode which is pretty nonexistent in that you choose a race and go directly to it unlike NFSU2 
 and NFSMW where you could drive to events. While it can make sense because the world is massive 
 it would have been nice to drive to an event just to get a better knowledge of the world. The police 
 chases are usually pretty fun, the cops are usually smart enough to use roadblocks where necessary 
 and contrary to GS's review spike strips. However, they also have a few issues here and there like 
 one time when I almost evaded using only 3 tires. In the end, the game really isn't as bad a s 
 people make it out to be and most of the problems aren't as big a deal as everyone makes them out 
 to be.
  
  * Note: I have an HDTV with a 120Hz refresh rate and while it shouldn't affect the frame rate it 
 could considering I've played other games with and allegedly bad frame rate and had no problems. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmbdissr27
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  After the huge disapointment that Prostreet was, NFS needed to save the series with this game, 
 and they did. They did a great job with the heroic driving engine. At first i didnt like it, i just 
 thought id stick to my guns and do what ive been doing in past nfs games, but then i used it to 
 drift around an exceptionally tight turn, and it turned me into a hde guru. The cops are great 
 fun to mess around with and bug and ram and crash and disable and all that jazz. I just got a new 
 camaro the other day and in my first race, i got into a chase. after about 5 minutes of my domination, 
 the cops sent out skylines, ok i thought, no problem, then they sent out the porsches, and i was 
 like, hm this might be a problem. They were faster then me and therefore had the advantage on the 
 highway, so i took it to the curvey streets and then, when i was about to get away, i hit a spike 
 strip. so the chases are intense and the game is fun, its probably a little too easy though. Ive 
 been winning all my races except 2 or 3 2 with complete ease. I hope the game gets a lot harder 
 later on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArtemioZ17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  this game is great deffentely 100% the best nfs out today and i think in my view its the best racing 
 game ive ever played ill give it a very disserving 9.5 out of 10!!!!!!! the carrer made is great 
 and the cars are even better ( espesially the porsche gt2 and that BUGGATTI VEYRON of corse and 
 other really good cars) . I woild like to say if you like racing games this is perfact the police 
 the cars the customization ans the free roam are all there WHAT MORE DO YOU WANT!!!!!!!!!! And 
 the story line is great im really enjoying it also love the charcters in the game they really give 
 that extra  
 LOL i need more charcters so i just did that!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mickle9
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  This game is fun but way to easy even to a non racing game dude, but multiplayer is fun and now 
 i need to waste 100 words so TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY 
 TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON 
 ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON 
 ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMYTOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON 
 ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON 
 ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON 
 ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON 
 ARMYTOON ARMYTOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON 
 ARMYTOON ARMYTOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON 
 ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON 
 ARMYTOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON 
 ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMY TOON ARMYTOON ARMYTOON ARMY TOON ARMY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wassa786
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 23, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  So repetitive, and unlike any other NFS - not in a good way. Everything isn't pre-rendered, you 
 get blobs popping up in your face every second. Story line is garbage. Making money in the game 
 is sooo slow. Graphics are nice, but it lags/choppy at times. Don't get this, it REALLY IS A WASTE 
 OF TIME AND MONEY!!!! EA fails yet again. Soundtrack sucks as well, nothing really good. The whole 
 "undercover" thing is really garbage. They need to go back to the Best NFS made - Hot Pursuit 2, 
 I don't think we need to soupe up cars any more, just give us Nice country roads with exotics and 
 some boost, that is ALL we need! Oh yeah, some good NON choppy graphics would be really appreciative. 
 Like I said, don't buy this game, it really is a waste of money. Another thing I noticed was that 
 you can't take photos in offline mode, I mean what game does that!? No multiplayer capabilities 
 offline either! Not a game worth buying! I may sound like i'm bashing the NFS series, but I have 
 been a fan forever and played EVERY SINGLE ONE OF THEM! Most wanted was the only exception out 
 of the newer ones... which was OKAY. There was nothing FUN about the game.... AT ALL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomamagic
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  I've played other racing game series such as Burnout, Midnight club, Gran Turismo, etc so I decided 
 to give Need for Speed Undercover a try. With special actress Maggie Q putting her presence in 
 the game, that was a bonus. 
  
  Graphics: 
  I must say is pretty! But eventually, I did get tired of seeing that dawn/dusk settle all the time, 
 but still all the cars as well as tracks were decent eye candy.
  
  Gameplay:
  Adding role-playing element such as leveling up in a racing game is different. I don't think it 
 is needed b/c the sheer need of obtaining money to buy new cars or upgrade your current car with 
 parts is motivation enough to continue racing. So the leveling up concept was something extra. 
 It didn't hurt the game nor did it improve it, but welcomed nonetheless. As for the difficulty, 
 you can't chose it from the start. Saying that, your first few hrs of play will be quite easy. 
 But once you hit "wheelman" skill level 6 and higher, things ramp up quickly. I thought it was 
 really interesting that if you had wanted to buy something from the shop, but had not yet unlocked 
 it, you can still buy it with microsoft points. Crazy. I bought the collector's edition from marketplace 
 and that helped out crazy. =p The cop chases are intense and they are so overly aggressive! They 
 drive like demons. 
  
  Audio:
  I liked the in-game soundtracks, but it sucked that you can't manually chose what you want to hear 
 or not. In other words, you can't have an in-game playlist. Darn. 
  
  Overall, for a first Need for Speed game, it's pretty decent. Not a AAA title, but still worth 
 a rent at the very least if you are consider buying the game. The occasional frequent cut-scenes 
 are cheesy, but entertaining at the same time. It's not computer generated, but rather real actors! 
 I've been playing the game for more than 10 hrs now. It gives me a nice break from all the current 
 FPS games out there! Happy holidays! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishman33437
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure what everyone was expecting given the title. I was not a big fan of Carbon and certainly 
 not a fan of Pro Street. Most Wanted is my favorite to date due to the aggressive police chases. 
 The game is very similar to Most Wanted, which is good, in my opinion. Overall, the game is fairly 
 easy and I'm not a fan of some of the changes to the game from Most Wanted. It seems like EA changed 
 the way you buy parts, get to races, etc just to change it. Also the GPS is not a clear as it was 
 in Most Wanted and makes finding the places that you can drive under and make the cops crash and 
 the safe houses more difficult to find.
  
  Overall, I gave it an 8-its fun, its very similar to Most Wanted. If EA would've taken Most Wanted, 
 changed the cars, the city, the story, and left the menus, etc-it wouldve been a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tokra213
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  With the game itself, yeah of course it's NFS with all the cops and everything just like the older 
 games. The real downfall I personally believe is the annoying lag glitch and the issue with the 
 player name. Beyond that there is the story line, most people don't like the story line. Well truthfully 
 I wonder why there is a story line, I mean it's a racing game not James Bond. So seriously, EA 
 needs to stop making story lines all the time. I mean there is nothing wrong with putting videos 
 of your rivals up or what you have to do but when the whole game becomes wrapped in a story line 
 it just gets ridiculous. The game in itself is a good game, the cops are harder then ever and there 
 are a lot of good races. The only thing that they need to do is just focus more on the game and 
 less on a story line like they did back when NFS Hot Pursuit came out. All together this is a good 
 game but you really just need to have patience and like NFS. I think as EA moves on into the future 
 they need to keep in mind what people here say about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: global666
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm not quite sure where to begin this review; the extremely ridiculous and laughable story line, 
 the astounding frame rate that leave you wondering if there was a QA team at EA for this game, 
 the graphics that look the same as (or worse than) NFS Most Wanted (hint hint: it's been a few 
 years since MW came out!) , or the difficulty level that makes this game more suitable for a 2 year 
 old kid.
  
  STORYLINE
  First off, I understand that this is supposed to be an arcade game but the "storyline" is so childish 
 it makes me wonder if the person in charge of it had any grasp of the outside world. You basically 
 play an undercover officer who has to go deep into the underground racing scene and ironically 
 take out racers -by racing them! Throughout this interesting process you have to earn the respect 
 of a gang of tough-wanna-be folks who somehow have managed to get their hands on exotic cars. You 
 will also be forced to sit through plenty of cut scenes that add negative value to the game.
  Rating: -1/10
  
  GRAPHICS
  You all remember NFS Most Wanted right? And you remember when 
 it came out right? That's correct, in 2005 exactly 3 years before Undercover was released. So that 
 means the graphics must have gotten much better right? The answer would have been an obvious yes 
 if you were dealing with any game other than NFS Undercover. During the same time span Rockstar's 
 Midnight Club series has had its game engine replaced while EA has been busy at work (perhaps, 
 hardly at work, with all the enjoyable all-expenses-paid trips for their developers to drag, drift 
 and other racing events around the world) worsening NFS' graphics. For example the frame rate is 
 so poor that you just cannot believe this game has actually made it to the stores; some times racing 
 feels like going through a powerpoint presentation (the lag is that high) . The roads are the same 
 as what they were in Most Wanted with no improvements. The scenery in the horizon looks just terrible 
 for a game like this -very little details if any at all. Not to mention the poorly generated light 
 beams that are basically in the shape of circles filled with either white (headlights) or read 
 and blue (cops) colors. Furthermore the cars just look awful due to lack of acceptable details.
 
  Rating: 3/10
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Race in a very boring "open city" with a difficulty level equivalent to Midnight Club LA's Very 
 Very Very Very Easy mode (hypothetically) . That's pretty much it. While the difficulty does increase 
 after a handful of races or so they aren't challenging enough at all. Some of the racing modes 
 include circuit, time attack, and sprint. Of course, the cops are back and they perform exactly 
 as they did in Most Wanted so not much to talk about here. Lets move on to handling now: it's poor. 
 For example you run into a wall at full speed and somehow your car makes it back on track, in the 
 right direction with little loss of speed. The GPS of your map is very unhelpful as it does not 
 show the direction properly. As a result you will often find yourself traveling in the wrong direction 
 (this happens especially when you are on a highway and you have to take the next exit -you will 
 most likely continue going straight because that's what the GPS shows!) . The only interesting part 
 of the gameplay aside from the decent cop chases would be the action camera slow-mos (again, a 
 feature inherited from previous NFS games) . Let me also point out the very unrealistic sense of 
 speed which has been the case for ALL NFS games. Driving at 200 km/h feels like going at 60 km/h 
 no kidding. And last but not least, the drafting feature is overly exaggerated in Undercover. While 
 drafting does occur in real life you never see a 50 km/h boost in speed in 2 seconds as a result 
 of driving behind another car. Not to mention that in reality you must be driving at a relatively 
 high speed in order for drifting to work. Oh did I mention the very limited option you get when 
 "customizing" your ride? Unlike other street racing games all you can do is choose between 2-3 
 pre-designed kits in addition to customizing the wheels. This means you cannot pick front bumper 
 #1 with rear bumper #3 and hood #5. This gives you far less freedom in customizing your ride even 
 compared to previous NFS games.
  Rating: 5/10
  
  SOUND/MUSIC
  Cars sound decent and close to actuality, until you perform a burnout. That's when you hear this 
 ragging sound that is far from what a car revving at high RPM would sound like. The music selection 
 is not bad. In fact that would be one of the good features of NFS Undercover. The rest is fine.
 
  Rating: 8/10
  
  
  Bottom line, this game should have been released 4-5 years ago. NFS Undercover feels like a poorly 
 tested, buggy, and out-dated game that significantly fails in entertaining its fans and other adrenaline-rush 
 enthusiasts. Anyway if you are looking for a much more fun game then be sure to check out Midnight 
 Club LA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadaSpeed1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Ok - disclaimer first.
  
  I absolutely love Need For Speed - Most Wanted. It is the single game I replay on a regular basis 
 and I have been playing video games for 20 years now... yep old !@#$.
  
  I have been waiting for this game for a long time. Post NFSMW games from EA ; were ; well ; lacking. 
 And for about 2 hours; I thought this one was too.
  
  EA? Please hear this - ASK US what we want ; please? ok? 
  You can make the next NFS a "10" ; 
 if only you will ask us.
  We know what really makes the game good ; and what can be changed
  or removed.
  
  Disclaimer 
 2 - I have a lot of other racing games too. Some have excellent features; while lacking others 
 that also keep them in the "8" or below category.
  
  Anyhow - how is this game?
  If you are a racer - you will like or love this game. If you a new gamer ; or shooter fan - play 
 it for 2 hours - then it gets good. Once you get to RACER or PRO level - it really picks up.
  
  This game does have some frame rate issues ; and odd umm - out dated bugs - like robo-cars 
 driving thru solid barriers.
  
  Graphics are good ; but not great. [HD1080] . Gameplay is very good.
  Sound is excellent. Cops 
 voiceovers ?!? - they sound like wussies. 
  Except for the feds.
  
  The cutscenes are well done - very professional. Just not enough
  of them in the first hour or 
 2 of play. The story suffers because of this
  single factor. FRankly I did not feel engaged because there was not
  enough story to grab on 
 to. BUT - then it suddenly picks up and
  you are engaged and "in" the game so to speak.
  
  Cop chases are VERY good. AI is excellent. Other chases are also
  very chilling and very 
 exciting. Sorry - no spoilers here.
  
  Disclaimer 3 - 
  Just finished play GOW2 - so ; umm... hard to live up to that game - a "10".
  
  Anyhow - rent 
 this game first - and play it at least 2 hours if you are unsure.
  If you are a racer ; add this one now ; just give it some time to grow on you.
  
  D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brienxx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I say it's a game worth to buy. Some missions in it are really cool and funny, such as cheating super 
 cars ,playing cops and so on. If you are confused by buying this game, you should rent it first and 
 I hope you will love it.
  Yes, the visualness of this game is somewhat worse than GRID, especially the ugly shadow. But when 
 you have played some missions ,you will find that the content and details of the game are richer 
 than most of other racing games.
  The music and movies in this game are great, I mean, if you don't like racing, it is still a interactive 
 entertainment film for you just like fast N furious, yes, a interactive fast N furious.
  I'm so glad to see that the new game of NFS series is return to cop-chasing style, I don't like 
 PRO STREET anyhow.
  In conclusion, UNDERCOVER is a great racing game to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nvidia_9800
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  The Ahtit Thank  20 ... Halmouka really impressed me more than when more and more ... Since we 
 are talking about the Need For Speed So talking about the myth ... This is first ... In addition 
 the game already very similar game Most Wanted Everyone says I look like Lord and God have mercy 
 on her days ... God banal Pro Street 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  In short and to the point:
  
  -- GOOD --
  - Graphics are above average (nothing special of course)
  - Good variety of music
  ---------------------------------------------------------
 
  ---------------------------------------------------------
  -- BAD --
  - Shallow and stupid background story
  - Arcadish kind of gameplay
  - Nothing new
  - AI is 
 kind of meh...
  - Low replay value
  ---------------------------------------------------------
  CONCLUSION
  A arcade title based 
 on car racing and with some added action.
  There is nothing new or special about it plus it feels lacking and becomes boring pretty quick.
 
  Just another shallow EA title with the NFS name on it for the High speed car fanatics and for 
 the small kids that love cars.
  ---------------------------------------------------------
  SCORES
  Graphics: 7.5
  Sound: 8.0
  Gameplay: 5.5
  Final Score: 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paraguy12
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 20, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst NFS game I ever played. The first one that came out for the 360 (most wanted 
 I think) is still the best one. It looks like the graphics are PS2 or original xbox quality. The 
 game looks like it was just thrown together and slapped with a NFS title to sell it. I bet more 
 was spent on the stupid actors then the actual game developement. Maggie Q is hot so someone at 
 Ea had a crush on her and spent most the money on her ;lol. The AI in the game is just horrible 
 I cant believe how lame this game is. I had so much hope for this title and ended up completely 
 let down. Save your money and buy one of the great titles out there or if you never played most 
 wanted go buy that one its a solid game still even today. EA must learn it has to do better or 
 us gamers will spend are hard earned money elseware especially in this economy. Bottom line is 
 DONT BUY THIS PIECE OF TRASH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poseidion
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Graphics are great, while the car is not moving!! It has this strange feeling, like if 
 you were watching really old-school cartoons, when they draw them in a lot of pages and then you 
 pass them fast to see the movement. They really worked them out nice, but that detail really sucks.
 
  
  Sound: Sounds are great, you can't ask for more. The music it's usual from NFS; there aren't many 
 famous artists, but it's nice.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay it's cool, althought you could miss some things from earlier NFS versions. The 
 customization options are very limited compared to ProStreet and Underground, and waayyyyyyy under 
 Juiced 2 and Midnight Club Los Angeles. Something that really bothered me is that when you are 
 upgrading the exterior body you can't see the car from all the angles. For some reason the camera 
 view in the garage has it's limits (and while playing too) . And the cops are really annoying, not 
 because I don't want the game to have cops (I do like the fact that it has cops) , but because when 
 you are in free roam there are way too many of them free roaming too; you can't have an extended 
 free ride without calling their attention, or braking each 10 seconds to avoid them.
  
  Online: Haven't used it yet. I'll update this later.
  
  Story mode: I haven't played it a lot, 
 but it's really cool. Nice story cuts.
  
  Overall: The last four NFS games (counting this one) had let me waiting for more. Each year I buy 
 it with the hope that it will be better. I miss Hot Pursuit 2 and Underground 1 and 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macrules_640
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  After playing the horrible Need for Speed: Pro Street I was ready to give up on the Need for Speed 
 series altogether, but when I saw the first screen shots and trailer for Need for Speed: Undercover 
 I was hopeful that the series would get back on track with this game. In some ways Undercover got 
 right what Pro Street did wrong, but in other ways it's another step back for the series. First 
 the story is Need for Speed: Undercover is actually pretty well done and there are a few twists 
 and turns in it that makes it feel like an actual Hollywood movie. The cut scenes in the game are 
 actually done by real life actors and it shows EA has gotten better since Most Wanted. Now story 
 wise it's pretty simple, you're an undercover cop send in by Maggie Q to break up a street gang 
 by trying to get tight with them and eventually take down the leader of the gang. As far as the 
 story it will probably take you any where from 6-10 hours to beat the story or more if you want 
 to go after stuff you missed the first time around. Now the big thing that makes Undercover better 
 is the fact that the police are back in full force again and this time they are smarter and will 
 try new tactics in their quest to arrest you. Don't be surprised if they catch you the first few 
 times they are a lot smarter this time around. As for the racing EA thank goodness when back to 
 the basics and now it's more arcade style then Sim like it was in Pro Street. That means you can 
 take a corner at 90 mph and be okay. The racing in Undercover feel likes they took it straight 
 from Most Wanted which isn't a bad thing, but I would of liked to see more original stuff. Races 
 are the standard sprint, checkpoint, lap and cost to state. As for the graphics in general they 
 look great, but they suffer from some serious pop up and general clipping and frame rate issues. 
 I just hope EA can fix these problems with a patch. Now even with all the good things I can't help, 
 but think EA rushed Undercover a little to much it feels unpolished in areas and could of used 
 a little more time, but I give credit to EA for trying to fix the mistakes of Pro Street, but in 
 some ways they made things worse in parts of the game and for the soundtrack it's pretty good, 
 but not everyone will like it. All in all Need for Speed Undercover is a great step up from Pro 
 Street and fans of the series will enjoy the game a lot.
  
  Pros:
  + Better than Pro Street and tries to restore the series back to its roots
  + Story is well written 
 and has a few twists and turns
  + Customization of cars is great
  + The 5-0 is back and better than ever
  + Online is solid and features a few new ways to play
 
  
  Cons:
  - A lot of graphical issues (i. e. pop-up, frame rate issues)
  - Game feels like it was rushed in areas and could of been done better
  - Doesn't do that much 
 different to distinguish itself from past Need for Speed games
  - Soundtrack may not be in everyone's taste
  - Good old rubber band AI is still at it in some 
 races 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monteninja
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  If you bought most wanted a couple years back, then you've already played this game. Its basically 
 a remake. and its so much the same ive even found myself with lotus elise again just like i did 
 in most wanted. why does EA try to fix whats not broken? underground was the best. but most wanted 
 wasnt too bad either, carbon was decent and undercover is ok. pro street was doo doo. and in this 
 game it says races are taking place at 8am. WHO IN THE F RACES AT THAT TIME? omfg i almost wanted 
 to just turn it off right there. i give it a 7 becuz NFS name adds 2 points so i guess id really 
 give it a 5 lol. im still going to play the crap out of it, but it doesnt mean its that great, 
 its a racing game, and i needed one. PGR4 doesnt do it for me, i was borrowing grid which was kind 
 of appealing, but i bought this one. which will be just fine i hope. 
  
  redid my review and score, the frame rate issue really sucks online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranbir_flame
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  NFS: Undercover is a game that even the most Hardcore NFS fans will have mixed reactions about. 
 First I will go and tell you about the Positive.
  Firstly, The Open Game World is back which is good because Pro Street's gameplay was pretty dull. 
 In undercover you can drive around the whole city from the start because nothing is locked like 
 previous titles.
  Second, Yes, the cops are back and are better than ever. Cops this year round behave like cops 
 and not just cars trying to chase you. Cops will perform real PIT maneuvers and will try their 
 best to get you.
  Third, the sound in NFS: Undercover is the best I have heard in any NFS game. The Engine and Shifts 
 have distinct sounds for each car. Even the screeching of the wheels sounds realistic.
  And last but not least, Maggie Q. Enough said.. 
  
  Now its time for the Bad coz no game can 
 be Perfect. I would like to tell everyone, if you're thinking the Open World is back, well it is 
 but it gets pretty boring driving around a vast city all by yourself. There is no sign of life 
 in the city except cars moving around.
  When racing, the race path is closed, and not like previous games where there were cars coming 
 from the sides. 
  The difficulty of the game is very easy. You can win races ahead by 20+ seconds. This can be a 
 good and bad for some. The cut scenes are very badly acted out and the story isnt very deep.
  There is online play but only 3 modes so not much variety there.
  
  The game might be boring 
 when you start of but after playing a few races and getting better cars, it will grow on you. Overall 
 the game is pretty good but because of some problems its not the best but I would say it is a very 
 big improvement over Pro Street. If you still cant decide, go rent it first.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tobin04
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 6:01 pm PT
Review:  NFS Undercover is a great game that anybody into racing games should pick up or rent. It is alot 
 like most wanted and it seems like alot of people are putting down this game because of it. But 
 in my opinion it's great that it's like that because for years now iv'e been waiting for them to 
 make a game like most wanted because most wanted is definitly one of the most addictive game I 
 have ever played. Undercover brings the same fun that Most wanted brang as well as many new features. 
 Such as the Heroic Driving engine which I love because doing 360's while doing 250 km/h couldn't 
 get any 
 
  
  This is why I think Undercover is overall a great game.
  
  Update : Get's old fast didn't even finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolfather
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Upon popping this game in, it immediately came to my attention that this was obviously a very familiar 
 Need For Speed game, with particular blends between Most Wanted (Cop-Based Foundation) and Underground 
 2 (Open World) . Though it might be nice to see something refreshingly new and solid, all I got was 
 something solid, but let's just keep it at "I'm fine with that."
  
  It's been three years since I've been pleased with a Need For Speed game that has a fair amount 
 of online play, tons of great rides and good customization, and a story that, though not entirely 
 epic, has a fair length.
  
  There isn't much new to associate yourself with, the formula is all there and the engines are ready, 
 but of course this game does try something new, and the most notable of this is the online features, 
 two new additions called Cost To State and Highway Battle. Though I have to commend EA on the freshest 
 thing this game has to offer, I do have to note the if you're looking to play something like Cost 
 To State, which doesn't turn out particularly well in this game, you would be much more suited 
 paying half the price for something along the lines of Burnout.
  
  As for the actual story, it does manage to put you into something of a good amount of length, especially 
 with the massive map (whether the map is that good is another story, let's just say a lot of it 
 isn't very accessible) . However, the story lacks something original, though relatively different, 
 it has the same old feel of any high-speed cop story to be told, but again, EA deserves props, 
 as they have in the past, for attempting to add a deep story to this project.
  
  So there you have it, the rides are nice and the racing is perfectly fine, the map is harsh but 
 the length makes up for it, as it does for the story as well, and what can I say, though EA lacks 
 the ability to perfectly tackle what racing games are all about, they are one company surely putting 
 in one of the greatest efforts, and hey, the game is still solid and well-done, something that 
 hasn't been done for this franchise in the last few years. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
