-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed ProStreet
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/needforspeed/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Nice online options.
 Car damage looks nice and makes totaling your ride fun.
 Solid, albeit unspectacular racing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Ads, sponsored achievements, and the ability to purchase cars using real cash.
 Missing much of the stuff that made the last few games fun.
 Races start to feel the same after a while.
 Announcers will make your ears bleed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.2, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 1,630 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Black Box
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Nov 15, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
ProStreet is a solid racing game, but it's missing most of what made the previous games in the series 
 interesting. 

  It can't be easy to be a game developer in charge of releasing a new game in a series every year. 
 People don't want the same game over and over, yet they're unhappy if the game strays too far from 
 the established formula. EA deserves credit for trying something different with Need for Speed 
 ProStreet, but the new direction of the series fails to live up to the level of the previous games. 
 There's still a solid racing experience here, and the online component of the Xbox 360 is quite 
 good; but the game's premise is uninteresting and the in-game advertising is over the top. In the 
 end, ProStreet is just another decent but uninspired racing game.  

           The racing is solid, but it's nothing special.      

  Unlike the last two Need for 
 Speed games, which told the story of an underground street racer through campy yet entertaining 
 cutscenes, ProStreet follows the legal street racing career of Ryan Cooper. The game still uses 
 cutscenes to try to instill some story into the proceedings -- something about Ryan getting dissed 
 by a big-time street racer -- but it's uninteresting thanks to terrible voice acting and unlikable 
 characters. Ignoring the story, it's your goal to head to different events, dominate them, challenge 
 the best of the best, and then take on Ryo, the man who disrespected you after your first race. 

  Thanks to the sheer number of race days you'll need to win, it will take a long time to get to 
 Ryo. Each race day consists of a number of different events. Most of these will be familiar to 
 anyone who's played previous Need for Speed games. Grip races are standard races with eight cars 
 on the track, and your goal is to finish first. Other events have you trying to get the fastest 
 time or highest speed through checkpoints, or the best time out of your class of cars. Drift racing 
 is back, but has been revamped and is actually fun this time around since you don't lose all your 
 points for going off the track. You'll also be doing a lot of drag racing. It's fun for a bit, 
 but gets old quickly thanks in no small part to the preceding minigame in which you have to heat 
 up your tires -- it's lame, and you have to do it before each of the three rounds. While there's 
 no shortage of events, there isn't a whole lot of variety. Many of them feel the same -- you just 
 want to go fast. This makes the game grow old quickly, a problem when there are so many events 
 to slog through before you reach the end.  

  The game also grows tiresome because the action on the track just isn't that exciting. Some of 
 the later cars you unlock, like the Lamborghini and Zonda, are superfast, but for the first 50 
 races you'll be racing some rather pedestrian vehicles. Since you're on a track there are no shortcuts, 
 so many of the courses end up feeling the same, especially since a "new" course is just an old 
 one with a few different turns. Most importantly, there are no cops. Getting chased by the five-0 
 was easily the best part of the last few games, so its omission here is huge. Damage plays a more 
 pronounced role this time around; you'll have to repair damaged cars, but you always have enough 
 damage-repair markers to take care of things. You won't even need these markers on the Wii and 
 PlayStation 2-- you really have to slam into something incredibly hard to register even a slight 
 amount of damage. This is understandable on the Wii because the default controls aren't very good. 
 Holding the Wii Remote flat in your hands and tilting it up and down to steer works OK most of 
 the time, but sometimes, particularly on tight turns, the game doesn't recognize your movement, 
 so your car will straighten out and usually end up in a wall.  

           Now that everything's on the up and up, there are no cops to be found.      

  While 
 you always want to win a race day, that's not your only goal. You'll need to dominate as many race 
 days as possible to unlock new events. After each race you're awarded points based on where you 
 placed, how fast you finished, and how much damage you took. If your combined score for all the 
 events breaks the old record, you've dominated the race day and you're awarded with a prize like 
 cash or parts for your ride. You don't always have to race perfectly, but you'll have to win most 
 of the events to dominate. This is made difficult because you can bring only a few cars into each 
 race day -- one for each event -- so if your car can't hang with the other rides, you're in trouble. 
 All is not lost, though. Like in other NFS games, you can purchase new cars or upgrade your ride 
 to improve performance. And like in the last game, you can sculpt certain aspects of your cars' 
 bodies to make them more aerodynamic. This time you even get to use a wind tunnel. It looks cool, 
 but it's not that useful. Nor are all the visual customization options, because it seems that you 
 can't use your rides online. The tool for putting on decals and vinyls is similar to what is found 
 in Forza 2, but not quite as deep.  

  PlayStation 2 and Wii owners are missing out on ProStreet's best feature: its online component. 
 On the Xbox 360 you can create your own race day by picking a location, race types, and even what 
 cars can participate. You can then play these race days online in ranked and unranked matches. 
 There was some lag and the racing was a bit choppy, but it was still fun -- you can really build 
 up some good rivalries by racing the same people in multiple events during an online race day. 

  Though not everyone gets in on the online fun, all four consoles get a piece of the avalanche of 
 advertising that permeates the game. Sure, races in real life are heavily sponsored, but ProStreet 
 takes it too far -- there's nary a stretch of track where there's not some sort of advertisement 
 for motor oil or car insurance. It doesn't seem possible, but 360 owners get to enjoy even more 
 advertising thanks to dynamic ads that will be downloaded when you start the game up for the first 
 time. Even better, some of the achievements are sponsored by a car insurance company. It's too 
 bad that the cost of the game and the ridiculous amount of advertising isn't making EA enough money -- on 
 the Xbox 360 you can use real cash to unlock cars and upgrades. It costs $25 to unlock every car 
 and upgrade. Every single time you go to buy a car, you're asked if you want to use in-game cash 
 or Microsoft points. You don't even need to have unlocked a car to be able to purchase it with 
 Microsoft points, which is really unfair since you can use that unlocked car to zoom right to the 
 top of the leaderboards on the early courses.  

  It shouldn't be surprising that PlayStation 2 and Wii owners also come up on the short end of the 
 stick with regards to the visuals; it isn't a good-looking game on either system, though the Wii 
 does support progressive scan. The cars look OK, but there's a lot of aliasing, particularly on 
 the tracks, which are so jaggy that it's tough to see where you're going when you're driving at 
 high speeds. The PS3 and 360 versions look very nice -- particularly their cars, which look fantastic. 
 They look great when they're shiny and new, but they look even better when they're all smashed 
 up. It hurts your wallet when you total a car, but it sure is entertaining to watch the windshield 
 shatter, the bumper fall to the ground, and the hood peel away like a sardine can lid. As mentioned 
 earlier, the game doesn't give off a tremendous sense of speed most of the time. This is partially 
 because you'll spend a lot of time driving slower cars, but also because the frame rate isn't very 
 fast and is frequently choppy. Everyone gets in on the terrible career menu, which is ugly and 
 difficult to navigate.  

           Most of the cars here are the same cars from the last few games.      

  ProStreet's 
 audio isn't very good. This is mostly the fault of the game's announcers, who are poorly voiced, 
 have a terrible script, yell into the microphone, insist on calling you by your full name every 
 time they refer to you (which is hundreds of times over the course of the game) , and basically 
 do everything they can to get on your nerves. The cars sound OK, but there's not a whole lot of 
 variety to the engine noise. The music isn't anything exciting, either, and you'll hear the same 
 songs dozens and dozens of times over the course of the fairly lengthy career.  

  What it all boils down to is that without the story, cop chases, and open world of the last two 
 Need for Speed games, ProStreet is just another racing game. Other than a nice online mode on the 
 360 and PS3, its only truly distinguishing feature is its amount of advertising, which makes an 
 already uninspired game feel even more soulless.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (85 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Underground was a huge turn-over in the Need for Speed series, many may consider 
 the series divided in before Underground and after Underground. With the first Underground the 
 series achieved considerable mainstream exposition and the games quickly became a commercial success. 
 The recipe was simple, fast-paced street racing with night-time atmosphere, lots of lighting effects 
 contrasting with a slight metropolitan traffic. The formula was victorious, but after several releases 
 with arguably decreased quality over the years, the need for a reinvention was imminent. 
  
  In this installment EA introduces some innovations in the franchise that might get in the way 
 for long-time fans, it no longer is an illegal-type of racing game, the competitions are entirely 
 legal. No more night-time racing too, the races are all performed during the day. You won't find 
 cops or pedestrian driving around neither, just the other racers who will be competing with you 
 for the first place. This might sound like it, but it doesn't feel like EA was trying to turn the 
 Need for Speed franchise into a driving simulator, the gameplay doesn't have simulation aspects 
 and the main focus of the game surely doesn't feel like it. The car takes damage and change aesthetically, 
 eventually the car will get a decrease in performance but that might take a while and you'll be 
 able to race with a damaged car long before you feel the need to fix it. It indeed sound like just 
 a different approach to prevent the series of running out of resources in bringing new stuff to 
 the table, maybe EA was a little hasty in releasing new Need for Speed games in a short period 
 of time recklessly.
  
  The franchise still revolves around racing real-life cars, but much of what the previous games 
 inherently offered are now gone. Your driver in the game is a racer named Ryan Cooper, the story 
 surrounding him is a lesson in cliche; the guy was a no-one, he starts racing, gets reputation, 
 beats the almighty best-driver-around who happens to be a bad boy who thinks he's the center of 
 the universe and best pilot that has ever existed. Surely it doesn't sound that imaginative, and 
 it really isn't.
  
  The feeling of speed is still there, sometimes a little too much, boosted by a lack of control 
 effectiveness. The controls in this game are the main complain that anyone could make if not trapped 
 in the fact that the series are not what it used to be. Especially in a racing mode called "Speed", 
 this Speed mode is a mode where you race at high speeds in courses that require minimal turning; 
 the problem is, some courses in this mode will require lots of turning and the controls of the 
 car are too responsive, a mode that falls in the field of being frustrating and knowing that it 
 had so much potential due to the fact that the central focus of this would be speed, pure speed, 
 makes it a sad fact. The sense of speed always played a major role in Need for Speed games, but 
 the more speed you get, the best controls it demands, and that's not the case. The controls might 
 get in the way in every other gaming mode, but will be especially present in Speed mode.
  
  Besides the already mentioned Speed mode you have the Grip mode, which is the average racing where 
 you just face opponents in different courses, the focus ain't speed like the Speed mode and the 
 turns will be much more difficult to make. There's also the Drag mode which can be set out in two 
 different courses, 1/4 mile drag and 1/2 mile drag, and the focus of this mode is perfect shifting 
 along with a very powerful car with great acceleration; since you race in a straight way course, 
 you should aim for power in this mode. You also find the iconic Drift type of races where you need 
 to drift through turns in a certain course, the courses are particularly smaller, and you get a 
 less amount of points while drifting than you used to get in other installments.
  
  The customization still gives the player immense opportunities, you can basically tune everything 
 in you car for different types of race styles and end up with several results differing from each 
 choice you made. Aesthetically the choices are various too, there's a whole lot of different images 
 and styles of decals and vinyls to be put in your car, you can use lots of them at the same time 
 and at whatever place as you find fit. The cars available are the best-known super cars in the 
 world, from renowned manufactures like Nissan, Honda, Lamborghini, Ferrari, Mazda, Porsche, Chevrolet 
 and many more.
  
  The game itself is divided in racing days, a racing day is an event where you go to a specific 
 location and race other races who will be there with the same purpose as you, each race day is 
 set in a different location and the amount of races can differ in number and modes from the ones 
 already mentioned. Each has a determined amount of point that you need to reach in order to win 
 the day, but a higher amount of points is required to "dominate" the event. Dominating the event 
 is the last feedback you have from a race day, aside from beating the high score record or online 
 record of the day, and to finish the game with 100% of completion you need to dominate every race 
 day available. To gain points you need to not only finish first, but also finish first with a significant 
 advantage, the better you do in the race, the more points you get, and higher are the chances of 
 you dominating a day. After you get in a certain point of the game you'll have the opportunity 
 to race against an specialist in each game mode, if you beat every mode specialist from Drag, Drift, 
 Grip and Speed, you'll be awarded with the opportunity to race against the so called "Street King", 
 he's an all-around good player, plays every type of gaming mode, and if you beat him you'll become 
 the most bad ass racer around and everyone will respect you, sweet deal.
  
  The online is fun, you join race days as well as other players will, you and the other players 
 will compete to finish first overall, if the race is not yet ready you can spend some time in a 
 lobby-like screen and chat a little bit before the race begins. With the constant release of new 
 games in the series you might not find this to be the game with the most reliable online gaming 
 experience, but be sure to find some long-time players and fans, and remember that quantity doesn't 
 beat quality. Also, if you're through with the game and you can connect your Xbox 360 to the internet 
 you can download the Energizer Lithium Extender Pack, which will give you a little more action, 
 the expansion is free of charge and will give you some more race days to complete, it doesn't affect 
 the in-game percentage and is fully optional, but after you're done with the game it sure can come 
 in handy in keeping you up for a race for a little while longer.
  
  Another must have for any Need for Speed game is a killer soundtrack, famous for being a game that 
 compiles lots of rock, hardcore, hip-hop, electronic and pop music keeping the player with the 
 adrenaline constantly in the clouds with its fast-paced songs. After a certain disappointment in 
 the music department with Most Wanted, this game shows that not all hope is lost, some pretty nice 
 tunes will follow the player's adventures through race days and challenges found in the game. The 
 first Underground remains as the winner for most memorable soundtrack, but the improvement is clear 
 over one of the prequels, Need for Speed Most Wanted.
  
  Need for Speed was reinvented, it still delivers a considerable amount of speed and adrenaline 
 to your racing needs, but much of the former appeal is gone, so if you want the good old Need for 
 Speed with cops, illegal races in a delightful night or metropolitan atmosphere you're in for a 
 disappointment. Instead you get a game that, even with some ridiculously basic control flaws and 
 courses that fail in bringing much variation, manages to keep you interested in the new scheme 
 even though it doesn't look like Need for Speed at all. Maybe not the best game the series has 
 to offer, but pretty much will keep you hooked until you decide to move on to the next Need for 
 Speed game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthew_rs7
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2009 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I have been looking forward to this game for a while when I saw the trailers and when it finally 
 came out, I was stunned to see how low of a rating it had gotten and many people complained about 
 it, but when I say that this game marks the beginning of a new NFS style, that doesn't mean the 
 other style is gone and here is why.
  
  I know it is a little bit late to be reviewing a game that was made in 2007 but I guess it is not 
 only a time to look forward, but backwards as well because the newest Need for Speed game called 
 Undercover takes it back to the police chasing that many fans have grown to love. Also, Need for 
 Speed: Shift has just been announced and it is similar to pro-street with the real driving feel.
 
  
  Since this is the first time Need for speed decided to go with a realistic rout, they inevitably 
 made mistakes that will be fixed for NFS: Shift.
  
  If you read up on Wikipedia you will see that Need for speed now has 2 main routes. The first rout 
 is the arcade style racing with police chasing and also the more realistic racing that will satisfy 
 2 main audience groups. It may sound bad but since 2005 EA has released 4 NFS games with another 
 one coming, so waiting for the specific one you want is never too long a wait. 
  
  That is something that people need to know about Pro-street before judging it. For people who spent 
 $60 for this game it is a stun to them but I got NFS: Pro-Street for only $7 after sales. and it's 
 one of the best damn few dollars I spent.
  
  
  Now I will talk about the game itself, there are things I like and other things I don't like about 
 it.
  
  
  On the positive side:
  
  1) race styles - Some of the racing styles have been improved. NFS has done a lot of drag races 
 in their previous titles and many times I got frustrated over glitches, the drag strips had turns 
 in them and it would cause my car to change lanes without me moving the thumb stick resulting in 
 crashes, loses, and lowering of speed. This is all fixed in Pro-Street, the drag strips are perfectly 
 straight and I find the gear shifting system to be a lot more accurate because the Right trigger 
 (RT) on the controller is used as the gas and because it's so pressure sensitive, launching in 
 the "perfect launch" zone is a lot easier. Also, before every actual race, Pro-Street has the player 
 'preheat' his/her tires before the race. It is a mini-game where you control the speed of your 
 tires on the spot to make some smoke and keep it in the green area for a limited amount of time. 
 The longer you keep it in the green, the higher the players grip will be and thus, have an advantage 
 for the upcoming race. 
  
  The second race style that has been improved was the drift. It was NFS: Underground 2 that began 
 the drift style into the franchise and it was done really well, the only other time we see drifting 
 is in NFS: Carbon (despite the PSP underground rivals edition) and it was the most unrealistic 
 and horrible drifting I have ever played. but with Pro-street focusing on a somewhat realistic 
 feel, it brings the drift races to be a lot more advanced and in fact, risky with the new damage 
 system that forces players to put their car on the line if they want to rack up the score. 
  
  In terms of new racing modes, NFS: Pro-Street offers a really interesting one called Speed 
 Challenges where the player can race at speeds over 180M/PH in a verity of natural locations. This 
 is the race type that delivers the most satisfying and intense crashes with EA's new damage engine, 
 which brings me to the next great aspect of the game.
  
  2) Damage engine - With the arcade style NFS: Most Wanted and Carbon, the player can crash into 
 buildings and countless roadblocks that destroy the cruisers but the player's car only has paint 
 scratches. In NFS: Pro-street, the player can drive aggressively but must be careful because light 
 damage to the car effects aerodynamics and wind resistance, and heavy damage will greatly effect 
 the performance of the car. And of course the car can also be totaled causing the player to entirely 
 loose the race day.
  
  3) Graphics - Although the scenery graphics are pretty average, the cars in Pro-Street look amazing. 
 What is the point of customizing and putting effort into a car if the graphics leave a choppy or 
 low detailed product? With auto sculpting and the ability to get every color of the spectrum, the 
 player can truly get the car to look exactly how he/she wants, and the paint types look very distinctive 
 with the detailed graphics.
  
  
  On the negative side:
  
  1) Dull story - Previous NFS games really started to have good story and characters but for Pro-street 
 the story has really been dulled down this time around, you play as Ryan Cooper who is competing 
 with other street racers in this legal sponsored racing and you simply want to be the best.... that's 
 it.
  
  2) No cut-scenes - I loved how the previous NFS games had real acting with green screens to give 
 a real unique experience that video people like me truly appreciate and like the art of. That is 
 simply not done in Pro-street and is filled in with an announcer that constantly talks to the audience 
 between and during races.
  
  3) No Challenge series - Along with career mode, NFS Most wanted and Carbon had a series of challenges 
 that added to the games hours of experience, Pro-Street does not offer that so once the player 
 beats the career mode, the only thing left to do is online races or re-playing the career mode 
 on the hardest difficulty.
  
  4) Bad Sound track - Ever since NFS: Hot Pursuit 2 EA has done an amazing job with adding in excellent 
 music that is so good, you will find yourself adding songs to your MP3 player and listening to 
 it even after you beat the game. I was disappointed to hear no song in this game that I really 
 liked, and I hope EA will fix that in the future. I have not yet played NFS: Undercover but from 
 what I saw, it seems to have the song "Never wanted to dance" which is one of my favorite songs.
 
  
  
  Other mentions about the game....
  
  
  Many reviewers complain that the game has no free roaming. but since Pro-street does not have police 
 chases or let alone a city that it takes place in, having a free roam would be completely dull 
 and useless and is better off to be saved for future NFS games to value more.
  
  Another thing people complain about the game is the level of advertising, you see Energizer logos 
 and Coca-cola zero all over the place along with many other advertisements. People need to remember 
 that the race is based on sponsors and ads are part of this theme. If people don't complain about 
 seeing advertisements in Nascar games why are they deciding to complain about it now?
  
  The final thing that is complained about the game is the announcer is annoying and never shuts 
 up. Have these players and reviewers even thought to check the options menu to see you can turn 
 the voice volume down?
  
  
  So in this review there are more negative than positive aspects that I talked about but notice 
 how all the good aspects of the game are related to the racing and cars themselves which is what 
 driving games are all about.
  
  So yes this game does have disappointing aspects that can easy make people see it as a letdown 
 game but that is because they are comparing it to the NFS games that this game is not meant to 
 follow game play wise.
  
  I hope this review has made some people look at this game from a different angle, I don't make 
 reviews often but when I do, I do it right and am brutally honest.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Theres nothing particularly wrong with ProStreet at all, in fact I mostly enjoyed it from start 
 to finish. But its true what you may have heard... as a Need For Speed game it sucks.
  
  Need For Speed is about cop chases, doing insane stunts, crashing through barriers and dodging 
 oncoming vehicles in an arcade-like fashion. Its NOT about purely run-of-the-mill legal racing 
 that we've seen a million times before in a million other games.
  
  So yeah, thats my main problem with the game. Discarding this, if you've never played a Need For 
 Speed game before or simply prefer this kind of racing, then this game is fine. Certainly not brilliant, 
 and it has flaws which I will touch upon in a moment.
  
  As far as basic handling controls go, the game handles pretty realistically on the harder difficulty 
 setting, and there are many assists on the lower difficulty settings. The lower difficulty (or 
 'casual') feels a lot more like previous need for speed games with arcade-y handling which is why 
 I picked it at first, but then mostly the game becomes a total breeze. So 'racer', the medium difficulty, 
 is a good middle ground. 
  
  The core gameplay is fine, if bland. You can upgrade your car's performance and looks like previous 
 NFS games, but adding vinyls is more complex than previous games where it did much of it for you, 
 which is good if you want to spend ages making an awesome-looking car; but if you're like me and 
 just want to do something quick to make it look cool then you're going to have some difficulties. 
 In the end I mostly didn't bother.
  
  Your cars can also be tuned a lot, and I found it can make a huge difference and give you an advantage. 
 Unfortunately you need to know about cars to do that kind of stuff, because its complex. So people 
 who dont know much about cars are going to be left in the dark in this area because the game doesn't 
 help you with it at all. Personally I consulted the internet, but each car is different; so its 
 hard to find out how exactly you tune a car to be the best at whatever kind of race you're competing 
 in.
  
  Its also difficult working out which cars are best at the different races when you're buying them, 
 and again, unless you know about cars its a case of guesswork really. I spent lots of money on 
 a car I thought would be good at drag racing because it was fast, and it turns out being fast isn't 
 enough and there are many other complexities that play their part. Sucks for the people who dont 
 know cars well...
  
  Graphically, ProStreet is adequate. The cars look nice but the tracks and other effects are just 
 pretty bog-standard.
  
  One of the comentators has a pretty annoying and cheesy type of voice (and the overly 'cool' 'hip' 
 type things he says dont help that notion much either) and he will undoubtably get on your nerves 
 while you play. EA Trax make an appearance as usual, and as usual all the songs suck with the possible 
 exception of one of them. They mostly range from annoying and grating, to just pretty bland and 
 unmemorable.
  
  I wouldn't really recommend this game for full price, but if you're just looking for some ordinary 
 racing game to tie you over for a while, and you can find it cheap, then sure its worth a play 
 I suppose... I have heard the latest NFS is similar to Most Wanted (the best NFS in my opinion) 
 so here's hoping the devs are getting back on track again with the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: words_59_basic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  I think need for speed pro street almost drives like a real racing game because the tight turns 
 if you do it right you will not hit the wall also this is hard because in a real racing car you 
 would hit the wall if not done right. The challages would be harder if you want to beat a king 
 racer and you have to have the right cars to do so and learn to drive these faster cars. Also when 
 you hit other cars or try and get then totaled this works to you beating the race and the same 
 with the king racer. When you want to quit at least when you are racing the king this will save 
 your progress where you left off. This game also allows you to take controll of the major races 
 in order to race the king himself. Different cars have diifferent feeling of driving for each car 
 in the game. In extra tight turns you have to really slow down to make the turn such as in real 
 life racing. Tuning your car makes a big difference in how your car handles. The detail could be 
 improved on such as seeing inside of the cars, people voices, race tracks to look so real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGhettoDT
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  Story - i have no idea what the story's about
  Gameplay - sux
  graphics - GAMES ARE ABOUT GOOD GAMEPLAY!!! NOT GOOD GRAPHICS. this is all that's good about the 
 game
  
  'sigh' ohk lets get serious  . 
  
  Story - You play as some guy named Ryan who is racing and wants to beat top dog who idk his name 
 it wasn't mentioned much in the game.
  
  Gameplay
  Circuit - In NFS: Pro Street it's called "Grip" now wth was the point of calling it "Grip" "ohhh 
 man, hey, lets not do grip, it is way to boring and sh*t"
  you just do like 3 laps of a track that has tight bends so you're going to have to break alot which 
 sux this game is called Need For Speed not Need For Breaks.
  Drags - The drags are alot more harder in this game asif it wasn't hard enough in the previous 
 games (i thought) .
  Drift - drift has gotta be the most crappest part of this game i mean when you're trying to go 
 around a bend you're being guided by some sort of invisible train track or something so if you 
 were accelerating and holding the thumbstick to the left and the next bend is right you're gonna 
 be guided right (what a piece of crap) .
  Cars - In each gametype Grip, Drag and Drift you need different cars for each type like you have 
 a total of 5 cars maybe a Nissan Skyline, a Dodge Charger, a Corvete, a Mustange and a Nissan 350z 
 in a grip challenge you could only choose maybe the Skyline or the 350z and in drag you could only 
 choose the Dodge Charger and in drift you could only choose the Corvete or the Mustang, why not 
 just let us have 1 car to drive throughout each gametype like the old games jeez.
  And understanding the cars performance bars is beyond me.
  
  i hate this game, i payed 100$ 
 for this worthless, sanity sucking, piece of horse crap to get the piece of horse crap i describe 
 it as 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iconic_D
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed is a great series that is usually about Street racing and car chases. However, in 
 Pro Street, this whole element of illegal street racing is removed and is now replaced with Legal 
 race events.
  
  Gameplay
  
  There are 4 types of Events you can race in and most of the events have at least 2 variations. 
 Their is Grip, which is a normal race. Drag, which is of course, a drag race. Drift, and Speed 
 Challenge, which is like Grip, but 5 times faster. All of the types are pretty fun and the variants 
 expand on the game a lot.
  
  The game is set up in "Race Days." Which are pretty much sites that you have to complete events 
 in order to advance to the next race day. In order to beat the game, you must set new records on 
 every race type to face the "King" of that race type. Once you beat all the Kings you can advance 
 to the Showdown King, which is pretty much good at every type of race. I enjoyed this system very 
 much.
  
  There was some problems in the game, obviously. The difficulty curve is way to high. I got overwhelmed. 
 I was beating people so easily and then "whoosh" you actually start losing. It is quite ridiculous, 
 because I ended up having to beat the extra Race days to gain some more money to upgrade my car.
 
  
  Graphics and Sound
  
  I was sort of disappointed with the graphics. The cutscenes were pretty bad and I swear they looked 
 exactly like the early games from the Gamecube. The cars are pretty nice, but Most Wanted looked 
 alot better than this.
  
  
  The sound in the game is pretty cool. The announcers have unique dialogue and the cars sound intense.
 
  
  Verdict
  
  Overall, this installment was not as good as the other ones. But like almost any other Need For 
 Speed, it's still fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurtven
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 27, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game, and I have never regretted it so much before, that I spent money on that piece 
 of S...
  First of all EA visited Porsche in Germany to learn how cars handle and etc. but did they learn 
 anything? NO.
  I don't think that I have played any game where the cars handled so bad, and unrealistic.
  Well 
 well' just have to wait for the next fiasco NFS: Under Cover.
  Well as an old school, I prefer Need for Speed 3: Hot Pursuit, simply the best ever made, they 
 should make a remake of that game, don change anything, but the graphics, and add the latest cars. 
 And have some from Turn 10 Studios, program the steering, so it would be as real as in Forza Motorsport 
 2.
  EA should take their time making games, instead of spitting them out, when they could add 60-70% 
 more to the games.
  the last thing I have to say, EA don't ruin any more games, take your time and make some real quality, 
 as NFS 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoking83
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Well to be honest this game isnt as good to be honest as other need for speed but there is one 
 need for speed it is better than is Carbon...... Carbon turned out to be ridiculas at some stages 
 so it was and the cars werent great and as much as you dont get a racing game for the story......... blah 
 blah blah...
  
  Anyway this game has a good mis of the two..... you have a rival and you gotta climb the ranks to 
 beat him ...... simple yet effective........ like most wanted with out the cops
  
  tracks are nice, cars are nice and modification is fairly good and there are plenty of upgrades 
 availible in downloads for the 360 so if you like a solid racing game go ahead and get it
  
  what more else can i say about it really i think now i am just trying to fill characters so 
 i can post this comment/review/whatever you know so i hope some of this made sense and i hope you 
 enjoy the game overall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 26, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Like if said many times before when I was doing a review on another Need for Speed game I'm a big 
 fan of these games and I have always been one. And one thing I've always had a lot of fun playing 
 them but what in the world happened this time around. I'm sorry but this game really disappoints 
 me and to tell you the truth it shouldn't. First off they took a lot of stuff out that to me made 
 the game fun for me. Don't get me wrong when you look at the game it look's great but once you 
 start playing it you want like it. It looks like EA was wanting to try something new which is sometimes 
 good but it just didn't work with this game. So maybe with the next game they'll change it back 
 and also maybe well never see this kind of thing back in a Need for Speed game at least I thank 
 that. There's some people that really like the game so if you want the game you should go and rent 
 it first to make sure that you'll like it. Because I don't recommend it to anyone it's that bad.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: setonj18
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  This game was a huge disappointment to me, mostly because I didn't know you would be racing on 
 a closed course. But seriously, since when has NFS been LEGAL street racing?? The only new and 
 impressive feature in this game is the crash sequences because they look like Burnout crashes. 
 The game is way too long to fully complete and by the time you get halfway you'll just quit. Online 
 isn't too bad, but there is nothing that is gonna blow you away. It seems like the NFS series is 
 just using the same cars over and over again so those same cars make their return in Prostreet. 
 The customization also makes a return, but still isn't gonna be enough to pull you into the game. 
 New events were added like a wheelie competition which turns out to be pretty lame. So for all 
 the racer and NFS fans, I'd just skip this game and buy FM 2 or GRID instead.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdawg2519
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 13, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  after 4 hrs of solid gameplay, being a casual gamer myself (if I play a game for more than an hour 
 straight) its usually cuz I cant figure it out and desperatl; y want to, or its just that good) 
 This game is def hard to figure out, and I just can put my finger on why I cant use my created 
 cars, or modified cars in carrer mode, and why i can use them in the race day mode, and what the 
 purpose of the race day mode is?? Also when I enter drift races it keeps asking me to choose a 
 grip car and not a drift car. if anyone knows why post your reply here...
  
  Ill try to figure some more things out with this title and get back to you guys here. I adjusted 
 my score from a 10 back to 6 because I reached a point where interesting became frustrating, and 
 a frustrating game is one that should not be played...
  
  Who else agrees, and why... post your thoughts on my forum...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smalls5
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  okay first off for everyone that says the graphics, customization, frame rate, AI, etc. arent as 
 good as Most Wanted you are frickin crazy. I do wish NFS had kept all the street racing values 
 of MW and underground but they moved on. But so did the customization, visuals, driving, and about 
 everything else. This game has WAY more customization than MW by FAR!!! u can hav like 4000 decals 
 and vinyls campared to one vinyl in MW. u can customize the body kits, hoods, spoilers, roof scoops, 
 and watevr else instead of having to just get over it in MW. the graphics are also twice as good 
 as most wanted so dont even try to compare the visuals. wat made me like this was the choice of 
 about 75 cars instead of Most wanted having like 20? so please dont get mad at NFS just because 
 u liked MW. Pro Street is still very good no its not perfect neither was most wanted. If u liked 
 forza try this. its forza on steroids. if u didnt like forza its cause u cant drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 18, 2008 2:14 am PT
Review:  Let me get right to the point this is not a proper NFS game if it was it would have me racing through 
 the night in my evo but no im racing in deserts in hyper cars so its not a nfs game its a sim/arcade 
 racing game with NFS on the box but lets ignore EAS mistake and focus on what we actuallt have 
 here.
  
  The graphics are excellent and are probaly the games best part for example the New 53,000 NISSAN 
 GT-R looks photo realistic but EA have ruined this game by trying to make it like a sim and completely 
 missing the point of a NFS game which is to go at quick speed and at the same time enjoy it but 
 EA thought "NO WE MUST TAKE ON FORZA 2" so they forgot its a nfs game and created a sim racer set 
 mostly in a desert.
  
  Races are fun but the sim like handling butchers the fun so you actually have to think turning 
 in but dont get me wrong i can play sims infact forzas my favourite but NFS pro street is just 
 nothing like a nfs game so lets go through the PROS AND CONS.
  
  PROS
  great graphics
  races can be fun 
  
  cons
  but once you get to a corner its annoying
  PRO STREET is not 
 a nfs game sorry
  they accidentaly made a forza rival and failed dam!
  
  verdict
  fun but dont even think your buying a nfs game because you may be able to tune cars but the locations 
 are WRONG! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 12, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  What the hell just happened? I got bored!!! NFS: Most Wanted was awesome. Carbon went downhill 
 and ProStreet hit rock bottom. So far, the only game that beats all these games was the first Need 
 for Speed Underground. Most Wanted is #2 on the best ones ever. The only cool thing about THIS 
 game is drifting and I LOOOOOVE drifting. It's a shame I don't do it in real life, let alone drive... 
 The soundtrack is good with songs by bands like Avenged Sevenfold, Yeah Yeah Yeahs, those bands... 
 Car controls aren't good, kind of sluggish, and I think this game copied Forza Motorsport with 
 its assists and the guideline. You see some familiar cars like the Corolla (AE86) , a GTO, a Golf 
 GTi, those cars. It's just too repetitive and it got boring after a few hours for me. I still think 
 Most Wanted was better when it comes to next-gen NFS titles. I hope the next one is better than 
 what ProStreet had to offer because I literally fell asleep playing this game. Oh, and the drag 
 races are pretty hard and I spent about 2 hours trying to bring my scores up on that hard-ass event. 
 At least this game has the same sense of speed and shows the velocity when you drive fast. I thought 
 this game would be good and I rented it with high hopes. I'm glad I didn't buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillswitchJim
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 8, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  OKEY I JUST BOUGHT THIS GAME, AND I AM DISGUSTED!!!! FOR 1, ITS CALLD NEED FOR SPEED, AND THE CARS 
 DONT LOOK LIKE THEY ARE GOING THAT FAST!!!! FOR 2 THE HOLE TRACK THING NOT BEING ABLE TO RACE ON 
 THE STREETS, FORZA, THE GREEN LINE IN THE ROAD FORZA,3 THE DAMAGE TO THE CARS FORZA!!!! SHOULD I 
 KEEP GOING, NO THATS OKEY!!!! THIS GAME IS 1 THAT I RECOMEND YOU JUST RENT, YOU WANT A GOOD RACING 
 GAME TRY BURNOUT PAREDISE, OR FORZA MOTORSPORTS 2!!!! BOTH THEM GAMES ARE WAY BETTER!!!! I DONT 
 KNOW WHAT HAPPEN TO THE NEED FOR SPEED FRANCHISE, BUT WHEN THE NEXT 1 COMES OUT I WILL RENT  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolla020980
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  This game is TERRIBLE. Annoying voice acting, annoying car customization (or lack thereof) , repetitive 
 tracks, poor graphics, poor framerate. The only good thing is the AI actually know where you are, 
 and don't just run into you. 
  
  All that was great about the NFS series is gone. No street racing, no cops, no traffic, no open 
 world. Why does EA think they have to mess with everything. These games are just getting worse. 
 Underground was amazing, Underground 2 was awesome, Most Wanted was great, Carbon was pretty good, 
 and Prostreet is just broken. 
  
  The crashes can be cool, but can also be very frustrating. Race for 15 minutes, dominate all the 
 AI cars, take a turn too wide, and you lost because of a crash. This game tries to be both a simulation, 
 and an arcade style game, and it does not do either well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_buddy64
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  whats funny about this game is its called need for speed bro street and you not even raceing on 
 a street your on drark!!
  
  but this game is still fun and it looks cool i still like it but i dont like that u cant race on 
 street!!!
  
  whats funny about this game is its called need for speed bro street and you not even raceing on 
 a street your on drark!!
  
  but this game is still fun and it looks cool i still like it but i dont like that u cant race on 
 street!!!
  
  whats funny about this game is its called need for speed bro street and you not even raceing on 
 a street your on drark!!
  
  but this game is still fun and it looks cool i still like it but i dont like that u cant race on 
 street!!!
  
  whats funny about this game is its called need for speed bro street and you not even raceing on 
 a street your on drark!!
  
  but this game is still fun and it looks cool i still like it but i dont like that u cant race on 
 street!!!
  
  whats funny about this game is its called need for speed bro street and you not even raceing on 
 a street your on drark!!
  
  but this game is still fun and it looks cool i still like it but i dont like that u cant race on 
 street!!!
  
  whats funny about this game is its called need for speed bro street and you not even raceing on 
 a street your on drark!!
  
  but this game is still fun and it looks cool i still like it but i dont like that u cant race on 
 street!!!
  
  whats funny about this game is its called need for speed bro street and you not even raceing on 
 a street your on drark!!
  
  but this game is still fun and it looks cool i still like it but i dont like that u cant race on 
 street!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: p-type07
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  What happened? Were influential road-safety campaigners putting pressure on the world's second 
 biggest publisher? Did concerned politicians have a word in some EA bigwig's ear? Maybe the ghost 
 of Christmas future came to some EA executive scrooge with visions of impressionable young hoodies 
 doing dangerous stunts and capturing their efforts on their camera phones. Whatever the reason, 
 EA's traditional Christmas contender is no longer the Need for Speed we know and love. It's gone 
 straight. It's gone legit. The illegal street racing is out of the window, taking the melodramatic 
 video clips, the police chases and any hint of criminal activities with it. ProStreet is arguably 
 a bigger franchise reboot than even Need for Speed: Most Wanted. All involved with THQ's copycat 
 Juiced series must be very, very happy indeed.
  
  
  
  
  
  To imagine Need for Speed's new direction, just think Forza 2 with a touch of Project Gotham and 
 an injection of aggressive street attitude. In the main career mode, your hotshot ex-street racer 
 is out to prove himself in the legitimate ProStreet world, entering 'Race Day' competitions until 
 he develops enough points to win a place in a special racing showdown. Beat the reigning racing 
 kings in three showdowns and you can take on the arrogant 'showdown king' Ryo Watanabe. Be strong, 
 fans of ropey racing revenge stories featuring Z-list talent and nubile young models - that's as 
 far as this Need for Speed goes in terms of plot.
  
  
  
  
  So, no more cities to explore, no more cops to outrun, no more enormous doughnut signs to demolish 
 - what can ProStreet offer us instead? Well, this year's team has concentrated heavily on the racing 
 itself. We get four different modes: straight drag races, 'grip' circuit races, point-to-point 
 'speed' races and 'drift' challenges where your only aim is to get points by drifting stylishly 
 through a small section of a track. To add a little more spice, the grip races themselves take 
 different forms. Some are just your basic first to finish race, but others divide the cars into 
 classes, put the emphasis on lap records or slice the track up into sections and give you points 
 for scoring low times in each. In other words, ProStreet might resemble your average circuit racer, 
 but there's a little more variety built than you might expect.
  
  
  
  
  The surprise - particularly if you've seen some of the more hostile comments floating around - 
 is how competently ProStreet handles everything. EA has rebuilt the Need for Speed physics engine, 
 and the result is much improved, more realistic handling provided you're sensible enough to play 
 it on the highest 'King' realism setting (on the lowest setting your average five-year-old could 
 make it around the track, but the driver aids are too intrusive to make the experience even slightly 
 satisfying) . EA has done similar work with the AI, and while it's not quite as aggressive as we'd 
 expect from a TOCA, we're certainly not in the 'line up in an orderly fashion then process around 
 the track' realms of Gran Turismo. I've been cut-up on corners. I've watched them take a turn too 
 fast and go careering off into a barrier. I've even caught them drafting behind me then speeding 
 past for the final stretch. In short, there's more than just the handling to give you a decent 
 gritty challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiDeMuerto
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 28, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  I mean that was half the fun, as well as making it a bit more challenging. Don't get me wrong, 
 the graphics and physics on the game are well thought of. When you turn your car in the game and 
 accelerate, all the standard laws of physics come in to play causing you to normally oversteer 
 and end up off the road. 
  
  There is the ability to earn cash and cars, even to upgrade them as well. In order to do so you 
 have to compete in the game and win races for cash. And let me tell you, once you have done a few 
 of the maps, you pretty much now the rest of them. Not a whole lot of effort put into the game 
 content as there should be. And still upset about no police, I loved the chases.
  
  So it seems like they were trying to get more into the line up of like Juiced (I believe was the 
 name of the game) which is where you get to trick out your ride, but spent less time on the details 
 of the game otherwise. "Yawn!!" Don't waste your money or effort on this game, I was pissed when 
 I spent the $60 for it brand new, and got home to play it that night but couldn't return it once 
 I seen it was not as expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ak111
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  + ve: Exceptional Graphics for game, they are very realistic, except for fact that the car wheel 
 do not seem to rotate with which they are running in grip game start play.
  + ve: Different concept for racing, no cops less PIA.
  +ve: pretty realist car damage, love totalling 
 car.
  +ve: multiple carrier level saves
  +ve: good customization options, car parameters and information about their effect on car performace 
 is well given in the (X) menu
  +ve: if you get lucky you get to stand in the front line while starting the race.
  
  -ve: When 
 you are running grip race with time shoot, all records and timing is thrown in screen making it 
 difficult to see the road ahead.
  - ve: Actual ms point to buy cars. one can buy cars with ms points even if don't have cash, other 
 marketing technique
  -ve: no way to test car performance on road without going in the race practice, in practice car 
 gets hit and have to be repaired
  -ve: marker always give upgrades which are lower stages than my car is on now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllboutRedskins
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Nfs pro street Is something new to the franchise which Is good. This kinda reminds you a little 
 bit about not wanting to do much but Just race. Its like Underground but with a little improvements. 
 Sure the last two (2) NFS have had cops but cops ain't everything. In NFS pro street If their was 
 cops you couldn't outrun em, soooo yea think about It really. No the customization ain't that great 
 but IT Is ok, and on this 360 and PS3 the game does look good @ 720p or 1080i. and the sound I 
 LOVE. The announcer IS AWSOME I love games that do that. The cars kinda sound the same at start 
 but the more you add they do sound a little diff. I also have the PS2 ver and that one Is no diff 
 except the graphics NEED FOR SPEED PRO STREET is great and fun, but just because their ain't no 
 cops doesnt mean the game Is bad: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hizam_samsudin
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  This is a definitely the boring Need for Speed I've ever played. It is just a dull version of Forza 
 2 of the xbox360 or Grand Turismo 5 for the PS3. They try to discover new fundamental to racing 
 game by becoming more realistic but forgetting the front word of their discovery "FUN". 
  
  I believe a lot of people still love the undergrounds series, well why not because it's a fantasy 
 racing game that happen on the street with lots of beautiful color of light, cars, storyline and 
 so on plus it's addictive. In a short simple word is FUN.
  
  Well technically EA total misdirect their true objective in developed this new released and try 
 to be more serious. Well EA to bad for you guys because if I want to play that kind of game I rather 
 play Forza 2.
  
  Well it's not fair for me to condemn everything about this game. It's still have value in a way 
 or two, like the graphic and the atmosphere of a race day are very nice and inviting. The new damage 
 system tend to show the livelihood of a racer and look great (which I found to be frustrating because 
 everyone will eventually accident and if we did, we don't want to look back & repair the car ourselves. 
 Just deduct some reward money like any other games and don't give us options) . For the good, I 
 think the presentations and game play are solid.
  
  Well for all racing game maniac out there, if you want to play a street race game that really enjoy 
 and fun I rather recommend Juice 2 (even though the race atmosphere not as exciting as pro street 
 but it's pure fun) . Sorry EA better luck next time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gawney
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  When i first got the game i thought, hmm.... have they kept the thrill of racing or have they taken 
 it away with the race events?.
  
  When i started playing it the cars what barely make 100 mph didn't fill me with enthusiasm. After 
 a while i stopped playing then a week or two later i played it and to my surprise within two hours 
 i had a Zonda with a huge repair bill for the smallest of bumps.
  
  The realism started to make it more fun at that point i think the thing that stopped me playin 
 was i didn't think you can customize the car like you could in the old NFS's i then found out how 
 then it got even better.
  
  I realised the body kits i put on the car not only made it look awesome it affected the performance 
 of the car.
  
  But again i stopped playing even though i haven't finished it yet and i don't think i ever will. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero5link
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 16, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry to anyone who really likes this game. this was a TOTAL letdown. the game is pretty and 
 the driving is fats but, the one thing, ONE THING, that ruins the ENTIRE game is the turning. it 
 is so BAD. its like you stop your whole car just to turn, or you go about 4 mph a turn. this would 
 have been a good game if only the turning wasn't as terrible as this. maybe its just because i'm 
 used to Project Gotham games (i own all 4) but this game was so amazingly frustrating, it just made 
 me pissed. online is ok but serious lag issues, the cars lag their way to first, and once i was 
 talking to another player and he said the match lagged so much, he saw a car driving upside down. 
 I barely play this because i hate it so much, but if your into Forza then you should pick this 
 up.
  
  Ratings:
  Graphics-9/10
  Gameplay-5/10
  Controls-1/10
  Playability-2/10
  Overall-4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightFadez
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  If NFSProStreet was described in one word, it would be LONG.
  
  The Career is horrendously long. No free roam. AIs always have the best car on the track, while 
 still being stupidly slow.
  Camera feels weird at times, no sense of speed though. Going at 150 feels like taking a leisure 
 ride in my granddad's truck.
  
  Surprisingly though, the Raceday idea is cool. While the whole game is based on this, it would have 
 been nice if the game was given a mash up of all the NFS titles starting from UG2.
  (think free roam + raceday weekends = cool)
  
  Modding your car is somewhat limited due to 
 not having options of put your own bumpers and side skirts, bringing back the idea of body kit, which 
 sucks.
  
  Overall, this game doesn't deserve the price tag due to countless adverts. Check your bargain bin 
 for the game, that's how much it's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pigpusha
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 27, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  ok first off i am a really big need for speed fan but this game is like a rip off of forza 2 it 
 has nothing like all the other need for speed games we should not even call it need for speed prostreet 
 we should call it forza motorsports 2.5 ( a crapy version by EA) EA had somthing good but now then 
 have a pile of crap but they don't care they just want to rip off other games like nhl 2k8 and 
 forza but the next need for speed game i but is the day i hit mysealf with the weedwacker in the 
 basement for about 5 hours one look at this game makes it look good but after playing it 4 about 
 5 mins is gets tiring i mean what the hell with the drag racing u need to keep the thing in the 
 green zone what happed to u pull up on the line and just race but appreantly EA being what they 
 are made this game prostreet and forza rip off they scrapped everthing and all they left was the 
 cars all the autobody gone the last need for speed game that EA made was need for speeed underground 
 2 no wait thats the best game they ever made so plz don't buy this game
  
  last night i was playing online in a drag event and my car hit the wall and a glitch happend and 
 i had to turn off my system and another thing they have crapy online servers all they do is lag 
 i passed some one last night and his car did a back flip and im there wtf and then he passed me 
 and i got mad like what the hell man and he told me that it was the servers GOOD GOING EA U MADE 
 A CRAPY GAME AND ONLINE SERVERS I MEAN U NEED TO BE 13 TO PLAY ONLINE WITH EA BUT IN ALL THE OTHER 
 GAMES IT DOSE NOT ASK FOR UR AGE CONGRATS EA !!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PizzaWizard13
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  i love the whole need for speed franchise, and carbon was the top of the line. then i found out 
 that a new one was coming out called need for speed: prostreet. so i rented it a couple days ago 
 and also played the demo from XBL Marketplace... This game looks really good, but it sucks. they 
 give you this random guy and background (i like my own name if you ask me) . i honestly fell that 
 EA took a couple steps back in prostreet. carbon was much better. street racing is where its at! 
 i hope EA will create another need for speed that will top carbon, because this one deffinitely 
 didnt. there is not much i can really say about this game except that it did not live up to all 
 the hype it got (if it even got any) . i miss the crews and cop cars... this is all professioal closed 
 course racing. i miss my wingmen too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billym9
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 23, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  nfs pro street. well well well the first time in a couple of years the game isnt about breaking 
 laws and huge rims, instead appeareantly about going to raceday with your cars. of course they 
 dont tell you that your a millionare and that theres supercars. wich i think shouldnt be in a tuner 
 game. no supercars. but with somewhat realistic handling and good customization other than looking 
 at the same body kit on all the carws and horrible vinyls. i still play this game and enjoy it 
 because the races are fun and i love drag racing. oh yea I ALMOST forgot about kinds of races. 
 yea the game has racing that would never happen in real life like top speed and a few more. with 
 a good amount of cars you need a password to unlocl a couple and a sweet graphics engine i think 
 that for 40 buks its worth it under that its a deal and over that dont get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delorean529
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  Do not be fooled by the amazing videos describing the car damage. This game is not at all what 
 it is cracked up to be. If you were expecting cop chases in a beautifully rendered open world with 
 a girl giving you tips for the storyline, this is not what that game is. This game is about you 
 being a guy named Ryan Cooper and you want to finish all these "Race Days" so you can beat the 
 Showtime King, who has a really ugly car. At the race days you can't leave to tune your car and 
 come back with the same amount of points. That is really bad. What is also really bad is the damage. 
 The damage let me say LOOKS amazing but a real letdown is that you have to pay for all the little 
 dents you got bumping and shoving your enemies' car. The car visual customization is cool and is 
 one of the strongpoints of the game. Another bad thing, the announcers will bleed your ears off, 
 and since you hear an announcer every race day they can get repetitive after 2 or 3 racedays. If 
 you already own this game play it once in a while. If you do not own this game, I really urge you 
 to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 73Zero
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I've played practically every version of NFS since the beginning, and I've always found these games 
 entertaining... and NFS: ProStreet is no exception. Every aspect of ProStreet added up to a highly 
 enjoyable game, from the change of gameplay (enclosed tracks as opposed to "real world") , the four 
 different types of racing (drift, speed, grip and drag) , and the new damage system (more on that 
 in a second) . I know some of the die-hards or purists (like myself) prefer to have NFS set in real-world 
 conditions, but I also found it very responsible of EA to put a disclaimer in the beginning of 
 the game to "start taking racing off of the streets and onto a track".
  
  I especially found the new damage system to be a great addition to the game. Unlike previous NFS 
 games, the damage incurred to your car plays a significant role in your car's performance. Not 
 only that, but you are also made responsible for making repairs to your ride before competing in 
 another event with that same car. I found this to be a welcome addition to the gameplay, in that 
 it made the game not only more realistic, but more challenging as well.
  
  The selection of cars this time around is a great balance of raw muscle Hot-Rods, superior handling 
 corner-carvers, and exotic machinery. So many of my favorite cars are available here, and I've 
 found myself competing in so many events just to be able to buy the cars I've wanted. At last check, 
 I think I've built an army of about 20 cars.
  
  One minor irritant that I found is when you make modifications to your car. Basically, you mod 
 your car, make adjustments to certain settings (such as suspension, engine, etc.) , then take her 
 out to one of the events. I would much rather prefer a "test track" of some sort within the tuning 
 screen, where you could test out the adjustments you've made to your car. I found it particularly 
 irritating when making adjustments to my drift car, as I had to hop around from the event, back 
 to the garage, then back again just to fine-tune and test the beast I've built. In certain cases, 
 I'd jump at least several times before I got the settings I've wanted. To make matters worse, once 
 you leave an event, your total score goes back down to ZERO... meaning to win or dominate the event, 
 you'd need to start all over again. Granted, it does add a good challenge for most drivers, and 
 is indicative of "real world" racing... but even in the real world, people still get to test out 
 their race cars before heading out to an event. Perhaps if EA could release a patch of some sort 
 to make this an option.... hint-hint....
  
  Regardless, I found this to be a very enjoyable game, with a high level of replayability. Definitely 
 check this out if you're a race fan (like me) , or if you just like cars (like me too!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elfdogg
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 13, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Boring, repetitious did I mention boring and repetitious? In order to beat the game you must buy 
 cars with MS pnts online! what a racket. The game is the same 4 races over and over again. I sold 
 mine on ebay and got $44 bucks for it. I kind feel bad selling it for that much but that's what 
 the open market determined it was with. Don't waste your money with this game, it's nothing like 
 most wanted. Boring with a capitol B! the aduio is repetitious and you'll end up turning down the 
 announcer with in 1 hour of play. Electronic Arts in my opinion really missed the mark with this 
 one. I got suckered in by the graphics and learned my lesson. Gamespot reveiwers are too generous 
 when it comes to games made by EA. Do you get kick backs or what? Boring, reptitious, did I mention 
 boring and repitious? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadeofChaoS
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  Tried it from a friend, i loved the Need for Speed series, but with ProStreet they failed, everyone 
 wanted to see another criminal street-speed game, instead they come out with this crap like Fast 
 and Furious.
  Also the design sucks, there are tons of load windows.
  Multiplayer could have used more tricks.
  
  i hate this 100 word thing i hate this 100 word 
 thing
  i hate this 100 word thing
  i hate this 100 word thing
  i hate this 100 word thing
  i hate this 100 word thing
  i hate this 100 word thing
  i hate 
 this 100 word thing
  i hate this 100 word thing
  i hate this 100 word thing
  i hate this 100 word thing
  i hate this 100 word thing
  i hate this 100 word thing
  i hate 
 this 100 word thing
  i hate this 100 word thing
  i hate this 100 word thing
  i hate this 100 word thing
  i hate this 100 word thing
  i hate this 100 word thing
  i hate 
 this 100 word thing
  i hate this 100 word thing
  i hate this 100 word thing
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed45823
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  At first I thought it would be a good game but I didnt expected some shiity aspects of NFS prostreets. 
 First and foremost... the handling. It absolutely sucks. All the cars drive like a tank and doesn't 
 respond fast enough. Not unless u get some upgrades which is another pain in the butt. They cost 
 a lot and u'll usually end up spening the money on repairing cars. When I say it, I mean it. If 
 you're not like really good at driving games, u'll suffer a lot of crash. (Thanks to the **** handling) . 
 The A. I is another downer. They just cheat to win like the last few games. They'll sometimes pop 
 up from nowhere behind and zoom right past you. So unless the ride's souped up, expect to restart 
 the same race over and over again to grab the first place. These are the main issues. Circuit race 
 is sometimes a pain because some of the turns are insane and the car ends up either crashing or 
 slowing down a lot, in which case, the a. i passes you. Whats really cheap is that the a. i manages 
 to drive so smoothly without ever crashing and without really slowing down that much while I have 
 to struggle with the handling AS WELL AS the insane turns.
  
  On the plus point, the race modes work very well on online and offline multiplayer. (My personal 
 fav is split screen since the races can actually be fair) . Speed race and drag race are the highlights 
 as you really get that need for speed. Also the graphics are pretty good on the console. The engine 
 noises of the cars are also pretty sick although not realistic and does not have a lot of variety.
 
  
  So in my opinion, if u want to play some split screen or online racing then buy it. Its quite fun. 
 Dont go for single player experience. Its gonna give u one serious headach. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_specialist4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  I've had enough of people badmouthing Need For Speed Prostreet. There really isn't that much wrong 
 with the game besides advertising gone too far (come on EA sponsored achievements) . Maybe the announcers 
 are a bit annoying but this game is still a great experience. Racing is solid, drifting, wheelie 
 comps and speed challenge all rock. And you can make every car in this game a show car with mods, 
 body kits etc which you dont unlock throughout the game you have to have the money to buy them. 
 If you really think of it Prostreet is not that much different from Carbon besides the open world 
 driving. Besides that the entire NFS seris has not really been about the racing mechanics which 
 are good they have been about the cars and the mods you can make to them and i like every NFS game 
 i own... all you Final Fantasy Losers can hate this game but i'm a big fan of Prostreet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scooter2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  i have played all the n4s series n i think most wanted was the best, cause the pro street version 
 is really good with the drag mode, but it lacks in certain abilities, like when u drift u dont 
 feel the brakes like previous versions, n u cant mod a car or 1000 hp, previous versions u could 
 anyone know why this is, i have the 67 dodge charger rt, with all stage 4 upgrades, with 868 hp, 
 it will not let me upgrade any higher no matter what i do, n i have beatin the drift king, drag, 
 speed, n the only 1 left to beat is ryo, he's hard, any advice would be helpful, also id like to 
 add if u buy the specail ed, u get an extra 15 cars, plus u can download another 5 that comes with 
 the game, so i have a total of 120 on my list to buy, u start out with 55, if u need help abtaining 
 these extra cars email me on here ty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyboarder20
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  As a Sim racer this game is bad. As an arcade race this game is bad. The car phyisics are poor, 
 the sense of speed is poor, the frame rate is poor , the menu is confusing and the race commentator 
 and announcer is really irritating. When it comes to excitment , ProStreet offers none. This game 
 is just plain boring. I believe EA wanted this game to rival Forza and PGR. Guess what ? They failed 
 big time on both counts. Even the graphics are nothing special. They are bland and are not as good 
 as the demo and the trailers led us to believe they were. ProStreet is just a bad excuse to impose 
 on us stupid commercial boards. EA has managed to make this NFS installement the biggest example 
 of greed over content. If ProStreet didn`t have the NFS logo, i bet it would get really low scores 
 from the critics and would have been a commercial failure. I can recommend ProStreet to no-one. 
 Only buy this game if you enjoy being disappointed and bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llSapphyrell
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  The game is missing the exciting portions of Need for Speed. It has no free roam mode. The best 
 part of Need for Speed is when you can roam around the world with your car and search for hidden 
 shops. It misses the part where you can go around and inspect tracks for short cuts and interact 
 with civilian vehicles on the street.
  
  I still give it the highest rating because it has the most advanced drift mode among any game in 
 the market as of now. Drifting in the game is realistic. I have so much fun drifting in the game. 
 Not all the cars are capable for drift mode so you better have a specific car specially built for 
 drift races.
  
  The speed races are heart pounding. Each track has different effects to your stability. Going too 
 fast in the wrong road will cause your car to flip over. It can also throw you of balance and crash. 
 The thrill is expounded by the magnificent environment. You will feel different emotions when running 
 high speed on either dark tunnels or bright open tracks.
  
  At easy races, you can enjoy wonderful environment. Just drive and look around and enjoy the high-end 
 graphics of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipzor
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 11, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  The "Need For Speed" series has always been the place for arcade-like racing and up untinl this 
 point have been great. Perhaps it was the free roaming in the middle, the cop chases, the arcade 
 style gameplay, the cheesy storyline. It all helped create a fun atmosphere for people who don't 
 like simulation racing games. All that has been removed from the formula to create a realistic 
 racing game where it was not needed.
  
  Story: Now there is never been a good story in the Need For Speed Series, but they were fun, campy 
 humour. Even now there is nothing to laugh about. I'll make it up as I summarize it. Some hyperactive 
 moron gets intimidated by another hyperactive jackass when he looks at him in a funny way. Now 
 hyper guy number one wants to climb the ranks to prove that nobody will ever again **** with this 
 guy even though he was looked at by some randome person. That's it, not including the baditude 
 from the DJ's and the constant barage of ads even braking the fouth wall by advertising an insurance 
 company in the achievements... weak.
  
  Gameplay: Responsive steering okay balance in the other drivers. Realistic driving simulation, 
 but that's the problem, why would you play a mediocre simulation racing game, when Forza Motorsport 
 2 is cheaper and much better. The free roaming was replaced by a linear series of race days where 
 events are set up, nothing is wrong with this but why step back from something that made the series 
 succesful. I call it lazyness. 
  
  Graphics: Since there isn't that much to polish in terms of graphics, you'd expect this game to 
 look awesome, but it looks just like last years' game. There is nothing that polished about the 
 game, even the events don't look that good because there's only a very small portion to look at.
 
  
  The Need for Speed series always based itself on the feeling of speed and we don't get a feeling 
 of at the begining but even at the end with all the great cars at our disposal, we never reach 
 a true sence of speed. The arcade feeling has left and the series is no longer as fun. If you're 
 a huge fan, go ahead. But if you are looking for a great racing simulation, stick to Forza Motorsport 
 2 and PGR4, its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahid_xbox_360
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 10, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  They may not have been to everyone's taste, but I for one loved where the Need for Speed series 
 was going in its last two efforts. The races were exciting, escaping the police was fun, and the 
 overarching story was perfectly acceptable for a racer. To make things even better finding out 
 who both Josie Maran and Emmanuelle Vaugier were, and then promptly Google searching them were 
 also top notch experiences in their own right. All in all it would be quite easy to summarise that 
 there really was nothing wrong with the series, it had found a niche for itself, and a quality 
 niche at that. Furthermore, the games were also being received well by many different audiences, 
 and the cherry on top was that the inherent disappointment of those 'Underground' days was finally 
 starting to wear off.
  
  So what went so wrong with this one then? Well, that's a harder question to answer than it first 
 appears to be. In truth, it is hard to label Pro Street a bad game, as it is not one. However, 
 with the change in gameplay from arcade to a somewhat sim-like approach it has now placed itself 
 into a crowd where there are many other competitors of similar ilk, with top notch games that justifiably 
 deserve high praise for their efforts. Unfortunately, even though the latest NFS does nothing inherently 
 wrong, it is these other high quality releases that make Pro Street feel like a cheap imitation 
 of what others excel at.
  
  The car handling, as well as partaking in some of the events - which are the core of any racing 
 title - thankfully have some quality them. Yes, it is a bit floaty but all the cars are easy enough 
 to get to grips with, and then learn to throw around a track with ease the more you play. Perhaps 
 it could be argued that it's all a bit too easy, as at times it almost feels effortless to shoot 
 off from your last place starting position like some kind of hyper hare and quickly rocket into 
 first place against a group of some slow moving pedantic mechanical plodding tortoises. In fact, 
 this metaphor can be continued even further as if you crash out, hit the grass, or scrape a barrier 
 the other cars will "slow and steadily" catch up and pass you by, as now even the smallest mistake 
 effects you much more than previous iterations of the series. However, you can always catch up 
 again so there really is no moral to this story.
  
  There are some truly bad decisions on show though, the biggest being your in-game avatar coming 
 across as a rather unlikeable chap. This is not his fault, as he is of the silent protagonist type, 
 but hearing the in-game commentators go on about "my man Ryan Cooper" and constantly "biggin' their 
 homie up" by saying how great he apparently is, makes him someone you will grow to love to hate 
 rather than someone you want to play as. In fact, all of the characters in the game are quite easy 
 to abhor. Rival racers in particular are a huge cause of annoyance, with all their taunts sounding 
 like one of those nauseating vociferous teenagers on Xbox Live rather than something someone was 
 paid to write. Speaking of online gaming, EA does not do much to impress with the online side of 
 Pro Street either as online play consists of just a few basic races - which is more or less expected 
 in every racing game these days - along with the option to make your own selection of races, group 
 them together into a 'Race Day' and play through it with others online. Other than that online 
 leaderboards and the option to share and download car blueprints is also available.
  
  Unfortunately, some of the driving sections in the game are less impressive than the ones mentioned 
 above, with some getting progressively more annoying the more you play them. Drag Races are the 
 perfect example of this, as it sounds like a great idea to warm up your tires and get grip before 
 a race. However, when you have to repeat this multiple time throughout an event, and in turn multiple 
 times throughout the game the novelty starts to wear thin very quickly. Getting from race to race 
 and event to event now feels very laboured as well, with menu after menu to traverse through every 
 time you want to get on the track. Furthermore, the new 'Race Day' approach to selecting events 
 is not a welcome one, as all it does is distance you from the action. Even worse, when the game 
 is trying to tell its minuscule story at the same time the jump from cutscene to race to boring 
 race day splash screen is even more jarring. If that's not bad enough, even the in-game girls - 
 Krystal Forscutt, an apparently well known Big Brother contestant from Australia, and Sayoko Ohashi, 
 who according to Wikipedia does not seem to do much - are comprised of polygonal buffoonery this 
 time round, which is just not right!
  
  When all is said and done I find it very hard to like Pro Street, and in turn the NFS series in 
 the current state it's in, and I am sure I am not alone in that assumption. If you grouped together 
 all of the fans of franchise - which over the years has sold millions - and asked them if they 
 wanted the franchise to lose its arcade roots I am sure the vast majority of them would have said 
 no. If they did want that type of game I am sure they would have bought Forza when it was released 
 earlier this year. I guess the best thing I can say about the game is that the much loved customisation 
 options are still there, and the graphics have been noticeably improved but that's about it. All 
 in all, now that Need for Speed has adopted a somewhat sim-like approach there is no other recommendation 
 I can give other than just go and pick up Turn 10's Forza instead, as that is the absolute pinnacle 
 of where this part of the racing genre finds itself in right now. In truth, if the series continues 
 down this line it is just a car crash waiting to happen, although some could argue the pileup has 
 already begun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  NFS ProStreet is a completely different game from any other NFS. Every single feature in the game 
 is new but not every feature is great. It's missing some great features from NFSMW and Carbon. 
 The career get kind of boring after a while. But drifting mode has been much more improved from 
 Carbon and feels very real. The customuzation could of been better there are not too many modes. 
 Also not a lot of cars but most of the cars seems to be fun to drive. The online seems like a lot 
 of fun but for it to be fun you have to have good rides. Graphics are about nine out of ten and 
 overall ProStreet seems like a great game but could of been a bit better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  From the previous Need For Speed games I've gotten a good idea what NFS is all about and how their 
 games should be. This game is not an NFS game. It tries to have realism in it, but the cars handle 
 nothing like their real life counterparts. The game requires you to tune your car unless you want 
 to fight it the entire way trying to win races (which without tuning it, you won't) . The problem 
 is, the unrealistic handling never becomes realistic - just more controlled. 
  
  Many parts of the game are unexplained and left for you to figure out. The announcer is of course, 
 very irritating and you'll want to kill them after a couple of race days. The story line is very 
 weak and consists of some wannabe tough guy with more stickers on his car than sense trying to 
 show you up. More importantly, why should he even care?
  
  Parts of the game are good fun. The drag races are some of the best in series and the wheelie competition 
 is fun. The tracks however, are very similar. You'll swear you've raced the same track a few times 
 in each race day because they're almost identical except for minor changes in the track.
  
  Thats the other thing - the races are on RACE TRACKS. If you've played NFS Underground to Carbon 
 you'll know they're all about street racing. What's the fun of racing if it's on a sanctioned race 
 track? The police and traffic have been removed obviously, and the game makes a bad rendition of 
 Forza 2 - right down to the colored arrows on the track. 
  
  There are a few fun cars on the list, but unfortunately you'll not see many of them until you've 
 done many many repetitive race days. The game is nearly impossible at higher levels since the cars 
 must be precisely tuned and without a good realistic feel to them, there is no way to tune them. 
 The costs of upgrades are also very out of proportion (A level 3 engine upgrade on a Honda Civic 
 costs $45,000) . That doesn't include a turbo or drivetrain or anything, all that is even more money. 
 You're looking at easily $200,000 to make a single decent car.
  
  The game is just not that fun. It's a good effort, and it looks great with the damage and sounds. 
 I cannot recommend this game to anyone however, it's just not a NFS game. Pick up Carbon if you 
 want a NFS game or if you want a simulator go for Forza 2 or PGR4. This game is just an utter letdown, 
 especially after it looked to be forming something great. Hopefully they can get it right the next 
 time, elsewise I'll be looking to Midnight Club 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeo423
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  This game is great! It may have some of the same cars because there weren't enough fancy cars that 
 came out recently and they keep the classics, but they have more stats and better ways to tell 
 if you really want the car. They have enhanced graphics and gameplay to make it more realistic 
 especially with the damage system. The gameplay is a bit shorter than the other but it makes sense 
 considering the time they spent in other parts. People consider this game one of the worst games 
 in the Need for Speed series because it is not on the streets but if you think about it, they need 
 some variety because the streets were getting old. This is, in my opinion a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treb3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is good yet dissapointing. when I first heard about this I thought it would be another 
 bad-ass carbon and most-wanted type thing, but what we got is a decent entertaining uninspired 
 racing game that trys to be realestic, which blows. The first dissappointing dissappointment is 
 that street racing is gone. now every thing is all legal and crappy. now think of this, you have 
 a formula that is not getting old, is getting good reviews and is selling well, but then for no 
 good reason take it away to just piss off the fans. well getting off of that drifting sucks. you 
 cant build up multiplyers of any kind. grip challanges are what they are, just straght up curcut 
 races. then we have drag. OH GOD I HATE DRAG. all you do is shift and stuff, but the problem is 
 your gears dont reset after you pass 5, which can be a huge pain in the ass. and the theres speed. 
 the best of them all. its really fast and fun and its what NFS should be, FUN. the last thing I 
 have to mention is that theres no free-rome. who the hell down grade they'er seres. what the hell 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjasock
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 28, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  First of all its not a complete failure as the graphics make up for most of its parts but the biggest 
 problem i had with this game was the handling. The cars handled badly. I prefer illegal street 
 racing so i was a bit upset about there being no cops but i did read about this game first. The 
 customization has been cut back but who needs neon in the daylight, but there can be lots more 
 vinyls added and decals but when adding them and moving them my game seems to bugger up and the 
 decal loses colour or disappears so i cant see where it will go but it does come back after 5secs. 
 I wasn't too bothered but you cant change your name, your always called Ryan Cooper. I havnt completed 
 the game but i cant use any other car in split screen except the tureno and chevelle. But overall 
 i'm not impressed. 6.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sho565
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Yea Prostreet this game has good music great features 3 diffuculties and many more such as fast 
 cars.
  Alright ill start with the options one is the EA NATION yup nothing new you can still upload your 
 car photos from xbox live to the internet. You can also sighn in and out from the EA Nation from 
 your xbox. The music is entertaining kinda like Techno and hype music.
  The gameplay is detailed like the graphics for example if your car scracth the wall thier will 
 be scard marks on your car. Thier is no such thing as turning damage on and off in Prostreet you 
 best drive safe fast and try not to crash or you shall total your car.
  The loading screens are'nt bad they tell you whats the object of the event your about to race on.
 
  The story is about a man name Ryan Cooper young racer with no fast cars and alwasy wear hes helmet. Hes 
 goal is to become the Street King but in order to do that he must defeating the 4 Elite Kings and 
 the Showdown King. Now getting to these Kings wont be easy they need to be impressed and want you 
 to race them and take thier car from them.3 Showdowns 5 Kings and 1 rookie Ryan Cooper. Ryan Cooper 
 has to defeat the Drag King, Drift King, Speed King, Grip King and of course the Showdown King. Once 
 all 5 titles have been obtain only then he shall become Street King. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  The newest instalment in the Need For Speed Series is Need For Speed Prostreet. The graphics are 
 awesome and the car sounds are cool. The game looks really cool but it isn't. I have just played 
 like 2 hours of it and I'm disappointed with it. Why? Well lets say its missing a lot of things 
 from previous games. This is why it's disappointing:
  1. There is no free-roam. Which was an awesome thing or the main thing in the NFS series.
  2. 
 There is damage but when you crash or damage your car, you have to repair it by using your cash. 
 Which I really hate because I didn't like the 1st Juiced because you had to repair everything.
 
  3. It's harder to control your car and it feels like Gran Turismo or something. 
  4. Not much of a storyline.
  5. You can't pick your starter car which is so bad.
  6. Performance 
 parts cost heaps.
  7. Too many advertisements which make it look very crap.
  These are the things I hate about this game, and I don't know why EA was trying something new but 
 it never worked so EA stick with what Most Wanted and Carbon was like because I reckon they are 
 both better than Prostreet. NFS Prostreet is a wreck to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c-d4wg
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  This has certainly come as a shock to all people who play NFS games for fun!! You may aswel save 
 your money and buy test drive unlimited because theres no difference... oh yeh i forgot test drive 
 has COPS and LOW advertisement!!!!!!! The only thing holding this game up is its graphics and its 
 name (which has been totally down rated) . Did the producer of nsf mw ,carbon or atleast hot pursuit 
 die?? The whole point of NSF games was for the cops or underground racing... but both were a wise 
 choice =] I mean if your gonna make a game like forza 2 or test drive atleast make it better then 
 them?? especially if it takes a year to produce... Carbon was worse enough in the story line part 
 haha :D it took me 8 hours to finish it!!! but nfs mw actually took me 3 weeks???? I would have 
 been happier with them bringing out nfs mw silver edition then this.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilihead7
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I recently got prostreet and would like to start by saying yes, it was a good game. my review is 
 going to be based on the positive because, believe it or not, i have found no negative parts to 
 the game. i am completely surpirsed, actually, that gamespot gave this game a 7 out of 10. "oh 
 dear, lets rate this game down because you cant run from the cops or drive pointlessly around town 
 and because there is a ton of in game advertising!" no, that would be the biased approach. i went 
 into this game with the positive attitude that it was going to be a good experience, because i 
 am a fan of the need for speed series and i was imressed with both carbon and most wanted. however, 
 the only large difference between the two was the fact that carbon was driven by night, most watned 
 by day. yet i still appreciated both games, their gameplay, and what they were about. 
  anyways, now that i have given you that little shpeal, i will give you my input on prostreet. ive 
 only had it for a couple days, and i have not yet noticed anything that would make me regret getting 
 it. so, i will just start out with the negative. basically, the only negative things are the thigns 
 that they left out of the game, such as 1. police chases, 2. free roam, 3. unlocking performance 
 parts. those are the main things that i have noticed thus far. but, heres the bright side, and 
 what was added to replace those things. 1. drag races were brought back, along with a whole new 
 slew of amped up race modes, 2. realistic damage effects enhance your experience as you drive and 
 slip up on the speedway, very similar and in fact suprassing the amazing effects of the ps3 game 
 motorstorm, 3. the performance parts are all unlocked, so you can improve your cars as much or 
 as little as you would like. The amount of in game advertising really also lends to the game's 
 'down to earth' feel, with real companies and billboard advertisements and even achievements that 
 are sponsored by companies, which is actually kind of neat. 
  there are a lot more cars in this game than carbon or most wanted, with all the same beauties, 
 such as the lambo, corvetts, and even some new faces. at first it may seem as though you can not 
 upgrade your cars visually, but if you just properly navigate through the menus then you can find 
 the section where you can. there are also way more body kits than in carbon, which i like, becasue 
 i thought that that was sort of a letdown in the previous games.
  need for speed underground fans no, they did not bring back underglow, but the new and exciting 
 cars, game modes, plot lines, and completely redone graphical engine to the game make it feel as 
 though it is a new game, yet still holds onto that old  feel. 
 I mean, lets face it. Running from the police can only get so boring when you can instead watch 
 your beautiful lambhorghini lp640 nos it off a cliff and explode into a billion pieces.
  
  For any players of previous need for speed games, or any fans of race games in general, this is 
 a must buy, gamespot biased review aside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bioshox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  After playing the demo on Xbox Live, I noticed the huge change between 1 - Carbon, totally different 
 concept, awesome graphics, and just pure racing.
  
  After my first reaction witch was pretty much WOW, I was ready to start racing, as iv never played 
 pro street before, I accidentally ran into a tree on the side of the road, and I got totalled after 
 one hit I was like Gosh! but then I started again and this time I got knocked into a rock, I had 
 critical damage, I carried on racing and noticed my car was going everywhere, so I decided to experiment, 
 and scraped my car along side another one, a noticed my power of my car went down and as one of 
 the produces stated in a customization review, that everything on your car has a result on your 
 performance, and this was incredibly right, he also stated that "Autosculpt" Witch was found on 
 Carbon has been unlocked to all Aspects of customization so that should be good, the graphics and 
 visualizations are good on just my little rubbish TV Id love to see them running on a 1080P HD 
 TV, witch when I get the full game will do.
  
  Ratings
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Realism: 8.5/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 8/10
  
  Overall: 9
  
  This game is a awesum 
 game but some aspects of it bring it down.
  Vlexxo Recommended. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  another need for speed means a lot of exotic cars to choose from but not this one. well until the 
 new car pack comes out featuring the bugatti veyron. lets get straight to it, prostreet lets you 
 tune your cars this has only been in two of the need for speeds (if you dont know the other one 
 its Underground 2) . the cars in this game basic upgrade them to become faster. the stupidest thing 
 about the game is that the pagani zonda is worth 741,000 dollars really makes no sense to do that 
 because in the career you dont even get a chance to make a lot of money because of the money spent 
 upgrading cars. the only method of purchasing the zonda is by having points. the games new features 
 is the damage. lets just say it looks realistic when your car flips over on the nevada speedway (i 
 hate when that happens) . the best cars are the tuners because the have the best aerodynamics and 
 control. the exotics have a lot of power but handle like crap and the muscles are only goosd for 
 drags and wheelie competions. usually if your car is a muscle or exotic you will waste a bunch 
 of total repair markers in the nevada speedway because you will be flipping over on the turnns 
 at high speeds unless you have it on the casual assist level. the tuners rarely get airborne because 
 of their aerodynamics. also instead of having difficulty levels the game now has the assist levels 
 casual, racer, and king i prefer king because you get the full power of your car and casual and 
 racer do everything for you except accelerate and turn. the game has its ups and downs like the 
 online modes which are its down the career is its ups. the career is really long if you try to 
 dominate every race. the one bad thing about is that the kings are real easy to beat their cars 
 are really crappy i thought that they were going to be hard to beat but they were easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peasly
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  'ProStreet', i dont think so.. How can they call it that when the races 
  are all on track, duh..! 
  
  Well what can i say.. 
  i was so looking forward to this game 
 as i had so much fun playing 
  Need For Speed: Carbon.. Alas my dreams (and bank account) are 
  shattered.. 
  
  First where 
 are the cops? This is an excellent (if not the best) feature 
  of the game.. It enables you to earn huge amounts of money and 
  get bounty's placed on your 
 head.. 
  
  Where are the characters and is there REALLY no story line or plot..!! 
  No cut-scenes either.. 
  
  It's like playing Gran Turismo except without licences or any other 
 
  basic racing game.. 
  
  There's no incentive or excitement.. However it does put on a good 
  display if you total your 
 car..! 
  
  So where's my motivation to play? Down the loo along with the 40 
  i paid for it..!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FullSurface
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  well, lets just say hard work doesnt pay off when it comes to EA games, many people have experienced 
 this problem and EA doesnt help, corrupt files, out of no where you play the game for perfection, 
 and it crashes all the time at loading screens, your free to create another file or use another 
 account, but the one you spent your precious time on, goes into the recycle bin.... woow so what 
 now EA, heres the answer "unfortunately the file is corrupt", delete it and start over, hmmmm kinda 
 funny, this happened to me in carbon, and i have a brand new 360, hmmmm unfortunately you get a 
 bad review and bad customer service...... Merry Christmas!!!
  
  Merryyy yyyyyyyy yyyyyyyyy yyyyyyyy yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy yyyyyyyyy yyyyyyyyy yyyyyyyyyy yyyyyyyyy 
 yyyyyyyyyy yyyyyyyyy yyyyyyyyy yyyyyyyyy yyyyyyyyy yyyyyyyyy yyyyyyyyy yyyyyyyy yyyyyyyy yyyyyyyy 
 yyyyyyyy yyyyyyyy yyyyyyyy yyyyyyyy y yy yyyyyy yyyyyyyy yyyyyy yyyyyyy yyyyyyy yy Christmas :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spec_Matty
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  Get Infinit Cash on Pro Street in your Career - buy a acura accord ... 1 of them is 0 $ and can 
 be sell for 7,200 $ [ Keep buying and Selling and youl get rich Fast LoL =P ]
  
  --- And now fo the best part LoL ---
  
  Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla 
 Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla 
 Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla 
 Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla 
 Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla 
 Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla 
 Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla 
 Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla 
 Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armeniankid
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  ok to start my review off i will say that this game is the best out of them cause my favorite part 
 of the game is drag i love goin on xbox live and racing the reason i like the game is cause its 
 a real game u tune ur cars to be faster not that put in parts there its done and its a real story 
 in real race not in the streets with a stupid story i honestly think this is the best one yet i 
 wish u could do team races and even pink slips would be fun overall this game has great potential 
 but if u dont beleive me take the time to rent it wat i did was rent and i fell in love with it 
 but other then that really great game some really nice cars in there but if u have read my other 
 reviews and thought i was right then take my word for it rent then if u really like then buy and 
 thats my review oh! cant forget grip drag drift speed challenge some new things with good races 
 and if u go on live u get a real challenge some real drivers there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  Since Most Wanted, this franchise has been on the decline. Face it, Carbon wasn't very good and this 
 is even worse. 
  
  Sure the game has nice graphics and an impressive sense of speed, but this game just isn't Need 
 for Speed. I felt like i was playing Forza or something. I've never been a fan of sim racers and 
 this is no different. Gone are the open cities and now your confined to race after race after race. It 
 just feels monotonus and boring. The car models and damge look great, but this game just is not 
 any fun to play.
  
  EA seems to be marketing a lot of so called AAA titles, but they lack a certain something to make 
 them special. This game bored me to tears after a couple of hours. Rent it first, but i wouldn't 
 recommend padding EAs' wallets with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 10, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  This game offers you the opportunity to pelt around the tracks in souped-up Mini-Coopers and other 
 compact and import racing vehicles. They all look great -- in the finish line footage. During the 
 game, they have a distinctly more drab feel, and I don't think it's the dirt on the track. Disappointing. 
 
  
  I enjoyed the setting of a day at the race track. There were fans milling around, there was a lot 
 of incoherent noise from the public address system -- it was just like real life! The in-game menus 
 stunk out loud, though. I couldn't see a thing. Pale grey on yellow wouldn't stand out if you had 
 a magnifying glass. 
  
  I'm well aware that drag racing, since it requires driving with a clutch, is going to be different 
 and probably tougher than automatic gears. Still, I would much rather have seen a system based 
 on one or two buttons, not the tricky array that took up every widget on the controller. Difficult 
 controls do not make you better. They make you crazy.
  
  This game is decent, just not enough to make it better than its precedents. Rent one of those instead. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunch
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This is the best nfs game to date, no doubt about it. Everything in the game has gotten way better. 
 The drifting is actually good this time around, and the drag racing is amazing, but this game is 
 not for everyone. As most know, it isn't a free roam game, but I think everything else covers for 
 that. There is a huge collection of cars, and endless ways to customize your ride. All the last 
 need for speeds were good, but i was getting too bored with all the unrealistic jumps, and etc. 
 Also, it feels good that you can really tune your car this time around, you don't have to, but 
 i think it's fun. I have been wanting a more realistic racing game, but in Forza it is easier to 
 drift with a huge truck in real life than it is to drift with let's say a good old charger in the 
 game, so i knew that wasen't the right choice. This new Need for Speed is right combination between 
 real life, and of course, it's still a game. Like i said, this game isn't for everyone, but i think 
 this is a must for people who actually like cars and for anyone that just wants to have alittle 
 fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pashiel
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Frame rate duh. If you can't maintain a smooth frame rate EA, then there is no feel of speed EVER! 
 If you want to see what its like to race around in a car that's out of tune, misfiring and suffers 
 from frequent jaunts to the stutter zone then by all means plunk down hard earned cash on this 
 one. 
  
  Commercialism at its most in-your-face I have ever seen in game, why didn't they just call it NEED 
 FOR GREED PRO!
  
  If you spend more then 20 minutes with PRO, you have seen it all. EA has just killed off the Need 
 for Speed series with this one. I'm officially a renter now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherif77
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I could sit here and try to review this game based on the control, graphics and all that fun stuff 
 we all love. What is the point??? this is an EA game. It has the same control as the last few Need 
 For Speed that you know and probably hate. Its also one step forward to making games into a TV 
 commercial more than anything. EA made there millions on this game before you even bought it. This 
 kinda mindless advertising has to stop. Its pointless. 
  
  I miss the good old days when we were all considered as kids and advertisers knew we had to wait 
 for our parents to buy us that Pepsi (now its cell phone) or Coke (in this game its insureance 
 company) if we wanted it. 
  
  One more thing, WHERE IS THE POLICE CHASES???? AND THE SPIKES AND THE COPTER?? DAMN I'M DONE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brokenfootedcat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Most Wanted was awesome, never played Carbon, but I've heard it wasn't much different besides having 
 drifting, and a shorter play through time. Having said that, ProStreet is an awesome change of 
 pace from Most Wanted/Carbon. ProStreet attempts to bring you into the world of amateur racing, 
 a sort of in-between from illegal street racing to Nascar or other professional racing. I think 
 they did a great job in protraying this, as well as the race types. The drifting is great, sort 
 of challenging to get it just right, and room for improvement if you really want to get your drifts 
 right. The best drag racing I've seen in a game yet. Grip races that range from easy as pie to 
 tight and challenging, and finally, speed races as fast and treacherous as a pod race on Tatooine. 
 The great selection of cars (ranging from a sixth generation honda civic hatchback, to some kind 
 of Pagani Zonda I've never heard of...) along with some great car customization tools make the 
 game even greater. The tuning options in ProStreet are worthy of a whole slew of positive adjectives. 
 Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JosemlopesBFly
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  Let's start in the begining, when they released the first trailer, the game looked fast and it 
 had the destruction and the smoke, it was really cool but the actual game isn't the same.
  
  The smoke is good but when you steer the car to the max. the car leave smoke on one of the 
 tires and it seems that he is leaving a trail instead of smoke.
  This is just my opinion, if you want to see the smoke, go to GameTrailers and watch the videos 
 in higher defenition.
  
  Another problem is when you steer the car to the max., he turns very slowly so he makes you drive 
 slow and the name of the game is Need For Speed, so why force the player to drive so slowly?
  
  The destruction part is ok, it isn't Burnout but it's still good.
  
  The game doesn't have 
 a story, so the cut-scenes are a bit boring by the end of the game. The only thing that they show 
 are:
  - a guy screaming to a microphone 
  - cars making smoke
  - womens
  
  The only things that stand out in the game are the graphics, and the modifications.
  
  The 
 graphics are good, but comparing to Project Gotham Racing 4 the graphics aren't all that good and 
 one thing that we want are graphics.
  
  The modifications are good, nothing special.
  
  
  In the end I have to say that the game is disappointing because they didn't learned with the 
 previous titles like NFS Most Wanted, where you could free roam and run of the cops.
  
  My pontuation is of 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karlos215
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Good in parts, But over all disapointing. i feel that the makers of Pro Street have strayed from 
 the street racing rule. Now that they have go all posh and made you race on circuits it just dosent 
 feel right. The game starts off slow and dosent really pick up the pace. The game gets repetitive 
 and the cars are horrible to control, you slip and slide all over the place. The cops are quite 
 fun at first, out running them and racing around, but after a while they just become an annoyance. 
 If you want a racing game you should spend your hard earned money on PGR 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed : Prostreet for the Xbox 360 manages to be a fun game despite its shortcomings if 
 you really need another racing game. Many features and even the career mode of the game appeared 
 like they were taken from various competing racing games and mashed together to result in something 
 new which is semi-successful even in its obviously derivative final form. 
  
  Did you like the last Need for Speed games like Carbon and Most Wanted?-Too bad, this game was 
 not made with you in mind. Or rather, it was made for you and for the guys who like closed circuit 
 racing games in hopes you could hopefully like the closed circuit type of racing game as well. 
 Its refreshing that game studios, especially one as large as EA, is willing to take chances in 
 this economy but thats because they can since EA is a corporate juggernaut with lots of resources 
 and talent usually reserved for the movie industry yet knowing this, the game still lacks that 
 particular quality that takes a good game from above average to excellent. That prompts me to say 
 that this Need for Speed seems almost like a half-effort or 1 year hazing exercise for new employees 
 but the truth of the matter is, it probably seems this way because the game was rushed which is 
 par the course for EA titles. 
  
  To elaborate on what Need for Speed : Prostreet retains from the past 2 titles is the barely recognizable 
 ability to customize your car but to a limited degree as even though new exciting features like 
 auto-sculpting affecting performance are added, gone are amount of parts as well as layers of more 
 visuals. Also absent are being able to do it correctly. Some cars upgraded parts do not let you 
 correctly place decals on the car parts probably due to the fact that building said models and 
 integrating them into the game by EA artists went overlooked. Like say on the Porsche 911 GT2s 
 final bodykit for starters. Also, the cutscenes are gone which I think is a good thing to allow 
 more money going into making the game good as opposed to rushing the game and having to pay untalented 
 actors to film silly incoherent sequences that while they add story are ultimately irrelevant once 
 you are racing inside the game. Another positive is that this game has added more believable car 
 physics and a damage model as well as raised the polygon count on the cars. BUT, the races while 
 numerous appear to be repetituous (for me anyways) as I inch my way ever closer to the Showdown 
 King. Its almost as if the game is cheating at times as some tracks seem impossibly hard while 
 others seem way to easy. Balancing each and every track should of been done much better,
  
  That said, there are other things that make this game seem rushed like say the crowds standing 
 around on race day. 90 % of them are all copies as they are dressed the same and you will notice 
 this as you sit and look over the need races to finish while at a career race day event. Not only 
 that, they do the same thing over and over and over again which makes me wonder why they are even 
 necessary if they are going to be so poorly done? Also worthy of a mention are some of the annoying 
 voice announcers who end up saying the same things over and over and over again and sound like 
 total POSERS. It makes me want to throw the controller at my flatscreen at times since when you 
 do good in races, they shout that you must not be happy with your own performance or that you fell 
 short. Another thing that begs the question: Why so many loading screens and menus especially when 
 a high percentage of Xbox 360 users have a harddrive? Why not give those users a much richer experience 
 and stream the game so that no loading screens pop up. Perhaps designing the game in this manner 
 would have been better since even Microsoft is now phasing out the hard-drive less system with 
 a system that at least now gets a memory card upon purchase. 
  
  Well I could go on for paragraph upon paragraph about hhow to make this a better game but ultimately, 
 that is useless. The bottom line is you should play the game yourself and reach your own conclusions. 
 Do things about this game suck? Yes, there are many things about this game that do suck. Primarily, 
 I'd like to voice my opinion and tell EA that departing completely from the features and subject 
 matter that made your past games awesome is a complete mistake. WTF were you thinking? That said, 
 I am having fun with racing but do not feel like my $60 is well spent since it feels a bit rushed 
 just like Carbon did as compared to Need for Speed : Most Wanted. 
  
  In closing, Need for Speed is definetly not a Forza 2 or Project Gotham Racing 4 or even a Grand 
 Turismo but its still a fun game. While I am a huge fan of Most Wanted and Carbon, I wanted this 
 game to be better than the last 2 but wishing for something does not make it so and this game does 
 fall short. I'd say rent it but is it worthy of $60? Umm, the more I play it I'd so a firm NO since 
 it is unbalanced, seems rushed and feels like a sad attempt at merging Forza Motorsport with customization. 
 Rent this and send EA a message that they should give their creative teams larger budgets and MORE 
 TIME to polish and properly finish their games. Especially because EA pulls a fast one on us and 
 offers 95% of the game at retail and offers the last 5% as an upgradable "Collectors Edition" on 
 Xbox LIVE which feels cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sivasiva
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:21 am PT
Review:  Need for speed is a really improved game compared to Carbon. The game has really good graphics 
 and its easier to ride as the race takes place during daytime. In the career mode, there are plenty 
 of race events. When you start the career, the race events are easy but as you progress through 
 the game, the race events gets harder and harder. If you don't upgrade your car, it would be really 
 difficult for you to dominate the events. There are also plenty of cool music to listen to in the 
 game. What makes the game really interesting is that your car can get damaged or totalled in the 
 game. This is more challenging as you need to spend money or repair markers and this makes us to 
 think and how we spend the money. But the only disadvantage is that there are no cops that can 
 chase us where it is available in the past few games. But overall, the game is much more improved 
 and worth buying for die-hard racing fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foukas7
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I dont have words to express my self for my total disapointment for this game!!! "Need for Speed" 
 is a real demand now!! It has become one of the slowest racers ever!!!! Poor menu, no effects at 
 all (not even tryed) , a very small number of cars and no fun at all nowhere in the game!!!
  EA tryed to made this to look realistic but they forgot that this game was all about fun and speed!!! 
 Now you change gear and the car almost stops!!!!!!!!
  It is so slow that you must wait for the turn!!! Use handbrake and the car stops again!!! The fun 
 about making cars with engine parts and paints etc is all gone!!!! And what about this stubid DJ!!!! He 
 doesnt stop speaking nowhere in the game!!! My GOD!!!!!! It is so annoying! The music is a total 
 letdown too....
  
  Dont even think about buying this game....
  Buy it for a xmas present to someone you hate!!!!!
  Just rent it but you will ask for your rental 
 money back....
  
  Oh my god what a waste of  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  In Need for Speed ProStreet, there is no more free roam. There are no more cops. There's isn't 
 as large as a sense of speed. There are no awesome characters. There is no story. There aren't 
 any big changes on the race types (and the ones they made aren't so great) . There are no over-the-top 
 cutscenes. There are no unreal speeds. There is no more adrenaline rush. The free roam city has 
 been replaced by bland tracks. And there is a crazy amount of in-game advertising.
  
  But hey, if the crashes are cool, then the game deserves a 9/10, right?
  
  ... Right?
  
 
  Many of those that are giving this game a 9, a 9.5, or a 10 have obviously never played Forza 
 2. Or any true SOLID racing simulator.
  
  Let's start with the cars. There are around 40-45 cars in the game. 90% of them were in Most Wanted 
 or Carbon, and 60% of them were in both. Let's compare, shall we?
  
  Forza has upwards of 200 cars, and around the same number of tracks, give or take a few. Forza's 
 tracks are real-world, and Forza doesn't seem to rely on advertising nearly as much as ProStreet.
 
  
  The thing is, EA tried to go for realism in this installment. They just forgot that NFS was never 
 about realism. NFS fans (well, at least me and many others) didn't want a simulator, just the same 
 sort of feel they've been getting from past games. What I liked about the previous installments 
 was in fact how UN realistic they were. I mean, what's more fun than slamming a cop on its side 
 and sending it hurtling 50 feet in the air? There aren't many other racing games out there that 
 provide the same level of pure adrenaline that NFS does. Or DID. That's why I gave this game a 
 chance. I can't believe the change.
  
  While I appreciate EA going in a new direction, was canning half of the last games' features really 
 necessary?
  
  No. They could have done so much more with this game. They could have made new cutscenes with likeable 
 characters (ie Razor from MW and Cross from Carbon) . Heck, they could have at least TRIED to continue 
 the story from Most Wanted and Carbon!
  
  EA destroyed more than half of the features from the last game and replaced them with cool crash 
 scenes. Deal, right?
  
  NFS certainly changed. But for the worse.
  
  I have begun to lose faith in the NFS series. There are the classics that invented the series that 
 were some of the greatest of all time. Most Wanted was the series peak, and the originality plummeted 
 from there. The fact of the matter is, Most Wanted was worth a good 50 bucks. This game is 60, 
 and it's certainly NOT worth the money. Do yourself a favor if you are new to the series. PLEASE 
 buy Most Wanted first. It's half the price and much more enjoyable.
  
  And for any true NFS fan who decides not to agree with this review, or to those lunatics that are 
 giving this game AAA or AAAA reviews, I'm a bit amazed how you could consider this game even comparable 
 to the previous installments. Anyone who has played the games since Hot Pursuit for the PS2, or 
 even since Most Wanted, knows that the games still have plenty more ground to cover. And EA has 
 yet to make a real great game since awhile back.
  
  But hey, I won't feel sorry for you. Just go and enjoy your "cool crash scenes." I could just dump 
 my game at Gamestop and get the demo for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXRandom-HeroXX
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I usually always stay away from theses games. You know the ones released every year at the same 
 time just b4 Xmas, just to earn a load of cash from the silly parents buying Little Jimmy a "cool 
 and popular" racing game
  I thought this game looked Amazing with the wheelies and drag racing, but once i Rented it (i bought 
 Kane & Lynch thank god) , I noticed it lacked alot of the things that i liked the last few NFS Games 
 for, theres no police chases, and instead of driving around at your leasure and Challenging people, 
 You fart around a Very confusing menu and find a suitable event, so no Free roaming or choice at 
 all basically, and theres not alot of options in the cars, you cant really get the car you have 
 in real life and do it up to see what your real car could loo like. Unless you own a Mustang, Lambo 
 or a Dodge Charger etc.
  
  Other than a few minor problems, and the major flaws of no free roaming or Cops, its a pretty good 
 game, with above average graphics and very high realism.
  My advice is to rent it, but buy Kane & Lynch, lets not have another yearly update of EA's as No.1 
 at Xmas
  
  Oh.. and they stole the ground arrows from Forza 
::::::

::::::
UserName: george_a
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I don`t know why we`re all complaining, but the game is quite nice. I mean, it has over 60 cars 
 (not to mention that 16 more cars will come in December for Xbox 360, and PS3) all of the cars 
 are playabnle, and the game takes place in many cool environments. Tuning cars is awesome, it doesn`t 
 beat Carbon, but who cares? The colors and the spoilers are amazing. The hoods is not a part that 
 I like. There are barely 5 hoods to choose from, while Carbon had much more hoods. I like the fact 
 that you can tune some of my favorite cars, like Nissan GT-R Proto, Lambo Murcielago LP640, Pagani 
 Zonda F, BMW M3, BMW Z4M, Infiniti G35, and Porsche 911 GT2. This is also a first game where you 
 can ride off course. It`s not as good as free roam, but it`s better than nothing. I don`t care 
 that there are no cops, I got pretty sick of them in Carbon. Flipping, and crashing is fun, and 
 that`s why I like it. Good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dpnfman01
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  So I was happy to see the next NFS game, wonderful graphics, awsome damage engine, crapy gameplay.... what? 
 Crapy. How... its the NFS series, how could it be crapy? Well how about you set down and play the 
 game and you'll understand. The gameplay is blah, nothing fun to do, the tracks and races all feel 
 the same, no short cuts, no cops, no glory. Its I believe the worst in its series, it just another 
 racing game with all the basics. What I would like to see in the next NFS game is back to the cops. 
 This time lets really make a sequel to NFS: Hot Pursuit with rodblocks, police tactics and spike 
 strips that you yourself can do just like in that old classic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kreepman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Do the math:
  
  New Locations + New Cars + Jaw Dropping Graphics + Super Realistic Car Physics - Cops - Open World 
 = A Great Racing Game called Need for Speed Pro Street.
  
  The NFS Series takes a hard right turn and heads in a new direction fueled by the LEGAL Street 
 Culture. This new direction is possibly the greatest racing game I have ever played.
  Just think of it as Forza Motorsport 2, but with Street Racing Cars.
  
  The Graphics are by 
 far the best graphics I have ever seen in a Xbox Racing Game by far. The Cars look real, The Women 
 look gorgeous, and even The Smoke looks real!
  
  Though, this game does manage to piss me off because some of the later races are just too hard 
 if you don't have a car up to date with the other racers, because they will rip you up!
  
  Overall...
  BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitrous_boy
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  So, older need for speeds were arcade racers, running away from cops and street racing with alot 
 of cutscenes. So since that is getting dated, EA has gone into the new form of racing, and ProStreet 
 shows what it is.
  
  Yes, it is now on real race tracks and motorways around the world other than made up cities. That 
 means the the game is now legal, so no more police chases. The competiveness is still high in this 
 game, so the fun factor still hasn't gone.
  
  I just started career mode, and it seems a bit complicated at first, but you will understand it 
 later. There are all these race day events, which should keep you playing this game for a while. 
 You play as Ryan Cooper, a well known racer, but gets dissed by the higher-classed Showdown King, 
 Ryo. You must dominate all the race days to race him though.
  
  I rarely have any problems with this game, but I found a few things classic need for speed fans 
 will find. The only problem I have with this game is the sheer understeer. Surely, it is more like 
 a simulation that way, but cars start to feel a tad too heavy, a bit like Gran turismo 4. old fans 
 may be sad that there is no free roam, cutscenes and cops to run away from.
  
  This doesn't mean the Need for speed formula has been wrecked. It still has got realistic sounds, 
 impressive visuals, and a decent soundtrack. This is one of those love it or hate it game, and 
 I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2muchtorque
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Game plays well theirs no lagging like in the PS3 version of the title. The cars look amazing they 
 really went all out for it this time. Their is a story line not very big its quiet small but their 
 is one. If you like cars just one bit this is the game for you i recommend this game for the weekend 
 player to the hardcore player. The online is pretty good BUT it will need some time for you to get 
 used to it. Other than that the game is pretty nice in the visual and game play department go out 
 and buy the game you wont regret it trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genoseal
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Realize that when you buy this game you are delving in to the atmosphere of proffessional racing. 
 If you've ever watched Formula D and the speed channel it's exactly the way the real races are. 
 they have gone a step up from what they have made before and made a solid racing experience. The 
 drifting is harder for some people because of it's realism. The grip races seem hard to people 
 because they don't have a clue how to tune their cars properly. For those of us that love cars 
 and racing, this game gives us the freedom to fine tune every aspect of it in order to race topnotch. 
 if you actually listen to the announcer (annoying as he may be) it actually progresses the story 
 line whenever Ryo is present. Not in the aspect of a real "story line" per say, But you do hear 
 the tension in ryo's voice the better you do and the closer you are to challenge him. If you want 
 to delve into the action of fine tuned pro racing.... this game is one you must pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ungivenglory
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Hey everyone,
  
  Before you judge my review, keep in mind I have played Need For Speeds since the very start, HOWEVER, 
 in this review I will be only referring to the past 4-5 iterations.
  
  Need For Speed : Pro Street, is exactly what its name would lead you to believe it's about. Its 
 about professional street racing. My first impression of Pro Street was made when it was first 
 announced and first videos were released. I thought, "Umm okay? just another need for speed, just 
 doing something weird" 
  
  That was all I heard about, talked about, or saw of NFSPS until the demo became available on the 
 live marketplace. I passively downloaded it and forgot about it, only to come across it while at 
 a friends house. I started up a race, it appeared as though the graphics had definately been improved 
 and now that the game is featured, once again, during the daytime, you can actually see the detail 
 and appreciate it. 
  
  I played a speed race, which consisted of me driving at blistering speeds through a desert on a 
 twisty road. The things I noticed ( which also apply to the retail game ) are as follows : 1) Burnout 
 physics improved, smoke graphics and effects look damn sexy 2) sound effects got better and only 
 get better with increased volume ( do not blow our your ears kids ) 3) nfs was fun again!!!
  
  If you aren't able to tell by now, I absolutely HATED NFS: Carbon, I tried to love it, I tried 
 to play it, and though there are a few things I liked, it wasn't that great of a game, NFS: UG2 
 and MW were tens of times better. 
  
  Added in NFSPS, is a huge thing I have been begging for since UG1. Real crash damage, and real 
 crash physics. During another race through a desert, i happened to lose control of my vehicle while 
 accelerating too hard and hit head first into a pole. My car FLIPPED in slow motion as I stared 
 with my mouth open. As I flipped in slow motion, pieces of my car were flying, and a friend of 
 mine noticed a billboard ad for PROGRESSIVE INSURANCE in the background of my collision ( Hilariously 
 Ironic ) And though people complain about advertising, there really is no problem with it, as long 
 as it's in context. ( No ads for Viagra in a WW2 game and so on )
  
  Car customization has been steeply increased and though I wish this game had the name brand bodykits 
 that Juiced 2 HIN was kind enough to add 
  ( Veilside bodykits are always a sexy addition to any car ) The fact that you could autosculpt 
 the features of the given bodykits and the parts are still name brand, so I was able to look over 
 this small detail.
  
  Drifting is here again, but much more believable, fun, and challenging. So far NFSPS has had some 
 of the best drift physics I have seen in a game so far, I recommend you give it a try.
  
  The biggest problem with this game is the announcer, he sounds much like the one from EA's SKATE, 
 and I hated him too, far too loud, far too repetitive, and too wannabe gangster for my liking, 
 ( I hate being called MY BOY RYAN COOPER, ) But luckily, the developers were kind enough to include 
 a volume control for our loudmouthed friend, so I am able to play in ambience and fun.
  
  I have yet to play multiplayer yet, but will post about it once i do.
  
  I recommend this game 
 to everyone who likes racing games, this game is damn fun, but don't listen to me, don't listen 
 to anyone, go out and buy or rent this game, and make up your own mind.
  
  Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anubis_2010
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  When I was try this game. Feel I'm tottaly not play need for speed. Really don't like it. I was 
 so upset after very long wait : ( Carbon much better & Most Wanted is the best. Really I hope if 
 I can get my money back. I was biggest fan from the Need for speed on 3DO consle game. I'm really 
 feel I'm waste my money, Tottaly it's a normal game, it's not NFS !!! Like the old one. I don't 
 know why they did this.
  What else, I was looking forworde for this game for long time, but I try it .............. oh my 
 god. Why ? Where us my lovelly need for speed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevmo1
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  Looks great, plays great and cars look amazing in HD. The announcers get very annoying and I am 
 a little disappointed that there are no replays. Paying for damage gets a little annoying but gives 
 a great feeling of reality instead of just balls to the wall racing. Worth buying and fun to play 
 with a friend. One perk is that all paint and vinyls are free and they are all available immediately. 
 You can make your wheels rediculously large and you may spend several hours just customizing your 
 cars. You need a different vehicle for each kind of race which seems rediculous being that you 
 could use one for several different racing styles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Prostreet is an interesting game in that EA has moved the series into the domain 
 of track based games like Gran Turismo and Project Gotham Racing. It used to be that NFS was a 
 street arcade racer, a crowded genre but one it did well in. Now its in another crowded genre but 
 one that is much harder to compete in.
  
  So what did EA bring to the track racer party? Damage modeling, simulation basic physics, multiple 
 race types, and of course online play. Has does all this work out? In a word, not very well.
  
  NFS Prostreet feels an awful lot like previous games but the changes that have been made don't 
 feel fleshed out enough. The simulation aspects are definitely nice but the game doesn't have the 
 kind of balanced handling that a game like Gran Turismo or Project Gotham has. Damage modeling 
 is an interesting new feature but it's hard to tell how it's really integrated into the whole game.
 
  
  The worst thing, though, is even though this is no longer an arcade title, someone forgot to tell 
 the folks putting together the UI, because all of the menus and screens are god awful ugly just 
 like those in the previous few NFS games. It's a jumbled mess that makes it hard to figure out 
 what's going on or how to perform basic tasks.
  
  Is this a terrible game? No, it's not. But if EA expects to compete against the biggies in track 
 based games they are going to have to do better than Prostreet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganman17
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  This game I would argue is probably the best NFS out yet. There is a huge selection of cars, and 
 they're all tight as hell. The fact that you can use clutch brings a whole new dimension to drag 
 racing and drifting. The racing does however get a bit boring after a while. ESPECIALLY if your 
 using automatic or even just regular standard. Clutch is the best way to keep it interesting. Blatent 
 advertising and sponsered acheivements are very cheesy. And the whole new emphasis on "driving 
 safe" and racing on the courses is a little boring. I need some danger in my life. If I want to 
 race a course I'll jump in my Lambo and go for a scoot in Forza. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: partytimekegs
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  When you first play ProStreet, you'll realize that this is a great game. It looks good, it feels 
 good, and the new setting is somewhat refreshing. However, after spending a good amount of time 
 playing it becomes annoying and dull. I'm curious about the avid fanbase and their opinion with 
 the game considering it went from Street Racing to GT. Sooner or later you'll feel like your not 
 really playing the game to play it, but just to unlock the other cars.
  
  Honestly, I'm really disappointed. It is a good game but it feels like it shouldn't be a Need for 
 Speed title. Or in a lack of better words, doesn't deserve the NFS title. 
  
  For all the Street Racing lovers out there I'd suggest passing this up or renting it at the most 
 while being patient, hopefully Midnight Club comes out early next year. I guess its back to playing 
 Most Wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beatyourtruck
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  and i was like wft 7 thats Fed so i got it for the 360 and at first the in begging of story mode 
 no wait the games story its like a game with no story u just do a shit load of races with no cops 
 or free rome and the its legal but if u put that all aside its a vary sold game if u turn of the 
 voices and the shitty soundtrack and turn on some real music or play with no music all witch i 
 like best . so u have the grip mode witch is races with laps and drag and u have to do the little 
 mini game every time be for u start the race and then drift witch i sucks ass at i cant drift in 
 that game at all but i can drift amazing in every other nfs but this 1 the drift mode is cool but 
 too much smoke u cant see at all but o well the wall will stop u . so over all with out the cops 
 the free rome and bad voice acting and soundtrack the game is a great game so i give it a 8.5 out 
 of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed delivers exactly what I want from a racing game. lots of cars, good selection of 
 Audi including the S3 and RS4, and a racing game don't get bought by me unless it has an RX7 or 
 RX8.... so I'm pretty much set for cars. The upgrades are what you expect from a NFS game, and the 
 different race modes are in here as per usual.
  
  It's unfortunatly that NFS has become more of a tuner game than it's routes with exotics and high 
 powered rockets. But at the same time I do like the direction its in now. In fact I like it as 
 much as Forza, which I consider a completly different game. Forza is more like a sim, NFS is more 
 like arcade but with sim like qualities.
  
  The announcer is incredibly annoying. In fact next time I play I'm finding a way to turn off all 
 sounds but the car. Because the music and the speach is nothing but garbage!
  
  The adds are plastered everywhere, but it wouldn't be an EA game if it didn't advertise around 
 every corner. The Progressive Insurance thing sponsoring the repair bills is REALLY lame. Game 
 should be at least $10 cheaper because of this advertising junk. EA is a cash cow already... lets 
 hope they don't start throwin this crud into Mass Effect.
  
  The racing is a hell of a lot of fun, and really exciting... but i miss the cops. Being 'legal' 
 now has its charm, but it just feels like this game has become the perfect blend between PGR4 and 
 FM2.
  
  The big question is why they allow you to buy crud through live. I admit I spent some coin and 
 got my S3 and RX7... but now everything is too easy.
  
  Overall it is still a great game, and I'll play it to the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whisky-Zulu
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I love racing games and the graphics absolutely make this game what it is. amazing use of new technology. 
 the use of music and parties add to the already intense atmosphere of racing. i suggest to anyone 
 whos looking into getting this game to get it because it's definetly worth your while. critics 
 might down play the game, but sometimes you just have to actually look at the game for what it 
 is instead of picking it apart piece by piece with a heavy bias because everyone has their own 
 opinion. so decide for yourself don't let other people make decisions for you! 
  Have fun and enjoy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasami-chan
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Initially I was aghast at the new direction the franchise is taking.
  
  For me, NFS has become a synonym for dumb flicks + arcade racer over the years. Even after being 
 exposed to all the previews videos and articles, touting how NFS franchise is being taken in a 
 totally new direction, I remained inconvinced that the developer would stray away from the fomula 
 that has made them so commercially successful over the years.
  
  I was wrong.
  
  After playing the game for more than 10 hours, I realized how much effort the developer put into 
 the core of ProStreet. Gone are the annoying C vids, fancy looking but not usable UI, the speed 
 blur and the neon lights that make your head spin after extended periods of play, and a number 
 of supporting features that hid an aging gameplay engine. Instead, ProStreet shifted the focus 
 to the races themselves - the cars, the racing disciplines, the tracks, the customization, the 
 myriad of online options, the girls - together these elements bring a totally refreshing feeling 
 to an aging franchise.
  
  Graphically, ProStreet is without a doubt, the best looking game in the series. Majority of the 
 cars look fantastic in full decals and several of the tracks like Nevada really stand out. The 
 visual impact is further accentuated by the sophisticated damage model and the particle system 
 that make the cars look even more bad ass as they navigate the courses. I am sure those who have 
 played Forza2 and PGR4 would agree, there is simply no comparison to ProStreet in this regard. 
 The unstable framerates and the cameras are the only issues that marr this aspect of the game.
 
  
  Audio-wise, ProStreet performs competently as well. While none of the tunes stand out, they do 
 convey the appropriate atmosphere of the racing organization they represent. I did find the commentary 
 a bit distracting, but that has always been the case for me with NFS.
  
  Gameplay is where ProStreet truly shines. While all racing disciplines are interesting, the one 
 mode I could not stop playing is Drift. There is just something about this mode that keeps me coming 
 back again and again. Playing against friends online is very interesting too - you can even trade 
 and share races that do not have to be run asynchronously. The number of customization options, 
 while not as elaborate as other racers, are pretty staggering. Along with the damage model, customization 
 options alter the behavior of the car on the track. The blueprint, the cash and the repair systems 
 are not as flushed out as I would have like, but they serve their purpose.
  
  Still not convinced that ProStreet is the right way to go? Miss the over-the-top style of the old 
 NFS? Now that the building blocks are in place, I am sure the developer can easily put those elements 
 back in in future release, should they choose to do so. Until then, please give ProStreet a try. 
 It does feel different. But after several hours of play, you will agree with me, it is different 
 in a good way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mojo2
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  So to my surprise they had ProStreet at my gameshop, and after picking it up and playing it for 
 about 3 hours I have to say I like the way it drives, and the way it looks.
  
  I don't mind that there are no cops, and there is no free roam, but I think most of the current 
 gen Need for Speed fans (the ones that "grew up" on the Undergrounds and such) will curse EA for 
 not including those features.
  
  But if you like me like Need for Speed Porche Unleashed the best of all Need for Speeds, then I 
 think you`ll enjoy the racing that PS, has to offer.
  
  So If you are a "illegal street racer" neon lovin, scissor door needing, cop taunting, free roaming 
 player, then I suggest you skip this one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortzilla3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  First off I'll start with the graphics. There's not to much difference compare to Carbon. The cars 
 look great and so those the environment but they could've done better with more time. Framerate 
 isn't a problem in the game either but it's nothing compare to Forza's. Sound I would say is alright 
 but I 
  don't think all the cars sounds are real which I wanted. Next is tuning. The tuning is a lot better 
 in the game now because of all these little add-ons like tire width. Now I can make my muscle Cuda 
 look like a real dragster with small sliks in the front and big ones on the back. Nothing much 
 new with engine parts or otherwise known as ssdd. Overall I think the game would have been a lot 
 better if they had both legal and street racing with cops. Man I wish they had added cops, but 
 they didn't. So pretty much I think its not worth the buy and better luck next year. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
