-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NFL Head Coach 09
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/nflheadcoach09/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 General management tools are deep and realistic.
 Menus direct player tasks well.
 Teams play like real-life counterparts.
 Free-agent bidding and negotiations are innovative and fast.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay uses outdated Madden engine with poor frame rate.
 AI trade logic is flawed.
 Lack of audibles make no-huddle offenses impossible to stop.
 Online play is disappointing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.0, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 137 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football Management
Date: Sep 3, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NFL Head Coach 09 delivers a deep and immersive coaching experience, provided you can overlook the 
 outdated gameplay engine and lackluster presentation. 

  Simulation sports games face a difficult burden. They must offer a fun and engaging gaming experience 
 while remaining as authentic as reasonably possible. In this regard, EA's NFL Head Coach 09 manages 
 to strike an effective balance. Although the game lacks the slick presentation of longer-tenured 
 sports franchises, Head Coach brings a strategic depth that one would expect from managing a sports 
 franchise and offers a rewarding experience to those willing to endure hours of menu navigation. 

           Custom schemes can confuse even the elite NFL signal callers.      

  NFL Head Coach 09 places you in command of an NFL franchise. You have the ability to sign and trade 
 players, scout draft prospects, call plays, and perform just about every other task that you can 
 imagine a coach/GM being responsible for. However, unlike EA's Madden franchise, you won't have 
 direct control of your players on the field. As a result, the game is a test of preparation and 
 strategy rather than of your prowess with an analog stick.  

  Head Coach gives you the option to continue the career of an existing NFL head coach or create 
 your own. As your career progresses, you will learn additional skills, which will, in turn, aid 
 your players on the field. This lets you customize your repertoire to suit a particular style of 
 play. Your performance as coach is tracked via an approval rating. Many factors impact your approval 
 rating, including the completion of designated goals and defining moments during a game, both of 
 which are timely and appropriate. Although winning games consistently is the most effective way 
 to boost your approval, these other factors allow coaches of lesser-skilled teams to placate critics 
 until they turn their franchise around.  

  The game's interface, though far from perfect, is vastly improved from the previous NFL Head Coach. 
 You are no longer restricted to scheduling specific events or running tedious practices. Instead, 
 the game's tab-oriented menu system provides access to various player and team information, and 
 most actions can be performed at any time. Menus update to keep you apprised of important events 
 requiring your attention to help you manage your time as coach. Although the scope of options is 
 impressive, it can also be overwhelming. Many menu items, such as the roster and depth chart, could 
 have been combined to make navigation easier and, though you can adjust the progression of time, 
 finding the appropriate menu item can still feel like a race against the clock. Even worse, it's 
 easy to overlook critical events (denoted by a small caution sign) while dismissing the constant 
 free-agent auctions. A tutorial tab is provided to explain various aspects of the game, but it 
 still assumes that you have a good understanding of various football-related terms and may be difficult 
 for newcomers to pick up. Even the one-second lag after selecting a menu item can become frustrating 
 because menu navigation constitutes a large proportion of the game.  

           OK. Lemme get a number 5 with a Sprite.      

  Despite the navigational woes, Head 
 Coach does introduce many franchise innovations that will almost certainly become staples of the 
 genre. Free-agent bidding allows for all interested teams to participate in a one-minute auction 
 for the right to negotiate with the player. Not only is the process fast, but it also provides 
 every team with an equal opportunity to bid on a player. The interface for trades and contract 
 negotiations has been improved as well. Instead of having you jump back and forth between menus 
 or adjust sliders, Head Coach provides you with a list of preset offer combinations sorted by asking 
 price. Given that the negotiations are limited to two minutes, the pressure is on to quickly evaluate 
 each offer and come to an agreement on terms. Head Coach even includes realistic elements such 
 as restricted free agents, contract holdouts, and the ability to trade future draft picks, all 
 of which add to the game's realism. Although the trading interface has been streamlined, it is 
 not without its share of flaws. Only one-for-one or one-for-many trades are possible, and even 
 then the exact proposal that you are searching for may not be an option. Trades involving more 
 than two teams are also not available and, though the trading AI has been improved from the Madden 
 series, its logic is still flawed. (We got Adrian Peterson via a trade for three scrubs.)  

  The gameplay in Head Coach uses what appears to be an older Madden engine. Though you have the 
 option to rotate between various camera angles, the graphics simply aren't on par with what you 
 will find in any recent version of Madden. Player textures lack detail, and there are noticeable 
 drops in the frame rate. The action isn't difficult to follow, but the noticeable graphical drop-off 
 from the current Madden will make you wonder how much better the game could have been if the same 
 engine had been used. The in-game audio ranges from something out of an NFL Films broadcast during 
 menu navigation to the in-game berating of players by your coordinators. Although neither is great, 
 the game's audio is functional and doesn't detract from the experience.  

  Despite the graphical shortcomings, the gameplay in Head Coach can be a rewarding experience. The 
 play-call screen offers numerous ways to select your plays, and you can even defer to your coordinators 
 to make the call. Metrics are displayed to show you the success that each play has had thus far, 
 and they even provide a glimpse into what your opponent has been calling. Penalties are called 
 with realistic frequency, players will occasionally blow assignments, and teams seem to call plays 
 consistently with their real-life counterparts. It is unfortunate that, though many preplay adjustments 
 are available in Head Coach, the ability to audible to another play is surprisingly missing. Despite 
 this, the gameplay feels very authentic.  

  Head Coach also offers a robust collection of tools to create custom plays and playbooks. Although 
 the concept is nice and the plays are indeed effective, the play creator could have been stronger. 
 The menus in the play creator are unnecessarily cumbersome and, seeing as how the only way to create 
 a play is to modify an existing one, it can be a chore to simply find the formation that you want. 
 Although many receiver routes are included, it would have been nice to be able to actually draw 
 your own routes.  

           While you can create money plays, it's still up to your players to execute.      

 
  Head Coach also offers online play, but the experience is disappointing. Instead of using the 
 same gameplay engine used in the single-player career, online play consists only of calling plays 
 and instantly receiving the result in an overhead-view drive chart. Although this does speed up 
 the game (games last 20 to 25 minutes) , the result is an unrewarding experience that could have 
 been better with some visual representation.  

  NFL Head Coach features many innovations that are uncommon in sports games and offers an engaging 
 coaching/GM experience. The depth and authenticity with regard to team management are impressive, 
 and there are moments during a game when you actually feel like a head coach. Provided that you 
 are a hardcore football fan and can look past its flaws, Head Coach is an enjoyable game with rich 
 replay possibilities.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bwags
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 9, 2009 9:51 am PT
Review:  And I had such high hopes for a football sim...
  
  At first glance, NFL Head Coach 09 seems like a vast improvement over its predecessor, NFL Head 
 Coach. The new clipboard system, a revolving menu system which gives you all pertinent information 
 while placing important events front and center for your attention, seems light years ahead of 
 the previous jumbled mess; however, this is where the praise ends. Once you spend one or two hours 
 in the game, you'll quickly grow tired of its repetitive and glitchy gameplay.
  
  In career mode, players take over the helm of the team of their choice. You can keep the current 
 coach or opt to create a coach using the bare bones create-a-coach option (seriously?! I can't 
 customize anything but his face?!) . Next you select your coaching style and skills, all of which 
 make a barely noticeable impact. After you've "customized" your coach, you can choose to start 
 after the Superbowl or at the beginning of preseason. Assuming you have the energy to press the 
 A button repeatedly and have and hour to spend, you'll be disappointed to see that the off-season 
 leading into the draft is a complete waste. 
  
  Assuming you've gone this far without chopping the game in pieces and feeding it to your dog, you're 
 in for yet another disappointment as you will notice that your personnel are, for a lack of a better 
 word, inept. Your peers will place goals that make no sense (I do not need ANOTHER HB with 85 average!) 
 and will lose respect for you should you ignore their wishes. The scouting crews draft choices 
 and scouting results are confusing and mostly unimportant. The time tables on important decisions 
 often move to fast (even on the lowest setting) and you will often find yourself missing important 
 events such as trade requests and free agent bidding. Of course if you save and turn off the game 
 mid-week, you might want to consider skipping these events anyway, since this activates the free 
 agent glitch in which mediocre athletes request multi-million dollar deals with signing bonuses 
 and incentives.
  
  Still haven't set this disk a blaze and roasted marshmallows over it? Well now you're ready to 
 go into preseason and play your first game! Well, don't get too excited because you're in for a 
 disappointment. First off I hope you did not save at the beginning of the week, because then you 
 activated glitch #2, which places a player WHO WAS NEVER INJURED on the injured list. But back 
 to the game - the graphics look like they came from Madden 2000 and the audio is sooo terrible 
 they should use it as an interrogation technique. I sure hope you did not put too much time into 
 trying to prepare for each game because it does not really matter. Actually, neither does play-calling. 
 Just calling the same play on both offense and defense I managed to shut out the computer 37-0. 
 But even if you are the strategist who manages to read the defenses each play, it won't matter 
 since the AI is clumsier than Warren Sapp on the dance floor. QBs will ignore and open receiver 
 streaking down the sideline and instead dump off to the halfback three feet away; players will 
 not attempt to get out of bounds or stay in bounds to control the clock; HBs opt to scramble around 
 the field losing yardage rather than put their head down and get the yardage (especially frustrating 
 in 3rd and short situations) . Combine these stupidities with the insane amount of turnovers, players 
 CONSTANTLY blowing assignments, and ridiculous injuries (last time I checked, Drew Brees was not 
 on special teams!) and you'll be pulling your hair out in no time.
  
  Have you strapped the game to a nuclear warhead and dropped it over the middle east? No? Well it 
 gets better - EA brought back, albeit in a simplified form, the emotion meter, which allows you 
 to respond calmly or emotionally to game breaking moments. Depending on your coaching style (remember 
 how I said this was not that important? Here is one point that it is) players will react positively 
 or negatively to how you respond. The problem is that even you get all the emotion meters wrong, 
 your team will never lose respect for you, so you can get all of these wrong have no negative impact. 
 
  
  The only new feature EA brings to the table are Game Defining moments, where the coach is presented 
 with a choice between the "safe" rout and the "ballsy" move. On fourth and short, do you go for 
 it or punt the ball? When having the defense pinned inside their 10 yard line, do you blitz or 
 play it safe and cover the field? This mode showed promise in previews of the game, but much like 
 the rest of the game, fails in execution. Depending on your coaching style (dang I was wrong! It 
 comes into play twice!) you will be shown the current respect the media, coaches, players, owner, 
 and fans have for you, and how much it will change depending on which option you take. Problem 
 is, the "safe" choice is often the best and the "ballsy" is near impossible; however, the group 
 normally loses respect unless you choose the ballsy. Go safe - lose respect. Go ballsy and fail 
 - respect. I even encountered several occasions where I went ballsy, completed, and STILL lost 
 respect. This was the only redeeming feature in the game and it failed worse than Jason David trying 
 to cover a wideout.
  
  This game is more of a disaster than Jessica Simpson in Texas Stadium, which is a shame considering 
 the amount of time they supposedly spent making it. I am a huge fan of this genre and hate to bash 
 it, but this game was clearly overlooked by the "madden machine." It is so poorly made I would 
 not even recommend them making it a mode in madden, let alone being bundled with it. For those 
 gamers looking to save a penny by picking it up with madden 09 in the collector's edition, you'll 
 be wasting $30 on a featureless, completely frustrating "game." Stay away from Head Coach 09. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ijterrell
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  From my point of view, NFL Head Coach is something different. EA probably should have added coach 
 mode to Madden NFL 09. The Coach, to me has to many responsibilities. That makes Career Mode not 
 fun to play. Somewhat diificult as well. The graphics is like PS2/Xbox version, maybe a little 
 better but not by much. Other than that the game is not bad. Just play only exhibition games. I 
 bought it but I highly recommend someone to rent first. The create a play is the best part about 
 the game. Madden 09 playbook seems to be more open/accurate. Head Coach plays seem limited unless 
 you create your own playbook/plays. Just like Madden NFL 09, you have to go online to update your 
 roster. For someone who never played Madden or not into football, this could be a very good game 
 for you. But for ture Madden fans, it is not worth your time. Maybe true football fans would enjoy 
 it. Like I said before play exhibition only and create a load of plays you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kckckc89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  Head Coach 09
  There are many mixed reviews about this game, most of them negative due to the bugs and glitches 
 which really slowed down the game play. Bugs such as permanent injury in career mode by entering 
 the play editor and dumb "CD cannot be read" errors really tended to make the gameplay tedious. 
 But EA was very well aware of this fact and created a patch which addressed most of these problems.
 
  
  The Good: Simple yet effective visual graphics, user friendly clipboard, in depth game, puts you 
 in control just like a NFL head coach, Supersim mode for faster gameplay
  
  So lets talk about the good. As mentioned many times before, the game is very in depth. In fact, 
 many people will be surprised just how in depth the game maybe. From anywhere from season goals 
 to trying to keep your approval rating up for 5 different groups, media, GM, players, staff, and 
 fans, every decision you make influences your rating. 
  As you take control of your team on the field, you may sometimes find yourself frustrated with 
 your team's performance. Those who are used to playing Madden and NCAA will need to find the patience 
 in themselves to readjust to the game. No you will not be able to pull of spectacular catches every 
 single play. In fact, sometimes you may find yourself frustrated at your quarterback's decision 
 to pass for 2 yards when there's your star receiver wide open 40 yards down the field.
  However, while you cannot directly influence the play, you can call or even create every play of 
 the game. And with the plays comes in another feature, the advantage feature. Your team executes 
 the plays better as they increase in play knowledge and your coaching advantage. Play knowledge 
 is gained from either running the same plays repeatedly, or simply increasing the play knowledge 
 by running plays during the week. This allows for you to completely customize the style of your 
 team, both offensively and defensively. As you increase the play knowledge, they will go from "Unlearned" 
 to "Learned" to finally "Mastered." A "Mastered" play will gain significant advantage, as the plays 
 will often be executed as you expect it to, where as on "Unlearned," you may find yourself watching 
 11 players running all different directions. As you run different plays against different teams, 
 the game will generate a "success rate" of your plays, which shows how effective your plays are 
 against certain types of plays. But just be aware that sometimes these success rates can be misleading, 
 and it may prompt you to believe that a field goal block formation has the highest success rate 
 in a 3rd and 5 situation on the 30 yardline.
  As the game progresses, you will be prompted with different responses to the players on the field, 
 with which you will be given two options, "Emotional" and "Calm" response. While many people are 
 confused about this response system, since sometimes a runningback may run for a 50 yard touchdown 
 and drop approval of you when you respond "Emotional" or a receiver who just dropped a pass may 
 drop approval of you if you respond "Calm." The answer lies in the individual personality of the 
 players. The players have different personalities, egotistic, unselfish, etc. which can be accessed 
 by clicking the thumstick in the roster menu. The emotional responses should match up with the 
 personality, for example, a team player may be simply happy with a "Calm" reaction after his 5th 
 sack of the game, where as a egotistic runningback may want an "Emotional" response after a 10-yard 
 run. Overtime, you'll get familiar with the players and the situations enough that the responses 
 will be automatic, though most of the time "Calm" will suffice.
  Also, the game will sometimes throw you "Game Defining Moments" in which you will be forced to 
 make a decision about the game. This may pop up when you are stopped short of the touchdown on 
 the 2 yardline and find yourself in a 4th and goal situation. Do you go for it? or kick the field 
 goal? This "Game Defining Moments" can be a great moment to increase your approval rating, IF you 
 successfully pull off the risk. Going for a touchdown and getting it may boost your overall rating 
 by 3, but fail, and you may find yourself losing 3. It's a gamble every head coach must deal with.
 
  For those who simply do not have the time for a 4 quarter game with 15 minute quarters will be 
 happy to know that the game uses accelerated clock feature. You can also adjust the game clock 
 to anywhere between a 1~15 minute quarters, but the accelerated game clock only seems to work on 
 the 15 minute quarters. Accelerated game clock is disabled during the last 2 minutes of the first 
 half and the last 5 minutes of the second half. Also there is a "Supersim" mode, which greatly 
 decreases the gametime since you don't have to watch all the animations, however by supersimming 
 the game, you lose much of the ingame
  The graphics, while it seems outdated and old, does a good enough job in a simulation game. The 
 game engine is very old, and for those who are used to the new Madden engine or even the NCAA engine 
 may find themselves bored with the visuals of Head Coach. It is frustrating to see the laggy animations 
 sometimes, as the players look so stiff, but the graphics definitely get the job done.
  The game is extremely in depth, anywhere from your coaches gaining points as the season progresses, 
 which can be used to upgrade their skills to benefit the team to the NFL draft. You can also hire 
 and fire different coaches on your team at the end of a season, or you may even find yourself fired 
 at the end of the season depending on your performance. But don't worry since you may just find 
 another job opening at a different franchise, and build up that team to take revenge. The NFL draft 
 is an interesting process, since the draft will be based largely upon your scouting results. You 
 will have to scout different schools throughout the season to gain knowledge of their abilities 
 and invite them to individual workouts to unlock their potential. This leaves you a small number 
 to scout completely in a large number of athletes, and you may sometimes find that the 95 rating 
 QB you drafted turns out to only be a 82 with a 85 potential. Sometimes this can be frustrating, 
 but often its your decision of who you scouted. You can also trade up or down, like the real draft, 
 but beaware since the AI trade logic somtimes seems obscure and will often ask for much more than 
 you are willing to give. Also, there is an undrafted signing session at the end of the regular 
 draft, where all the undrafted players are signed at a much lower price. This can be a great opportunity 
 to gain some star players who are from smaller schools and escaped your scouts. I have found 2 
 recievers both with a 96 potential my last draft, whereas my first round pick in the regular draft 
 turned out to only have a potential of 90. 
  Free Agency process can get tedious, but after a while you may just dismiss players that you aren't 
 interested in. If you only need a RT, you dont need to be looking at FS or SS, you may simply dismiss 
 them from your agenda. I feel like the free agency was incorporated into the game in a very effective 
 manner.
  The play editor is also a positive aspect of the game. You can create a play during the game, based 
 off of a play you already have, or you can create them during the week. You may also download plays 
 from XBox live, but like any other plays, these created plays must be mastered in practice before 
 it can be used effectively in a game.
  
  The Bad: Career mode can get repetitive, AI trade logic seems flawed, players sometimes tend to 
 run sideways or backwards, lack of difficulty control and tutorial creates a sharp learning curve, 
 lack of audibles
  
  Well I'm sure many who own the game are frustrated with this: Audibles. There are many preplay 
 controls that you can use and adjust the play, DL pinch, flip play, press, etc., but no audible 
 option. This makes the computer extremely hard to stop when they start to do no huddle offense 
 in the last minute of the game. You may find yourself watching the computer as they drive down 
 the field with a minute left in the game while you helplessly try to defend your 2 point lead. 
 Most of the time, you will be forced to call a timeout, or if you are out of timeouts, you may 
 just end up praying that the computer drops a pass somewhere along the line.
  Another bad about the game is the lack of tutorials or difficulty control. This makes the game 
 rather hard in the begining, but as the game progresses, you'll learn to play the game. After a 
 first complete season, you'll master most, if not all, of the important aspects to run the game.
 
  Finally, I find this to be personally most annoying aspect of the game. Sometimes players may 
 run backwards or sideways. My runningback sometimes seems to run backwards or ignore the hole and 
 bounce out to the right and run sideways for 10 yards before getting tackled for a loss of 1. However, 
 this problem seemed to get better as the players gained play knowledge and I spent some coaching 
 point on runningback's running abilities. It really shows how much coaching advantage plays in 
 the game.
  
  
  Overall, theres much more to the game than I have described above, but Head Coach 09 is a truly 
 good football simulation game worthy or another look. The patch really fixed up the game, and I'm 
 sure there will be more patches along the way to fix up the minor issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonedef66
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Unfortunatley, NFL Head Coach 09 is hard game to figure out seeing as there isn't any type of tutorial 
 to walk you through telling you how to approach practive durring the week, for it to pay off in 
 the season game. That's the biggest problem. The only indication you get telling you how prepared 
 you are for the game,... is Adam Scheffler reporting that, "The Cheifs head into this weeks game, 
 less preparred". Okay. Thanks. The other thing that bugged me is the free agent period, where you 
 have compete aggresivley with other teams/agents. 
  
  This has alot of upside, but the lack of some type of tutorial makes it's replay value pretty low 
 in my opinion. I don't have the time to go through week after week of practice wondering if I'm 
 doing the right things. 
  
  NFL Head Coach 09 is not a bad game, especially for the $$$ at only $29.99. The graphics are better 
 than I expected, the clipboard is pretty user friendly, and it's the deepest NFL game you'll find. 
 Hardcore Fantassy nuts are gonn love how deep it is, but your everyday football fans may not have 
 the paitence. Head Coach 09 is on the right track, but there alot of improvement to be done.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianlawrence28
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  I didnt really buy this game it came with my Madden 09 special edition i finally tryed it out over 
 the weekend. I got bored of Madden 09 (they need to bring back 2k football) So i decided to play 
 it.. The game overall is not that bad its kind of fun to play.. I just got to say that the graphics 
 are downgraded.. You cannot audiable during offense or defense so it makes it hard to stop the 
 computer when they call a no huddle. The game does get real annoying sometimes because the computer 
 sometimes is impossible to stop nomatter what play you pick. There are waaaaaay tooo may turnovers, 
 you fumble way to much and drop the easiest passes. This game could be real good if they fix some 
 of that stuff and added more features .. The commitary is horriable and annoying. I dont even want 
 to know how the online play is either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_jake
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played this game for more than about three hours because I think its that boring. Personal 
 thought EA should stick to just making you the QB not Head Coach. It was a nice try and a totally 
 new experience of absolute boredom. I already went and bought Madden 09 because I had nothing else 
 to do. I dropped a full tank of gas worth of money on Madden 09 and I am happy. Personally thinking 
 here get Madden 09 instead its a much much better investment for you to make. Personally I give 
 Head Coach 09 a 5 out of ten because it was football otherwise it sucks hard nuts. Do not waste 
 your money on this if you already have I guess you're **** outta luck or there is always Game Stop. 
 Because I have nothing else to say and this game sucks I wil now do this.... AAAAAA AAAAAAAAA AAAAAAHHHHH 
 HHHHHHHHHHH DOMO ARIGATO MR ROBOTO !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magnamor
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 3, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  In a few words: I wish I could love this game... but in the end, too many minor and major flaws 
 just kill the fun out of this title.
  
  The good:
  The trading, free agent, restricted free agent, salary negociations and yes, even the scouting 
 system are great and innovative. The pressure is really on with the short time limits to get the 
 deals done. Although I can't understand why all players always go first for the biggest available 
 payout... I can understand for those with money driven personalities, or slef-driven even but why 
 all of them?
  
  The Rpg-style ability trees of the coaches and of the user's created coach add a lot to the game 
 experience. And it works pretty well even though the impact on the players and their performances 
 is hard to determine.
  
  The college draft as seen much needed improvement with pick comments, the "pick the pick" feature 
 (which unfortunately seems to do nothing in the end) , tons of stats on the bubble team, live (fake) 
 online polls on the previous picks, trade-ups and trade-downs, and many more. Bravo!
  
  Tons and tons of new stats for the true stat maniac like passes thrown and completed against a 
 specific player, tds scored on a specific player, missed tackles, attempted and successful blocks, 
 broken blocks, short, medium, long pass attempts and completions, and many more.
  
  The players and coaches personality system seem to work very well, although it is hard to say how 
 much of an impact clashing or agreeing personalities make.
  
  Loads of pre-snap adjustments on defense. Dline and LB shifts, coverage adjusments... does a decent 
 job there.
  
  The gameplan and the gameday bonuses they give are a great idea. Don't seem to work most of the 
 time but still a great idea.
  
  The Ok:
  The play creator is a good and much needed addition but becomes very frustrating after a while. 
 Plays can only be modified from existing plays. Want to do your own playaction pass? Can't... unless 
 you modify an existing one but without any possibility of modifying the QB's or HB's assignments. 
 Want the TE to block and release in a pass pattern? Can't... unless you find the exact pattern 
 you want in a pre-existing play. Want to double team a WR? Can't. Sure you can assign two man on 
 the same guy but both will act as if they were in single coverage... Want to delay or fake a blitz. 
 Can't. And zone coverage is a pain to draw out because of useless icons that you need to select 
 one by one to figure out what zones they actually represent.
  
  Graphics. Yeah they are outdated but it isn't that bad.
  
  The trading AI can sometimes be 
 very frustrating, sometimes very, huh, stupid.
  
  Defining moments are often lose-lose situations. A conservative coach will be penalized for going 
 for it on 4th and goal from the 1 yard line while trailing by 4 with 10 seconds to go (even if 
 a TD is scored) but would be acclaimed for kicking a fieldgoal... and losing by 1! The same can 
 be said for going for the game winning fieldgoal instead of a touchdown for an aggressive coach. 
 Still, most defining moments add to the game experience and with minor twitches, this could be 
 great.
  
  Great replays... most of the time. You occasionally get the wrong side of the field super close-up 
 of the grass replays but when you get the right replay... wow.
  
  The assistant coaches' comments are sometimes way off the mark, and I mean way off!
  
  The 
 bad:
  The game crashes often. Simply unacceptable.
  
  Simulating games will always give you a worst rating than playing them. And less points to your 
 coaches.
  
  The coach emotional or calm reactions, while a nice touch, seem to have random effects. A HB can 
 break a 95 yard run for the TD and lose approval for the coach showing emotion and later lose approval 
 when the coach stays calm after a meaningless 20 yard gain. I still haven't figured out how this 
 one works anyway...
  
  The injury system is simply annoying. How a DE gets injured when the offense is on the field is 
 beyond me... or a LT when the defense is on the field... and it happens all the time! Not to mention 
 the random, in-between games injuries that again happen all the time... And player health and fatigue 
 levels seem unaffected by days off (canceled practices) or keeping a player out.
  
  No audibles. Say what? The only way to stop a no huddle offense is calling a timeout. So after 
 your last timeout is spent, pray for that TD 'cause they won't stop until the clock hits zeros 
 and they'll run the same play over and over again. Can't even tell the QB to spike the ball (which 
 btw, makes this play absolutely useless) . Although now that I think about it, the cpu-controlled 
 opposition can and does call audibles...
  
  Only one pre-snap adjustment can be made on offense: flip the play.
  
  Absolutely no pre-snap 
 adjustments are available for user made plays. I mean, how hard is it to flip a play or shift a 
 dline?
  
  The assistant coaches, more so the defensive coordinator, seem to always call the same plays no 
 matter what the situation is.
  
  Way too many turnovers.
  
  Stats are simply out of whack and so is anything related to them like season goals. A #1 offense 
 in the stats can be #16 in the goals... and offenses tend to have realistic stats (300 yards per 
 game or so) but the defenses have overgrown stats (600 yards or so per game) . After 7 games, the 
 best offense in my career mode had 3200 yards while the worst had 1200. Best defense gave up 2600 
 yards while the worst, a whopping 8200 yards! I know this doesn't add up at all, that's my point. 
 For instance, my Bills defense was up to 2200 yards before giving up only 149 yards to my week 
 8 opponent which brought its total to... 3145! What? I was still ranked 12th, which as it turns 
 out was good since my goal said I had the #1 defense in the league (I needed a top 10 defense) . 
 Out of whack!
  
  You can't use the play creator in career mode because it creates a major bug. You can therefore 
 only create plays during a game. (The bug is simply put, the creator turns off injuries so no players 
 get injured while testing the play but forgets to turn it back on when you leave it. The result 
 is that all injured players will never heal but no one will ever get injured afterwards.)
  
  The game is much too easy. I play the Bills and have yet to be defeated after two complete 
 seasons. Heck, I have yet to even be challenged by a team. And all that by calling only 4 different 
 plays on defense: a 4-3 man to man blitz, a nickel man to man blitz, a dime man to man blitz and 
 a goalline man to man blitz. I get an average of 10 sacks and 4-5 interceptions per game, half 
 of which are returned for TDs.
  
  
  I may have forgotten some issues or good points for this game but all and all, this game is way 
 better than the previous head coach and was destined for greatness had it not been for loads of 
 minor, and sometimes major issues. Hopefully the game devs are paying attention and a patch will 
 be out soon... 'cause until then, it pains me to say skip it! I know I'm not playing it again until 
 some major fixes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_harris
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  Forget Madden. It's all about the buttons. Head Coach 09 is about football, the way football unfolds 
 throughout the year.
  
  There is plenty to do, and you have to keep tabs on your players, salary cap, GM and owner expectations, 
 and team philosophy. Timing is critical too. You don't have all day to do research (but you still 
 better research your prospects) . Setting priorities helps, but ultimately, to get the full experience, 
 click the "A" button as much as you can.
  
  I don't like that the game doesn't have post game press conferences or half time coaching adjustments, 
 but maybe these (great) ideas will be in next year's game. I just hope there is a next year's game. 
 While the game has received good reviews, sales may be lacking and cause EA to suspend a 2010 release.
 
  
  Bottom line: Buy this game, either by itself or with the Madden 20th Anniversary Edition and enjoy 
 all that being a head coach has to offer (at least most of it) . I do have my gripes, but I think 
 it's a solid, well thought out and built game for true football fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingDre410
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 3, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  this game is horrible, u cant can any audibles, u cant adjust to the no-huddle offense, the coordinators 
 commentary is annoying and repetitive, and thats just the tip of the iceberg!
  
  sound: u will want to turn off the coordinator commentary if u get this game, cause they are very 
 loud and come out of no-where, bottom line the commentary is inappropriate on most plays. though-out 
 a game u will hear the same things over and over" the linebackers outta position", "they're running 
 the wrong play", "don't talk to me, don't no-body talk to me".
  
  bottom line is that the commentary is loud and very very annoying.
  
  gameplay: pretty great, 
 na, im just yanking ur chain, the game play sucks, the cpu will constantly go like 3-4 drives of 
 scoring, u wont be able to stop them, no-matter what play u call, first down after first down. 
 and when they get those first downs it leads to more commentary by the coordinators, which leads 
 to headaches!
  
  overall career mode: horrid, the game will ask u to do 2 things in ur first season, no matter which 
 team u choose, trade for Kerry Collins, and trade for d. Howard, it makes u think what is this games 
 obsession with these players!
  
  trading is impossible, no one wants to give up anything, the highest overall player u will likely 
 get in a trade is around 65-75. u cant swap picks for players or anything. trading is impossible. 
 
  
  there r a few things that i like though, i like the ability to negotiate contracts, its pretty 
 fun, and trading for picks in the draft is interesting too.
  
  bottom line this game is a piece of crap with madden 08's graphics, 20 frames per second.
  
 
  after playing this game take it back to the store and pick up head coach 06' 06 was mad fun, this 
 year just sucks.
  
  TRUE RATING: 6.3
  hoping they get it right next year,
  KingDre410 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
