-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NFL Tour
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/nfltour/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Simple controls are easy to pick up and play.
 Someone was smart enough to not charge the standard $60 for what is essentially an arcade game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Trey Wingo's repetitive jokes about repetitive announcers stink.
 Trey Wingo's repetitive jokes about repetitive announcers stink.
 Not many game modes and too few customization options.
 Defense is pretty pointless.
 Trey Wingo's repetitive jokes about repetitive announcers stink.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 14, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.0, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 5.5, 278 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football
Date: Jan 8, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NFL Tour would have made a great arcade game, but as a console game, it's simply too shallow to 
 hold your interest for long. 

  When EA unveiled NFL Tour, the question many people found themselves asking was "What's the difference 
 between NFL Tour and NFL Street?" After spending a lot of the time with the game, we can finally 
 reveal the answer: NFL Tour isn't played on the street. There's also a little less "attitude" and 
 fewer customization options in NFL Tour. If this sounds like a significant step backward -- it is. 
 You'll probably be able to squeeze out a few hours of enjoyment from the game, but there's nothing 
 to keep you coming back for more.  

           There are plenty of plays available, but you can win by running the same few again and 
 again.      

  For starters, NFL Tour is light on game modes -- really  light. You can play an exhibition game, 
 online game, two minigames, or tour mode. The two minigames are Smash &amp; Dash and Redzone Rush. 
 Smash &amp; Dash is essentially keep-away in a small arena, whereas Redzone Rush has players taking 
 turns going one-on-one in an effort to score from the 20-yard line. Both games are ultrasimple 
 and fun for a few minutes, but there's very little reason to revisit them once you've played them 
 a few times. Online play is limited to ranked and unranked play, which is about what you'd expect 
 for an arcade-style football game -- it's better than nothing, but nothing special.  

  If there's any depth to be found in NFL Tour, it is in the tour mode. Here, you pick a team, create 
 a player, and then take on all the other NFL teams in ladder-style tournament. The mode is similar 
 to what was found in NFL Street, but more straightforward (read: stripped-down) . Your goal is always 
 to win, but there's often more to it than just being ahead when time expires -- sometimes you'll 
 have to hit a certain score to win, but other times, you have to come from behind. It's a fine 
 format for an arcade game that you're going to drop a few quarters in to kill some time with, but 
 there's no stat-tracking or real customization -- just beat a team and move on.  

  Tour's lone bright spot is its gameplay. That's not to say it's amazing or anything -- it's not -- but 
 the game is fun to play. The action takes place in what is essentially an outdoor Arena League 
 field, complete with walls. Teams consist of seven offense players and seven defensive players. 
 Other than your quarterback playing special teams because he's the person who throws the ball off, 
 players don't have to pull double-duty on offense and defense. You can pick from a small number 
 of passing and running plays. There are a few trick and option plays to choose from as well. Like 
 real football, you get four downs to gain 10 yards for a first down. There are no field goals or 
 punts, and after a touchdown, you must run a normal play for either one or two points.  

  The play on the field is fast, and the controls are easy to learn. There's a button for turbo, 
 one for juking, and one to power through tackles. You can avoid tackles or make them with well-timed 
 presses of a button. The only button mashing you'll need to do is to pound a button to break certain 
 tackles or overpower a blocker. On the PS3, this is done by shaking the controller -- a mechanic 
 that is not only uninteresting but also curiously not covered in the instruction manual. For the 
 first hour or so, it's quite satisfying to break off huge plays, blow up would-be tacklers, pound 
 ball carriers into the wall, and decimate quarterbacks with huge sacks.  

  After the first few hours, you'll realize that there's not much of anything to the gameplay. You 
  can  run up walls to avoid a tackle, but the mechanic doesn't work very often. Slants are particularly 
 unstoppable, and it's possible to successfully run the same few plays repeatedly. Heck, the Xbox 
 360 version even rewards you with an achievement for running the same play four times in a row. 
 Eventually, you'll learn a few tricks to play a bit of defense against the CPU, but stopping a 
 real person who can adapt to cheesy tactics is nearly impossible. It doesn't help that it only 
 takes 10 yards to get a first down and that your players tend to knock the ball carrier toward 
 the first-down marker, giving just about any play that gains one yard a few more bonus yards at 
 the end. It's nice that there aren't a whole lot of cheap turnovers, but this -- combined with how 
 difficult it is to stop someone -- makes it so that most games end up being won by the last person 
 to score. In fact, there's such little emphasis on defense that in some of the tour modes (such 
 as first to score 24 points) you'll find that you win faster by letting the CPU score in one quick 
 play rather than spending time trying to slow it down.  

  Tour's visuals show off some decent-looking player models that are nicely animated, but the overall 
 presentation leaves a lot to be desired. There are several different arenas, but other than slightly 
 different-looking cityscapes, they all look the same and don't play any differently from one another. 
 It really feels like the "No Fun League" had a lot of input on how over-the-top to make the game, 
 which has a negative impact on the overall experience. The tackles aren't all that nasty-looking, 
 and players convey very little personality before, during, or after the play. The only bit of visual 
 flair is a bit of blurring on a player when he's using turbo, a trail on the ball, and some really 
 ugly fireworks after lead changes.  

           How is this different from NFL Street? It's totally different! They play on a field now! 

  NFL Tour is the worst-sounding sports game since video games made the leap from cartridge to disc. 
 All the other aspects -- the graphics, the gameplay, the game modes -- seem like the best things ever 
 when compared to the unbearable play-by-play of ESPN's Trey Wingo. His entire performance centers 
 around the notion that announcers in sports games tend to repeat themselves too often, so he has 
 about a dozen "jokes" like, "You ever notice how video game announcers repeat themselves too often? 
 You ever notice how video game announcers repeat themselves too often?" He repeats these jokes 
 over and over again. He'll also make the same stupid quips about repetition multiple times  on 
 the same drive . Whoever sold the development team on this idea has a future selling snake oil 
 because it's absolutely astounding that commentary this terrible could have even made it past the 
 idea phase. It will not only annoy you, but also anyone in the immediate vicinity. You're better 
 off turning the commentary off and asking an ex to yell the things he or she dislikes about you 
 into your ear for the duration of the game.  

  Outside of the fact that there are no NFL Street games available for the PS3 or 360, it's puzzling 
 why NFL Tour even exists. If you're cool with spending $40 on a few hours of entertainment -- go 
 to town, but don't say you weren't warned. However, if you don't like wasting money, take a pass 
 on this one altogether and pick up an old copy of Street (or even Blitz) if you need an arcade 
 football fix.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Xbox 360-NFL Tour
  
  Review 139
  
  Released: January 8, 2008
  Publisher: Electronic Arts
  Developer: EA Tiburon
  Game Genre: Football
  ESRB Rating: E for 
 Everyone
  ESRB Description: Mild Lyrics, Mild Violence
  
  Gameplay: 50%
  Graphics: 30%
  Durability: 20%
  
  Gameplay (9/10)
  NFL Tour is the dream football game 
 for somebody who can't handle the complicated controls of a Madden game. Everything in the game 
 is based off of a simplified control system. For example, in the passing game, the B button switches 
 the targeted receiver, and the A button passes it. The only disadvantage of the simplified control 
 system is that when you get the feel of it, it becomes way too easy.
  
  In NFL Tour the objective is to beat the other 31 teams. That's the whole deal. Each game is scored 
 in a different way. Some games are won based on who is winning when time runs out and some are 
 won when a team reaches a certain point total. Some games are scored by defense.
  
  Graphics (10/10)
  Very well done.
  
  Durability (5/10)
  The only flaw in the game. To start, 
 the announcer needs to have more lines. After you hear Trey Wingo use the same lines twenty times 
 in a single game you'll turn the sound off and never turn it back on.
  
  The difficulty of the game is way too easy and the game is very short. I rented the game and beat 
 every team within three days, probably two hours spent on the game per day.
  
  Overall Score (8.5/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  A very worthwhile game to rent, but do not waste 
 money on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsomniacZombie
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 30, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  What a load. Ive been playing this for a few hours now, and trying to find something positive about 
 it. No such luck. 
  
  Sometimes, I need to get a simple game, a button masher, with not too much to do but some simple 
 gameplay. Hence NFL Streets 1-3. They were great multiplayers and NBA Jam style football fun. 
 
  
  NFL Tour shouldnt been anything more than Street 4. Turns out it was much much less. Everything 
 that made the Street series an arcade style football game was take out and replaced with...... 
 well nothing.
  
  The counter system for evading tackles is horrific because most of the time you end up counting 
 yourself into the wall or running backwards.
  
  Im about halfway through my Tour... and its a safe bet I wont make it to the "big time" any more 
 than there will be a Tour 2.
  
  even for 30 bucks dont waste your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowb0ysFaN15
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 13, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  This game overall is good its a great pick up and play game because you dont have to know a whole 
 bunch of controls to play it and the game is actually fun. you get your money worth with this game 
 its only 29.99 which is good for this game. i got this game after reading and listening to all 
 that everyone has said about it and how its so bad making me stay away from it but just yesterday 
 i rented it and just simply loved it. i was good with madden 08 but now that i play this game i 
 dont even look at madden. this game the only improvements i ask for are graphics it and thats it 
 if they improved that and the voice acting in this game it would be the best football game this 
 year. One thing that is good about this game is its a fun multiplayer game for you and your friends 
 and very competive but the normal game is easy you will beat the tour with ease and wish it was 
 longer thats all i have to say about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therhino51
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  I bought NFL Tour two weeks ago and it's great. The game itself is good much better than the Street 
 series, but does have a little bit of the Street feel. The difference is in Street you got the 
 "thug" style football and in NFL Tour you have the opposite feeling. The rules are almost the same 
 as Street 7 on 7, 80 yd field with walls, throw offs not kick offs, no field goals, extra points, 
 or punting, and players wear shorts and a jersey. The fields and fireworks are amazing and a big 
 reason I got the game. The graphics are very nice too and everything looks really clean looking 
 especially on an HD tv. The bad is Trey Wingo's commentary and after game 1 I turned him off. The 
 other problem is that even though they turned the "over the top" style down it's still there and 
 it takes a LOT of strategy out of the game. The Tour mode is alright, but could be better. It's 
 like Madden's "Superstar Mode" where you create a player, but instead of getting him in the Hall 
 of Fame you are trying to get him a NFL contract. I bought NFL Tour for arcade though so I am fine 
 with not as much strategy as a Maximum Football or a Madden. The mini games are neat and help with 
 learning the games style. I love the basic controls for when you want to play with your kids as 
 they can easily understand how to play. Multi player is awesome and makes the game a lot more fun. 
 If you want a completely strategy style game NFL Tour isn't what you are looking for, but if you 
 want an play something different Tour is for you. I would give it a 8.0 out of 10 and if you can 
 get it for $30 go for it you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterSinister6
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 14, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  NFL Tour is supposed to be like the new and improved version of NFL Street but I didn't see anything 
 new or improved. The gameplay is broken, the AI sucks, and this game is way too arcadey for me. 
 Every new feature that this game has too offer sucks. For example, the new tour passing scheme, 
 you might as well go to settings and change it to classic because the only thing the tour scheme 
 does is confuse. The one thing I always look forward to in Street games is the Gamebreaker and 
 this game even fails to make that enjoyable. If you know whats good for you don't pick this up. 
 This so called successor to the NFL Street franchise is a huge disappointment. I hope EA Sports 
 BIG comes out with a game to redeem this failure.
  
  The ONLY reason I even gave this game a 5.5 is because it's a football game and football is my 
 fave sport. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endwill1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why no one liked NFL Tour I thought it was very fun especially when you are playing 
 with your friends.
  
  I think the gameplay in this game is very underrated. It is very easy but who said that was a bad 
 thing? When you have friends over you can have a NFL Tour tournament and the games are only a couple 
 of minutes long so it won't take too long like in Madden.
  
  The graphics in this game are ok nothing special but they aren't disappointing.
  
  The sounds 
 in this game are absolutely horrible Trey Wingo is an ok announcer for about 15 minutes then he 
 starts saying the same stuff over and over again and the worst thing is he actually says that video 
 game announcers repeat themselves too much when I heard him say that my head almost exploded.
 
  
  I definitely don't recommend buying this game wait a couple of years then it will be like five 
 bucks in the bargain bin. I do however recommend renting it when your friends come over because 
 you will have a blast playing together.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukusgetts
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  i thinkt hat this game is a realy fun and fast paced nfl game. it lies in the middle of madden 
 series and blitz the league. the only downside to this game is the stadiums there is a lack of 
 stadiums i think there is 13 in total. but the gameplay is realy fun with reversals and wall hurdles 
 make the game realy enjoyable. the true fun of this game though is the 2 mini games crash and dash 
 and a 1v1 type of situaition. the crash and dash you can have up to 4 human players and another 
 4 cpu players which is very fun if freinds are round. the single player TOUR is fun at first but 
 gets a little bit repetitive at times some fun games all about defence i think this games is for 
 people who are lookingfor a break from madden but dont want something as hardcore as blitz. if 
 u are not sure to buy it i would rent it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAchievement
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 3, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  I have been a NFL Street Fan for what seems like forever... Sure the original only came out a few 
 years ago... but in Gamer-Time it has been decades. What I don't understand is how EA can take 
 all the fun out of a great series. I guess I have talked too much already since there doesn't seem 
 to be anything about NFL Tour... but I only feel it fair to mention that I do have a history with 
 EA and Street Football...
  
  I saw that NFL Tour was out and was actually exited because for some reason I hadn't come across 
 warnings that it would be on the shelf and didn't take the time to research it myself. I was also 
 excited to see that unlike most 360 Games it came with a price tag of $49.99 (instead of the usual 
 $59.99) . I grabbed a copy and went home looking forward to getting the full 1000 Gamerscore and 
 looking forward to doing it... Little did I know what I was in store for from EA and their half-finished-fully-terrible 
 game.
  
  I throw it in and take a look at the Achievements... unlike most games that I research the Achievements 
 long before I play them... As I look I only see one that looks slightly time consuming and 3 Secret 
 Achievements... Well, me being me, I hit up www. Achieve360Points. com to take a look at those Secrets... 
 Nothing crazy just a few in-game Achievements that should be easy enough.
  
  I started by hitting up the Mini-Games... Nothing special... You can choose between running around 
 in a circular Arena with one other guy (Smash-N-Dash) ... or even better... 1 on 1 Football... I 
 mean they really thought outside the box on that one. I shut down the Mini-Games without a second 
 thought because Gameplay is always what I liked in the Street Series anyways and Mini-Games aren't 
 were that is going to show-off.
  
  So I began playing Tour Mode... I created a fairly-boring Character since there weren't many options 
 to make him look unique... but I thought "there will be upgrades" and just moved on... there are 
 no upgrades. You get nothing but more Challenges after you begin the Tour Challenges that seem 
 to get less & less creative.
  
  As I progressed through Tour Mode I started to wonder where did that Taunting Option go? Why doesn't 
 my left trigger do anything? Am I crazy or is all the fun missing? Why don't I get to customize 
 my Character? Why did I have to mute the Trey Wingo's commentary after 3 hours of play because 
 I want to rip his heart out?
  
  There are so many gaps in NFL Tour it isn't funny. To start, you hear ALL the commentary before 
 finishing your first game ($-10) ... There is no Character Customization ($-10) There is no way 
 to Reset a Match from the Pause Menu ($-10) ... There is a TOTAL of 69 Plays on Offense & Defense 
 & Special Teams COMBINED ($-10) ... All of the Fields appear the same ($-10) ... There is no Training 
 Area to learn the game and reverses ($-10) and even with that lack of content, the Load Times are 
 Horrific ($-10) .
  
  So by my Calculations... EA owes me $30 for playing it. So much for saving 10 bucks!
  
  My 
 final say on this one is only RENT NFL Tour if you are into Gamerscore. It isn't a fun game so 
 pass on it unless you want to add another 1000 Gamerscore to your card... If you are looking to 
 enjoy Football, stick with Madden. Sorry, there isn't a better option yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redredkroovy
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 25, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  NFL Tour is supposed to be the replacement for NFL Street but doesn't quite live up to the Street 
 legacy.
  
  Good- Fast paced action, fairly decent graphics, fairly good load times, extremely simple controls, 
 and a short field just like Street (great for this game but for something like Madden, it would 
 suck) . Pretty diverse plays.
  
  Bad- First and foremost the commentators are very annoying. It's kind of difficult to make big 
 plays with a run play the defense usually shuts you down before you can get too far. Defense is 
 kind of pointless, If you don't shut down the QB or RB before they get too far they'll make HUGE 
 plays. And of course the lack of game modes really takes away from the replay value.
  
  Bottom Line- Great fast paced arcade-ish football game. Not quite as good as Street. Could definitely 
 use more game modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClixCommander
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 20, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  You know, I was hoping for a new age NFL Street. Something throw back from the Xbox brought to 
 astounding life with the engine of the 306. Boy was NFL Tour a big let down. Remember NFL Street? 
 It was great, you could make your old neighborhood friend into a team and smash on the NFL Stars. 
 It was great! NFL Tour, you almost ZERO customizing options. There's no "Show-boating", no trash 
 talk. All of the things that EA should have put into the game were not there at all. Shame on you 
 EA Big for releasing the travesty of a game to your 360 players. This game, if it can be called 
 one, is shallow at best. It plays like the days of Blitz gone by, but easier! Where's the challenge? 
 Where's the stat improving skill drills? The gear, the customizations? Oh and here's a good one, 
 how about a different field to play on! I was bored seeing the same field over and over again only 
 with different paint schemes. NFL Tour is worth renting if every other good football game is out 
 in my opinion. Voices are weak, the commentary is could be left out. It's funny once guys, after 
 that it's just annoying. To wrap this up, leave NFL Tour on the shelf and demand NFL Street instead. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slick_21
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  Like a lot of people I downloaded the demo of NFL Tour and tried it before I bought it. Before 
 I go any farther I have to say, EA BIG I am thoroughly disappointed. Graphics are mediocre at best, 
 gameplay is boring, environments are pathetic. The only shining point is the soundtrack which must 
 have been decided by somebody else because it is quite good. The new button system they have is 
 terrible. On offense it is to easy, on defense to hard. The AI in the game can't stop the pass, 
 or the run for that matter. The environment never changes always an arena football style stadium. 
 The biggest difference that EA has cited between games is the type of game? What a load of BS. 
 There is no difference, so you have to score more points in one game over another, or you have 
 to get a defensive touchdown. That doesn't make the game fun. 
  
  While playing I just kept saying to myself, "Why didn' t they just bring back NFL Street?" What 
 was the reason for ditching it, for this excuse of game? I would like the 50 cents in electricity 
 that I used to download the game, back from EA. Spend your time on a better game like COD or Halo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiggyman_basic
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  It is completely ridiculous that EA Tiburon decided to put a nix on the NFL Street series, officially 
 or unofficially, for a game like this. The offense is completely, pathetically easy, the defense 
 is damn near non-existent, and the graphics make me want to say, "Next Gen?". The commentary is 
 a joke, and even suggesting Trey Wingo for it should get someone fired. The NFL Street games had 
 taken a big fall to be sure with the same game being cranked out and all, but that's not to say 
 that it couldn't be fixed instead of replaced. EA Tiburon should be ashamed for the simple fact 
 that the gamers expect so much better out of you people. Madden sure as hell picked it up this 
 year, but someone, or many people were sleeping on the job on this one. Pink slips all around I 
 hope if this happens again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: animationj
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Just about a year ago, the "so-so" NFL Street 3 hit the stores. Despite the fact that it wasn't 
 as solid as NFL Street 2, Street 3 still gave us what we wanted - an accessible (and fun) arcade 
 style football game. NFL Tour is essentially the "next NFL Street game." However, there are some 
 major differences between this game and past entries in the series. 
  
  Firstly, NFL Tour takes the game off of the gritty streets, and into these cheesy stadiums located 
 in major US cities. This, in my opinion, is a huge step back for the series, as the stadiums look 
 nearly identical to one another! You can no longer jump off of trash cans or use your environment 
 to your advantage. Thanks to this, you are stuck playing a very simple "pickup" game of football.
 
  
  Another key feature of the game that was "ripped out" was the ability to execute trick moves. Special 
 jukes, stiff arms, and even taunts are not in the game anymore. These various moves have been replaced 
 by an extremely simplistic one-button-press counters for offense (and reversals for defense) . For 
 example, if you are running down the field and a lineman wraps your legs up, you are able to press 
 the A button and break the tackle. Not only does this make the running game boring, but takes any 
 challenge out of the game. However, this feature may be beneficial if you are playing with someone 
 who has never played a game of Madden before. 
  
  The passing in NFL Tour also undergoes some odd changes; you must "select" the receiver you want 
 to throw to. This is done by pressing the B button; each press cycles through your various receivers. 
 Luckily, you have the option to go back to classic passing in the main menu.
  
  The game modes in NFL Tour are some of the only things that remain unchanged. There are various 
 mini-games in Tour, and they all serve a purpose. However, the main "story" mode in Tour is now 
 known as the "Tour Mode." In this game mode, you create a player (by using a simplistic character 
 creator) , and place him on your favorite NFL team. Then you play a bunch of games. I'm serious; 
 there is virtually no variety. This mode not only gets boring quickly, but is narrated by Trey 
 Wingo, from ESPN. Trey is also the commentator when you play the games. Even though he does a decent 
 job, his lines do repeat often.
  
  Overall, NFL Tour feels like a missed opportunity. EA certainly did not utilize the power of the 
 360, and basically removed all of our favorite features from the earlier Street titles. Nonetheless, 
 if you are looking for a fast-paced game that can be played in short time periods, this may be 
 your game. Sadly, this may be the end for the Street franchise. Oh how the mighty have fallen. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingBobCat
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  I only played the demo, but that was enough. I really enjoy Madden and even played 2K8 through 
 a season (although that better be vastly improved next year or they won't be getting my money again) . 
 I love football, but this game is not to my tastes and is lacking any level of the "fun factor" 
 as far as I'm concerned.
  
  I think the premise is OK and enjoyed the NFL Street games quite a bit. However, this game (at 
 least the demo) seems hollow and souless. I usually wouldn't write a review on a demo, but currently, 
 there are only 2 player reviews and they contradict each other. I also thought it was important 
 to get the word out as quickly as possible, before people blow that Best Buy/Gamespot Gift Certificate 
 that is burning a hole in their pocket. :) 
  
  My recommendation is that if you think you might be interested in this game, don't impulse buy 
 it and download the demo first (available on Marketplace for the 360) . I think you'll find that 
 there isn't much to like here and move along... :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankfrankie
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Well i have had this game for a couple hours and love it. Yes i am a die hard football fan and 
 its a good break from madden. Its gotta small (but cool) online community that is enjoyable to 
 vs. The NFL tOur mode isnt bad either i mean Trey Wingo has the worst script in script history 
 (and for those of you who played smack down YES worse then that) but it makes i t kind of funny, 
 all in all its an enjoyable game that every1 would like especially those who cant play madden but 
 like football games anyway. this is a kiddish game but that doesnt diminish game play at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CeZar_87
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 9, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Just what my headline says. There is nothing there, nothing at all. From the gameplay to the presentation. 
 It is all just plain bad. Nothing about this game is good. Not even the graphics are as good as 
 NBA street for the 360 was. This game is bad I can't say this enough. It's terrible! even the commentary 
 is horrible. there is no redeeming factor when it comes to this game none. Yes that means the tour 
 mode is also bad. It made my dog cry, and I wasted 40 dollars on this POS. It's not even worth 
 20 dollars. If your mother gives you this game it means she hates you. this game blows man stay 
 away!
  
  THIS GAME WAS A HUGE LETDOWN!
  
  We should boycott EA for giving us so many bad spin offs of great games. They did it with Def Jam 
 Icon, NFS pro street, NBA Homecourt, and now they have done it with all the great games we've loved. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
