-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 07
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/nhl07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The skill stick is one of the coolest innovations of hockey gaming in the last few years.
 Phenomenal graphics, especially the player models.
 Great sound effects and commentary.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Defensive play is still not great.
 Beyond an atrophied franchise mode and basic online play, there's not much in the way of features.
 Frame rate doesn't run exceptionally high.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 14, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.0, 52 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,692 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Ice Hockey Sim
Date: Sep 12, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NHL 07's thrilling new skill stick makes up for its bare-bones package. 

  Is there anything right analog sticks can't do? Especially in the realm of sports games, the right 
 stick has become the jack-of-all-trades in recent years, with developers finding all sorts of clever 
 ways to make it emulate moves, passes, shots, hits, and the like. The reason behind this has always 
 been to try to give the player more freedom of control over what they're doing, rather than relying 
 on canned animations via button presses. Never has this freedom been more apparent than in NHL 
 07 for the Xbox 360. In a near-complete revamp of the series' control scheme, the 360 controller's 
 right stick is now effectively your hockey stick, letting you perform dekes and shots with simple 
 flicks and movements of it. It's a fantastic system that will force longtime hockey fans to rethink 
 how they play the game of hockey -- though, unfortunately, it also happens to be just about the only 
 truly cool, brand-new thing in the series' debut on the Xbox 360. Much as EA did with Madden NFL 
 06 last year, NHL 07's features set has been stripped to the bone, not only offering nothing new, 
 but removing several secondary features and leaving you with nothing but a functional franchise 
 mode and online play. In effect, NHL 07 takes one giant leap forward and a few hops back.  

          Say hello to the skill stick, AKA one of the coolest concepts to come along in hockey 
 gaming.     

  So what's the deal with that stick then, eh? The deal is that on the game's default control scheme, 
 you won't use face buttons at all. Passing is mapped to the right trigger and the right bumper; 
 you skate and aim with the left control stick; and the right stick does just about everything else 
 on offense. You press the stick forward to take a quick wrister, wind it back to line up for a 
 powerful slapshot, and move it side to side to deke out defenders and goalies. Those are the basics, 
 but there's more to the stick than that. The key here is that there's very little limit to what 
 you can do with the stick -- but you'll have to work for your goals. One-timers are not easy to set 
 up with this control scheme, and if you want to pull one off, you'll need a seriously ideal passing 
 lane and precision timing to do it, just like in real hockey. But when you do, it's immensely satisfying. 
 Heck, just about every goal you fire off in NHL 07 is a satisfying one, because you really feel 
 like you're the one who made it happen. Those dekes you used to fake the goalie out of position 
 and the aim of that wrist shot were all your doing, not just some series of preset animations that 
 happened to do the work for you, and that's a beautiful thing.  

  Make no mistake, the learning curve for this control scheme is going to be high, even for longtime 
 hockey game fans. You will almost certainly find yourself instinctively reaching for the usual 
 shoot buttons, and you'll get exactly nowhere. Not to mention that the right trigger passing feels 
 very weird at first (though that's because the passing in general just isn't as responsive as you 
 might expect, and takes some practice to use effectively) . However, in a deeply merciful move, 
 the game's "classic" control scheme includes both face button passing and shooting, as well as 
 the skill stick. So you can play around using the skill stick but can fall back on the buttons 
 if you feel like it. Of course, after a while, the skill stick will become second nature, and you'll 
 forget all about those face buttons.  

  Fantastic as the skill stick and general offense of NHL 07 is, the defense and goalies haven't 
 quite kept up their end of the bargain. Playing defense is mostly how it's been for the last few 
 EA NHL games, save for the cumbersome poke check mechanic that requires you to hold down the right 
 bumper and poke around using the right control stick. Without the right bumper held down, you'll 
 deliver checks with the right stick, just like in the last few games. Save for running around like 
 a lunatic, diving and checking into any opponent with the puck, there's just not much strategy 
 to the defense beyond some basic defensive pressure settings. Computer-controlled defenders do 
 a decent job of blocking your path to the net, though they also feel robotic and don't employ much 
 varying strategy when defending against you.  

           Goalies are mostly very competent, but you'll see some real head-scratcher goals as you 
 play.     

  Goalies generally look and move better than they ever have in an EA hockey game, but they still 
 give up a decent number of dumb, dumb goals. Pucks will bounce off masks, shoulders, gloves, and 
 just about any other part of a goalie's body, creating some silly goals in the process. There are 
 also still issues with players shooting right through goalies when you're up close and personal 
 in the crease and the game decides you're going to score a goal, not to mention goals that ought 
 not be. We had one situation in which the goalie went prone on his back to stop a goal from sliding 
 into the net, and it looked like he succeeded, except that our controlled offensive player took 
 a swipe with a wrister practically inside the net, and the lamp lit. Upon further review, the replay 
 showed the goalie hopping on top of the puck before it ever hit the net, but the puck somehow squeezed 
 out of his back as our stick clipped through the prone goalie. Additionally, unlike in 2K Sports' 
 NHL series, which has found a way to make goalie controls fun via its crease control system, playing 
 goalie in 07 is no fun at all -- not that that's exactly surprising.  

  Fortunately, the joy of using the skill stick makes up for most of the game's defensive shortcomings, 
 though those aren't the only things it has to make up for. The Xbox 360 version of NHL 07 is also 
 missing a lot of the secondary game modes that have been in the series for the last several years, 
 leaving you with a skeletal franchise mode and unremarkable online play. There are world tournament 
 and shootout modes available, but the world tournament mode is the same one we've been playing 
 for the last few years, and shootout mode is exactly what it sounds like: a quick and dirty shootout, 
 and nothing more.     

  The franchise mode, for what it's worth, at least does one thing very right via omission by killing 
 off the lame owner goals system from the old console versions, but the presentation of the mode 
 feels very austere, with only the most essential general manager and coaching options. One nice 
 thing is that the mode includes a much more realistic salary cap, complete with waiver system and 
 one- and two-way contract signing. However, it's not perfect. In the first season of the franchise 
 mode, there is hardly any free agency period. You finish the first season, the free agent pool 
 never grows, and none of your players, even the ones with zero years left on their contract, drop 
 into the pool. After the second season things resume as normal, but when you're signing new free 
 agent players, an issue pops up with the salary cap. From day one of the free agency period, you 
 can sign as many players as you want with no negotiation, and no concern for the cap. The no-negotiation 
 thing has been an issue in EA NHL games for years, but the budget issue is a big one. The cap doesn't 
 register all the players you've signed until the free agency period is over. If you're over the 
 cap, those players will drop into your minor league pool, even if you signed them to a one-way 
 deal. This means that not only have you signed a bunch of top-tier players, but they all just cleared 
 waivers without issue, leaving you with a bunch of star players in your minor league team, most 
 of whom you could just trade away for picks and other, cheaper players you can use. There are some 
 issues with trade notifications as well. Though the game is great about interrupting your season 
 simulation to let you know when players are going on waivers, it forces you to stop manually and 
 check your e-mail constantly to find out about trade offers.  

           The franchise mode contains an accurate, if slightly buggy representation of the real 
 life contract system.     

  The online functionality of NHL 07 is pretty par for the course for what EA has had on offer of 
 late. You can play in ranked or unranked matches, track stats, download rosters, and check out 
 leaderboards. That's about it. While, again, this is the usual list of online features for an EA 
 hockey game, with 2K's hockey game light-years ahead in the online game, with online tournaments 
 and seasons, it's tough to be anything but disappointed with what's on offer here. The online play 
 itself is solid, provided you don't run into any laggy matches. Sans lag, the game plays as it 
 should, but when you run into lag, the artififical intelligence response time for a lot of on-ice 
 stuff seems to slow down, so you tend to end up with a lot more missed checks, late shots, and 
 bad goals. There's also an infrequent bug where sometimes the game will snap to a faceoff for no 
 discernable reason. You'll just be moving along the ice, and you're back in a faceoff circle, no 
 penalty, no offsides, no call of any kind.  

  One thing beyond the scope of the skill stick that is most certainly  not  disappointing is NHL 
 07's graphics. This game's visual presentation is top-notch, with some of the best-looking player 
 models and animations seen in a sports game to date. The amount of detail in the players' faces 
 is especially striking; every little detail looks just right on practically every marquee player. 
 Jerseys look fantastic as the players skate and bump around the ice with mostly very fluid motion. 
 There are some stuttery animations here and there, and the skating animations aren't always great, 
 but the on-ice action mostly looks fantastic. Puck physics are very realistic, and the ice deforms 
 nicely as you play. The worst thing that can be said about the visuals is that the game doesn't 
 run at a high frame rate. It is a consistent rate, but it's slower and choppier looking than in 
 2K's hockey game. Still, the quality of the graphics is apparent, even despite the lower frame 
 rate, and it's hard not to be extremely impressed with how much of a visual improvement this game 
 is over the previous generation of EA hockey games, especially if you've got the HDTV to see it 
 in all its glory (but fret not, SDTV owners, for you'll get quite the visual treat, too) .  

           Yes, the player models really do look this awesome up close.     

  The audio has 
 also gotten quite a bit better, thanks in no small part to the new commentary team of Gary Thorne 
 and Bill Clement. These are the former ESPN NHL broadcasters who were once a staple of the 2K hockey 
 series, but now they're on board for 07 on the 360, and the flow of their dialogue is top-notch. 
 The twosome has more broadcast chemistry than just about any team doing commentary in any sports 
 game today, and though the commentary itself isn't well written and tends to repeat more than you'd 
 like, it flows so nicely with the action that you can't help but enjoy it. Crowd noise is also 
 fantastic. The screams of the crowd drown the arena when the home team scores, and the subtleties 
 of the boos or moments of near-silence when the away team does something big are equally spot-on. 
 The one down point is the soundtrack, which consists of the usual indie rock and emo stylings you've 
 come to expect from EA Trax. Nothing's too offensive, but none of it stands out, either.  

  It is very much give-and-take in NHL 07, a game that delivers on bringing an exciting new gameplay 
 mechanic to the table, then rips out a bunch of features when you're not looking. With NHL 2K7 
 managing to squeeze in every single feature the series has been known for into both its Xbox 360 
 debut last year and its latest iteration this year, the fact that EA's first hockey title, released 
 more than a year after the console's launch, would be so stripped down is disappointing. But even 
 with that disappointment, you can't help but go back to the skill stick -- and what a phenomenal 
 addition it is to how hockey is played on consoles. Those who want to see where hockey gaming is 
 headed in the next few years absolutely should check out NHL 07.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (165 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 11:07 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  Another EA Sports franchise makes it debut on the Xbox 360 platform. This review is based on the 
 fact you are familiar with Hockey and its terminology. I am writing this as if this is your first 
 gaming experience in the EA NHL Hockey games for the 360 and none of the subsequent releases.
 
  
  
  Game play: 8/10
  While I've have been a faithful gamer for the EA Hockey franchise since its inception on the Sega 
 Master system. There have been very few major upgrades from 2003 and forward on the different system. 
 In its 360 debut t, they introduce us to the Skill Stick. At first I was hesitant and even frustrated 
 on the use of the Right Controller stick to use as stick movement. After a few games and a few 
 wins against the computer, it was a decent experience. It made the game a bit more enjoyable and 
 different than just the pass and shoot. I have to say the AI of the players are a bit smarter and 
 not repetitious. All the features of line changes, offensive and defensive schemes are updated. 
 The online play could use some work because of its simplicity.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  I have to say the jump to this generation graphics are amazing. The players looks like their real 
 life counter parts. Each team's arena also got a graphics upgrade. With all the visual options 
 tuned on there are only a few times in a game where the frame rates slow down the action. While 
 noticeable it does not affect gameplay.
  
  Sound and Music: 8/10
  As with all EA sports games, the menus have full songs that play as you go through the menus. One 
 thing you will notice from the previous years version is the commentary. The play by play has been 
 updated and sound like what you would hear from a real NHL game. The arena ambiance is noticeable 
 with the crown cheering and booing depending on the situation 
  
  Difficulty: 5/10
  The rating on difficulty is based on how hard the game is to learn and master. While some people 
 might find this game easy or even hard. I rate this game a 5 because while its does take some time 
 to learn the controls, it's a very easy to play. Even at its hardest setting. The computer AI defense 
 always seem to have a few certain weakness that can be exploited for a vast amounts of goals.
 
  
  Final Thoughts:
  As a hockey fan, I say this is a must game. As a sports fan, I would have to agree. As a collector, 
 given the age of the game you can easily get it used for under $10 if you look hard enough. As 
 a average game. I would have to say the game is challenging enough for a person entertained for 
 a long enough period of time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dork_assailent
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  When I first got my X-Box 360, this is the first game that I turned to. I know it may sound silly, 
 but at the time, I was crazed over the hype about the new skill stick and I wanted to try it for 
 myself.
  
  The first two weeks, I would spend all of my free time playing this game (offline too) , and I thought 
 it was the greatest game in the world. But as time wore on, I slowly grew tired of the often repetitive 
 gameplay and the fact that there was hardly anything else special about the game.
  
  This is when I realized that NHL 07 had no depth! It's fame relied completely on the famous skill 
 stick, which is fine, except for people who are actually looking for a long lasting hockey game 
 that is worth its value. Of course, if you are one of these people, don't look into NHL 07. Another 
 thing that will hamper your enjoyment of the game is the terribly slow frame rate and the occasional 
 lag on online multiplayer. As well, the skating system needs improvement. Hopefully we'll see all 
 of these rebuffed in NHL 08! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinoadr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  I have played lots of hockey games in my life time and truste this is a good one but doesnt seem 
 to grab my attention enough to become one of my favs.
  
  First start off with, the oh so wierd but cool , NHL SKILL Stick. When you first pop in the game 
 in the dicc tray. The game will go into a mini showing of how to use the skill stick and what it 
 is and you CANT skip it. The NHL Skil stick is where Uuse the bottom anologe to shoot\deek. So 
 if you would push it left it would do a wrist shot, right slap shot, so on and so forth. You dont 
 use the pad buttons what so ever. Its really useful in shootouts but when playing a game, I suggest 
 switching to default which switches it to the buttons instead.
  As Gamespot said, its a skinny package, its has Dynasty, Shootout, Go now, online, and international. 
 They all provide a time just not enough, the song list is so-so. They couldve provided some hockey 
 favourites but next time I guess.
  All the teams seems balanced well and a fair, the ones that usually suck, suck, and the ones that 
 are good, are good.
  The 2 announcers for the game are good but they couldve had Lots more to say. Graphics are Incredible 
 ontop of the action and looks like a real hockey game! But upclose, well, lets just say they still 
 have some ajusting to do.
  Finally, this game should be pretty cheap since 08 has come out, atleast $19-26. So if your looking 
 for a good time of hockey but want it cheap, I advise you to just go ahead and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dewAMP88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  I know it's an all too often phrase, but, THIS GAME IS BEST IN SERIES! The Skill Stick is BY FAR 
 the altimate weapon! It's best to tweak all your options until you are satisfied with game play, 
 although, right out of the box this game is hard to beat! For me, it defeats 2k7 flat out. I have 
 many games for the 360, but I always go back to NHL07 for the most entertainment.
  In the beginning, I was getting far to many AI breakaways, until I learned (with the help of a 
 few of my fellow GAMESPOT profilers) how to play a more realistic brand of hockey. This game is 
 meant to be played with a genuine NHL style.
  With the use of the new SKILL STICK, the Dodge Shootout play is down right awesome. The SKILL STICK 
 can be used in conjunction with other options such as VISION CONTROL for sick player moves and 
 skating ability while performing unforgettable shots on net! I recommend this game simply on those 
 reasons alone.
  When deciding on which hockey game to buy, remember these two words: SKILL STICK!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjordan1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  this game is really good for a nhl game i think its better than 2k sports. this games graphics 
 are awesome and the new skill stick is awesome too its way easier to shoot and stuff. the game 
 play is eay better from last year they really improved it. the goalie movemnet is realistic and 
 so is the player movement a lot of stuff in that game is realistic the dynasty mode is the same 
 old thing same with the season mode same old same old. they need to change dynasty and season mode 
 they like barley made improvments on that. the dodge shoot out is really fun and the camera view 
 of is awesome!!! the ai is good also there is barly any ai also. i recommend to buy this game if 
 you like nhl games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Story: It's Hockey. Go out and hit someone.
  
  Graphics: Great. So Perty.
  
  Audio: Goal Horns, Commentators, Fans, and On Ice Sound. Crisp.
  
  Missions: Shootouts, Games, 
 World Tournys, Dynasty Seasons, Etc.
  
  Controls: New Skill Stick Controls use dual analog sticks, one for the stick other for the player. 
 Once you get used to it, smooth and slick.
  
  Features: Dekes, Shootouts, All the good extras of a hockey game.
  
  A. I.: After some practice 
 you can beat them on the highest difficulty but they are very challenging.
  
  Loading Times: 10-20 seconds for each.
  
  Multiplayer: Not bad but local is the best.
  
 
  Requirements: Xbox 360. $20.
  
  Weapons: Your hockey Stick!
  
  The Good: Feels complete and a new look to the NHL series.
  
  The Bad: Gets repetitive after 
 a while due to lack of some mini games, like 2k. Harder hits would be nice.
  
  The Ugly: The goalie after Ovechkin dangles him.
  
  Replay Ability: High.
  
  The Bottom 
 Line: If you like Hockey, Have a 360, and $20. You must buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godigoshin
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 8, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  When i was deciding to buy a hockey game for my fairly new xbox 360 last year, i ended up choosing 
 2k7 because i wanted something different from what all of my friends were buying. I made the right 
 choice.
  
  Gameplay: seems good at first, becomes crap. The stick is pretty cool but random glitches like 
 shooting the puck backwards are common. It is impossible to set up a real power play or play any 
 real defense. This game is ALL skill stick, so if you aren't good with it, you must score with 
 a glitch goal (which happens for most of the goals anyway) . It is more than common to see goalies 
 kicking pucks in, and pucks bouncing straight in the air, hitting the goalie, and going in. This 
 is not hockey, it is some bastardization of my favorite game. Score: 4/10
  
  Graphics: Look good on a screen shot, not in motion. The frame rate is so bad that you can not 
 even watch the instant replays. Score: 7/10
  
  Sound: Announcers do an alright job but the sounds are unrealistic. Slap shots sounds like cannon 
 blasts and checking sounds like someone getting hit by a car. Score: 8/10
  
  Extras: Virtually no extras were put into this game. No classic jersey or teams, a shallow franchise, 
 no extra game modes, a world tournament that freezes between every single round (tried it on more 
 than one xbox 360 with more than 1 disc) . Absolutely nothing compared to 2k7.
  Score: 2/10
  
  Overall: I have played this game just as much as 2k7. I can definitively say that 2k7 is a 
 far better game. NHL 07 is so lacking that i cannot really even call it a game. It is more of a 
 shell of a game that needs another year or more of work. NHL 08 comes out soon and even with an 
 extra year, i doubt many if 07's problems will be fixed. Score: 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjordon
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  the game play is so awesome and realistic i prefer u buy this game the movements are realistic 
 everything is so real to the game and the graphics are nutz!!. the a. i is not bad at all. but the 
 bad thing is when u shot u always hit the post which is sometimes annoying -.-. the bad thing to 
 me is u cant edit the players equipment in the game. some overalls arnt so good to me like example 
 gerber has a better overall than emery 0_o. to me the game doesnt have so much flaws. overall this 
 game is awesome i recommend you buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjsharks112
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was pretty damn good. It is the type of game that will evolve into a greater 
 game in the future. I thought the shootout was graphicly amazing but the lack of dekes made it 
 a play a few times and through it away feature. I thought the dynasty wasnt bad although i could 
 easily get a Superstar for a first round pick and 2 AHL rank defensemen for example
  
  Marleau for Alfreddson
  Mclaren for Marleau
  2 AHL Rank defensemen and a 1st round draft pick 
 for Mclaren
  Alfreddon for Superstar (In my game i chose Ovechkin)
  
  The multiplayer was pretty good and the few games i played online were awesome i didnt have any 
 problems except for the faceoffs
  
  As for some of the bugs these are a few i could think of, The crowd didnt have any AI at all they 
 would cheer if you scored AND if your opponent scored, The commentary had a bad bug Hit that stick 
 knock it away he made good save made was a comment after some saves, The fighting may as well be 
 labeled as a glitch because it was a disaster
  
  Pros: Skill Stick for Dekeing AND shooting, Graphics, Shootout, Dynasty, Online, Downloadable Rosters
 
  
  Cons: Only left and right dekeing, Fighting, Commentary, Crowd, Generic Goal Horns and Stadium Music, 
 Fighting, Easy trading, Fighting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poisonfire
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2007 3:11 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  NHL gives a fairly good game time and some great action. Dynasty mode also gives a good feel. Using 
 the anolog stick as your hockey stick also makes this game feel great. Although most of the gameplay 
 is good the fights are dull and are not very good they are also quite rare.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The ice looks great and almost real you can see the scratches from the blades on your boots. Kits 
 are good but player faces arent very varied and most look the same
  
  SOUND:
  YOu can hear the power behind shots when you hit the puc and the sound of the ice. the commentators 
 get repetitive after a while and can get annoying but you can turn them off so its not too bad.
 
  
  OVERALL:
  NHL 07 provides you with good gameplay graphics and sound. Fans of hockey this is a great game 
 a has good, solid hockey gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Full_Blown
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 24, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  The 2K sports games are, and continue to be, superior to all EA Sports games. But in this case, 
 EA sneaks one through the five-hole with the skill stick.
  
  I want to keep my reviews short so any readers will get the most out of the text, so here goes: 
 NHL 07 lacks depth and the physics aren't as good as it's 2K counterpart, but the skill stick is 
 too much fun to do without. It is so much fun that it makes the game worth owning over the 2K game. 
 Check it out ASAP and be on the lookout for NHL 08 as EA supposedly redesigned parts of the physics 
 engine. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beowulfzero
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 10, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  The quality of the visuals, gameplay, and sound are the three main parts of my review for NHL 07 
 for the XBOX 360. First, the graphics, player models for NHL 07 are the best ever of any hockey 
 game. The graphics are of high quality. However, the animations for the game are very poor because 
 since all the players look like their skating with their feet tied together. Furthermore, it is 
 the framerate that kills the awesome looking player models. For some reason the goalie models always 
 look great from beginning to the end of a game. The quality of the visual design is so good that 
 the framerate will not stop anyone from playing. Two, the gameplay for NHL 07 has many parts. Shooting 
 and puck handling are greatly improved with the skill stick system. Playing offense is the best 
 part of the entire game since there was no actual defensive system implemented into NHL 07. Scoring 
 is awesome! After playing 700+ games I actually scored close to 300pts in a season in 5 min periods 
 with one player. Scoring finally feels natural like when real hockey player's score. Another part 
 of hockey is cycling the puck which is a very difficulty strategy to use in this year's version. 
 If you know how to cycle then you will be able to do it once in every game if you have the correct 
 strategy set. NHL 07 would have gotten max scores for solely its graphics, but the defensive side 
 is not present. The game lacks polish when skating backwards. The defensemen will seemingly glide 
 10-15 feet away from the front of the net with a small little analog stick push. It is so amazingly 
 bad at times that the only strategy a player has is to leave the defensemen idle in front of the 
 net hoping shots just hit them instead of playing the offensive forward with the puck. There is 
 not much to say about the sound in the game. Everything sounds authentic except slap shots which 
 could be confused with slamming a door.
  
  My personal stats:
  
  700+ games played.
  229 pts with one player in a season, 5 min periods. I put the puck control down one and gamespeed 
 down 2.
  
  149 points (129 assist) with my defensemen in one season.
  140 goals in one season with a center (229 pts) .
  85 goals + 113assists in one season with J. Jagr. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaelBurton
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I never thought that an EA Sports NHL game would infact become this addictive, creative and most 
 of all.... FUN!
  The 3D like Graphics are simply amazing follwed by revolutionary new controls which make the game 
 that much better. Unfortunatly the game lacks Updated Rosters and Rokkie Skaters and being a hardcore 
 Hockey Fan I know that many of todays NHL rookies are missing from the rosters in this game. Back 
 to the good part of tha game the sound is great sounding just like a hockey rink, but then again 
 lacks the individual creative ways Hockey teams come out onto the ice, for instance the Edmonton 
 Oilers comming out of the Giant Oil Derreck?!?!?!?! Another thing I found dissapointing was the 
 create-a-player setup which had gamers pick one of very similar faces instead of being able to 
 create your own creative and individual player?!?!?!?!
  If EA Sports can fix up a few of these problems then I can expect 2008 and 2009 to be among the 
 greatest sports games made! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sydthekid087
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  I am reviewing this game because no one buys a sports game just to play quick matches. They are 
 going to play at least one full season of this game, if for anything just the achievements. They 
 added a lot over the years to these games than they ever did in the past. I would like to see some 
 of the things you are able to do in NBA Live and Madden as well. To watch your players actually 
 progress the more goals they score/assist the make and how many shots they stop. It takes far too 
 long to watch a 88 player move to 90, sometimes taking an entire season just to see it, and that 
 was with the MVP for that year on my team. I would rather see a training camp (like Madden) addition 
 or even a simulated training day on your off days where you can make your players run specific 
 drills to help enhance them. There are a couple of things EA could do that put espn in a hole. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godsofplunder
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  I know it's an all too often phrase, but, THIS GAME IS BEST IN SERIES! The Skill Stick is BY FAR 
 the altimate weapon! It's best to tweak all your options until you are satisfied with game play, 
 although, right out of the box this game is hard to beat! For me, it defeats 2k7 flat out. I have 
 many games for the 360, but I always go back to NHL07 for the most entertainment.
  In the beginning, I was getting far to many AI breakaways, until I learned (with the help of a 
 few of my fellow GAMESPOT profilers) how to play a more realistic brand of hockey. This game is 
 meant to be played with a genuine NHL style.
  With the use of the new SKILL STICK, the Dodge Shootout play is down right awesome. The SKILL STICK 
 can be used in conjunction with other options such as VISION CONTROL for sick player moves and 
 skating ability while performing unforgettable shots on net! I recommend this game simply on those 
 reasons alone.
  When deciding on which hockey game to buy, remember these two words: SKILL STICK!!
  Great job 
 EA!
  
  -Gods of plunder 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vito126
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most impressive NHL games that I have seen to date. It has been developing since 
 one of EA's other great hockey games, which I think was NHL 2003. Since then they tried new things 
 like putting in the anthem in NHL 05, great breakaway cut-scenes in NHL 03 and changed alot in 
 NHL 06. Thisyear they have outdone themselves, putting the amazing new skill stick in and bringing 
 back shoot-out mode. The gameplay in this game is almost great, but not there yet. When paing in 
 easy mode, well its easy, but when you progress through the difficulties you can see the a. i be 
 more agressive and don't get of your back. They tend to poke check alot in this game, but thats 
 how the NHL is like. The problem with the a. i is that they usually get goals by going to the back 
 hand and usually getting it five-hole and just like the last couple of games the post will be heard 
 alot. When your playing it can be hard because when your in the offensive zone, it can be hard 
 to pass it around especially to the defence because they are usually too back or either not inthe 
 proper spot, but feel proud of you self wen you get slap shot goal. Dynasty mode wasnt as what it 
 said it would be like, you can't really tell the difference, the only change you can tell is the 
 salary cap, nd controlling the rosters alittle more advanced. When you do win the stanley cup, 
 its alittle short and sometimes one player has more it more times then others. When you compete 
 all 10 years of dynasty you win like a plaque and an acheivment. Theacheivments aren't allthat 
 hard to get, theonly problemis that they have to be done on certain difficulties. You are going 
 to end up having to deal with one your going to have problems with at the end. The soundtrack on 
 NHL 07 is good, they won't make you annoyed. The graphics in this game are exellent, but some faces 
 of some players can look alike, others can freak you out (sidney crosby smiling) , while others are 
 well detailed. The players body shape is really big, sometimes they look fine, other times they 
 can be fat. They movement of skating, passing, deking, hitting and shooting are okay, but need 
 some work. When creating a player it doesn't give you all the features of the past games. You put 
 your information, choose a face, and do your stats. You can't pick your type of helmet, skates, 
 stick, gloves, and cant choose your visor type, you get a visor automatically. The cutscenes isn't 
 all that great, they focus on the goalie too much. Not much the players, and when you do see the 
 players its for a quick second. The most annoying part about it is, its the same cutscene for the 
 goalie mostly everytime. The good thing about this game is that there isnt as much glitches as 
 the other games. With all said NHL is a good game and is more of a buy than a rent. With this just 
 the beginning of th skill stick, NHL 07 is good practice for NHL 08 with new things instore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 11, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  Hockey games have come and gone every year for over a decade now... and the most notable NHL game 
 to date is NHL '94, until now. I always held my head up to NHL '94 as the greatest hockey game 
 ever created... NHL 2K5 came very very close to beating it, but the spark was still missing. 2K 
 has done a great job of building the fundamentals with tons of depth and detail, but visually it's 
 always lagged back a bit. In any case, NHL 07 is the first game in over a decade the catch my heart 
 and not let go. Visually the game is stunning, probably one of the most impressive on Xbox 360... you 
 can actually zoom in on the character jersey's and see every little stitch and detail. The gameplay 
 is mostly solid, with the new skill stick which is the most innovative feature to be added to hockey 
 since one-timers. The goalie's are very reliable and fun to play with/against... a lot of people 
 make complaints about them, but I personally think they're the most realistic and best animated. 
 I would recommend this to anyone who is tired of playing hockey games the same way we've been playing 
 them for the lasy 10 years... the skill stick has changed the way we play NHL games forever.
  
  Pros:
  -Visually stunning, dead on animations
  -Skill Stick completely innovative
  -Feels 
 like the most realistic hockey game ever
  -Fun and fresh
  
  Cons:
  -Defense controls could use a bit of work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazzy8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 8, 2007 2:23 am PT
Review:  EA is best in market for sports. always very good soundtrack. i have 2k7 and its just plain ghetto. 
 EA will just get better every chapter and thier already ahead of the compatition... online kinda 
 sucks cuz of lagg but will get better in furture for its still new to online. great 2 player game 
 or 3,4. this sucks cuz i have to write 100 hundred words for me to post this which makes writing 
 reviews kind of gay should make it it nice and siple for ppl to write reviews. even here i cant 
 post cuz i still dont have 100 words. again very gay but the game is great buy it over 2k7. 2k7 
 has crap music and is very ghetto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottiegUT
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 5, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  The new control style that EA has put into their hockey series has made this game so enjoyable 
 because now when you score a goal you feel so much more responsible than before with already set 
 animations and dekes. The Animations in this game ( especially with goalies ) are the greatest 
 of any hockey game to date. Where 2k may give you great gameplay as well, nothing beats the feel 
 of controling the puck with the new controls in NHL 07. I can't wait to see what 08 brings. Gary 
 Thorne is also back and sounds greater than ever.
  
  My only complaint is the lack of extras but thats what 08 is for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  Whenever I am over at my friends house NHL 07 is pretty much all we play. The game is just as addicting 
 as crack! The new controls are absolutely amazing, and after a few minutes of playing the game, 
 you will feel like you can play it like you have played it for days. This game is absolutely beautiful, 
 the ice shimmers and the character models look amazing. I must say however that the fights are 
 terrible. They look like the guys are umm... well... lets just say it doesnt really look like fighting. 
 I own the Ps2 version of this game, and even though that version is fun as well, this version of 
 course blows it out of the water. The game sounds pretty good too. My only complaint is the lack 
 of EA Trax. If you own a 360 and you are looking for an enjoyable sports game, then do yourself 
 a favor and pick this game up now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwdthunder
Rating: 3.6
Date: May 27, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the most inconsistent EA NHL games I've ever played.
  
  There's so many things that are just plain wrong:
  
  What's Wrong????
  - Not being able to 
 release player in Dynasty mode??? this is the dumbest thing I've come across since I just finished 
 my first full year in this game... not being able to release your players means once you max out 
 your roster you can't free up space for any new players after the entry draft.
  
  - Players don't play positions. if I skate to the corner with a player, there's always another 
 guy following me into the same corner. This puts everyone out of position. Now, there's two of 
 your guys on the puck..... The AI doesn't take into account that I'm doing something, the AI will 
 play their position no matter where you take a user controlled player... this gets very frustrating 
 when your trying to cycle around on the power play and you have a 50-50 chance of someone covering 
 the spot your leaving open.
  
  - Goalies are horrible (sometimes) .. either you have a great 3-2 game or it ends up being 9-8... 
 inconsistent beyond anything I've seen... you'll play a nice tight game and all of the sudden the 
 flood gates open where every shot you take gets juggled by the goalie leading to him kicking into 
 his own net, passing it into his own net. if you dump a puck in and the puck is barely moving toward 
 the goalie, he'll just make a save and leave it sitting there... a real goalie would come out and 
 get the puck, now it's sitting there in the slot.
  
  - No fantasy draft? I would love to be able to start a dynasty career with a fantasy draft.. that 
 way with every player in the league going into a draft you come out with a whole new league to 
 take through a 20 year career.
  
  - glitches during play like missed offside calls, facing off in the wrong zone after an icing call, 
 and getting called for tripping and nothing else is annoying.
  
  So What's Good?
  - The graphics are great
  - The new control method is really nice once you get used to it.
 
  
  But really? for me to buy NHL08, they have to tighten up the goaltending will have to get tightened 
 up in a major way letting the goalies stop pucks, come out and get pucks and play them properly. 
 People complain about how there's not much crowd animations, or pre-game cut scenes. WHO CARES!!! 
 I just want to be able to play a game that feels normal, sure it looks nice.
  
  Focus on making the game work before worrying about the presentation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tombrady1234
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 21, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  NHL 07 is a creative game because of the skill stick. If it wasnt 4 that it would be the same as 
 every other hockey game. The game play is relatively good. my personal favourite is the dodge shootout 
 mode. It really gets 2 show off the skill stick. The controls are easy aswell as the shootin. mostly 
 everythin except aiming is done with the skill stick. sound qaulity is also good on this game. 
 the graphics are good but ive seen better. so basically this is a pretty good sports game. its 
 also really fun playin with a friend in the shootout mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biller88
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Remember when EA decided to overload you with options? You could play a playoff, a tournament, 
 a franchise, a season and play online? Well, thats all gone. Instead, EA decided to focus on getting 
 the game down, and the skill stick was the best thing to happen to nhl games. This skill stick 
 is not like the skill stick in NHL 2004. Instead of it performing special moves on contact, you 
 will actually get to control the stick and the puck, choosing when to snap the puck, or when to 
 slide the puck in between your defenders leg and score that hat trick you've never gotten. The 
 variety of abilities will often have you questioning just what you just did, and will keep you 
 playing for a while.
  Even the Dodge Shootout mode is a blast, as you get to see just how well you can dangle Cam Ward 
 and take home the cup.
  EA makes a big splash with this next gen games, and has NHL fans everywhere wondering what will 
 happen next. 8.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 15, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge hockey nut and I waited for a price drop before I bought it. I love the control and 
 that's what set it apart from other games. The skill stick rocks and I haven't covered everything 
 that it has to offer. In dynasty mode I loaded up my rosters to the point where the Ducks were 
 an all star team. So I expect to win the cup. Anyway this look like a next-gen hockey game and 
 plays like one as well. For one thing there isn't a cheesy turbo button and the game isn't a one 
 timer fest like 2k7. If you're a fan of hockey and are tired of the some old control scheme give 
 this game a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hearnsey
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 15, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  when i played this the very first time i was amazed. graphically this is incredible. sountrack... well 
 its ea sports, they always try to get the big names. the gameplay, all though fun at first is jsut 
 so easy after a while. defence is non-existant. dance around them, do whatever, they might as well 
 not be there. the goalies (even though improved) suck, once you get good at deking its jsut so 
 easy to score. the only thing taht makes you lose sometimes, is your own goalie when you play on 
 superstar difficulty players throw it at the net, and the goalies 60% of the time might as well 
 not be there. almost every goal goes in off the post. i like how the goalies are much more realistic 
 in how they move, but still the AI is terrible EA sports really needs to do something about it. 
 i dont want to say rent it, because you might not find out how easy it is in the short time you 
 ahve it. but i wouldnt say buy it aeaither because its a waste of money. fun to play a few times, 
 dies in the long run. EA needs to work on AI (goalies and defence) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknferno12
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2007 12:56 am PT
Review:  This time EA is heading in the right direction with NHL 07. I've played most of the series of NHL 
 2K, NHL EA and 2K has won everything but this time 07 seems to be giving 2K7 a run for their money. 
 First off (with EA) you have to talk about the graphics which look very nice from players faces 
 to their jerseys and even the net. Other than that almost everything from past NHL EA series has 
 been changed. Now you can control the game game with just the two analog stick. Their is no turbo 
 you'll just see a player push the puck farther ahead. It's not a shoot-out anymore you'll have 
 a hard time scoring on goalies like Luongo or Brodeur and the Goalies saves are great from diving 
 from one side to the other to a huge pad save. The hits are still there and you'll see some big 
 hip check galore, the only thing is it's hard to smash someone into the board or over the bench. 
 The really bad thing is the skating engine on defense (offence it's pretty good) when you switch 
 players you'll pop so you'll be caught flat footed and even though you can now skate backward sometimes 
 your forced to skated backwards which can hurt you. The fights are still good even though it's 
 hard to choose who you want to fight who or know if player one or player two is fighting. The create 
 a player should've been better you can only choose from a few faces, little gear. Commentary is 
 the same which isn't bad because it was good before. It's not that big of a problem but Dekes are 
 automatic when you trying to get around a defender. Finally the Skill stick which is one of the 
 best things to come to NHL games since you have full control and makes this game worth it because 
 it's very realistic when your on a break letting you take control of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick4141109
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 28, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  NHL 2007 is the best NHL game in it's series. The hits, goals, fighting all sound great. Players 
 faces are fairly accurate. ( Hey there are a ton of NHL players so detail is hard) . I'm thrilled 
 that there is a create a player and the faces are more detailed than previous games. It's great 
 to see your favorite stars skating with the new skill stick. Dekes are so much funner and goals 
 look more real. And goalie saves are more advanced. Still fighting can be a little more real and 
 did you notice when they fight they are the exact same height? In overall NHL 2007 is an excellent 
 addition to the NHL family and will be remembered. LETS GO RANGERS!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  In past generations, I have found myself buying less and less sport games. Maybe, its because sport 
 games are becoming to cookie-cut out for me. It could also be the fact that simulation is higher 
 in the priority list as compared to fun or innovation. Hockey has been a sport that I love playing 
 on my consoles. (Actually, I have played sport games on a pc and I absolutely hate it; I can only 
 play sport games on consoles.) Anyways, the past 7 years or so I have found that Sega was begun 
 to recreate the magic they once had in their sega sport games during the genesis era. This small 
 hint of magic was first seen on the Sega Dreamcast; I was completely sold on all fronts when it 
 came to sports: NFL 2k was amazing, NBA 2k was addicting, and NHL was my trophy. Why?? Because 
 I have never met anyone that can beat me in that game. I was the master; undefeated in every exhibition; 
 I mean other than actually playing sports in real life and winning, this was the next highest honor.
 
  
  Now, After playing countless hockey games which includes every 2k and EA game; I found myself wonder 
 when hockey games were going to die seeing how nobody even bothered to improve upon previous formulas. 
 Until NHL 07 which is still overall a bare-bones PS2/Xbox version. There was absolutely no innovation 
 to speak of.
  
  Negatives: Well, the biggest has to be the fact that EA once again delivered a game with hardly 
 any really meat on it. First off, the franchise mode only last 20 years. My question to that is 
 why?? Does EA have a problem with people wanting to advance there franchise past a certain point. 
 I mean come on, who in their right mind thought it was a good idea to limit the franchise mode. 
 I mean the whole purpose of the franchise mode is for the user to take control of the team and 
 completely re-mold them into what they wish; so why limit that potential by having a cut out. I 
 don't understand it and I don't even want to try and understand the reason why EA limited this 
 mode. Another disappointment of the franchise mode is the lack of depth, everything seems dumbed 
 down and the menu system cumbersome. Secondly, other than franchise, online and shootout this game 
 has no other modes. It just feels light and doesn't really provide any value to the overall package. 
 The second biggest problem is the inbalance nature of the game. The offensive side of the puck 
 is nearly perfect; yet the defensive side is no were to be seen. I'm afraid EA only got half this 
 game right. Positives: Well, the previous negatives would be enough for me to say Don't waste your 
 money on this game but there is a catch. What EA lacks in features and depth they make up for in 
 great mechanics and revolutionary controls. First off, the controls have been changed for the better; 
 no face buttons are used during this game. Now wait a second, process that last statement. Think 
 of the 360 controller; now visualize those face buttons, you never touch those suckers. How can 
 this be?? Well, the movement is still on the left stick but the right stick now controls your stick. 
 On offense the player can deke, protect the puck, spin and shoot with the right stick. On defense, 
 player can cross-check and try to knock the puck on the opponents stick. As you could imagine, 
 the bumpers handle switching of characters and poke-checking. What makes this mechanic so awesome 
 is the natural feel you receive while playing this game. During offensive attacks you have nearly 
 perfect control of your characters stick which makes for interesting moves and natural shooting. 
 Graphics and Other stuff
  Once again this poppie adolescent california music sounds like crap; which makes me thankfully 
 that I can listen to my own music during the game with the power of 360. The sound effects are 
 ok, nothing special; the commentary though nicely done, gets boring very quickly which will lead 
 you to hearing your own music after a couple of games. The graphics in my opinion are very nice 
 and really show a huge potential for future sport games from EA. I didn't like the engine they 
 had for the previous generation; this one seems to have a style of its own which gets me totally 
 excited. (I'm totally getting a clue right now!!) In the end, this takes 3 steps forward in innovation 
 and gameplay mechanics but 2 steps back in the overall package. This game is decent but the overall 
 package isn't worth full price. Luckily, I bought this game 10 dollars so; I wonder now why it 
 has taken so long for EA to produce a decent game this generation; I mean they were the kings during 
 the PS2/Xbox/Gamecube era so maybe they have finally fallen off their pedestal!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bighawk911
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 18, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This years EA hockey is innovative. Your right thumb is your stick and left is your skates. It 
 is so addicting that you will want to play franchise mode and unlock all of the achievements. The 
 skill stick takes some time to get used to. That makes the learning curve high but once you figure 
 it out you won't want to play other sports games. I am a Madden addict but as far as a two player 
 sports match up NHL '07 KILLS Madden (this year) . It seems strange that figuring out the skill 
 stick would take so long but one timing, accurate slap shots, and powerful wrist shots all take 
 time to perfect.
  
  Now that the skill stick has hit the shelf I don't feel like hockey games can improve that much. 
 The graphics are incredible on HD, game after game after game can get redundant in season mode. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carterhc
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 14, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  NHL 07 in the past has produced some good games but never a great game for myself. 07 however has 
 increased the anti for this game.
  
  gameplay 7/10
  though the graphics and layout have been improved, the one lacking part of this game is its gameplay. 
 the movementsare smooth and accurate, but the gameplay and speed is outright slow for my taste, 
 even on max speed, it feels more like a march than a run. also the AI is something to work out. 
 the goalies are of AAA calibur letting in the most ridiculous goals. the defense set up is average 
 at best, as a glitch maybe only in my copy, but they always rush up and a breakaway ensues. ive 
 won many games on the hardest level by 7 goals cause of that glitch and lost many gamescause of 
 a wrister from 80feet going in. controls 8/10
  probably the best controls in any hockey game, but still has a big problem for me. the right thumbstick 
 is put to great use offensively, but is really not that great in defense and puck battles. youll 
 be checking a opponent with the thumbstick only later to have control of the puck and shoot it 
 without knowing. though in offense its probably the most accurate and best featureof this game.
 
  
  graphics 8/10
  this is what graphics should look like on the next gen. though its the first hockey game wth the 
 upgraded graphics, it can and probably will be improved in the next installment. the players are 
 sharp and niceto look at.
  
  storyline 6/10
  playing through half a season i was already getting bored of the repetitive and meaningless emails, 
 the season didnt go really into depth and the combination system really didnt add anything for 
 me.
  
  best feature
  the right thumbstick use of OFFENSE
  graphics are of next gen worst feature
  the AI intelligent is lacking harshly
  speed of the 
 game felt like watching the world juniors the rght thumbstick use for defense, felt awkward at 
 best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MSTHEAT1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are spot on and the game play is as good as the Red Wings on a 5 on 3 power play. If you 
 yhink 2k7 is even on parb with 07 then you've obviously been paid by the powers that be. Ask any 
 one who's played both games and they'll tell you why one is still 50.00 and the other is 30.00. 
 Quality over quantity is the secret to the success of NHL 07, AND GOOD HOCKEY GAMES CONTINUE TO 
 RULE !!!! EA may not be the be all and end all to sports games, (see Tiger Woods 07) but they rock 
 the hockey world with new innovative gameplay, awesome graphics, and the bomb as far as play by play 
 goes. Play this game and love hockey, it's as easy as 1,2,3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Canas-
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 4, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  EA, perhaps the most prolific game developing company has earned themselves a bad name for several 
 reasons. Most of those reasons, fortunately, have nothing to do with their sports games, which 
 are usually produced to a... fair standard. Considering all the innovations EA spawned in the Hockey-sim 
 world, this game only seems to add one while subtracting almost every other.
  
  As a completely avid hockey fan, which may have something to do with being Canadian, this game 
 was quite a bit disappointing. I've bought every single NHL title since the original for the Sega 
 Genesis, and as such i've seen the complete transformation EA has made from innovation and fun 
 to how much money can we get in a short period of time, as my yacht won't pay off itself . Back 
 in the late 90's, EA made the switch from 2D sprite hockey to 3D character models. Create-a-player, 
 create-a-team, and tons of little features became a mainstay in the series, and the games improved 
 dramatically year after year. It was only a few years ago that the production value completely 
 plummeted, and the series stripped nearly all of it's features. No more challenging plays, no more 
 cool replays, no more create-a-team, no more Elite Leagues, no more fantasy drafts, no more extensive 
 create-a-player, no more saving replays, no more set-dekes, no more head-to-head mode, no third-jerseys, 
 no classic jerseys, no in-game adjustable player and goalie handicaps, no more Jim Hughson, practically 
 no more anything that they managed to come up with in the last fifteen years. What did EA add? 
 Well, the skill-stick and puck physics, which are certainly long overdue but they don't seem to 
 overshadow the glaring absence of every single game type that made the series what it is. Now, 
 if you want these awesome features, you could simply buy NHL 2K7, but the graphics and gameplay 
 are so terribly unbearable you'll probably end up switching back to 2007 anyways. The actual game 
 of hockey is brilliant, and it's never really been better. Although some of the out-game features 
 were completely removed, the on-ice action is still quite thrilling. Unfortunately, the game is 
 so ridiculously easy on even the hardest difficulty you'll find yourself simulating games just 
 to lose. The graphics are also better than ever, as nearly every player looks like their in-game 
 picture counter-part. Although aesthetics clearly don't make the game, it seems EA's on-ice product 
 is the only thing that saved this game from being a complete disaster. As for the sound, I must 
 say I was a little disappointed with the absence of Jim Hughson, who has become the EA mainstay. 
 Perhaps Jim began to realize that the games were becoming worse and got out of the deal, but more 
 likely EA brought in Gary Thorne in an attempt to appeal to the American masses, and add a little 
 flair. In reality, Gary Thorne's commentary was disastrous to the point that it actually makes 
 you turn it off. A great offensive opportunity seems to be heard almost every other minute, and 
 his bland robotic repetition will make you want to gouge your ears out. The one thing that he did 
 do flawlessly was the flow between words; something that was a major problem earlier in the game 
 series. The in-game sound was bone-crunching and exciting, and made up for Thorne's terrible attempts 
 at commentary. EA managed to put together another decent bit of Indy rock music, however short 
 the track-lists seem to get each year.
  
  The online is somewhat decent, if you ever manage to find a game that isn't littered with terrible 
 lag, and the ability to download rosters became a moot point when EA only released one download 
 back in October.
  
  Overall, NHL 07 is still a satisfying product, despite it's glaring omissions. Those who are fans 
 of the series don't really have much of a choice when it comes to buying it, since the 2K series 
 seems to be a decade behind in graphics and gameplay. The skill-stick is a brilliant innovation 
 that takes the game a lot further than the simple B pass - A shoot scheme, (which for some reason 
 was changed to B shoot, A pass about three games back) . After personally playing tens of different 
 dynasties, I still find much enjoyment in the on-ice product. It's just terribly disappointing 
 that they couldn't put in a bit more effort and add a few features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trifecta2k
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 31, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  This game is excellent. There are some things that I don't like, but most of them can be corrected. 
 First and foremost, why has the right stick all of a sudden become the ultimate weapon for sports 
 games? The right stick is nice, but there is no way it should be the only way you can do anything. 
 That is just stupid. I don't care how many people say it, it is not natural. Plus it is not that 
 effective. I love the deke on the stick, but shooting is simply not effective. Sometimes the puck 
 doesn't come off the stick quick enough and other times you are deking and the puck gets shot. 
 Luckily you can simply change the control settings to the default. I still love deking with the 
 right stick, but I like the buttons for shooting. Sorry to ramble so much about the right stick, 
 but I'm just really, really against it being the end all be all!
  
  The gameplay is excellent. Initially I really hated that they took away the turbo button, but ultimately 
 it made sense and I like it a lot. I do wish there was a short burst of energy that you could use 
 that would just give you a slight umph! I think that would be cool when you were chasing down a 
 puck or if you really wanted to lay someone out. I don't mean like a turbo gauge, but something 
 that you could use once in a while. Make it so it would have to recharge for a while. Anyway, the 
 gameplay feels great. I like how passes get intercepted, the defense poke checks pucks away and 
 the goalies are pretty good also, except they let a lot of stupid pucks slowly slide in. The presentation 
 is excellent also. The graphics are awesome and the play-by-play is way better than 2K. Shootouts 
 are phenemonal. The worse part of the game is the lack of checking. I know checking is there but 
 the hits just don't have any feel to them. I remember when I played 05 that when you hit someone 
 it felt good. There's just not enough POW in the checks. Besides that the game is excellent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kizzle28
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Being a Canadian, I couldn't wait to get the new NHL 07 in my 360 and give it a go. After all, 
 NHL games for Canadians is like Madden for Americans. We gobble it up regardless if the game is 
 good or not. We just love the sport that much.
  
  Prior to playing, I heard all about this new 'skill stick' feature in NHL 07. I was told it would 
 revolutionize hockey games forever. Skeptical, but excited, I tried the innovative skill stick, 
 which is really EA's last big attempt to try and win back players who have migrated over to the 
 much better 2K series of hockey games. Let me tell ya! EA got this thing dead-on. Much like the 
 total punch control in Fight Night, NHL 07 allows your right analog stick act as your hockey stick. 
 You can pull off all sorts of dekes, fakes, and blazing shots to conquer your opponents. It has 
 all the NHL teams, has the right roster updates, has International play (a tournament, lame) , and 
 a basic online system and Dynasty career mode. Overall, NHL 07 plays brilliantly and 2K should 
 take note. This is the new way to play hockey. Pushing a button to shoot is so 1999! The action 
 is that much better because of the skill stick. EA should be rewarded for such a great innovation 
 in hockey games. Although EA's series still outsells 2k's series, 2k hockey games are usually much, 
 much better. But this game closes that gap very fast!
  
  Gameplay
  New skill stick makes hockey feel more vibrant and exciting. A truly next-generation leap in hockey 
 games!
  
  Graphics
  Again, EA did the graphics well, very well. One of the best-looking games on the 360 actually.
 
  
  Sound
  The roaring crowd, the announcers, a puck hitting the post, sounds on the ice - everything is well 
 done.
  
  Value
  This is where NHL takes a hit. Unfortunately, NHL 07 has a very bare-bones career and online mode. 
 You will quickly run out of fun things to do.
  
  Tilt
  I give this a 9. The innovation of the skill stick has to have 2K worries about their next hockey 
 game. 2k better come up with something similar or EA could re-take the title as top hockey game 
 not only critically but in sales. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjf_80
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  Mmm.... as I crushed NHL06 with a really bad review, I gave EA one more shot to impress me.
  
  NHL07 came and I decided to give it a try.
  
  The demo on Xbox Live showed a promising 
 view of the game, so I got the game.
  
  Well....
  First impression gave me a glimpse that maybe EA had got up from the mud to make things better...
 
  
  New shotstick-control..... not bad, I like it. Easy to control and a nice way to score goals. Goalies 
 seem to follow your play and stops pretty much all your good efforts. Realistic - very well done 
 EA - thumbs up!
  
  BUT!
  
  ----- Damn it!!........ I like heavy hitting hockey, the way HOCKEY IS PLAYED!
  And what do you 
 get in NHL07??? - ICE CAPADES, ICE SKATING SHOW WITH HOCKEY STICKS
  
  this isn't a hockey game, this is..... a freakin' ringette game!
  
  Dont read me wrong now!
 
  I like the game, it shows promise as I said.
  
  Goalie AI is way better than before,
  shot-stick control is awesome,
  and the flow of the game is great too
  not bad soundtrack either 
 (just like EA always has)
  
  But the damn hitting...... this is women's hockey, not NHL......
  EA has listened to figure-skaters 
 as advisors for this game, as far as the hitting is concerned....
  
  Summary:
  
  Graphics: Great - EA knows how hockeyplayers look like
  Gameplay: everything EXCEPT THE HITTING 
 (CHECKING) is great
  Sound: awesome, no flaws there
  Value: as it should be, a-ok
  Tilt: Sorry to say, with the bad hitting in the game, the tilt takes a BIG HIT from me...
  
 
  the game is great.... if you like technical hockey with NO HITTING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyr3F0x
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  NHL 07 offers so much more than all the previous EA hockey games had to offer and this game in 
 my opinion completely tops NHL 2K7. Well, first is first, EA has really done it this time in this 
 Hockey game by adding a new feature called Skill Stick. So think for a second, If the Left Stick 
 is to move the players skates and what is the right stick for? Yep, you got it, controll the stick. 
 The game has some sick new dekes and moves and not to mention it has bone crushing hits. NHL 07 
 has only 3 modes which I wish had more but one of the modes, Dynasty is pretty much a season and 
 franchise made into one with a crap load of things to do in 10 years such as finances, trade players, 
 pick up free agents, simulate games etc.... And as a GM in Dynasty you get emails every week including 
 hot streaks and cold streaks, players that have been traded, player picked up and maybe a positive 
 remark or even negative remark coming from a player on your team. The Dodge Shootout mode is amazing. 
 The graphics are max'd out especially for the fact it is a hockey game, the gameplay is nasty counting 
 the fact with the all new skill sitck. Concept is good and so is sound and value is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joceaa8
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 11, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is just ridiculous, the skill stick just messed it all up. The skill stick is something 
 that should be there just to screw around with not to actually bu taken seriously. I got this game 
 and played 2 games. I never played since then i realy hate this game. Every year it's the exact 
 same thing I have NHL 06 on the PC and i played that quite a bit but I just cant get into NHL 07 
 on the Xbox 360. I usually like hockey games but this one just doesn't work for me. The only good 
 thing about this game is the graphics, they are pretty good, the sound not bad, the commentary 
 is annoying after a while as you hear it over and over again. Alot of people like this game so 
 please dont decide not to buy the game just think twice before you spend all that money on it because 
 i realy didn't like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xbox800
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  NHL 07 is possibly the greatest hockey game ever created. It is really easy to learn totally worth 
 every penny of 50 dollars. If you don't own it already or have NHL 2k7 go to the store and buy 
 it today. This is one of my favorite games of all time. GO HOCKEY!!! This game really deserves 
 a 10 out of 10 it is a game that you become so addicted to you can't stop. The new skill stick 
 is what makes the best game because its almost like your shooting the puck instead of having buttons 
 do it for you. I know that I will definitely buy NHL 08 because this is the best game EA SPORTS 
 ever made and I hope next years will be even better. HOCKEY RULES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 50papuse
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Everyone on my dorm floor has their own dynasty and it is so much fun. First 
 NHL 07 then homework. This game is amazing. Everyone on my dorm floor has their own dynasty and 
 it is so much fun. First NHL 07 then homework. This game is amazing. Everyone on my dorm floor 
 has their own dynasty and it is so much fun. First NHL 07 then homework. This game is amazing. 
 Everyone on my dorm floor has their own dynasty and it is so much fun. First NHL 07 then homework. This 
 game is amazing. Everyone on my dorm floor has their own dynasty and it is so much fun. First NHL 
 07 then homework. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toby556
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  NHL 07 for the xBox 360 is a game that will make people that don't like hockey games like them. 
 Makes a whole new world to console hockey games. With the new addition of the skill stick you have 
 complete control over your player and puck, Which makes for some awsome deke's and goalies Also 
 this hockey game has a more realistic feel to it where hits are more real and goals actually have 
 to touch the puck to save it instead of it hitting an invisable wall. The graphics in this game 
 blow away any of the older hockey games even NHL 06 . So what can I say, Keep up the good work 
 EA Games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dups79
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 2, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: For years I have been wishing for a more realistic hockey game. What used to bother me 
 was that the games were too fast. It's not that I could not keep up with the game but I found it 
 interesting that a player could make it from one end of the ice to the other in less than 3 seconds. 
 Being able to one time the puck at 95mph on a backhand while not facing the net. These are a couple 
 of examples of things I used to not like with older hockey games. EA seems to have gotten the right 
 recipe this time around. The players cannot stop on a dime and take off like a bat out of hell. 
 They actually build up steam when skating instead of going from stopped to full speed. You are 
 unable to pass the puck right through two or three players. It'll hit a leg! If you are out of 
 position and try to one time the puck you will either get the shot off but it will not go very 
 fast or you will miss it entirely. Just like it should be. The dump and chase strategy utilized 
 in the NHL can actually be executed correctly. As the defending player cannot just grab the puck 
 and pull off a blistering 100% accurate pass to the player at the middle of the rink. The addition 
 of the skillstick adds an entire new level of play. It is difficult to get accustomed to at first 
 but with continued practice the rewards are well worth it.
  
  One thing they added was when you are skating and you let go of the left thumb stick instead of 
 stopping, like in NHL06, you continue to glide. This is useful but when you are so used to the 
 old way you often end up getting creamed by the defensemen. I find it more difficult to perform 
 a complete stop to trick your opponent as you have to push back now, instead of releasing the left 
 thumb stick, which often causes you to turn instead of stopping.
  
  Graphics: EA has always had good graphics for their hockey games. This one is not leagues of difference 
 from it's previous counterpart but it's still very lovely to look at. The goalie animation and 
 AI is very much improved and it makes it lovely to look at. For example when the puck used to trickle 
 between the goalie's legs he used to get back up and skate backwards into the puck, thus causing 
 the puck to go in the net. However, when this occurs in NHL07 the goalie stays down and attempts 
 to glove down the puck, which is what a goalie would do in real life. This leads to beautiful and 
 realistic replays. I find myself pushing the next button a lot less during replays and I take the 
 time to watch almost all of them. Especially when playing against a friend on Xbox live where you 
 can have a lot of friendly banter between one another.
  
  Sound: The sound is nothing spectacular in NHL07. You have the same area sounds on an infinite 
 loop and it becomes repetitive quite quickly. I was disappointed, once again, with the play by 
 play announcing. There is not much variety of what the announcer says and it seems that every stop 
 the goalie makes was a shot that had goal written all over it despite you flipping it in from center 
 ice. The game play had slowed down to help realism and I thought this would give the programmers 
 the ability to have the play by play be more accurate and easy to keep up with the game play. However, 
 I feel they fell a little short. Someday they will get it right, perhaps in NHL25.
  
  Value: This game, just like any other sports game, has a lot of replay value. You are not always 
 scoring the same way each time. The ability to put real NHL strategies in place because of the 
 game play slow down really adds value to the game. You will certainly get your money's worth because 
 of the amount of hours you will undoubtedly put in. Reviewer's Tilt: EA angers me when they omit 
 things that can easily be put into the game. For example, my friend and I were playing against 
 each other and we went into a shootout. We had a lot of fun and said we should just have a 1 on 
 1 shootout. Of course EA did not implement this into it's game!! Why not? You obviously have the 
 ability to do it, I just finished having a shootout with my friend. Same goes for cooperative playing. 
 I can play against a friend but not on the same team!! WHY NOT!? For the love of god please listen 
 to your fans and add the ability to play a season together on the same team or even as different 
 teams. With Xbox live there is no reason why EA cannot pull this off. This is a serious enough 
 issue that if NHL08 does not have these options I can say that I am for sure not buying it's next 
 installment. The reason most people buy sports games is to play with friends. Not alone against 
 the computer no matter how good the AI is in the game. Overall the game is great fun but it just 
 leaves a sour taste in your mouth because of the omission of certain modes that would cause them 
 maybe 1 week of development. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eplagge
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  I keep reading how bare this version is, as a beginner I like the fact you can somewhat jump in 
 and get a feel for it. The right stick control is fantastic and as I play this game more and more 
 it keeps growing on me... the only feature I would like to see is an automation feature for all 
 the trading and funds in the game... Some people would just like a min. amount of logistics and 
 just play the game without having to go in and adjust stuff.. I do however plan to get into that 
 aspect of the game later on when I feel more comfortable with the main game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnathug
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  NHL 07 marks the first time EA is porting their franchise over to next gen and while it is fun 
 and addictive it still needs improvements.
  
  NHL has seem to be around for as long as consoles has been in the hands of gamers, it's a title 
 that comes out every year and tries to get the consumer to buy because it has the lastest rosters 
 and the lastest features. NHL's gameplay to me was getting a little try, this year they bring in 
 the Skill Stick , now, this feature alone will make you play over and over again. It makes the 
 game feel real, I mean skating down the ice and decking out the defence and then fake to the left 
 and bring it back to go top self. Now that's a play and before this game I haven't put together 
 plays like this. I played the game on classic but using the Skill stick for shooting I couldn't 
 get used to the pass on the shoulder button too used to A . This game lacks in the hitting deparment 
 that's not to say that you can't just pound someone because you can, but other times just feel 
 weird, player still makes the pass even though I checked him, while it is frustrating it just makes 
 u pick another way. I wish EA would look to 2K Games for their checking system, 2K has a system 
 where you can either give a normal check or an aggressive one but in doing so you also had a chance 
 of being sent to the penalty box (while 07 has slash but i always get caught and the puck is never 
 turned over) . I find it hard to get the puck away with a check and instead you should use poke 
 checks. Minor problems becuse the game can still be played to death.
  
  Graphics are amazing in full HD. You can pick out your favorites as their getting on the ice or 
 celebrating the win after the match is over. Zoom in on replay and see the logo on the puck, the 
 names on the sticks and jerseys in full motion.
  
  Sound is good, checks with slap shots and the commentary. While there is a good commentary, it 
 doesn't take long until you hear them saying the same words. There's a feature where you can turn 
 off commentary and just listen to the ice. Hearing the players yell for the puck and for a shot 
 is nice but I like commentary better.
  
  Online is good but needs a lot of work. I mean in the last generation we had a online season, tournaments 
 galore and rosters and here we are with only, Ranked and Unranked are we traveling back in time? 
 While these are easy to go into, finding a person to play is another thing. The process goes like 
 this: Click ranked matches, click quick match, before going into the room you have to download 
 the roster (every single time you play a game online) , and by the time I get in the room, user has 
 left room and I have to start it all over again. This doesn't work and it has stoped me from playing 
 multiple games online.
  
  Achievements in this game are more offline than on. That's a surprise but i guess their not betting 
 on online now. 07 rewards you for beating A. I on all levels and also performing different goals, 
 example Score 2 goals on the Powerplay with the same player in Pro Mode . These will take time 
 and are prett hard to get.
  
  As the fist time on a next gen console this game rocks. I find myself with friends just playing 
 hours of this game. If you are a hockey fan then you shouldn't look any further and if you're not 
 you should give this a try it might change you mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Saint
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 12, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is addicting once you get the hang of the controls. And although it doesn't offer much 
 it's still easily the best hockey game you'll play all year. I think it easily takes NHL 2K7 in 
 the Graphics category but not so much in the Gameplay category. I think the Skill Stick is the 
 impressive new feature that EA Sports has given us in NHL 07. Full control of the shot really gives 
 you a wide selection of possible shots and deeks. So there is my review for NHL 07. In my opinion 
 its the best looking hockey game out there right now. Go try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentbtbk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Well I can agree with most guys around here, this game is pretty awsome made and def. best in series!
 
  
  I want to be honest and make it short:
  
  My target is: I WANT GOD DAMNED IT THE NEW SABRES LOGO IN THE GAME!!!
  
  I don't know what 
 fu*** problem EA has, to update this great game with the NEW SABRES LOGO?!?
  
  COME ON GUYS, that SUCKS BIG TIME!
  
  I HOPE YOU WILL AND CAN CHANGE YOUR MINDS about that
 
  
  Go Sabres Go! Go Sabres Go! Go Sabres Go! Go Sabres Go! Go Sabres Go! Go Sabres Go! Go Sabres Go! 
 Go Sabres Go! Go Sabres Go! Go Sabres Go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Playa_69_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  its awesome and the skillstick is crazy. lol i know im lazy to type everything but yeahhhhhhhh 
 lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala 
 lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala 
 lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala 
 lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala 
 lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala 
 lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala 
 lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala 
 lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala 
 lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala 
 lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala 
 lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala 
 lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala 
 lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala 
 lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala 
 lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala lala v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budchevolet
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 31, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  It's best to tweak all your options until you are satisfied with game play, although, right out 
 of the box this game is hard to beat! For me, it defeats 2k7 flat out. I have many games for the 
 360, but I always go back to NHL07 for the most entertainment.
  In the beginning, I was getting far to many AI breakaways, until I learned (with the help of a 
 few of my fellow GAMESPOT profilers) how to play a more realistic brand of hockey. This game is 
 meant to be played with a genuine NHL style.
  With the use of the new SKILL STICK, the Dodge Shootout play is down right awesome. The SKILL STICK 
 can be used in conjunction with other options such as VISION CONTROL for sick player moves and 
 skating ability while performing unforgettable shots on net! I recommend this game simply on those 
 reasons alone.
  When deciding on which hockey game to buy, remember these two words: SKILL STICK!!
  Great job 
 EA!
  
  - budchevrolet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightsaber8972
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 31, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Unbelievible graphics.
  With its 2 main seasons, NHL 07 is one of the most addictive games i have ever played.
  
  In 
 the Dynasty Mode, you play through ten years with one of the 30 teams as a General Manager, Coach, 
 and all players. As a general manager, you sign the free agents as well as trade players. You need 
 to take good care -- by giving upgrades, taking control of th finances of the team including the 
 players contracts, and getting a good team of youngsters by scouting -- for your team for the team 
 to proceed on in the year.
  As a coach, you set up your lines and give the teams the jersey numbers you like as well a set 
 captains.
  
  In the World Tournament, you can play as 1-16 different teams. Austria, Belarus, CANADA, Czech 
 Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Great Britain, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Norway, 
 Poland, Russia, Slovakia, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine and U. S. A You can play as the Coach and 
 the players. The coaching options are the same in Dynasty mode.
  
  With the Skill Stick you use the left thumbstick to use your skates and the right thumbstick as 
 your arms. Very realistic!
  
  Then there is the classic shootout to practice.
  
  Good luck and have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hodgson17
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 27, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game ever ,way better than 2k7 .The skill stick feels real when you shoot. The 
 dynasty mode gives u a choice of playing with or with out the salary cap. It is really easy to 
 learn and a great multiplayer game. The shoot out is awesome, andi don't know why they didn't rate 
 this at least a 9.0. it is defantly not a 8.2 game more like a 9.6 game. You rock NHL 07!! ya ya 
 ya bravo bravo hurray hurray boom chica wow wow gota sevy haytoy vasfertyopihey why don't you go 
 to the blue chicken antiques store so wasa decaf moca
  
  From tanner and tyler 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramansingh3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  The game is great from the revolutionary shot stick to the dynasty mode its great. Not much to 
 pull it down, but EA has to get more involved on Xbox live like it does with Madden. This has been 
 a problem for a while not that many roster updates maybe two for the season. EA should incoperat 
 allstar events like it does with the NBA live series. Include the fastest skater, hardest shot, 
 target shooting, shoot out competition, and the 3 man shoot out. I recommend this game, but EA 
 should improve this next year. EA nice cover player for NHL maybe think about that next year for 
 NBA live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  ==========
  IMPRESSIVE: Skill stick is something to show off about // Achievements ========== range from prgressive 
 to downright difficult // Great Graphics
  
  ============
  NEEDS WORK: Games can be a bit too cumbersome and fast
  ============
  
  For the past few 
 years, videogame hockey has had EA Sports as its face, but the 2K series has really been the soul 
 (read: where the gameplay is at) . Many of EAs recent hockey efforts have failed to hit the mark 
 because the games in question never played like real hockey. EA Sports post-2000 era games have 
 always delivered quality presentation (visually and aurally) , as well as great features and modes, 
 but the simulation aspects of hockey never felt right. But theres always time to innovate, and 
 EA Sports has done so in a way thats so basic in principle, yet it manages to change the way someone 
 plays (and even thinks) about videogame hockey. 2K still has a good engine, but EA has definitely 
 dropped the gloves and shown that theres plenty of innovation left for this great sport. In looking 
 at how they wanted to change their hockey title, EA Sports clearly saw the proliferation of one-timer 
 gameplay in both their own as well as their competitors products. Until now, most goals in hockey 
 games were scored by one-timers or by abusing certain exploits or deke moves that make the goalie 
 fall over, get unfairly out of position, etc. Sure, the odd bit of net crashing would result in 
 some goals, and you could always score on some slapshots, but everything just kind of sifted down 
 to those one-timers. 2K Sports games certainly rely on one-timers for the bulk of their goals, 
 but to their credit, the passing system is so good in that series that it almost guarantees that 
 result. But what EA has managed to do is to simply remove the face buttons from the equation. By 
 removing the digital nature of shooting and passing, offensive tactics take on a whole new look. 
 Essentially, the left thumbstick moves your player as always, but the right stick will now handle 
 dekes, wrist shots, slap shots, pass aiming, dump ins, spin-o-ramas and just about everything else 
 to do with a players stick. By using the right analog stick for this, as well as the analog right 
 trigger for actually passing the puck (and switching players) , the flow and pace of EAs game changes 
 quite dramatically. Now you can protect the puck while looking for the optimal receiver or you 
 can direct your passes more specifically and realistically. Shots can be taken by snapping the 
 right stick forward (or pulling back and then forward for a slapper) , with player skill and ice 
 position also factoring into accuracy and power. You can even execute toe drags and spin moves 
 by rolling the stick slightly back to each side (think of Fight Night 3s uppercuts, etc.) , and 
 this is great for breakaways, 1-on-1 situations, and shootouts. In fact, a big part of this control 
 change was to benefit the shooter-goalie showdown within a hockey game. Now these duels plays out 
 beautifully, as the shooter has so many moves contained all within his right thumbstick. Theres 
 no need fumble with some button and the right stick to awkwardly deke and then mash the X button 
 to throw in some shot; this can all be done gracefully and realistically by manipulating the right 
 stick in order to pull off triple dekes, cute backhands through the five-hole or even some last-minute 
 pull backs. The fact that the goalies now animate really well helps these moments, as the netminders 
 will properly position themselves and not go down as early as has been seen before. A big reason 
 for this improved goaltending style is because Alex Auld (of the Florida Panthers) did the mo-cap 
 animation. Aulds stand-up style and great positioning reflect in how the goalies in NHL 07 move 
 laterally, as well as how they handle the puck in the crease. But the Skill Stick , as EA has called 
 it, does really make such an impact on the game. It honestly takes a while to get used to, but 
 it gets quite familiar after some invested time, and it may even become your preference once the 
 intricacies of the system reveal themselves (you can still use the button controls, if you like) . 
 The innovation almost seems inspired by past EA Sports hockey games, in particular NHL 94 and 
 NHL 96. Both games featured impressive deke controls for their time, and there was a certain elegance 
 to the simplicity in the way the shooters controlled  much of the same can be said for what has 
 been done here for NHL 07. The passing itself fares reasonably well, but you may find yourself 
 a little perplexed (even after a while) having to switch players with the right trigger. The passes 
 can still be saucer style if you hold the trigger down longer, and the pass strength and accuracy 
 will depend on skill and positioning. Some frustration does occur when selecting whom to pass to, 
 as EA still uses little diamonds above the player heads to indicate who will receive the puck. 
 Skilled players may find that they are often a bit too quick for the game, as it doesnt register 
 a change in the desired passer as youve already hit the button. Instances like these can result 
 in some annoying icings and offsides, but it does help with the realism of the game, if nothing 
 else. In terms of that elusive realism, most of the rest of the game does quite a good job of creating 
 a simulation experience thats worth getting behind. The Skill Stick does its share to enhance 
 this, but the simulation feel also comes from the accurate number of penalties, missed or posted 
 shots, and the lack of a speed boost. EA actually decided to remove the speed burst, and this actually 
 works quite well. Your player will speed up, but this will be automated; he will skate harder when 
 he has open ice in front of him. This may annoy some players who are used to what 2K has offered 
 (and EA, previously) , but this change is actually for the better and greatly adds to the pacing 
 and feel. No longer will someone have ACME rocket-powered skates to power their breakaway  they 
 will have to earn it. The variance in goal types is enhanced by all of the aforementioned changes. 
 Youll be able to score one-timers if youre good, but youll see plenty of goals that are beautiful 
 dekes or nice five-hole shots. There will be slapshots and wristers as well, but there will also 
 be plenty of rebounds and garbage goals. There are a few stinkers to be found where the goalie 
 hits it in his own net or juggles it in (in a fairly unrealistic way) , but these goals still manage 
 to give the game a much more raw feel than previous EA efforts. EA has said that the puck actually 
 moves independently now and is not tied down to some sort of animation system; in other words, 
 you wont see the puck magnetize to a goalies pad or end up in his trapper when it had no business 
 being there. Honestly, the way the goals are scored in this game is quite refreshing. If theres 
 one rough spot for NHL 07s game, its in the defence. Hitting is actually handled by using the 
 right stick as well, but this still could use some love for next year and beyond. Youll certainly 
 line up some fools for some hard hits, but the timing of it still seems too assisted and doesnt 
 give enough control when compared to the freedom of motion in the Skill Stick. Poke checks can 
 be executed by pressing the right bumper, and you can dive/shot block as well, but each of these 
 moves is a bit hit or miss. The shot blocking actually works pretty well, but sometimes a player 
 is wallowing on the ice and just impeding a guy but not getting a penalty (this wouldnt happen) . 
 The poke checking works occasionally, but something akin to 2Ks stick sweeping might be better 
 in the future. The defence is functional, if nothing else, but you can tell it didnt really get 
 much love from the developers. Oh, and fighting, it pretty much doesnt exist in hockey these days, 
 and that pretty much reflects its status in NHL 07. If youre lucky enough to have one take place, 
 youll be able to bop your foe with the right thumbstick (kind of like Fight Night 3) , but these 
 tussles are usually over before they get started. The CPU does a pretty respectable job of matching 
 up against you in NHL 07, and youll be able to find some good challenges at the higher difficulty 
 settings. Scores will be appropriately low when you play harder competition, and youll likely 
 have to mix up your attacks in order to have any measure of success. In general, the AI isnt as 
 passive on defence as in previous years, and they will be reasonably adept at using the Skill Stick 
 when going in on your goalie. This entry isnt as feature-rich as some of the previous EA hockey 
 offerings, and youll notice this when booting up the game. There are the basic exhibition variants, 
 as well as the Dodge Shootout (thanks for that lame ad, EA) , Dynasty mode, and a world tournament 
 mode. The shootout works the same as the current NHL variant (three shooters) , and this really 
 does a good job of showcasing the games good looks and great shot control. The Dynasty mode will 
 likely get the majority of your single-player playtime, and it does a fairly good job of getting 
 you invested into your team, but also into the machination of being the GM/coach. You can do the 
 usual things like managing your lines, bringing up farm hands, and changing strategies, but you 
 also have to do the GM tasks of signing free agents, deciding on one or two-way deals, and also 
 haggling with the recently added NHL salary cap. There are some odd issues here and there in the 
 Dynasty, including one problem where you can sign free agents and not have it affect your cap properly, 
 but the mode generally encapsulates all you would expect for something like this. The interface 
 is fairly standard for the Dynasty mode, but the calendar system and notifications work reasonably 
 well. Online offerings are also present for NHL 07, but not in the fully featured way that 2K Sports 
 has provided. You wont find any leagues or custom tournaments, but you will be able to track your 
 stats throughout your online career and compare them via online leaderboards. The games online 
 play fairly smooth, and they are  more or less  comparable to the ones found with 2K (that is 
 to say, generally lag free) . There will be some connection issues now and again (and that same, 
 stupid faceoff reset glitch) , but most opponents should prove for smooth competition. The lack 
 of leagues hurts somewhat, but its also very puzzling as to why the heavily touted Dodge Shootout 
 wasnt included as a stand-alone mode for online  youd think EA Sports would want that to be 
 something for people to get into, especially with the Skill Stick working so well. Everything is 
 almost always presented well in EA hockey games, and NHL 07 is no exception. The player models 
 looks incredibly lifelike and they move well, and the faces are some of the best yet. The cloth 
 on the jerseys and the sheen on the helmets really bring home the detail, and the ice surface looks 
 fantastic (watch those replays) . The animations are quite good, though some variance in the hit 
 animations wouldve been nice. As said earlier, the goalies animate extremely well, and its nice 
 to finally see goalies that make the proper save/move in the right situations. The crowds are well 
 detailed, as are the arenas they populate. This is an area that the high-definition visuals of 
 the Xbox 360 really help, as youll get a great sense of scope and raucousness from the throngs 
 on hand. The framerate isnt perfect, but its hardly anything to get bent out of shape about, 
 especially since the pacing is actually much more simulation than 2K now  didnt expect to say 
 that anytime soon. The audio follows suit with some excellent material. The play-by-play is uniformly 
 good from ESPNs Gary Thorne and Bill Clement, and the duo manages to keep the action interesting 
 with their quips and comments. These two were always good in the 2K series, and theyre used properly, 
 here. The crowds sound fantastic  once again  and they deliver such atmosphere late in the game 
 that you cant help but get excited. Just listen to how the crowd reacts late in the game or when 
 your team is not playing well  its almost perfect. The effects do a great job as well, with posts, 
 boards, pad saves, and arena-specific horns being standouts. Theres a smattering of arena music 
 throughout the game, and this is generated by the usual selection of EA hockey rock. As for Xbox 
 360 achievements, youll find a pretty good mix for NHL 07. Theres the usual stuff like scoring 
 hat tricks, wining 10 games in a row, and hoisting Lord Stanleys mug, but youll also be rewarded 
 for winning the various season trophies, playing in online matches, and winning a shootout while 
 only using two shooters. None of the achievements are staggeringly hard, but many will require 
 some substantial time. Based on the merits of the Skill Stick alone, EA Sports NHL 07 is worth 
 checking out. Sure, the defensive side of the game could use some work next year, and the online 
 offerings should also be much more robust, but the people in EAs Canadian studios have finally 
 crafted a game that harkens back to what they did so well for many years in the 90s. If you want 
 a game that innovates and plays true to the sport, you wont go wrong with NHL 07. Even though 
 the feature set doesnt provide all that some purists may want (ala many recent EA Sports titles) , 
 the innovation of the Skill Stick makes NHL 07 worth trying for anyone who is a fan of the sport. 
 Not only does the Skill Stick help you feel a level of control and immersion not seen in other 
 hockey games, but the presentation also helps convey a great sense of atmosphere that brings EA 
 back towards its simulation roots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_flog
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 13, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  NHL 07 a good but not great game. Sure it had the great new control set but other than that..... 
 well there wasn't much. I personally enjoyed the new controls even if for the first few games it 
 was getting on my nerves. The game was very innovative but still left out features that were around 
 even in 2002 like a create a team feature. Now that feature isn't very hard and i Enjoy making 
 a team to pwn all teams but thats personal bias.. but it is a very rudimentary feature that is 
 being left out of next-gen games so far. NHL 07 also didn't have a easy playoff feature. It did 
 have a international tournament but it didn't have an NHL playoff and for people who don't wan 
 to play through the entire season that could be 15 to 20 min of simming just to hope your team 
 makes the playoffs. So NHL 07 is worth renting and playing for a while. But, if you're not a big 
 hockey fan it doesn't have a good replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevy830
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 8, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  The new controls were tough for me to get used to because I had played so much NHL 06, but the 
 more comfortable I get with the controls the happier I am with the changes. If you like hockey 
 then there is really no reason not to get this game. If you are unsure, then simply rent it first. 
 I love the new realism with the presentation and goalies. The physics of the puck are unlike any 
 hockey game I have ever played add to the realism. NHL 07 brings together an excellent presentation, 
 unbelievable graphics, and great fun and intensity into one package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironpej
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This year I spoiled myself by getting NHL 07 on my PSP, PC, and on the XBOX 360. You could say 
 I was suffering from multiple personalities and couldn't decide which platform I wanted to play 
 on. By far, NHL 07 is one of the better versions from this franchise in a long time. I haven't 
 had this much fun playing hockey since the 03 version. If you're looking for a good hockey game, 
 you can't beat the EA Sports version. After playing this on the PC and PSP, I am somewhat disappointed 
 by the XBOX version. It's missing some of the capabilities from the other platforms, such as the 
 ability to create your own team. Both the PC and PSP have this feature. Gameplay is also slower 
 compared to the other versions. While you can modify the tempo of the game, it lacks the excitement 
 of the other versions. Player size is proportionately whacked compared to the ice (players look 
 very small on a very large ice surface) and puck possession is somewhat difficult to determine. 
 Player movement and control is much better on the PC and even on the PSP (in fact, the PSP version 
 is quite good and a lot of fun) . The camera angles, while the same across all platforms, is not 
 as good on the XBOX - i. e. Ice is right down on the surface with the other platforms, but with 
 the XBOX it is not quite at ice level.
  
  Specific to the XBOX is the control stick feature. Basically the right thumb acts as your stick 
 while the left thumb is your skates. If your an experienced EA Sports NHL'er it takes a bit to 
 get used too, though practicing in shootout mode is a lot of fun, but for new comers this is quite 
 easy to grasp. You do have a bit more control of the puck and can do some great dekes and spins. 
 There is no deke key so players will need to master this in order to perform spins and out play 
 their opponents. AI is good and in the Superstar difficulty the CPU gives you a tough game.
  
  If your looking for a good hockey game this season and your only gaming platform is an XBOX, 
 then you may want to rent both NHL 07 and 2K7 and decide on which one suites your fancy. My 2cents. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipzor
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  As for every EA game I've played, they all sucked, every single one of them without a dought. But 
 this game seems fun to play, afterall it is inovative with the controls and the AI right? Wrong, 
 wrong! This game is just plain bad.
  
  Gameplay: The skill stick absolutely ruined this game among the AI of your team and everything 
 else. What would be so wrong if you could shoot the puck with one of the four buttons, it was done 
 before and that worked. But it is all too tedious to take one single shot on a net let alone take 
 a wrist shot. But the truly alarming thing is the broken AI, when you rush the their net, you stall 
 until they get there. But if the other team is on your side, you will be the only one there to 
 stop three people, and that happens alot since every team has a horrible defense.
  
  Sound: I cannot stand listenning to the players on the ice, the music and the loading music. Horrifying. 
 Even the music they selected is bad as usual.
  
  Graphics: Meh, does it matter, you'll be to busy trying to shoot the damn puck and stop an entire 
 team from easily scoring on your net. But it isn't that good either way, for next-gen graphics 
 and all.
  
  Value: Too much money for this piece of crap.
  
  That's all I have to say, I only played 5 hours of this crap so I cannot know enough about the 
 modes. The expectations of EA alright, buy Madden that ones good for an EA game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avs_alltheway1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  the game is really nice! the graphic are amazing (the goalie are realistic) . I never seen a hockey 
 game with so much detail on goalie, im a goalie and I was really mad of the unrealistic goalie, 
 they were like robot.... in the 07 the goalie are 100% better than last years. the players are so 
 nice too! we see some little details on every players and that makes the player so incredible!
 
  
  The gameplay is the thing that all people are saying ''It's the worst thing in the game'', ''It 
 makes the game looking horrible!'' and i was thinking that its true but, the gameplay isn't that 
 much bad, i mean u have the salary cap, the statistic is looking good, u have minor league and waivers. 
 so it isn't bad. one thing on the gameplay is really not good is the shot on the game. don't u 
 ever see that the comp have like 40 shot on the screen but on the statistic, your goalie have like 
 28 shot against. that was the same thing last year but, i don't thing they saw that. like I said 
 its not looking horrible in the gameplay (not like the goalie in 2k) .
  
  Maybe its the only thing I don't like in the game, it's sound... the music is really bad. I was 
 thinking that they put the same song everytime put it's just because they have just bad songs. 
 so it's a thing to change next year.
  
  Now, let's talk about the skill stick! what an amazing idea! i really like that thing! it's genius! 
 all the deke u can do are incredible! it took me just about 30 minute to learn the curve wasn't 
 that hard. after learning the curve, I just enjoy the skill stick and play for hours. we can score 
 goals without one timers! its a thing that they finally put in nhl, goal with shot. that's kind 
 weird because, i was doing one timers when i was playing for the first time and didn't score a 
 lot. after, i adjust my play and i stop doing one timer only and i did some nice plays.
  
  in conclusion, the game is really nice and everyone loving hockey will enjoy playing nhl 07! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yeawen
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  Every year it seems there is one sports game that comes along that you keep going back to, even 
 as new games come out. This year that game is NHL 07. But this year, the added difference is I've 
 held off on buying FIFA, NBA and NFL games because I'm so engrossed in this one. Hockey is especially 
 suited to this role because games take about half the time of football. XBox Live matches up games 
 with surprising and welcome alacrity.
  
  The skill stick is truly revolutionary - gone are the days of pushing buttons with no real control 
 of the outcome, hello to the days of true real player control.
  
  The only flaw is that the AI tends to let in a number of cheap goals. It gets frustrating sometimes 
 when your goalie takes 3 shots off the shoulder in one period and lets them all spiral over him 
 into the net.
  
  The achievements seem fair but balanced - I've finally achieved almost all of the non-dynasty achievements 
 just shutting out the AI on superstar last night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Doom212
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about NHL '07. Well, for one thing it's new Skill Stick , changes the way people 
 will look at hockey games in the future. The game it self has wonderful graphics, and it's gameplay 
 is amazing.
  
  Gameplay- The new Skill Stick really makes the game new and fun ( eg moving the right analog stick 
 up , makes you're player do a quick wrist shot) . Something this new has not happned to a hockey 
 game since NHL '93. It works really good, and makes plays even easier. Once you score a goal, you'll 
 be addicted. The frame rate can be slow, but it can be coped with. Dynasty has not been changed 
 much, but it is fun. Online is probably '07's weakest point. While 2K7 offered much options to 
 choose from, 07 has a limited Player VS Player ............ and nothing much else. Also note that 
 on online, you will get alot of lag, and it could screw up you're game. Achivements fit in well, 
 some of them being pretty challenging, but most of them you could get through in two days.
  
  Graphics- This is one of NHL '07's most strongest points. The players look very realistic , 
 and the ice texture is great. Nuff said here, it's awseome!!!
  
  Sound- This is also great. From the crowd cheering ,to the *crunch* of a nice check, sound is well 
 done here. There is also a very nice soundtrack with some good bands like Mobile.
  
  In the end, EA Sports have done it again. They proved they can still make hockey games, and that 
 2K sports isn't the boss any more. This is a must have for hockey fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashietaka
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 26, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  I just got this game and I love it. It looks amazing for one, the only slow down you'll ever see 
 is from a cut scene maybe, but very rarly you'll see that. The skill stick is just awesome, it's 
 tuff to pull off well, but when you make a goal with it, OMG! Dude, it feels so great. It makes 
 me jump up in excitment almost every time. This game is great with other people also. I actually 
 play better with my friend when we play as a team. I think hocky fans should check this one out, 
 I haven't bought a hocky game since NHL 01 for ps2, and 07 is a change, but a good one. GO OUT 
 AND BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Powerhitter0418
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 16, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  NHL 07 for the Xbox 360 is a great game for any hockey fan that enjoys a realistic experience. 
 NHL 07 has an awesome new feature called the Skill Stick where you can control your sticks actions 
 with the right analog stick. I have played EA's NHL series for what seems like forever and fans 
 of the series will have to adjust to this new feature, but once you get a hang of it you won't 
 want to go back to the old control's. This game is reuniting ESPN's old partnership of Gary Thorne 
 and Bill Clemente as the games announcers and this brings a very genuine feeling to the gameplay 
 because they have great chemistry when they work together. The graphics in NHL 07 are fantastic 
 you can see everything from the hair swaying under a players helmet to the sweat dripping down 
 the players face and this year EA has added a new system for the puck that gives the puck its own 
 movement not controlled movement like in the past games. This means that you will have deflection 
 goals and bounces of the puck while playing. The dynasty mode is one of the deepest in a hockey 
 game that I have seen with realistic salary caps and team chemistry that will effect your team's 
 play on the ice. I did feel however that EA could of added a few mini-games to the mix besides 
 the shootout which is very fun and addicting to play. I feel like that is the only place where 
 NHL 2K7 beat NHL 07, but overall this game is one of the best sports games ever to hit the shelves. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quagmire555
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  .positives: new stick control option allows for awesome, and total control over player by acting 
 like the right thumbstick is your stick. Greta hockey sounds and expereince make it sound like 
 your at a hockey game. Great online play. Very long and challenging Dynasty Mode.
  
  negatives: Way too many easy goals given up by goalies. No speed burst button get's on your nerves.
 
  
  Hockey is back and better than ever. NHL 07 offers an amzing hockey experience that for the first 
 time, might outplay it's counter part NHL 2k7. With solid gameplay and gamemodes, this game will 
 keep you entertained for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakeguiney
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 11, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  NHL 07 is the best hockey game EA Sports has delivered in a long time. Its Innovative method using 
 total joystick control just blows its competition out of the water. Its lack of modes is compensated 
 for with the amazing graphics, sound and gameplay.
  The sound of skating, the loud ringing sound of the puck dinging off the post are just some of 
 the great audio effects delivered to us from the world of EA Sports. Although the audio commentary 
 gets boring and repetitive after the first few games and the Audio track is a slight disappointment, 
 certainly the game is not dragged down by these features. The visuals in the game are stunning 
 and the best yet graphics included in a sport game Ive seen to date. They are simply amazing 
 period.
  The learning curve for NHL 07 is quite steep yet they have included the option of switching to 
 classic controls. The new control system is what the game is about. Every deke, every pass, every 
 shot, every goal you create give you a whole new feeling to the game of hockey. Everything you 
 do gives you a feeling in which you want to just stand up and shout out for glory yet every goal 
 tallied against you, you just want to curse at the TV and get up and stamp your feet. It really 
 brings emotion to the game.
  The fighting system is poorly done and not at all exciting yet it still is fun to pick the odd 
 fight with the league tough guy in hopes of winning and walking away with bragging rights.
  The Dynasty mode has included everything from salary caps to specific area scouting. The new shoot-out 
 mode is not only fun but it really sets the bar for showcasing the games intuitive gameplay. The 
 additional world tournament mode is a nice addition with a great assortment of international teams 
 and an international arena.
  The physics in this game are great, yet your either gonna love them or hate them for the fact of 
 the odd bounce that manages to find the back of your net, which leaves your scratching your head 
 going How did that happen?
  Overall this game is addictive, underrated and the best game of hockey to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robosushi
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  I own both the NHL07 and the NHL2K7 games... and Ill keep this short. I only own the NHL07 game 
 for one thing, the shootouts. Once in a while, Ill have my friends over and we'll play some rounds 
 of shootout hockey. Its fantastic. However, if I want to play a full game of hockey, I take this 
 disk out and slip in NHL2K7. After looking at those beautiful graphics on the shootout, the graphics 
 in the regular game are so so. The frame rate is horrible. And Im not even going to go into the 
 game play. Ugly. Forget passing, forget checking, forget good strategy. Its an ugly game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSXSayian
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Well what does EA have to say for themselves. For some this is the best game ever and for some 
 this plain just blows ass. First of al what was EA thinking. I believe the definition of video 
 games is to immerse yourself into a different realm to escape reality. Well they did just opposite. 
 They actually made it so it's like real life. They made the right stick act as a stick like pushing 
 back then forth for a slap shot or curving right then up for a wrist shot. Well for the goods, 
 it does have Ovechkin and Crosby and has very realistic graphics. Well your playing nhl for the 
 reason for rosters then go buy it but if its just for playing hockey then get off your lazy ass 
 and go outsider and play it cause it's not worth the $60 if your using it for that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrizzlyB14
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Everyone on my dorm floor has their own dynasty and it is so much fun. First 
 NHL 07 then homework. This game is amazing. Everyone on my dorm floor has their own dynasty and 
 it is so much fun. First NHL 07 then homework. This game is amazing. Everyone on my dorm floor 
 has their own dynasty and it is so much fun. First NHL 07 then homework. This game is amazing. 
 Everyone on my dorm floor has their own dynasty and it is so much fun. First NHL 07 then homework. This 
 game is amazing. Everyone on my dorm floor has their own dynasty and it is so much fun. First NHL 
 07 then homework. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerminalEcho
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 1, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I'll break this down point by point like normal.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are great, and easily surpass the X-Box and PS2 versions. The player models 
 look great, and the arena's look better. The ice is nice and crisp, and the new grooves the players 
 carve on the ice is also nice. Player faces are also great, but look noticably better in HD.
  
  Gameplay: The new skill stick puts you right in the middle of the action, and break aways have 
 never been so great as they are now. It's hard to keep from giggling when you get that open run 
 at the goalie, as you can now chose how you want to beat him. Aside from that, the game runs well, 
 and hits are also very cool, and usually line up perfectly making for a great appearance during 
 fast-paced play. The thing I love the best is the new goalie movements. Great motion-caps make 
 for some awesome looking saves, and the point of contact is usually right on. Presentation is mediocre, 
 and could use some work for next year's game. Commentary is repetitive and boring and could also 
 use some help. The penalties also are kind of lacking, and the refs rarely call them. Sounds: Although 
 the sounds are functional and ok, this is the area that lacks the most. If they added some good 
 glass rattling, and some better crowd effects, it could really help the presentation out.
  
  Value: The game also lacks in this area, as the gameplay modes are slim. Although much fun 
 is to be found in the franchise mode, they really need some better modes that are kind of out of 
 the ordinary to keep non-traditional fans around.
  
  Review Tilt: I expected to be a good hockey game due to all the hype, so I give it an 8, like all 
 games I expect to be good but not great.
  
  Bottom line: The lacking presentation, the dull sounds, and the low value of the game are topped 
 overall by the new skill stick, and a still solid gameplay mechanic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazy_boy_des
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  My friend bought NHL 07 for his Xbox 360 a week after it came out and we still play it every day. 
 This game has so much value. You can play dynasty for hours and not get bored. Skillstick is amazing. 
 You can pull some sick dangles and i love the hits. The right analog stick is your hockey stick. 
 They had maual deke in NHL 2004 with the right stick but you would have to use it then push a button 
 to shoot now everyhting is in the right analog stick, deke, wrist shot, snap shot ,back hand and 
 slap shot. If you have an Xbox 360 and even slightly like hockey you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 28, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Usually, there is only one big difference with each new sports games and that is the roster of 
 the teams. This year however, we have another big difference other than the roster and that is 
 the control stick. You no longer have to press A to pass or B to shoot anymore. No you control 
 your pass and shots with the right joystick. To pass, you move it in the direction of the player 
 you want to pass it to. When you are in the offensive zone, you flick the stick to wrist shot, 
 or hold it back for a few miliseconds and then flick it forward for a slapshot. Sounds crazy doesn't 
 it? Well its not. For once EA has come up with an appealing innovation to their games. The control 
 stick is not hard to get used to and the NHL action is still as fun as it usually is. As usal for 
 the 360, enhanced grpahics are to be expected and when you are playing, it nearly looks like your 
 watching Hockey Night In Canada
  In the end, NHL 2007 should appeal to every hockey fan out there and will certainly not dissapoint. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryder552
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Hello gamers!
  This is my third review and I put all my effort into each and every one of them, so I hope you 
 enjoy it! Theyre a lot of people who have different opinions about this game, but I will strongly 
 tell you what I think. Now, enough talk, more review. This game has incredible graphics. Now the 
 not so noticed catch about this is that the not so big name players in the game, like Jan Bulis, 
 and Jarko Ruuto, look like real people, but not like the real them. Unlike the big named players, 
 like Joe Sakic, and Alexander Ovechkin, who look incredibly realistic! Enough about the graphics, 
 now, I will talk about the sound. This is quite nice; the crowd reacts to what goes on the ice. 
 Example, the crowd will begin booing if the opposing team has been in control of the puck for a 
 long time. Also, they chant the goalies name if he makes back-to-back saves, or if he makes a 
 big save. The skating, shots, and hits and pucks that hit the boards sound pretty good too. Now, 
 at last, what this game has brought to the 07 eras, and of course, that would be the skill stick! 
 This really depends on what console you are playing on. For the Xbox 360, this game is wonderful, 
 as the stick is used for deking, and shooting. The PS2 version however, isnt so great with the 
 skill stick, especially after playing the Xbox 360 version. Unlike the Xbox 360 version, where 
 the skill stick is used for shooting and deking, the PS2 uses it for passing. The dynasty mode 
 now has the NHL salary cap, and theres an option to send your players down to the minors, that 
 way they will get more ice time and experience to get better. However, as a player gets older, 
 he will need to play in the NHL in order to improve at regular rate. Also, because of the ability 
 of sending players down, now there are two different types of contracts, 1 way, and 2-way contracts. 
 If a player has a 1-way contract, then he cannot be sent down without going through waivers first. 
 But if a player has a two contract, he can be sent down without any risk, although. Also, if a 
 player is offered a 2-way contract, he will also want more money. All together this is a highly 
 addictive game, and is often underrated.
  Thank you for reading, and I hope this answers all/any question that you had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidKeevo
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This is only my second NHL game, my last one being NHL 99, so I don't know anything that happened 
 in between. Here is my review on NHL 07.
  
  Gameplay: Lets start off with the brand new skill stick. It's alot like FNR3's stick controls, 
 being fun and interactive. Slapshots, wristshots, backhands, and dekes are all preformed with the 
 stick. It is alot of fun on breakaways and shootouts, but in normal play it isn't the best. There 
 seem to be no other new features. The Dynasty mode is kinda boring and there isn't anything really 
 appealing. Now onto some of the horrible controls. Using the skill stick to hit is a horrible idea. 
 Several times I find myself going to hit a player then I get the puck, and accidently shoot it. 
 Another bad control is having the switch player and pass button as the same button.
  
  Graphics: From up close, the graphics are great, best I've seen in a sports game besides FNR3. 
 The jerseys and faces look great. But from far away, you can't tell, and to add onto that, the 
 ice doesn't look very good.
  
  Sound: The sound is ok. The announcers sound good at first, but repeat themselves too much. The 
 crowd is excellent though, booing when the home team doesn''t have possession of the puck for a 
 long time, chanting the goalies name, and cheering thunderously after the home team scores. Hits 
 and shots are pretty mediocre, they are what you would expect from a NHL game, nothing special.
 
  
  Value: There really isn't alot of value in NHL 07. No minigames, boring multplayer, and mediocre 
 dynasty.
  
  That's my review on NHL 07. I suggest that you rent before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerToki
Rating: 2.6
Date: Nov 21, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  this game was a total letdown for 4 reasons.
  
  1. The way the skaters skated made it almost impossible to get to the puck in a reasonable manner
 
  
  2. The difficulty settings were totally inaccurate. I played as amateur and the guys beat me but 
 when i play as hard i totally own. (same teams)
  
  3. There is nothing cool about the shot stick or whatever its called. It messes up your shot when 
 you try to shoot and end up dekeing (?)
  
  4. The passing button is stupid. Who the hell would put the passing button on one of the most unused 
 buttons on the controller, the right bumper.
  
  The makers tried to be too unique and it what they made was something that shouldn't even be on 
 the market. They tried to map the passing on a unique button, the right analog stick for dekeing 
 and shooting and the skating style of the players. I wasn't sure if i should sell the game to gamespot 
 for fear that someone else would get jipped and f**ked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leifsillenger
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 10, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  This game has the best graphics of any hockey game I have ever played. It has been about a month 
 since I bought it and my opinion of the game has not changed since the first day I played it. I 
 like the new controls and I hope EA sticks with it and builds upon it for the future. I find the 
 games too long to play and alot of the goals are inconsistent. The unlikely goals go in more often 
 than they should and the obvious ones get saved more often. I do not see alot of replay value and 
 it is simply not a fun game or I should say as fun as some of the older EA hockey games. Overall 
 I like this game better than nhl 2005 but thats about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyelvis
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent hockey game. That being said, I agree that it is probably one year off from 
 being a perfect hockey game. EA has put down a great foundation. Im enjoying a great dynasty feature 
 (I may be considered old-school, but dynasty is all I play in todays sports games  leave the 
 training camps and other stuff for the kids) . So far, Ive played over 30 games, and I still look 
 forward to playing another 30, and then another 30 after that. That is saying a lot about the greatness 
 of this game, as I dont think Ive played over 30 games with any of the hockey titles in the last 
 5 years. Also, dont let the learning curve frustrate you. It took me about 10-15 games to learn 
 how to win faceoffs (I was on the receiving end of 1-49 faceoff stats) . Now, I win around 50% to 
 60%. Cant wait for next years edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cynar
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 7, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  First the writing in emails sent to you as GM are so small I can't even read them. This while playing 
 on a 53 inch TV. Why do they offer the option of having the screen tilted when you can't even read 
 them when they are tilted. The gameplay is erratic at best. Most of the goals scored by me or the 
 AI seem fluky. The game itself is not smooth, about the only thing that is good about this game 
 is the faces or players when your not playing the game. The new stick controls are senseless. The 
 learning curve and time it takes to use these new features outweighs anything good about them. 
 EA gets a big fat F for a rating, and the game testers should get lower. I can't believe EA actually 
 had someone play this game before they even shipped it. This game is an absolute waste of money, 
 go for NHL2k7. This coming from a huge EA fan. Very disappointed.
  
  Cynar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_ky
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 7, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  EA's NHL 07 is so good I really cant say anything about it it is by far the most inovative nhl 
 game i have ever played and by far the funnest I would choose this over 2K 100 times over the graphics 
 are spectacular its a work of art, the gameplay just flows its so smooth and the skill stick makes 
 it even smoother that by far is the best part about this game the skill stick it is spectacular 
 it will take a little while to get used to but when u get it u will be proplexed like i was im 
 a huge hockey buff and this is by far the most realistic of all hockey games iv ever played the 
 only bad thing is the lack of franchise play you can only play 10 years of franchise unlike EA's 
 counterparts madden where you can play 60 YEARS all in all its way past a rent definetly a buy 
 for sure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimepirate
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  When I first played NHL 07, I truly was amazed at how far hockey games have come since the beginning. 
 The best thing that EA introduced this year was the skill stick. Instead of making it easy to score 
 goals (like in NHL 2k7) , you have to have some skill to shoot the puck past the goaltender. With 
 a simple flick of the stick, you can guide the puck to where you want it to go. For instance, holding 
 the left analog stick up means that the player will shoot the puck up when you shoot. The new Dodge 
 shoot out clearly exemplifies the new skill stick. The shootout is very addictive to play. Starting 
 from the center red line, you rush towards the opposing goalie and deke to slip the puck past him. 
 Or if your more on the aggressive side, you can wind up and slapshot the puck in the net if you 
 have someone like Chris Pronger attempting a shoot out goal.
  
  Graphics are absolutely amazing while playing NHL 07. The jerseys alone make the game that much 
 better. Towards the end of the period, youll notice that the ice looks more shaven and very white 
 compared to the beginning of each period. The graphics and the new skill stick are two things that 
 are worth a look at. Compared to NHL 2k7, NHL 07 has better gameplay. The only downfall that NHL 
 07 has is no fantasy rosters when your playing the dynasty mode. But with Xbox Live, you can easily 
 look past that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: habsfan21
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  Well, NHL 07, is amazing! That's all I can say. Well, actually, I can say more. The graphics on 
 the 360 are utterly amazing, it's almost like being at a real game, except for me being a Canadiens 
 Fan, it doesn't have the same atmosphere of 21,272 other people screaming all around you. The goal 
 are sweet, especially when you figure out how to get the skill stick to work. I played it at my 
 friend's house on a 27 HD TV and as I said, the graphics = beautiful!
  
  The learning curve isn't that long, just when you really need to score, it kills you to get finger-twisted 
 over the controller.
  
  Sound is amazing!
  
  Whats cool about this game, they actually have like, rag doll physics for the puck, because if 
 it's stopped by the blocker, it can possibly be directed up into the stands. (Yes, there's no net!) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dajo128
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  EA has actually done this game right. Since the games came out on the 360 series, I've thought 
 that Madden, Fifa, &amp; Live series have lacked, but NHL 07 get credibility back to EA. The game 
 has came with all new graphics engine, and controls. The controls are more analog and easier to 
 use. This makes the game more interesting and more controllable. The game is really a good value 
 for Hockey and sport gamers a like. It has gave me endless hours of fun and plays a lot faster 
 than a football or basketball game.
  
  I think this would be a good buy for anyone looking to buy a good sport series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enlil242
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 31, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Just a few notations about how I have come back to EA's hockey offerings starting with last year's 
 offering. ESPN NHL2K5 was a great game. Too bad the same game is still being sold. EA (and I am 
 not a big fan of EA) seems to have brought the FUN back in video hockey. NHL06 and 07 on xbox are 
 great fun. Not too easy, not too hard. A great two player game and challenging one player game. 
 I don't mind 1-goal games or 8-0 nothing blowouts. As long as the game retains my interest. NHL2K (x) 
 series started to be frustrating as it seemed that the play always was the same. I found the NHL07 
 on XBOX always seemed different every time I played. Sometimes my long shots go in, sometimes one 
 timers, or the breakaways. Very realistic to me in that sense.
  
  NHL07 on XBOX 360 is almost there. I was turned off a bit on just using the skill stick right away 
 and am glad i can use classic controls AND the skill stick. This makes the game fun. I use the 
 skill stick when I want to finesse a goal, and classic when one-timing or slap shots. BRIALLANT!
 
  
  The animations seem a bit off. But I think it is that and the fact that the players move more realistic. 
 Or maybe both. Also, the frame-rate could have been better. but the graphics are very detailed 
 and HD gameplay is second to none.
  
  Bii Clement and Gary Thorne have been MISSED! and the timing of the comments seem much better in 
 this game than previous 2K games. Way to go EA for ditching Jim Hughson (sp?) . I was getting tired 
 of him and Bob Cole and Harry Neal are good, but I am afraid Thorne and Clement best them in video 
 hockey...
  
  the whole sound scheme seems new and am soooo glad there is an abundance of good old fashion organ 
 music! welcome back!!!
  
  After about 3 days playing, I am liking it more and more and I am anticipating a more polished 
 offering next year. Hey Microsoft. It would be nice if all new xbox games would play on the 360!!! 
 Wouldnt mind playing both games on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pappyredbeard
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I can't understand how this game can possibly arrive at a poor review. The biggest change this 
 year, the skill stick is revolutionary and creates endless possibilities when playing a game. The 
 passing is now much more difficult and the puck will take unpredictable bounces throughout the 
 game just like a real NHL game. I love the fact that the goalies first reaction is to go down and 
 freeze the puck, stoppages in play belong in hockey. If the goalie plays the puck in this situation 
 then they will be susseptible to a tap in if opposing players are around him. The removal of the 
 speed burst is a welcomed addition because a speed burst does not exist in real life. Fighting 
 may be less intense but it is definately more realistic than in previous years. If you haven't 
 played this game yet, even if you don't like hockey go out and give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garz97
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 24, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  First off if your buying a $400 dollar gaming system you want the most out of it right? well ea 
 has done that for for the most part. The graphics are the whole game and basicly sepearate great 
 games from average games, a new camera angle and mini games should never get a game a higher score, 
 in this case 2k7 and 07. The gameplay is ea's best since 95 and the new controls make this game 
 so much better then 2k7. Using the stick and using the buttons is like watching tv on a black and 
 white or a plasma. The stick is that much better. This game was clearly made for the hardcore fans 
 that live and die hockey. Its gona take some time to learn but a real fan will take that time. 
 The goalies actually look real in this game other then hunchback giants in 2k's version. This game 
 isnt perfect with some dynasty issues and AI but by the time 08 comes out these should be solved. 
 2k sports has had its days on top but with the new generation of systems ea will be new leader 
 in sports games. Starting this year, so buy a game made for the xbox 360 not for the xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ejf0256
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 19, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  First off both NHL07 and 2k7 are great. 2K7 is the winner thou! Hands down NHL is the beauty queen 
 with it's great looks but, EA where is the GAME ! NO CHECKING IS STUPID! HOCKEY IS NOT SOCCER.... 
 CONTACT IS KING!
  
  If 2K7 and NHL07 got into a horrible wreck and mangled themselves into one huge mass we would have 
 the game of the year here. 2K7 needs better graphics and NO touches to game play and NHL needs 
 a total overhaul on EVERYTHING except the graphics.... Just my humble opinion go DEVILS!
  
  EA work on ROSTER UPDATES ALREADY FOR X360 !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Braxen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  Started playing NHL07 for the PC, and liked it... but still it lacked a lot of stuff.
  
  Slashings, fake shots and supermoves were removed for no apparent reason. Also it&acute; s too easy. 
 Winning 18-0 with shots 36-2 on hardes level just isn&acute; t my idea of fun.
  
  So I got NHL07 for the Xbox360.... and BOY what a difference!
  
  Graphics: Wow. Looks simply 
 amazing. Some very minor framerateissues but I must have gotten used to them or they were very 
 minor because I don&acute; t react to it anymore.
  
  Sounds: Why can&acute; t they make NHL07 for the PC sound like this?? I have a freaking X-fi card 
 just waiting to pump out these incredible soundfx and stuff.
  Different commentary than on the pc-version, and it&acute; s great! Sounds more like an actual NHL-game.
 
  
  Gameplay: Skill stick is haaaaard! I would strongly recommend playing around 20 shootout-contests 
 before playing an actual game, to get the shooting right. When you do, it&acute; s so darn rewarding 
 and amazing you&acute; ll be watching the replay of your goals over and over again. No speed burst 
 eliminates the crazy Sami Kapanen-types of breakaways that makes a player just fly past defenders. 
 No sure-goals is a big leap forward.
  
  Overall: As the gamespot review said, not much in the features-department. Shootout, world tournament, 
 Play now (exhibition) , and a dynasty mode. I somewhat miss a free for all to practice my skill 
 stick-skills instead of having to play through shootouts.
  
  Great great game that I strongly recommend to any sports fan out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 15, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I really love 2k Sports but did they drop the ball (Oops) I mean puck on this years NHL game. EA 
 really brought it this year with their sports titles. If only the ESPN Feature in NBA 07 was in 
 this game I might have given it a 9 or more.
  
  I love the presentation of this years game for EA. They really took off with the new stick feature. 
 Just plain awesome. This new Feature brings you closer to the game than ever before. I loved shooting 
 and deking around with the stick. Should you could deke last year with the stick but this year 
 you get total control over your players stick handling. Shoot Outs are also Awesome and just adds 
 to total feel of enjoying this game.
  
  Need a great NHL game and want to Buy one, This is It. If your really wanting to stick to the same 
 ole same ole, than get NHL 2k7.
  
  Coming from a 2k Sports gal, I give EA's NHL 07 a 8.7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swisschards
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 15, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  i love ea sports games especially nhl 2004... so i couldnt wait to get this game.... went out, 
 bought it, and im really not too pleased with it. i love the skill stick its definatly a great 
 new addition to the game... but it seems to me the only way u can score in the game is going head 
 on with the goalie and deking him, or just winding up infront of the net and slamming the puck 
 right off the goalie and trickling in...? freaking retarded.. wheres the good ol' one timers i 
 miss those ever so much... o thats right the AI is never where they're supposed to be, and if they 
 are the puck just seems to slide right past them i dont get it. also the multiplayer experience 
 was not that great either... playing on the same team against the computer just isnt wat it used 
 be... passing is horrible and the one timer thing again just makes me wanna buy 2k7. another thing 
 is the effin penalties they call... i mean i can understand its just a video game but like come 
 on.. no delay of game call? which is absurd. these bs icing calls when like 3 people are in the 
 zone and it practically goes though every one of them and still ends up icing... and jesus the 
 fighting... worse than 2004 lol i didnt think that was even possible. this game brings me back 
 to nhl 94/95 with these retarded goals... i think its cool if u wind up and shoot the puck like 
 90- 100 mph and the goalie cant really hold on to it and it bounces out and trickles in... but 
 every time? kinda lame... also the whole like thing when your winning the opposing AI will just 
 get these retarted goals.. its so blatent... u honestly can see it coming way before it even happens... 
 idk maybe like hide it a little better, if thats possible? well, overall if your a die hard hockey 
 fan just buy this game because its the better of the 2 that are out now. i just hope EA gets their 
 **** together before they think about rushing out another weak release like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secondshooter
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 13, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  Being a hockey player myself, I think that NHL 07 for the 360 is the best hockey game ever. The 
 graphics are great. So is the gameplay. This review is boring you isn't it? Well lets make it more 
 fun. Sometimes when the players dig into the ice there will be cuts, that do dissapear after a 
 while. It really gives you the feel of being out there on the ice. (Trust me, I play ice hockey, 
 I know.) Occaosinally, there are huge hits in the game. But most of the time, the hits are small. 
 I like this because most of the time in real life there are a bunch of small hits and then a huge 
 one that makes everyone stand up from the bench and the stands. Anyway, the new ESPN annouencers 
 are, OK. I like the old ones better, but that dosent put me off. Anyway, NHL 07 is a must buy for 
 hockey fans and players alike. O! snap. I almost forgot to mention the Skill Stick (c) . The Skill 
 Stick (c) is hard to master at first but you get used to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oilrigboy
Rating: 3.3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  This is the absolute worst game ever to hit the shelves! Graphically its great but the playability 
 and AI of this game suck. Does anybody know if EA actually consults, or even watches, the NHL.?
 
  
  Loose pucks are constantly sliding right past wide open players who are endlessly sakting in circles. 
 And goalies cannot handle a puck to save their lives. Why and a weak dumping from the other end 
 of the ice did EA feel the need for the goalies to perform a butterfly save rather than coming 
 out of the net to play the puck? To get the correct team standings in dynasty mode you have to 
 exit the standings menu a few times before it actaully show the correct team standings. The right 
 hockey stick is kinda cool at first but after getting a loose puck infront of a empty net and pushing 
 the stick forward to shoot and only getting a deke to the left or right, it wears off. Its also 
 the same stick that is used ofr checking. So if you are on the defence and you go to check a player 
 and somehow end up with the puck soen the ice it goes for a icing call.
  
  EA is also missing a major rule instituted by the league. The delay of game for shooting the puck 
 over the boards in your own end. This pretty much seals it for me, no more EA Sports Hockey titles.... ever!!!! 
 This is three yeats in a row the game has sucked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeeman07
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 7, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this game is very fun. The skill stick adds a lot of possibilities, 
 and it really adds to the overall fun of the game. you are no longer tied to pre determined dekes, 
 and the ability to shoot without lifting a finger is kinda cool. the sad part, though, is that 
 this feature was in the series for the past few years, albeit in a more subtle form. games get 
 to be unpredictable with the live pucks, and the improved goaltending AI. Gary Thorne and Bill 
 Clement are also pretty decent.
  
  Well, unfortunatly, that's about it for the game. beyond single games and a completely hollow franchise 
 mode, there is nothing. no fantasy drafts, a CAP that could have been completely left out (more 
 on this) , no single playoffs, nothing. The CAP is so disappointing. the producers made such a big 
 deal about the authentic equipment in the game, but if you want to create a player, you can't choose 
 what equipment your guy wears. they automatically turn you into a skating billboard for RBK. I 
 wanted to like this game so much more, but i got so bored with this after a while. if you have 
 to choose one hockey game this year, and you play a lot, do yourself a favor and just go with nhl 
 2k7. the skill stick makes this worthy of a rental, but there is too much missing from this game 
 to make it worth the money. thank you EA for tricking all hockey fans into thinking you were going 
 to release an amazing and innovative game this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpeternelson
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 7, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  So I just read my recent copy of gameinformers with the review of NHL 07 for the 360 and thats 
 what really inspired me to get up and actually write this review. Its pretty pathetic really, the 
 review trashed this game pretty hard saying that although the new stick controls are exceptional 
 and the goalies blocking looks great he hated practically everyhting else.
  
  I of course feel far differently, this is the first hockey game where I play the game for the game 
 instead of hard hits or getting into fights. So here we go:
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The best part about the game and easily my favorite hockey control scheme ever, the controls are 
 done completely with the right analog. This allows full control of the puck including deke and 
 slapshots / wrist shots. Also the passing system is way different now done with the R trigger you 
 need to aim in the general direction of your teamates to make an accurate pass. Though this can 
 get frustrating it actually is really a great feature when you get used to it. The biggest flaw 
 with the gameplay is first off your teammates AI. They generally will do whatever plans you may 
 have layed out but most of the time they just run around in what seems to be aimlessly. (Depending 
 on whether there defense or offense) The other flaw is the fact that in 07' they got rid of almost 
 all of the trick plays except for a little spin and the occasional juke, both of which are fairly 
 useless in a actual game. However in shootout they are really nice and get make for some cool shots. 
 Shootout is pretty much a 1on1 with you and the goalie, this can be done with or without another 
 player and you can choose to control your goalie or not if you so choose. Graphics:
  
  I am not going to go into the graphics very much but suffice to say they are great, and the in-between 
 and after matches look great, the camera is fabulous and replays look great.
  
  Sound:
  
  Sound is the one area that I really dislike and that is because its so plain, not that it is 
 terrible, it is average.
  
  Extras:
  
  Another of the few areas where the game is lacking you have a dynasty which is just as extensive 
 as the last, shootout mode, a world tournament type thing, and just quick matches. They also offer 
 a create a player mode which is very basic in its offerings but still makes for a nice feature 
 if you plan on using yourself ingame.
  
  Overall:
  
  Well worth the purchase if you don't already own a hockey game and would like one or you are a 
 big hockey fan. Easily my favorite sports game released yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isles4life11
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 7, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  NHL 07 was hyped up to be the biggest and greatest innovation to hockey video games that we've 
 ever seen... but was it? i don' think so. Sure, it has amazing visuals and pretty good audio, but 
 that is pretty much it. The following is done on the All Star difficulty setting mind you.
  First off, there is one glitch that somehow escaped the EA developers eyes for a 2nd year in a 
 row... and that is the shot counter. Folks, for those of you who know nothing about hockey (kinda 
 like the EA Sports team) , lets make this clear. A shot on goal is only counted when it is either 
 a goal, or a goalie makes a save.... it does NOT count when it is shot wide, blocked by a D-man, 
 or rings off the post/crossbar. How EA didn't notice this problem again is beyond me.
  Next up is the poke checking. The CPU will never ever miss a single poke check, while 9 times out 
 of 10, the CPU will skate right by you even if you poke check. The CPU will give your player a 
 love tap and the puck goes flying, but you can just level a CPU player and he will still hold the 
 puck like nothing ever happened. pretty wierd dont ya think?
  Now is the skating. It looks attrotious. The movements are jerky and unfluid. Even with game speed 
 turned down to its lowest, players still zip around the ice. taking away the speed burst button 
 was a dumb idea, because now all players skate around at top speed ALL THE TIME. players skate 
 side to side as fast as they do forward, and when u let go of the movement stick, players glide 
 sideways, like they have hover skates or something! seriously EA, have any of you guys really even 
 set foot onto a rink like some of you have claimed? And while using vision control (when players 
 face the oppositions net at all times) when you skate backwards, they accelerate to amazing speeds 
 in not time at all. never in my life have i never seen an NHL player accelerate and skate that 
 fast backwards.
  Ah, now for the goaltending. EA promised that this years game would do goalies justice. well, sorry 
 to burst your bubble, but think again. They may have some nice animations, but are still as dumb 
 as ever. All the CPU does is shoot 5 hole, and whenever they decide to shoot high, its always a 
 garunteed goal. Ive seen more shots from 60 feet out that go in off the crossbar and into the net 
 than goals that require effort to score... so where is all these amazing goals EA? cause i havent 
 seen any yet. infact the first goal i scored in the game i said to myself wow that was really lame 
 
  Fighting is the worst its ever been... i really dont need to elaborate any more on that.
  AI overall is terrible. You can have every single player at one time chasing the puck like a dog 
 chasing a tennis ball. Really, is that how NHL hockey is nowaday? Passing is terrible as well. 
 I aim to who i wanna pass to and it will go the opposite direction or to whatever person is closest, 
 which totally screws up whatever set up you would like to execute. NHL 2004 was the last game to 
 have good passing where YOU THE PLAYER controlled everything... the speed, the direction, and whether 
 or not it was a saucer pass... about where the puck went
  So overall, this game is downright awful. As said before, it has pretty visuals and audio, but 
 that is pretty much it. If it werent for the way out of date rosters, I would probably STILL be 
 playing NHL 2004. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nkaiton
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 5, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I can't put NHL 07 down. Granted, there are glitches galore, the goalies are pretty dumb, and there 
 aren't a lot of extras. But it doesn't matter. The skill stick really does bring new life to the 
 hockey genre. One timers are still easy to pull off, but at least they don't go in every time like 
 they used to. Incredible graphics and sound as usual. Thorne and Clement commentary reminds me 
 of the old ESPN National Hockey Night days. Lots of memorable playmaking goals. Like Fight Night 
 and Tiger Woods Golf, it's nice to use the right stick for the majority of the gameplay. Bravo 
 EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabinny
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  The skill stick is awesome! This is the best feature of the two NHL games this year. When you are 
 in a one on one battle for the puck with the computer you can almost gaurantee that the computer 
 will win the battle and skate away with the puck. The goalies have a the great talent of letting 
 pucks bounce off of their shoulder, chest or mask and flip behind them and into the net. The goalies 
 also enjoy kicking the puck into their own goal after they've made the save. The soundtrack is 
 terrible. The cut scenes of the benches are repetitive. It is the same thing over and over again. 
 When you see shots of the crowd you will notice that every arena has triplets or quadruplets all 
 over the place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obliviongeek9
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  When you are looking for a new NHL game this winter, ask yourself this question; which type of 
 game are you looking for. Fun gameplay or a realistic NHL game. Who's saying that you cant have 
 both because this winter, NHL 07 has definetely got it all. All the new rosters, awesome new controls 
 using the skill stick, realistic gameplay and of course its alot of fun. While NHL 2K7 focused 
 more on rosters, they forgot about good gameplay and you will find gliches with the game usually 
 once or twice per game. So, when you buy a new NHL game for the new hockey season, NHL 07 is definetely 
 the best choice for any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resist1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  A fantastic game overall... everything is just about right, no ridiculous goals, or pucks flying 
 through goalies for no apperent reason, no insane wrestling type collisions and not every hit to 
 a player causes massive trauma and injury. Difficulty level is quite good, putting some tough AI 
 against you especially on Superstar level. Controls are fantastic mixing old classic style buttons 
 for shotting and hitting with the new deke and shoot via your analog sticks.
  Offense lines run smooth with changes along with top not FPS running smooth and nevel slowing down 
 when the actions gets heavy and hectic. Reposnes from players are true to nature including some 
 fanatastic cinamations/animations of playes moves on the ice. No ridiculous changes of positions 
 or sporadic appearances of playes suddenly facing different directions etc. Hockey isnt magic! 
 and this game plays like it, without the MAgic, but with realism.
  Many different modes, i; ve notices alot of reviewes from magazines and players alike, giving games 
 lower scores based upon fruitless and mindless things. Such as no mini-games ... no uselss features 
 including achievements etc. Sports games arent about that its all about 2 things... GRAPHICS and 
 GAMEPLAY. If you want great hockey with MODES that you will actually care about such as dynasty, 
 which is all you really need, and excellent but crucial core gameplay then this is the game hands 
 down... EXcellent work From EA this year.. knocking 2k sports off its pedistal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roushfan1799
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 29, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Good: The gameplay is really good. The skill stick is really amazing it makes me feel like I am 
 scoring the goals instead of pushing buttons. It makes really comes to together on breakaways and 
 the in shootouts. I really happy they added Gary Thorne and Bill Clement back to hockey. It feels 
 like I am watching them on ESPN again. Even though I have not tried the dynasty mode yet (I play 
 based on my team real schedule) it looks great. There is a lot of things can do off the ice like 
 in NHL 04. The cut scenes are beatiful especially on the players reacting to a goal. The is loud 
 when there team is performing well and silent when there asses are getting beat. EA took advantage 
 on the new shootout rule by adding a special feature. If you don't wait for a tie during a game 
 you can just jump in as a new mode. Bad: Even though the gameplay is good the hits are not hockey 
 enough with out messing with the sliders. The puck physics are good. I am glad EA took out those 
 puck injuries from 06. Whenever it hit the goalie the keeper will be nock out for a few seconds 
 just enough to score an easy goal. Even though that stuff is gone there is still BS goals. For 
 example whenever the puck gets behind the goalie's skates he has a tendencie to skate backwards 
 and push the puck into the net. It is rewarding when playing on Supestar but not on a lower level. 
 The CPU AI is a little better but they come after you alot even on the highest level.
  
  Overall the game is the best hockey game ever. It would be nice if the added Free4All again but 
 hopefully next year. Hockey is back with a vengence against NHL 2K series.
  
  Imporvements for 08: More game modes, add real minor league rosters, bring back Open Ice Control, 
 and goalies try more to stop the puck from trickling into the net. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 28, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge hockey fan, and haven't had much success finding the right game for me in the past few 
 years. There was always something about the hockey games over the past several years that turned 
 me off to playing them. This new game, surprisingly, is a nice change, and a lot of fun to play.
 
  
  I was shocked that EA could create a better sim of hockey than 2K Sports, but that seems to be 
 the case here. I think it is in the overall pace of the game, and the incredibly intuitive new 
 controls that separate it from the others. It allows the tradition use of the face buttons, but 
 I recommend using the sticks for controlling the players and the puck.
  
  Graphics in the game are fantastic. Animations are good, except for some quirky ones here and there. 
 The movement of the puck and players is realistic, and the speeds are just right. Puck physics 
 really come into play here, and it adds so much authenticity to the game, making it no longer an 
 action game, but more of a simulation of hockey . . . justs what I want! Goalies now react to the 
 puck. It deflects of them and other players, and anything it hits. This makes for a very unpredictable 
 experience, but it also can lead to some frustrating goals . . .
  
  Sounds are great. I have been both listening to the announcers and also turning them off to listen 
 to on-ice sound effects. Both are very good and add to the experience. When you get tired of hearing 
 Gary Thorn repeat the same phrases, try out the on-ice sounds. Players shout at one another, the 
 skates cut and scratch the ice, and you can hear it all. Fans are also present and can be heard 
 along with the rink specific organs, horns, etc. I was pleasantly surprised to hear the slamming 
 of the penalty box door in Madison Square garden after I was sent to the box. Little things like 
 this really make a game much better.
  
  However, little things aside, the gameplay in NHL 07 is great, and I think the controls are the 
 main reason for this. Player AI is alright, on offense especially, but once you rely on your AI 
 defenders to protect your lead and your goaltender, you may get a little angry when they allow 
 opposing forward to skate around them to the net. My experience with this hasn't been as drastic 
 as some other players have experienced. Maybe it is my choice of defensive strategy? Maybe it's 
 because of the way I take control over defensement at the right time? Whatever the case me be, 
 this lack of defensive AI is really the only glaring fault in the game.
  
  The interface is easy to navigate. Menus can be easily found and stats are right at your fingertips. 
 A complaint I have is that often times tables extend beyond the edge of the screen, and if I wanted 
 to compare stats, sometimes I cannot see the two onscreen at once.
  
  The different modes of play are adequately done. I am sticking with Franchise, which is fine. Its 
 not overly compicated or complex, but thats fine with me. A more GM-minded player might not find 
 all the options there in GM mode. Also, I could have used some more stategies on the chalkboard. 
 The ones available are nice and explained for any hockey illiterate players.
  
  With Xbox Live! youcan play others, but it isn't a good setup, and there is a lack of online league 
 options, It is really only for online pick up games, it seems. I haven't tried playing online, 
 and likely wont be.
  
  NHL 07 is a great game for hockey fans, whether you like the fast-paced action or the slower simulation. 
 Finally, a hockey game that I can get into! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggalo
Rating: 6.6
Date: Sep 28, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  I gotta say, I was buzzed when I heard... an innovation in Ice Hockey videogaming..... INCREDIBLE. 
 When I saw the skillstick in action I thought WOW!! The 2K games have for years been the bastion 
 o great gameplay and multi-player thrills for the majority of hockey fans, with EA offering a slightly 
 more arcadey, brashand loud alternative. Over the pond here 2K's games were seen as being Canadian 
 versus EA's very American series.
  
  So as 2K7 was delayed til October over here I picked up NHL 07. And boy was I let down. The skill 
 stick is a great idea but in practice it just doesnt match the rest of EA's game. First up, graphically 
 the game isnt as hot as I had thought it was. Yews the cut scenes are incredible... but they are 
 just cut scenes. The actual on-ice is blocky and glitches all the time, with players lacking solidity 
 and seemingly having a force field around them that stops them from actually connecting in hits. 
 To top it off we have one of the worst selections of camera angles I've seen in sports game since 
 before NHL 99, something I really really thought had been fixed years ago (at least it had in the 
 2K games) .
  
  Sonically the game is lovely with great crowd noise and pings off the post but the commentary from 
 the excellent ESPN team falls very very flat compared to their past efforts and repeats over and 
 over and over. The on-ice sound is particularly bland with skating and hitting noises not living 
 up to the goal post and slapshot sound quality.
  
  The skating engine is THE worst thing here. Its sluggish, ugly, doesn't feel like skating in any 
 way and makes dekeing and manouvers up the ice look like the players are stuck in mud.
  
  The controls aside from the skillstick are twitchy and inaccurate and hitting is quite possibly 
 the sorst I've seen in years (it has no feeling, no feedback, and sometimes very little effect)
 
  
  Online, it hangs together ok, but rebounds happen WAY too often and the goalies controls as totally 
 ineffective and random. The game often resets t oface off and lock ups are quite frequent.
  
  All in all I would say this is a step back. The skill stick is indeed great fun but when its 
 attached to a game so broken, so crippled by bad production values and QC..... its a real shame.
 
  
  For this year at least I will stick with button shooting.... the 2K7 demo alone has rubbished 07's 
 efforts so I think the full game will do very nicely.
  
  Thanks for your time... rant over 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cboz_34
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  Yeah!!! They really have out done themselves this time. I think the skillz stick is what makes 
 this game so great. Also i am so happy about the announcers they used in this game it reall y gives 
 you the real life feeling.
  Most of all the skiilz sick makes the shoot out so much more fun to play. Oh yeah almost forgot 
 the goalies are so realistic. The saves they make look like something that might happy in real 
 life. I like how they have to pick up the puck by closing there glove down over it. I think this 
 game by far should of gotten a better rating than 2K7. The only thing im not so sure about on NHL 
 is the online if ilt will look the same. And if it will have the same quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miikka_fan56
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  I aggre with this -- This has to be the best hockey game since NHL 99! I love this game and if you 
 have not played it is well worth your while! The skill stick is the best thing that could happen 
 to a hockey game and the dynasty mode rocks.
  The commentary gets a little repetitive but the amazing graphics make up for it. The create a player 
 mode lacks the ability to change your players equipment but is still a lot of fun. This game is 
 the most amazing and fun hockey game I have played in a long time and is one of the best games 
 I have played on the 360 yet! -- ya boyyy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AjDl
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the best hockey game since NHL 99! I love this game and if you have not played it 
 is well worth your while! The skill stick is the best thing that could happen to a hockey game 
 and the dynasty mode rocks.
  The commentary gets a little repetitive but the amazing graphics make up for it. The create a player 
 mode lacks the ability to change your players equipment but is still a lot of fun. This game is 
 the most amazing and fun hockey game I have played in a long time and is one of the best games 
 I have played on the 360 yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sat_purush
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 25, 2006 2:28 am PT
Review:  Skill-tastic!
  The newest addition to NHL 07 is the skill-stick which, by the way, is one of the coolest things 
 ever invented to any sportsgame ever. Forget about the buttons, you use the analog sticks to control 
 your player. The left one acts as your skates, you move around your player. The right one acts 
 as your stick, you shoot and deke. This ability makes a more free game where you actually feel 
 like YOU score the goal and it also contributes to alot of variety in the goals. No more score 
 5 identical goals games. Feel free to deke around defensemen and score that perfect backhand or 
 go in on a breakaway and deke the goalie out of his pads.
  
  The graphics in NHL 07 is outstanding. With the next-gen it looks more realistic than ever before 
 and incredibly detailed. The crowd looks more alive too which adds to the great hockey atmosphere.
 
  
  The sound is a big part of what makes NHL 07 great. The color-commentary sound really good and 
 flows fine during the game. The crowd is fantastic. They cheer you on as the home team and boo 
 when you are away. You can hear the coaches screaming out commands to their players and nothing 
 beats the sound of a hard slapshot hitting the post.
  
  NHL 07 is a must own game for anyone who likes hockey! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I believe this game is where all hockey games need to go. It looks great, it plays great, the controls 
 do for hockey what fight night did for boxing games. The only real set back i have with this game 
 is the lack of options.
  There is no single season, and no type of mini games. If youve ever wanted a sports game that lives 
 up to the next gen hype this is the one to get in the hockey department. There is alot of hype 
 around the control scheme, but i do have to admit i changed to the classic controls, for the simple 
 fact you can use the stick to shoot too. The only difference is i can deke with the stick, than 
 use a button for rapid shooting, instead of drawing back and pushing forward. I say play with it 
 both ways and see what works best for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cross08
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 24, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Im usally not the person who likes to play the NHL franchise after I lost all interest after NHL 
 2004 and NHL Hitz 2003, I though I would never pick up a NHL game to own. My opinion is completly 
 changed with this years installment. The new controlls give it a new feel with the all new Skill 
 Stick, but it is hard to get used to. After a few games on exibition, you will be into the better, 
 faster gameplay. Good: New Skill Stick Is Amazin' Fun, Graphics Are Good, Create A Player, Dynasty 
 Mode Is Always Good, And The Dodge Shootout Is Fun.
  
  Bad: Controls Are A Pain To Get Used To, Still Can Make Out CAP (Would Be Better Like What They 
 Did In Madden) , Dynasty Mode Has Stuff Lacking.
  
  ???: Where The Hell Is My Create A Team!?!?!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegamanX97
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 24, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I'm reviewing this game in its own right, there will be no compairisons to 2k7 on how its better 
 or worse.
  
  I recently bought nhl 07 in high hopes EA has done somthing right. After playing EA games since 
 Nhl 93 with its crappy sounds and its aqua blue ice im really hoping they are getting on the right 
 track since NHL 05 and NHL 06 have been less then impressive. NHL 07 this year has a new feature, 
 The skill stick. This is used with the right analog stick to give you free motion to deke and shoot 
 and to use the backhand, you will no longer use the face buttons to shoot or hit. This give a real 
 sense of your controling your stick and aiming where the puck goes. It isn't too complicated to 
 get to use, even if you don't like the new stick settings you can go to the classic way. R2 now 
 passes the puck, it seems kinda weird at first but it does suit it.
  
  Salary cap is also in the game this year, it is getting to a realistic managing system but there 
 could be more depth, But it is EA's first shot at Next gen hockey so i wont complain too much. 
 It still gets the job done and still gives you a sense of managing and it is fairly enjoyable.
 
  
  Gameplay. The days of one timer scoreee one time scoreee!! is gone, its hard to score on a one 
 timer which is a good thing it makes it seem so much more realistic and fluid. Defence is good, 
 there are some minor issues with the defence but they still challenge and do a good job. They dont 
 over check but it seems like all they have to do is run into you and the puck is gone off your 
 stick, which makes sense if you think about it, no more magnetic puck on stick.
  
  Goaltenders move realistic they move to the puck no more teleporting pucks into gloves. It seems 
 like a lot of goals slide between the legs, also i had a few garbage goals but it isnt as common 
 as you may think, it does take skill to deke out the goaltender and get around the defence. The 
 sense of satisfaction scoring on a breakaway is always great too!.
  
  Graphics. EA went all out graphicly. Its just an amazing looking hockey game HD or Non-HD you still 
 go wow. Skating animations seem like they were taken straight out of 2006. Checking animations 
 have been taken straight out or 2006 so you will get some familier feels. The fame rate is stable, 
 30fps. 30 frames in my opinion is good, its still a fast paced game but some people do like 60fps. 
 Its also lacking in game modes, you have online, dynasy, international and shoot out. No free for 
 all this year: (
  
  Online- yeah.. a very weak spot in the game laggy, with faceoffs that come out of no where? im 
 guessing patch work will fix this but honestly the online play is not good right now.
  
  Sound is wonderfull in this game. the comentary is very well done, its not too repetative but this 
 is the best you will hear in awhile. Emo songs are back though i mean EA has always stuck to the 
 Emo ish songs but thats okay. Gameplay is where its at.
  
  Closing comments its a great game of hockey in its own right. EA did a lot of right this time around 
 and if you like hockey most of you will like this game. I know i do. Rent it first if you like 
 because it is a bit different then other games. No speed burst, and it is a loose game of hockey. 
 hockey is hockey thought! GO OTTAWA!~!~ hehe:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canucksfan72
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 24, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Finally the BEST game in the series... I would give it a 10 but since the on-line wasn't really 
 that full a 9.3 will do. A lot of people play one game befor learning the skill-stick and they 
 get all mad when they lose a game then they hate the game. I am 9-6-2 in my dynasty and the first 
 4 games I lost just figuring out the skill-stick alone. The one thing I don't like about the game 
 is the lack of Defence control. One thing EA could add is a custom soundtrack so when I score a 
 goal I can play any song I want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekku_kun
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 23, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  I have to say, after playing the 2K version for about 6 years, and basically shunning anything 
 EA after they burned me (thank's for nearly killing Command &amp; Conquer and your awesome league 
 exclusive licences) , I'm surprised I've been as keen on 07 as I've been. To be honest, I had a 
 hard time with the skill stick, and I still do (left, right, up etc, for aiming wristers?) . The r-trigger 
 passing is very frustrating to get used to at first and the fact that the passing isn't direct 
 (i'm still weaning off of 2K's icon pass system) , can be painstakingly annoying. But the thing 
 out of all this that shines through is that even though the game nearly forces you to play a whole 
 new kind of hockey, its GOOD hockey. You have to force yourself to watch for nearby players when 
 you pass, which makes you better with time. The presentation is very clean and precise (though 
 you still have to learn how to navigate, as with nearly every sports game) . Visuals truly are next-gen, 
 even with a 21-inch sharp SDTV, the stitching on the jerseys are amazing. Physics are definitely 
 a different department from 2K gameplay, 07 feels more like real hockey but the thing ABOUT real 
 hockey is that its very physical and your speed on the ice depends on your momentum, 2K just feels 
 like you're gliding on the ice no matter how you play, which felt wonderful for years, but next 
 gen needs to feel real to convey it on a more intense level. Few more things: Love the live sports 
 ticker, defence is solid enough to make a goal feel like a real achievement on harder difficulties 
 (pro's still kinda easy) , online leagues would've been nice, and individual arena detail (I love 
 the fact the center ice on Rexall Place in 07 truly looks like the real life home of the Edmonton 
 Oilers, 2K was always a generic arena ice) .
  
  Overall due to the total overhaul of gameplay, and crisp visuals I have to give my money to EA 
 (even I can't believe i'm saying that) . I'll probably buy 2K7 after a drop in price in a couple 
 months or maybe a Boxing Day deal after xmas, but this really is the start of next-gen hockey. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyuzfuny
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 22, 2006 8:49 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest. I went to Rogers Video today, looking forward to picking up NHL 2K7. I got there, 
 and to my disappointment, they didn't have the game. So, I went back to the shelf, as I was really 
 craving some hockey, and picked up this game.
  
  The reason I didn't want this game originally is because of the fact that t didn't have the depth 
 that 2K is known for, and I really like the cinemotion idea of 2K. I hadn't really done much research 
 on the skill stick and hadn't really looked much at the graphics.
  
  Well, those two things have really changed the way I look at sports games, namely hockey.
  
 
  FIrst, I'll start with the skill stick. My friend had 06 for the PS2 and I hated the skill stick, 
 because it was just random swirling of the stick. Well, no longer with 07. You can get such precision, 
 and you really feel as if you are in control now. It isn't random, you have the control, and you 
 decide where the puck is going to end up, and that power is really a great feeling. I could, though, 
 recommend that the skill stick be tweaked a bit, so that you can get even more control out of it.
 
  
  Then we have the graphics. The player models are absolutely jaw-dropping. Only once have I seen 
 anything that looked really fake (Matthius Ohlund was going off the ice injured, and his eyes were 
 spooky) and other than that, I could easily name every player, just by looking at the replays. 
 It was great.
  
  Another thing I really enjoyed about the visuals were the menus. Although they navigated poorly 
 (More on that later) they sure looked great, with the ice in the background.
  
  The only thing I can say I don't like about the graphics is the fact that the ice reflection is 
 pretty weak. It doesn't look nearly as good as 2K7 (I've played the demo) It's just a small touch 
 that bugged me.
  
  Then comes the commentary. It's above average, but really nothing to write home about. I did, though, 
 enjoy the music while going through the menus.
  
  Now, more about the menus. Here is my question. What is the point of having great looking menus 
 that have the worst control ever? It is seriously a hassle just to pick a darn team, don't even 
 begin talking about switching around lines. It's just a nightmare.
  
  The Franchise and Online modes are as expected. Shallow, yet functional. Nothing out of the ordinary 
 for EA, so not much I can really say there.
  
  Though, one thing some will be interested in knowing, is the fact that this game has some of the 
 easiest acheivement points ever. Seriously, it's 1000 points of pure ease. So, even if you don't 
 enjoy hockey, but you're short on points, it's time for a rental.
  
  So, to sum it up. Was I satisfied with this game? Absolutely. Am I converted into an EA Sports 
 lover? Well, no, not yet, but no one game could ever change that for me. It'll take quite a few 
 knock-out games from EA for me to begin purchasing their basketball and hockey games consistently. 
 But still, this game is a much have for a hockey fanatic still not sure about 2K. Positives:
  
  + The skill stick is a great addition to hockey
  + Spectacular graphics for the player models, 
 animations and menus
  + Commentary isn't too bad and music is good
  + Solid enough online and franchise modes
  
  Negatives:
  
  - Difficult to navigate menus
 
  - The ice reflection isn't great
  - The camera angle isn't as revolutionary as 2K's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muppen
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  The newest addition to NHL 07 is the skill-stick which, by the way, is one of the coolest things 
 ever invented to any sportsgame ever. Forget about the buttons, you use the analog sticks to control 
 your player. The left one acts as your skates, you move around your player. The right one acts 
 as your stick, you shoot and deke. This ability makes a more free game where you actually feel 
 like YOU score the goal and it also contributes to alot of variety in the goals. No more score 
 5 identical goals games. Feel free to deke around defensemen and score that perfect backhand or 
 go in on a breakaway and deke the goalie out of his pads.
  
  The graphics in NHL 07 is outstanding. With the next-gen it looks more realistic than ever before 
 and incredibly detailed. The crowd looks more alive too which adds to the great hockey atmosphere.
 
  
  The sound is a big part of what makes NHL 07 great. The color-commentary sound really good and 
 flows fine during the game. The crowd is fantastic. They cheer you on as the home team and boo 
 when you are away. You can hear the coaches screaming out commands to their players and nothing 
 beats the sound of a hard slapshot hitting the post.
  
  NHL 07 is a must own game for anyone who likes hockey! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhnyy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 22, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This is a very well done hockey game. I haven't had so much fun with a hockey game since NHL '93-'94 
 version. it is absolutely fun &amp; challenging playing with the skill stick. The physics of the 
 puck is very realistic especially the collision of the puck with the players and goalies. I love 
 how you can score goals in every different way:
  
  1) Breakaway
  2) one-timer
  3) Slap shot
  4) rebound
  5) plain silly goals (this is somewhat realistic b/c goalies do make 
 mistakes)
  
  Though, I haven't scored a wrap-around yet... A lot of hockey games in the past seems to just have 
 one or two ways to score. And ppl will exploit this and keep scoring that way. This game seems 
 to find the right balance for different ways of scoring. The game seems to keep scores close or 
 exciting which is very good. Graphic-wise, I think it is very clean and sharp... animation is smooth
 
  
  I would highly recommend this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: overlordgarcia
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 22, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  Hello guys,
  
  I am from sweden and we are almost as fanatic on hocky as the canadians.
  I havent playd hockey games though for a long time. But when i heard of the new skill stick that 
 EA has brought to light i thought i would give it a try.
  
  I started with the Dynasty mode right away and in my first game i thought the game was pretty crappy 
 becasue I could not get anything right. But I gave the game a chance and after my third game I 
 was playing a lot better and it feel really good. When you get a grip on the controls they are 
 really tight and everytime you score it feels so GOOD! Before you could only score goals doing 
 on-timers but now it is not so. If you have a good shooter and make a good shoot it may go in :) . 
 They also included the new puck physics and wile it can be that some goals look stupid it still 
 gives a really good sence of real hockey! I am now on my 12th game in the dynasty and i really 
 love this game now. I think it is the best game I own for the 360.
  
  I havent playd online yet but i bet it is a blast thoug it is a shame that you can only do regular 
 matches online there should be a league mode.
  
  The graphics on this game are superb and the animations are good aswell.
  I sont see why people 
 are saying that the frame rate is bad?? I havent experienced anything wrong with the framerate 
 I would say it is stable in araund 30 frames/sec wich is good enough.
  
  All and all a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmrcnIdiot85
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 21, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  After playing the demo, I was totally pumped for this game to come out. The graphics looked pretty 
 cool, and the controls were pretty solid (even though they were a complete rip off from NHL 2k) .
 
  
  After renting the game once however, I was mega-disappointed. The frame rate is ridiculously slow 
 and laggy... I thought there was something wrong with my disk until I came online and saw everyone 
 was having the same problem. The game moves just like an arcade... it's completely possible for 
 the AI to score 4 points in the last minute out of nowhere. And don't even bother with the online 
 function. Sometimes a few seconds would go by, and you'd magically wind up in a faceoff?! Crazy.
 
  
  EA built up high expectations for this one, but they've failed to deliver yet again. Don't buy 
 into the hype!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tydawg94
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 21, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  this is good and stuff and the skill sticks owns and the edmonton oilers are own because im trying 
 to get a 100 word text so i can submit.... the skill stick lets you do everything and the game 
 is fun and it is way better than 2k7.. 2k7 has digusting graphics and the gameplay is nowhere near 
 as fun as in nhl 07.. and what is up with the oilers not having robbie shremp in their lineup- 
 he is one of the best young talents in the league and is sure to make the t s year and why isnt 
 he in the game.. also petr sykora is still on the rangers yet he was signed by the oilers on aug 
 11, what r u the makes dumb.. anyways theyr not that dumb because this is way better than 2k7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s12thundrr12
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 21, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Overall the game is good, not great just good. Graphics are really good and game play can be shaky 
 but its really worth playing. When i first started playing it i was like alright this game kinda 
 sucks but once i got used to the controls it got better n better. The online play is kinda laggy 
 at times but fun and competative. If u get really good at the skill stick u'll b really good in 
 the game i noticed that myself. Im ranked 100 online right now and keep on ranking up. Stick with 
 the game u'll b happy in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: interstate78
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 21, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  As far as sports games goes, this one is incomplete. Sure, it has a dynasty mode ported over from 
 current gen hardware and a new way to control the puck, but what else?
  
  The new control scheme that is hyped up everywhere is innovative and everything, but it makes you 
 wonder if these people have actually ever watched a hockey game. There's much more to Hockey than 
 NHL 07 allows you to do.
  
  Actually, even though using the stick may appear to give you more freedom, the new controls really 
 limit the hockey strategies you can do. Most games will just be about going up and down the ice, 
 trying to take a shot. That's hockey you say? Well go watch a game, in case you've forgotten, and 
 come back here. What do you notice? A lot of passing? Ah, exactly what you're not going to see 
 here. The only passes you make here are either up the ice or lateral for vicious one timers. If 
 you'd like to, say, screen the goalie and pass to a defensemen for a shot, you're pretty much out 
 of luck.
  
  You're also out of luck if you'd like to guard your opponent by skating backward (on your own, 
 mind you) , sweep with your stick (you can only poke check) , bend down to block passes, slide to 
 block shots, plunge, etc. There's just too little control over your players. While you may think 
 it would make for a perfect arcadey experience with your friend, the average of 5 to 10 games getting 
 used to the new controls pretty much prohibits the 'quick game for fun' you're used to play once 
 every now and then with your buddies who play only casually.
  
  While you're at it, forget also about running a league, or even a simple tournament online. This 
 game has the bare minimum of Online options.
  
  There is one area that stands out in this game and it's in the graphics department. 360 owners 
 demand great graphics and they've got them, but at what cost? The out of game segments simply look 
 stunning, but these actual 'cinematic' animations lack variety and look so much better than the 
 actual gameplay that it stands out like a sore thumb. The actual in-game lacks a lot of polish -- 
 animations are jerky and oftentimes physically impossible. You simply cannot slide sideways when 
 you're wearing ice skates and this glitch is one of many that you will find: players taking speed 
 after tripping without actually moving their feet (backwards, no less) and strange animation connections 
 are just a few of the icky graphical glitches in there. Call me picky, but I like my animations 
 non-jerky and realistic. It adds much more to the feeling of immersion.
  
  Because it feels incomplete and lacks many features we're so accustomed to in Hockey games, NHL 
 07 may be worthy of a lengthy rental, if you feel curious how the skill stick plays out, but overall 
 the game is sure to leave you on your appetite. It's pretty difficult to base a review on thin 
 air in the sports genre, so I will do the inevitable comparison to NHL 2K7. Most people consider 
 the skill stick to be a worthy innovation but so far it throws back the actual gameplay to the 
 16 bit days: dekes, hits, passes, and very little else. Combine this with the fact that there's 
 not 1/10th of the options, game modes and online components of the 2k series and you've got a dud 
 that you'll be bored with really quickly. EA's series sure has a promising future with this brand 
 new engine in their hands, but you can't help but feel they've tossed this one out the gates much 
 too early. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gskehans97
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 20, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  NHL 07 for Xbox 360 is a Good game but could be better... I love nhl games but i don't like the 
 2k game of hockey... idunno why... i just don't. I love playing NHL Games from EA, Theres Great.... But 
 NHL 07 was very Disappointing to me because i think of it as a 2k game and i think i always will. 
 i don't like the new stick shoot part... i think that EA could do better... i think that theres too 
 much now as it is with the Right STICK. I think that the Gameplay was messed up and that had everything 
 to do with the right shooting stick! The Graphics were just mind blowing... The were Wicket! Some 
 of the best looking Graphics that i have seen from EA Sports! the Sound could had been better. 
 I liked that Jim guy from all the other nhl games from ea and they could had put him back into 
 the game! Overall the game is a good one and if u like hockey u should go pick it up for your xbox360. 
 I give NHL 07 for Xbox 360 a 8.2 outa 10! Good Game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 20, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  The only game in the next-gen hockey line-up last year was NHL 2K6, but EA Sports jumps into the 
 fray this year with NHL 07 - and they didn't spend two years developing it for nothing. Don't be 
 deceived by the sleek presentation: NHL 07 is full of complexity, but it's all been honed into 
 an experience that looks and feels as close to actual hockey as ever.
  
  The wonderfully detailed player models may not be the spitting images of their real-life counterparts, 
 but a lot of effort has been made to be accurate. The reflections in the glass, ice, and player's 
 visors are fantastic - these are the best graphics from any hockey game to date. Our only critique 
 is that the sheen on the ice is a little too perfect - it looks more like glass than ice.
  
  The biggest gameplay change is the new Skill Stick control. The left analog stick can be thought 
 of as the player's skates and the right functions as the player's stick. Trace a circle with the 
 right stick and your player will perform dekes and spins. Flicking it forward performs a wrist 
 shot, and drawing it back raises the stick for a slapshot.
  
  It all feels very intuitive and it's much more gratifying to score on a shot that you actively 
 controlled as opposed to one defined by a button press and canned animation. The only button you 
 really need is the right bumper for passing, which feels like a hassle once you're used to the 
 analog controls. But it's either that or a third analog stick...
  
  
  The controls do take a while to get used to, but the first time you run the game you'll see a little 
 tutorial and be thrown directly into a shootout. You may be robbed quite a few times before you 
 hit the back of the net, but once you do it'll feel good.
  
  The improved goalies do their best to frustrate. With improved puck physics, however, it won't 
 be lame scripted saves that frustrate you. The puck is an unpredictable little creature, and will 
 often trickle past the goalie and over the line even after the commentators have called the save.
 
  
  
  Another new addition is player roles - each player has a specific designation such as sniper, power 
 forward or defensive defenseman. You'll obviously want to use your snipers to fire those long range 
 lasers; meanwhile, your power forwards may be more apt at muscling away the puck, crashing the 
 net and putting in those sloppier goals. In Dynasty mode, players who see lots of ice-time and 
 have success will improve and change roles as the season progresses.
  
  The player-roles are completely invisible on the ice - in fact, the only thing marking your selected 
 player is a red icon that floats above him. We like the look of this stripped-down design, but 
 wonder if we're expected to have every team's roster memorized.
  
  
  Gary Thorne and Bill Clement of ESPN provide the commentary, and though it's nice to hear them 
 again after ESPN dropped hockey, the repetitive and sometimes incorrect calls, especially in shootouts, 
 get to be annoying.
  
  Despite a few minor flaws, the wait was worthwhile - EA Sports has delivered a very solid hockey 
 game. Everything feels smooth and refined, and while everything could be refined even further, 
 this lays the groundwork for next-gen hockey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuhoo
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 19, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  While being a big fan of the NHL 2k series, I found a lot to like in this new rendition of EA's 
 once great franchise. However... this was plagued by horrible framerate issues. I work in this 
 industry and I would have to say the max framerate would maybe be 25 frames while playing online. 
 The player lag is ridiculous and you will often find yourself randomly taking faceoffs as is if 
 the last 2 mins weren't played. I have played for a min or so and suddenly warped back to the faceoff 
 spot with 20:00 in the 1st. Very strange stuff indeed. I'm really saddened by this because while 
 the new skill stick is a pain to learn, it adds depth to the game although one can consider it 
 hardly playable with its current issues. Good thing I didn't have to pay retail for this game, 
 otherwise... I would have felt ripped off. At least I'll make $5 after trading it in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akobewka
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 19, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I'll start of by saying this not only the first NHL game I've ever owned, but the first sports 
 game! So far, my experience has been more than positive. Great graphics, great sound, and a respectable 
 Dynasty mode all contribute to another strong addition to the EA's NHL series!
  
  Gameplay - I'm impressed. The new stick control is at least as good as I hoped. As an NHL newbie, 
 I'm finding it intuitive to learn. I'm somewhat less than impressed with passing, however. I also 
 like the realistic way goalies behave, at least, copared to previous versions. I find it's really 
 easy to pass way off into the middle of nowhere if I'm not paying attention. This might get better 
 as I get more experienced though.
  
  Graphics - I would have given this a 9.5 if I could. Players look extremely realistic. The closeup 
 of Kiprusoff looks like Kiprusoff. The closeup of Staal looks like Staal. Not only are the player 
 graphics impressive, but so are the stadiums. Fans actually look like fans! The ice shines, and 
 slowly dulls as the period goes on. Not only that, it's easy to find the puck when it drops below 
 the board-line thanks to a tiny arrow. And HD... OH HD! I can't say enough about how good this 
 game looks in widescreen HD!
  
  Sound - I don't have surround yet, but what I've heard in 2.0 is really good. Commentary is believable, 
 as are the sounds from the ice. The music is also extremely good. I haven't found it yet, but I'd 
 really like to hear my own imported music in the menus and during replays. If the feature exists, 
 it's difficult to find.
  
  Value - The online play will may not satisfy die hard hockey fans, as it's pretty basic. It doesn't 
 compare to the 2K series. Since I only plan to play against/with my friends online, I won't be 
 missing this feature. EA had better add it to NHL 08, however. Thanks to a pretty standard Dynasty 
 mode, this should give NHL 07 a long life on my now playing list.
  
  Overall - This is a great place to start playing EA's NHL series. The new stick will level the 
 playing field a bit with more experienced players, and is intuitive for new players. HD Grapics 
 are amazing, with matching sound (at least in 2.0) . New stick control lives up to the hype! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikB0869
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 25, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  Being a Canadian kid, I have to say that it seems like most non-Canadian
  people think we are born with skates on our feet and a hockey stick in our
  hands (talk about 
 hard labour, eh?) , and I also have to say that its
  completely true. Okay, not really, but hockey is a Canadian birthright, and
  therefore, we tend 
 to take it rather seriously. As a result of that, we also
  take simulations of hockey pretty seriously as well. To be honest with you,
  although I have 
 played a few hockey videogames in my day, its been a long
  time since I played a game that is as sophisticated, advanced, and as fun to
  play as NHL 07 
 from EA Sports. The NHL 2K-series always seemed to have the upper hand when it came to hockey simulations, 
 and we wondered what was up EAs sleeve when they didnt release a hockey game for the launch of 
 the 360 last November, but let me tell you, what a difference a year can make! While NHL 2K6 on 
 the 360 was nothing special when compared to its current-gen cousins, and while NHL 2K7 is a respectable 
 next-gen improvement over NHL 2K6, NHL 07 from EA has re-written the book on hockey games, providing 
 innovation and improvements that next-gen players demand in their games.
  
  While NHL 07 delivers wonderful visuals, which you would expect in a
  next-gen title, the primary 
 innovation in NHL 07 is the Skill-Stick. In
  the past you might have used the right stick as a hit-stick, and you still
  do on defense, 
 but most of your passing and shooting would be done with the face buttons. Those of you who still 
 prefer the face buttons can select
  those as the default control layout, but if you can learn to use the
  Skill-Stick, you will 
 reap rewards not only in terms of flexibility,
  control, and finesse, but also in terms of major fun factor! In NHL 07 you
  use the left stick 
 to control your skates as well as the aim of your shots
  and passes, while the right stick handles the tasks of stick-handling,
  dekeing, and shooting.
 
  
  Several shot types are possible with the Skill-Stick: a slapshot is
  accomplished by pulling back and snapping forward; faking that shot means
  that you pull back 
 to wind-up but dont push forward to shoot; a snap shot
  is accomplished by simply flicking the stick forward; a wrist shot is done
  through pulling the 
 stick to the right or left and then forward; a more
  powerful wrist-shot is done by curving the Skill-Stick around the edge just
  before flicking 
 the shot forward; and backhand or forehand shots will be
  automatically selected, depending on the position of the stick and puck in
  relation to your 
 player when you use the Skill-Stick to shoot. For example,
  if your player is a righty and he has the puck to his left, he will shoot
  a forehand wrist 
 shot. If its on his right side at the time of shooting, he
  ll do a backhand. Its as simple as that. All shots at the time of shooting
  can be aimed using 
 the left stick, and you can pick any corner, left or
  right and top or bottom, by pressing the left aiming stick to the
  appropriate corner.
  
 
  Passing is accomplished by pulling the right trigger and
  aiming the pass with the left stick. The right button or trigger can also be
  used along with 
 the left stick to pull off other finesse, first-touch
  moves and through passes (e. g. drop passes or saucer passes, and one-touch passes are done by 
 holding the right trigger during passes from player to player) , and on defense the right button 
 performs poke checks (aimed with the Skill-Stick) , while the left button can be used to hook or 
 tie up
  opponents on the boards. Pressing both shoulder buttons causes your player to dive in order to 
 block a shot.
  
  As the two analog sticks, coupled with the triggers and shoulder buttons,
  can now be used to 
 make most of the moves for passing and shooting, there are still a few uses left for the face buttons. 
 The Y-button can be used to slash, trip, or start a fight (in which punches are thrown and blocked 
 using
  the Skill-Stick and left stick again) ; the X-button is used to toggle
  defensive pressure on and off (very necessary towards the end of the game,
  believe me) ; and 
 offensive pressure can be toggled on and off using the
  B-button (for power plays or come-from-behind situations) . You can also take manual control of 
 the goalie when he doesnt have the puck, by pressing the Left Button and the A-button at the same 
 time. For the most part, the goalies perform well enough, although there are the odd WHAAAT!!!???-goals. 
 AI in general is all right, although there were times
  where I wondered where the rest of my team was during certain situations. I
  imagine over the 
 next few iterations of NHL-xx that things will continue
  to improve with respect to defense, AI, etc.
  
  The Skill-Stick in NHL 07 is definitely da 
 bomb! this year, and for the
  first time I found myself saying, This is just like a real hockey game.
  Gone are the magnetic, 
 puck-sucking passes and interceptions of the past.
  Now we have a loose puck with real physics. Contrary to what you might
  think, the puck is not 
 that hard to control; it behaves naturally. If you
  charge up the ice skating as fast as you can, then its harder to control
  and keep the puck, 
 never mind getting fancy with it. Keep a more relaxed
  pace, and you can deke and dipsey-doodle with the puck with less chance of losing it, unless 
 you get poke-checked or knocked on your can by the defense, that is. So many have complained 
 that the only way you can score in most hockey videogames is to execute a one-timer, which is far 
 less realistic than what happens in real hockey, and it gets boring as well.
  One-timers are still possible in NHL 07, but they are much less frequent,
  and you can now actually 
 score by dekeing or by making a good, well-aimed
  shot or tip, just like the pros do.
  
  Many bemoan the loss of the Turbo button, but the new skating mechanic is simply this: If your 
 skater is a fast skater, then he will be able to
  generate good speed. If your skater is a huge, lumbering giant of a goon,
  then he wont be able 
 to skate that fast. He might be able to grind
  opponents into mush on the boards, perhaps, but he wont be able to skate
  super-fast! This is 
 a more realistic way of playing the game, by having
  players with specific abilities. Speaking of abilities, the EA Montreal team
  (can you think 
 of anyone who would be in a better position or place to make
  a hockey videogame?) has programmed player abilities and tendencies into the AI. If you give up 
 or move control from one player to another, the player you were controlling will resort to their 
 tendencies while under AI control. For example, grinders will almost always finish their checks, 
 while
  snipers or danglers, when placed in the same situation, will almost
  always skate by their checks once the puck is past them, rather than mix it
  up on the boards. 
 Anyway, its touches like these that make the game look
  and play more like a real hockey game.
  
  Some additional features of the presentation are 
 the excellent (although
  sometimes repetitive) play-by-play commentary and well-animated crowds,
  which add to the overall 
 feel of a real hockey game as well. Some of the
  crowd members, albeit very few, even wear sweaters of the opposing team,
  which again reflects 
 the appearance of a real crowd at a hockey game. And
  then there are all the other little visual and audio touches that add to the
  excellent presentation: 
 the way the glass rocks back and forth after players
  are hit into the boards; the way the crowd reacts and chants according to
  the action on the 
 ice; the sound of the puck clanging off the post or the
  glass; the exchanges between players after cheap shots; the shouts and calls from your teammates 
 and the coach, etc. Top notch presentation along with innovative, well-executed gameplay help to 
 put NHL 07 into top spot in
  hockey simulations this year. For the future, though, one visual improvement
  I would like to 
 see would be the option of a close-up, superstar-centric
  view of the player Im controlling, just like in the shootout mode, along
  with the ability to 
 zoom-out as necessary. Perhaps even a first-person-view
  option would be cool, but for the most part, the camera angles are okay, and
  they give you a 
 fairly good view of the action. And also for the future,
  perhaps a photo mode or way to save replays might be a good idea as well.
  
  Okay, now for 
 a bit of bad news. NHL 07, much like most of the other EA
  Sports next-gen titles, is not as feature-packed as past current-gen
  versions, nor is it as 
 packed as the NHL 2K7 game for the 360. There is a
  basic dynasty/franchise mode as well as create-a-player, and even a neat
  world-teams online 
 tournament, but thats pretty much it. There arent any
  online leagues, sadly, but well see what happens in the future. (Perhaps a
  big patch, EA?) 
 There is also a Shootout mode, which while fun and
  visually impressive, is also rather brief. One other disappointment is the
  presence of the extremely 
 clunky User Interface that again plagues all the
  EA Sports titles this year. As was already mentioned, the lack of a photo
  mode and/or ability 
 to save replays is not a deal-breaker of any sort, but
  that type of functionality would be good to have in the future, considering
  how darn pretty 
 the game looks now. It would also be interesting to see if
  the Xbox Vision Camera could be utilized in create-a-player in the future,
  and if not, then 
 it would be good to see some more facial and body
  customization features, as opposed to the small number of preset player-face and body types that 
 are available in this years build.
  
  NHL 2K7, as mentioned above, has more features than NHL 07, and Cinemotionis a rather interesting 
 diversion from standard replays, but if you want my opinion on which game is the best simulation 
 of hockey this year, it is still NHL 07. Presentation is important, and I am an admitted graphics-pig 
 (audio, too) , but you just cant beat the sick-new-stick gameplay of NHL 07. However, great 
 gameplay and great graphics alone do not make a perfect hockey game, so the lack of features in 
 yet another EA Sports title is disappointing when compared to its 2K cousin. My final opinion, 
 though, is that NHL 07 is much more fun, realistic, challenging, and beautiful than any other hockey 
 videogame that I have played so far. Although there are still improvements to be made, I would 
 say that it is safe to say that EA, who has long been in second-place in hockey simulations, has 
 finally won the cup with this next-gen effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 19, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Hockey may not be the most popular sport in North America and around the world, but it sure has 
 it's fan base of loyal followers. After a less than stellar showing last year, EA is back with 
 NHL '07.
  
  But what's different from last year and previous outings in the series can be described in 2 words: 
 shot stick. EA clearly pushes the envelope way further with this incredible innovation.
  
  How this works is fairly easy: instead of shooting the puck with one button, you now control the 
 accuracy and force of your shot with the right analog stick. Push forward for a regular shot, push 
 back and then forward for a slap shot. Push the stick left and right to deke and feint.
  
  This may sound as simple as apple pie, but it is a welcome improvement and a huge innovation in 
 hockey games. How sweet it is to deke past a defensemen and then completely fool the goalie, all 
 with some simple movement of the right analog stick.
  
  The rest of the package is a pretty solid hockey game. You get all of the same modes you are used 
 to: Quick Match, Dynasty, Tournaments &amp; Online. You can even choose to have a Shootout, if 
 your heart so desires (and it's a great way to get acquainted with the new shot stick) . The rosters 
 are very up-to-date, even more so than in the regular XBox version.
  
  Another new feature this year, if you play the game in Dynasty mode, is the Salary Cap. This brings 
 an all new dimension to the game, because you won't be able to build a powerhouse team with all 
 the best players anymore. You'll have to respect the Salary Cap established by the League at the 
 beginning of the season. Naturally, this can be turned off... if you want to keep on playing with 
 that powerhouse.
  
  The online is pretty stable and lag free. I found it easy to connect to my friends and never got 
 disconnected once during a match. There are some moments though when the lag will be more intense, 
 but it usually doesn't last very long.
  
  The graphics, especially on the 360, are mind blowing. The cinematics are outstanding. The details 
 in the players' faces, their jerseys, the arenas, and so on and so fourth, is simply jaw dropping. 
 The gameplay graphics are also pretty well rendered and really look like a next-generation hockey 
 game. There are still a couple of glitches here and there, but all in all, the graphical presentation 
 is a solid one.
  
  The sound can be divided in 3 categories: gameplay, music and commentators. The gameplay sounds 
 are beyond excellent. Every sound you expect to hear in a regular hockey game, you get here. The 
 music, on the other hand, is not too good. I'm not saying that the songs suck, but you hear them 
 constantly, especially that damn song that plays after each and every period and the other one 
 that plays before each and every game. There is absolutely no variety here. The playlist is also 
 very short, so that doesn't help the situation one bit. The commentators have been changed from 
 last year. Jim Hughson is out (good riddance) and is replaced by some excellent commentating. It 
 really feels like a hockey game when you listen to them, and not a joke, like in previous installments.
 
  
  Naturally, the game does have it's down sides. There are no online Shootouts, which is just plain 
 stupid. I'd love to be able to have a Shootout with some friends without playing a whole game, 
 but it is not available here. One other thing about online is the lack of a League. Yes, there 
 are ranked games, but a League would've been nice.
  
  Another thing that bugs me is the menu design. When you are checking out the standings or stats, 
 the characters on the far right side of the screen are very hard to read. It is also very annoying 
 to navigate through all of the menus, since there is a bunch of them.
  
  Last but certainly not least is the trickler goals, where you shoot the puck at the net and the 
 goalie doesn't quite stops it and it trickles in. There are way too many of these and it hinders 
 the gameplay immensely. Just shoot hard at the goalie and he'll fumble it, giving you an easy goal. 
 I hope this gets fixed in a patch soon.
  
  All in all, NHL '07 is a great game of hockey that I recommend to every fan of the sport. It does 
 have it's flaws, but the innovative shot stick makes up for most of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrissnyder
Rating: 3.3
Date: Sep 19, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  The AI is really stupid. The pass system doesnt work, I try to pass to the right and the puck goes 
 to the left. The speed is off the roof, no real hockeygame goes that fast, even at the slowest. 
 It's always the same cutscenes, ALWAYS. Always the same commentary jokes. Even if you lead with 
 like 5-0 you're garanteed to loose with 5-6.
  
  I've played all the series from EA Hockey 95 and this is the worst. The best hockey game ever is 
 ESPN Hockey 05. So I hope that Hockey 2K7 is better than EA. It's just like FIFA, no feeling or 
 presence at all. And when you shoot it's so hard that you don't even see the puck.
  
  Don't buy or rent this game, it's really a bad hockey game. Not that good graphics either, a little 
 better than hockey to xbox1, but not so you fall of the chair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chestnutz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 19, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  First off I just want to say that NHL2K7 players skate like they sh! t themselves. I can say that 
 because I've watched the previews. It would piss me off to sit there and play a game that had every 
 player skate like that.
  
  NHL 07 is a good game, yet it has some problems. I've never really liked 2K games because in all 
 honesty, it just doesn't look like a real hockey game to me.
  
  Positives for EA 07:
  -The analog stick is completely different, and fun to use. It is difficult to get used to it, but 
 once you've got it down, you're as deadly as Ovechkin. You definitely get adrenaline rushes when 
 you burn the D and its just you and the goalie. Scoring a goal is definitely rewarding.
  - Graphics are so good. Each player looks like who they are. Horcoffs shinpads, Crosbys hunched 
 over with his huge jersey, and the goalies look amazing. I did an instant replay and saw my player 
 off the plexiglass snipe a top shelve goal. It's that good.
  - Dynasty mode is fun and it allows you to take a break from playing and check things out. Help 
 mold your team into what you want it to be. Although, there could be more options to choose from. 
 And alittle more realistic.
  - Passing is a challenge, and I like it. Its realistic because if you mess up, the puck turns over 
 and goes the other way, hockey is a back and forth sport.
  - The other teams defense is tough to beat, which adds to the challenge.
  
  Negatives:
  - 
 Your Defense is really bad. You can't hit guys by using the analog stick, you either (A) have to 
 run into them or (B) change the controls to classic and press the Y button, because if you don't, 
 you'll be shooting the puck away. And choosing your D, when you're near a guy is BRUTAL! Some times 
 he stops and the guy just walks by you.
  - Cut scenes are repetitive and boring, not alot of difference. But you'll get bored of it anyways, 
 even if there was alot of difference.
  - Dynasty mode could have more options and be more realistic
  - You should be able to create 
 a player and decide which equipment he uses, and what he looks like. Not some picture thing, that 
 really sucks.
  - The difficultie setting is weird and seriously flawed. I put it on the hardest and I swear to 
 god the game was making me purposely lose. Every time the other team shot on my goalie, it was 
 a goal. My goalie was letting in the weakest goals. Which was really pissing me off. It does that 
 sometimes on the difficulty setting below the hardest. Especially when your up by two or three 
 goals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpella44
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 19, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  I've played a couple of EA hockey games in the past, and this one is definitely the best of the 
 bunch. The graphics look great, the play is smooth, and the general layout of the menu screens 
 is easy as well.
  
  The new skill stick is amazing, it allows you to have total control over the puck and how you want 
 to take the shot on goal. It really makes the offensive aspect of the game much more user friendly 
 and leaves room for creativity. On the downside, fighting and body checks are some of the best 
 parts of hockey, and 07 does not quite get it done. Fighting consists of holding onto the other 
 guys jersey and participating in a lean forward/lean back match. It is impossible to get a punch 
 off on the computer, led alone ever figure out what button would do it if you had the chance. As 
 for body checks, it is not bad, but I have yet to have a major check into the boards or completely 
 level a player at mid-ice. Mainly, you just bump into the guy w/ a sound effect, but seldom have 
 I knocked anyone off their skates.
  
  In sum, it is a very realistic and quality hockey game, but it misses out on some of the more traditional 
 aspects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 19, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  I have never struggled in choosing between two sports games as I have in the last week. I have 
 been buying and playing NHL 2K games since the brand was introduced in 2000 and have always been 
 very pleased with their quality and depth. However, I saw the previews of NHL 07 and had to admit 
 the shot stick and enhanced puck physics intrigued me. I was conflicted to try it though because 
 I have been sore at EA Sports since they nabbed the NFL license in retaliation of 2K games cutting 
 the prices on some of their sports titles. An EA Sports fanboy I am not. However, I knew I had 
 to try NHL 07 for myself because I knew I would always wonder what the other side of the fence 
 was like. So I took the plunge buying it knowing I could return it if it came down to it. In addition, 
 I bought NHL 2K7 because I admit I am a 2K fanboy at heart and no matter what I would always enjoy 
 their style of hockey.
  
  NHL 07 automatically takes you into the a shootout to immediately get a sense of the new style. 
 I was taken aback because it seemed a little unnatural at first because my fingers kept straying 
 towards the face buttons (which you can use if you don't like the stick) . However, within 1 or 
 2 games it felt totally natural and gave a sense of control I never would have guessed a game could 
 convey. Its one of those situations where its easy to learn but has the depth there to become a 
 master. When you pull off a shot it just feels more rewarding than any other hockey game. You feel 
 part of whats happening without the need of any of that Wii nunchuck nonsense. What makes the experience 
 even more powerful is how the controls are connected brillantly with the rumble feature (See PS3 
 we still need rumble) . When you take a shot or perform a body check you FEEL it. It seems like 
 most 360 games have toned down the rumble feature from the original Xbox days but this game uses 
 it to full effect. It does not feel superficial like it does in so many other games.
  
  The graphics, especially in 1080i, are really, really nice. There is just a more realistic feel 
 to them. I was concerned when I heard about flaky animations and framerate issues other reviewers 
 cited. Some of the animations could use a little more Crisco but they are by no means ugly and 
 I just noticed them because I was really looking for them after all the complaints. If you just 
 play the game, I guarantee you will be just so captured up in the action that you was easily miss 
 most if not all. I have not experienced any framerate issues but then again I never noticed frame 
 rate issues in Quake 4 either so maybe my 360 is special. Online so far there was a short period 
 of a hiccup but performs otherwise very admirably.
  
  The thing that really takes away from NHL 07 is the lack of features. You get Quick Games, Dynasty, 
 International Tourney and Dodge Shootout. Navigation through menus is pretty messy unlike last 
 years EA Sports games but because there are not many features you won't be using it much. The Dynasty 
 mode has a good amount of depth but there is no organic feel to it between managing the team and 
 playing the game. It feels like to separate activities.
  
  Finally, how did it compare to NHL 2K7? Big difference! NHL 2K7 is a good looking game and they 
 did a great job with the ice effects. The animations are more varied and smooth especially skating. 
 However, I think NHL 07 player models, coaches and audience look more realistic. There are so many 
 things to see and do in NHL 2K7 that it feels like a trip to Hawaii while NHL 07 feels like Idaho. 
 This can be a deal breaker for some especially for those who do not buy a lot of games. You definitely 
 get your money's worth in terms of content with NHL 2K7 so if you want something that can really 
 occupy your time you may be better off with it. However, keep in mind they are pretty much the 
 same things you could do in NHL 2K6 if you have that game already. This also goes for online features 
 which is another area that NHL 07 is in dire need of next year.
  
  The Cinemascope feature in NHL 2K7 is the biggest change this year and it does make you feel the 
 drama and glory of the game. The music, as many have said, is nice but just way to soft to get 
 you really into it. NHL 2K7 tries to immerse you with its audio and visual effects while NHL 07 
 tries to immerse you with the actual gameplay. What it really comes down to is the experience. 
 NHL 07 is truly an evolution of Hockey just as Fight Night Round 3 was for boxing. Once playing 
 it I could not help but feel kind of detached from the game when I went back to NHL 2K7. Its that 
 big of a change. If you want to go for something different I stronly suggest giving it a try. However, 
 if you need the more robust features or just hate EA Sports then you will not be disappointed with 
 NHL 2K7. I am sure that NHL 2K8 will come up with its own shot stick next year so you can always 
 wait until then.
  
  Thanks for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smb1181
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 18, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, when i first played this game i was not impressed by any means. The frame rate 
 leaves something to be desired and the overall graphics are not as pretty when zoomed out as compared 
 to the zoomed in shootout. With that said, this game will take time to grow on you. My first 10-15 
 games, i was getting to the point of trading it in and grabbing 2k7. But after a few more games 
 i realized just how many positive things there are in this game. Skill stick being #1. Now granted 
 it takes some getting used to especially after playing the demo where all you have to concentrate 
 on is shooting and deking. Now you have to incorporate all the other facets of the game with the 
 skill stick. But believe me when i tell you, once you grasp the skill stick and what exactly you 
 can do with it, you will be bought. Of course there are flaws, such as the incomplete line changes. 
 But as far as the overall picture goes, nhl 07 delivers the best hockey sim i've seen since i started 
 playing hockey games back in the days of Ice Hockey and Blades of Steel. Playing on superstar mode, 
 i find some of the plays the computer executes leave me in awe. Saves alike. Yes it is a bare bones 
 package but realize this is the first huge step in the right direction in a long time. I don't 
 like dwelling on negatives so i'll point out some very nice positives. When you're trying to breakout 
 of your def zone, players on your team actually move their feet and get into a position for a pass. 
 Same goes for the neutral zone regroup. Shots don't always hit the net. Powerplays are easier to 
 set up then i'm accustomed to. No turbo button make for a much more realistic experience. Anyway, 
 don't be to quick to judge this game if you just bought it. Give it time and i'm sure you end up 
 feeling that is really is quite a great game. I will say i have not played 2k7 so i cannot compare 
 but i am just giving you my thoughts as i see it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 17, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  First, let me give EA some credit, this game is heads above anything else on the market when it 
 comes to graphics, it is absolutely beautiful. The first thing that EA lets you do, a shootout, 
 really shows everything that works for this years outing. The use of the right analog stick is 
 a lot of fun for shooting and allows for pin-point accuracy when going one-on-one with the goalie. 
 But the fundamentals for EA are still sorely lacking.
  Defense is more than frustrating on the player side, especially when switching to the nearest defender 
 causes them to stop their stride when you take over control. Adding to that, its my opinion that 
 the right analog stick should not be used for checking. There were plenty of times which i would 
 go into a corner to fight for a puck and end up shooting down the length of the ice for an icing 
 when all i wanted to do was knock the opposing player off the puck. The final problem has been 
 a problem for me since NHL 2002, and thats the speed and size of the players. After a few second 
 of puck possession it feels, and looks, like the players are skating on glue. Along with that, 
 I feel that the players in are too big, or the rink is too small.
  With all this i went back to the 2k series and i will admit, it doesn't look nearly as pretty, 
 but its got it where it counts.
  
  So the quick and dirty:
  + awesome graphics
  + cool shooting controls
  - bad defense
  - poor skating 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clockworkboy00
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  As anyone who has played the game will tell you, the most important thing about this game is the 
 Skill Stick. This little bit of innovation has completely changed the way we play hockey and it 
 does it in a way that makes up for some glaring issues with the rest of the game.
  
  The skill stick is the much-lauded feature added by EA this year (very likely stolen by 2K next 
 year) that allows you to control your hockey stick with the right thumbstick similar to how you 
 bat in MLB 2K6 or MVP NCAA Baseball 2006. It takes some getting used to, but after a handful of 
 games, you won't remember how you played before. It's just that good. It's becomes intuitive once 
 you understand how it works and really pulls you into the game. No longer will you waste a scoring 
 opportunity because you couldn't remember, in that split second, whether Y or B controls the wrist 
 shot.
  
  The new puck physics also add a whole new level to the gameplay. The puck bounces over goalies' 
 shoulders, spins and flips after being fired off the cross-bar, rebounded pucks give you a moment's 
 opportunity to flip them between the net-minder's legs.
  
  Speaking of net-minder's... The goalies in this game are incredible. They follow the puck with 
 their eyes and make realistic moves to block, deflect, or cover the puck. Their animations are 
 life-like with pads that move independently of the players' body. For the first time on the virtual 
 ice, goalies will close their gloves on save. Graphics round out the pro column nicely. Most star 
 players look like their real-life countertparts... or close enough. Textures and lighting excel 
 during gameplay, but especially during frequent cut-scenes that never interfere with the flow of 
 the game. My only point of contention here is the frame rate and occasional-to-frequent choppiness 
 during cutscenes.
  
  There are a few issues with the game, as stated earlier. Defense feels like a completely different 
 game. Players don't feel as responsive and the Skill Stick suddenly disappears... or perhaps transforms 
 in to the Shove Stick. Why they chose to abandon their innovation on the other side of the puck, 
 I can't explain. For years, 2K sports has used the right stick on defense to swing your stick for 
 poke-checks or just to muck up the offenses game plan. A simple face button here would have worked 
 just fine for bodychecks.
  
  The game plays pretty well apart from the defense. The only other problem is the difficulty associated 
 with grabbing a face-off and pushing the puck where you want it to go. Too often a face-off is 
 won, but the puck is pushed to the opposing team... which as my luck would have it, often results 
 in a quick goal... in the third period... with 30 sec. on the clock.
  
  There are a few questionable goals as well. The new puck physics and goalie moves, for all their 
 esteem, also result in more accidental goals than are common for your typical 3 periods of NHL 
 play.
  
  But luckily, most of EA's errors with this game take place outside the rink. The menus, though 
 attractive, are impossible to navigate with any confidence. In some cases, the B button will move 
 you back a screen, sometimes pushing the left stick to the left will do the trick, and yet in other 
 circumstances the START button is the way to go. Perhaps this was EA's way of adding puzzle mini-games 
 to the title, but..... probably not.
  
  The game also suffers from a lack of additional features. A bare-bones Season mode would have been 
 nice for those of us who have no interest in the everyday goings on of an NHL franchise's General 
 Manager. More online options would be welcomed by the hungry masses as well
  
  One nice feature of the online system is the real-life sports ticker that runs at the bottom of 
 menu screens. It allows you to choose for which sports you'd like constant updates. Care only about 
 the NHL? No problem. Want to see if your wild card contending baseball team was able to keep its 
 narrow lead? That's there too. Choose from NHL, MLB, NBA, NFL, NCAA Basketball and Football, and 
 a host of football clubs from around the world.
  
  This is truly a next-gen gaming experience. Innovation is king and in such a way that other problems 
 are over-looked. Next year's game should only improve on this solid effort. The boys and girls 
 at 2K have finally got some competition on the ice. If you're looking for an alternative to 2K's 
 NHL 2K6 v.2, pick up NHL 07. You may need to learn a few new things... but you'll be happy you did. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stryking_Fyre
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  The NHL season is just around the corner, and that means new Hockey games. For the first time since 
 NHL 2004, EA has released a hockey game that is well worth your time to play.. in fact, it wouldn't 
 be a stretch of the imagination at all to say that NHL '07 may be the finest hockey game ever created, 
 even surpassing that of NHL '94. On to the review.
  
  The graphical presentation in NHL 2007 is simply awe-inspiring. You really understand how much 
 work EA put into the graphical area of this game when you can actually see the individual stitching 
 of the crests and numbers in the jerseys along with the fluid player animations. Fans actually 
 look and feel unique depending on what arena you play in, no longer are the boring cardboard copy 
 cutouts populating the seats, this time detailed fans line the seats in their home teams gear, 
 with the occasional fan wearing the oppositions jersey. The player models are as close to photo-realism 
 as possible, possibly some of the best in a sports game ever seen. From a distance the models look 
 fantastic, but up close the amount of detail in the facial features and animations is amazing. 
 I haven't seen a surface in any game look and feel as real as the ice in NHL 2007, the skate marks 
 that criss cross the ice after a brief period of time look fantastic and add an interesting texture 
 to the playing surface. Puck physics are done nicely as well. Quite simply put, the graphics in 
 this game showcase what the 360 is capable of in the first generation of games running only on 
 one core. If graphics look like this in '07 I can only imagine what '08 and '09 will look like.
 
  
  Gary Thorne and Bill Clement of the NHL's former US television carrier, ESPN, do a fantastic and 
 brilliant job of announcing the action as it is going on around you. They have a wider variety 
 of dialouge than that of most sports titles, in fact you rarely here the same line repeated twice 
 in a period. In terms of broadcasting for sport video games, I don't think there is a tandem that 
 can touch what they've done in NHL '07. The crowds are done well too, I'm a Oiler fan and I recall 
 when we did the Roli, Roli, Roli chant during the playoffs last year.. sure enough, Roli made a 
 couple of big saves for me in '07 and the crowd started chanting, it sent chills down my spine. 
 Instead of being noisy all the time, the crowd also now realistically reacts to how your team is 
 doing on the ice. Let an opposing team gain momentum in your zone and they'll be completely silent, 
 score a big come from behind goal and they go crazy. Those subtle effects add even more realism 
 to the experience. Music is the same as past titles, a mix of emo, soft rock and mild hip hop.
 
  
  The new right analog 'skill stick' is probably the closest any of us will ever get to gripping 
 our hands around a hockey stick in the NHL. Although it takes some time to get used to, once you 
 get familiar to how it works and controls, you'll never go back to the traditional face buttons. 
 To fire a wrist shot, depending on whether your player shoots left or right handed you simply roll 
 the right analog stick to the right or left and up, in a semi-circular motion. For a weaker wrist 
 shot, you can just push up on the analog stick. Slapshots are a bit more tricky in '07 which works 
 well, since it is truly a skill shot, not something can be attempted all the time. To use the slapper, 
 all that is required is pushing the stick down, and then up to fire the shot. Right and Left will 
 let you deke out defenders and goalies. It's a feature that's implemented flawlessly, unfortunately 
 it's the only truly new feature that NHL '07 has. Franchise mode is as good as ever, included in 
 it's full documentation are the rules and principles of the new CBA. General Manager and Coaching 
 options are greatly expanded upon, giving you a more realistic approach to your team, players and 
 fans. A strict salary cap is now set in place with a waiver system as well as one and two way contract 
 management. The only other modes available are a limited tournament mode, and a simple shootout 
 mode - which is good for getting used to the skill stick. Online mode still is below average, you 
 have simple ranked or unranked games along with a stats leaderboard and a roster update option. 
 I'd love to see EA add some tournament capability like that of the 2K series.
  
  Overall, a fantastic addition to the NHL series, and truly revolutionary. A must buy if you are 
 a hardcore NHL fan, or even a casual. Next year in '08 they're focusing on improving and adding 
 new features for the goaltenders and defence, so that version should even be more jaw-dropping. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeffrey9910
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  I had really high hopes for NHL 07, so I decided to give it a try before trying 2k7. I'll start 
 off with the good. Graphics - The game looks amazing, some of the best graphics on the 360. Once 
 the graphics get in motion they don't look as good. I have two big problems with the graphics. 
 1) The checking animations are horrid, looks like two stone figures running into each other. And 
 nobody ever leaves their feet. No matter who or how big the check was. 2) What moron @ EA Sports 
 put black letters on a dark gray background for all the overlays? It is impossible to tell what 
 period it is without pausing. Sound - By far the best part of NHL 07, the two play by play guys 
 are great and repeat very litle. The crowd sounds good and realistic. Gameplay - This is where 
 NHL 07 fails in comparision to the other hockey game :) . 07's first downfall is they need way more 
 sliders, while 2k7 may not play true-sim out of the box, 2k has sliders for everything so you can 
 set the game up the way you like it. EA has sliders for just the basic stuff, and after I adjusted 
 them (Game speed all the way down, fatigue effect up, puck control all the way down) EA needs to 
 add more sliders for Pass Aim, Pass Assist just to name a few. Apparently EA thinks every pass 
 in the NHL is tape to tape. While the skill stick is suppose to be the greatest thing since slice 
 bread, it has it problems. It's great for dekeing &amp; shooting, but the problems lie in the fact 
 that it is also used for checking. So you'll be in the corner fighting for the puck and next thing 
 you know it comes flying out and towards the goal. Defense in this game is about useless. it feels 
 like you have no control over the player when skating backwards, if you have every play 2k games 
 that was skating backwards should feel and act like. My biggest gripe with the gameplay is that 
 the AI goalies NEVER freeze the puck, you could have 3 guys in the crease and he'll still try and 
 pass the puck out which leads to easy scoring chances. While most of my complaints may be a small 
 problem to most, A) you can't promote a game as most Authentic with stupid stuff like that, or do 
 like 2k and add a slider for it. B) a 9+ rated game, as some have done on here, shouldn't have these 
 problems
  
  In closing if you want a fun, arcady game, NHL 07 is right for you, if want to play a hockey game 
 that mirrors what you see in every NHL city I recommend looking elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I've never bought an EA game over 2k's suberb series because I saw their games very arcadish and 
 unrealistic, not to mention the crappy big headed looney tunes character models that EA is known 
 for. But boy how times a changing. From Live's 06 phenomenal graphics to Madden 07's stellar graphics, 
 NHL 07 is THE most beautiful hockey game ever made, anyone who disagrees is a moron, sorry 2k but 
 your graphics is a has been. I also want to let everyone know that I'm a 2k fanboy, but I give 
 credit where credit is due, and this year's edition of NHL 07 is perhaps the best hockey game in 
 terms of innovation and risk taken. Yes, like alot of people out there, I bought both copies, and 
 2k's edition is not too shabby, although it plays typical 2k syle, so as far as animation and presentation, 
 2k is the winner. Gameplay this year is a different story. You see, NHL 07 has what everyone knows 
 as the skill stick, and we all know what this does. It's this type of innovation that converted 
 me to favor NHL 07 over 2k7, and although 2k7 got better reviews in major websites, it's because 
 of 2k's traditional fun factor and smooth gameplay, not to mention all the extras features that'll 
 make a 12 year old wet their pants. But remember, just like Live 06 was crap because of all the 
 missing features, NHL 07 will make big additions and fill in the blanks by next year. For the first 
 time, I consider NHL 07 more sim than 2k7. This is the result when a game has the proper time to 
 make their games great. I'm reviewing this game not only as a gameplay standpoint, which I consider 
 truly next gen, but as a game that revolutionized the sport of hockey. 2k will no doubt follow 
 EA's steps in terms of using the right anolog stick as a... stick, and when they do, it going to 
 be tough battle. But this is the first time I purchase EA's brand over 2k. I believe 2k has to 
 ditch the old PS2 engine in all their so called next gen games and start from scratch like EA did. 
 I love and will always love 2k sports, but this year EA caught my attention. This is next gen folks, 
 remember that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bremsy
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  It was painful to play NHL 2005 and NHL 06 (not to mention the 2k games) . For the sports game naysayers 
 out there who say same basic controls as before. well yes and no. You do have the option to use 
 the classic controls, but noone in the right mind is going to use them. The skill stick is what 
 carries the game this time around. Unfortunately it comes with some problems as when you shoot 
 when you are trying to pull off a deke. NHL 07 is fun to play and sometimes frustrating to. the 
 frustrating parts:
  A minor glitch that EA hasn't fixed since the original EA NHL Hockey game in 1992: really awful 
 looking chincy goals. Sometimes skating is a pain, but i've been able to get past it. And of course 
 the AI can be really stupid at times. But I find this game to be the most fun out of the hockey 
 games this year. The offense is ok, not overly easy to score, But far too many shots go off the 
 post. The franchise mode i like for various reasons. I like to see how things develop in there. 
 But by far the biggest glitch is the attendance factor for the games. No Leafs Home game would 
 ever have less than 10 000 people in attendance.
  Graphics weren't quite what i expected them to be but are still pretty good.
  Sound is the same 
 repitition as usual.. Just like any EA Hockey game. But i don't mind the music selection at all. 
 I like a lot of the songs they have put into this game.
  Value isn't very high since most of the people that play Hockey video games live in Canada and 
 the quality of hockey games has been stuck in the same spot for the last few years. Basically it's 
 a rental first before a purchase.
  But yes, this is the best hockey game available this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zsciaeount
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 16, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  After locking itself out from the Xbox 360 last year, EA finally skates onto the next-gen ice with 
 NHL 07. During the offseason, EA took great pains to not just update the venerable franchise, 
 but to overhaul key aspects of the game in a way that transforms the experience into something 
 that truly feels next-generation. The result is a remarkably fun and challenging game of hockey 
 that is dragged down by only those features that dont share that same new-glove smell.
  
  The most talked-about addition to the franchise is the new control scheme, which recalls the drastic 
 changes EA made to their boxing franchise a few years ago. Gone is the need to rely on face buttons 
 to pull off your moves; now, all controls -- with the exception of fight initiation and line changes -- are 
 mapped to the two thumbsticks and the shoulder buttons. While this move could have been potentially 
 limiting and oversimplified, a whole new puck management system transforms the offensive control 
 scheme into one that is incredibly deep, and eventually becomes very intuitive.
  
  In past years, player animations with and without the puck were more or less pre-scripted. This 
 allowed for tight control and precision passing, but with the puck glued to the players stick, 
 some of the chaos and creativity of the real game was lost in translation. With NHL 07s new puck 
 physics, the puck is now a separate entity that moves more independently of the players stick. 
 This allows for players to cough up the puck when they get too fancy, and also allows for a player 
 to drop a puck around a player and pick it up on the other side of their skates, for instance.
 
  
  If the changes to the puck had been attempted with the control schemes of old, it would have undoubtedly 
 ended up as a sloppy and unplayable mess, but with the addition of the skill stick, the game offers 
 unprecedented control. The left thumbstick controls your skates, while the right controls your 
 stick. Moves with the right thumbstick just make sense: move right and left to deke, flick quickly 
 forward to take a snap shot, back and forward to fire a slap shot, and roll the stick to give the 
 netminder a taste of your wrister or a backhand. Its a bit disorienting at first, and admittedly, 
 there is a somewhat steep learning curve, but once you get the hang of the controls, youll never 
 want to go back to the face buttons again.
  
  The new puck physics also make for more unpredictable circumstances when crashing the net. Rebounds 
 are more unpredictable, and goalies react in more realistic and varied ways. Beating the netminders 
 relies less now on one-timers, and more on drawing them out of position and shooting through traffic.
 
  
  Another enhancement is the vision control option, which is mapped to the left trigger and allows 
 you to keep your player facing up-ice. This gives you precision shooting and blueline control right 
 when you need it. Its also a big help on defense, when you want to skate backward to contain an 
 oncoming offensive rush.
  
  Passing is now handled with the right shoulder buttons, which takes a few minutes to get used to, 
 but eventually becomes as intuitive as the rest of the scheme. The control this year is less precise, 
 but is actually a more accurate representation of the way passing actually works in the game.
 
  
  On defense, the control is a bit more disappointing, if only because it is not as radically improved 
 as the offensive controls. Hits are mapped to the right thumbstick, and require a bit more timing 
 to pull off. Reaches, dives, and poke checks are handled by the shoulder buttons, which is fine, 
 except in the case of the poke checks, which require the use of both the right bumper and the right 
 thumbstick. This combo is a bit awkward, and you may find yourself delivering a body check by mistake 
 more often than youd like.
  
  Veterans of the series may also notice the absence of turbo controls. While some may lament their 
 loss, it should be said that the skaters do respond appropriately to most situations, turning up 
 the gas automatically when theyre on open ice, on the breakaway, or scrambling for the icing touch-up.
 
  
  All of these changes serve to transform EAs NHL franchise into something few would have ever believed: 
 simulation-style hockey. Its a breath of fresh air for a series that in the past had tried too 
 hard to create a hard-hitting scorefest, though fans of EAs previous brand of hockey may be turned 
 off by the new, more methodical style of play.
  
  If theres one thing that EA has been known for, its presentation, and NHL 07 does not disappoint. 
 The graphics are nothing short of stunning, from spot-on character faces that animate beautifully, 
 to the fluid goalie animation, and even down to the smallest details, such as tape over the pads, 
 and modeling of actual custom equipment worn by the players. The close-ups also reveal exquisite 
 detail, such as fabric textures and stitching around the crests on the sweaters. The arenas are 
 also fairly busy, and while theyre not entirely accurate representations of the real arenas, seeing 
 stands full of thousands of nicely-modeled 3D fans is quite a sight to behold.
  
  During gameplay, however, most of these graphical touches get lost in the distant camera angles, 
 and some cracks in the foundation begin to show. Given how fluid most of the animations are, it 
 makes some of the less polished transitions a little more jarring. And the ice, while beautiful 
 and dynamic, lacks a lot of the texture and depth during gameplay that you see on the surface in 
 NHL 2K7. Also, since the game shines so much in close-up situations, the relative lack of variety 
 in the cutscenes and replays will undoubtedly cause some disappointment.
  
  The sound is generally very good, and makes excellent use of the surround soundstage. From the 
 grinding of skates, to the crack of a slapshot, the on-ice sound is spectacular. The crowd is very 
 dynamic, matching their volume and fervor quite well to the on-ice action. Individual voices can 
 occasionally be heard over the din, which adds a whole lot of depth without being too obtrusive.
 
  
  The music is the same misguided mix of modern pop that weve seen over the past few years, and 
 is entirely forgettable. Perhaps the lack of quality would not be so evident if there werent such 
 a profound lack of variety in the musical offerings.
  
  EA made a wise move this year in bringing broadcast icons Gary Thorne and Bill Clement to this 
 years commentary. While the legendary Jim Houghson offered great commentary over the past decade, 
 a lot of his presentation had stagnated over the years, and seemed destined to keep the game mired 
 in the arcade-style attitude. Thorne and Clement help to take the series in a more serious direction 
 with their trademark banter. However, as great as it is to have the pair call the game, the whole 
 commentary feels underdeveloped.
  
  After just a handful of games, youll notice that a lot of the commentary repeats... a lot more 
 than it did in years past. In addition, Clement is horribly underutilized, almost to the point 
 that minutes may pass between the moments you hear his voice. More attention should have been given 
 to providing color to on-ice events, player backgrounds, in-game rivalries, and events in other 
 games, because the illusion created by the commentary feels very thin when the action stops. Given 
 how robust some of EAs NHL commentaries were in the early 2000s, this presentation seems like 
 a step back for the genre in general.
  
  The only other complaint that could be lodged against the commentary is the fact that Thorne repeatedly 
 refers to the slot as the scoring area or scoring chance area, and never the slot, as pretty 
 much any fan or commentator would call it. In fact, theres a noticeable absence of a lot of hockey 
 slang from the commentary, such as five-hole, point, and top-shelf, to name a few. Its almost 
 as if EA were directing Thorne and Clement to dumb it down for players who arent as familiar with 
 the game.
  
  NHL 07 breaks from EAs next-gen tradition by providing a more robust franchise mode that allows 
 you to take as little or as much control over your team over a 10 year period. For those who like 
 a little micromanagement between games, there is a lot to like, but its still not as robust as 
 those found in other sports titles. Online is simple, but fun, with smooth gameplay and very little 
 lag.
  
  A few other criticisms should be mentioned, as they do drag the game down a bit. One is that the 
 AI is still rather suspect. Players on offense have a tendency to lose track of the play through 
 the neutral zone, and push the play offsides way too often. This is a very frustrating problem 
 that really hampers the play at the blueline. In addition, the AI players still dont do a very 
 good job at creating traffic in front of the net, and are still a little too lax on defense.
  
  Face-offs also suffer in this edition. They are downright difficult to master with the new 
 control scheme, and even with a good face-off artist in the circle, it will be a few dozen games 
 before you win more than one or two in an entire game.
  
  Finally -- and this is a small gripe -- the score display does not give any persistent indicator of 
 whether or not the net is empty. When a goalie is pulled, there is a quick display at the top right 
 of the screen, but it quickly fades. When there is a stoppage in play, the goals are usually out 
 of sight, and it is not made clear whether or not the goalie has been put back in. In a critical 
 situation, you shouldnt have to count the number of skaters on the ice to figure out that the 
 net is empty.
  
  One of the big questions for Xbox 360 hockey fans this year is where their $60 should go to get 
 their hockey fix. Based on previews and demos, most would argue that EA had the upper hand. However, 
 the truth of the matter is that the quality of NHL 07 and NHL 2K7 is quite comparable, though 
 each offers a different take on the game. For the first time since the inception of the 2K hockey 
 series, EAs offering presents the more realistic game of hockey from the standpoint of gameplay 
 and pacing, which may win over some of 2Ks fanbase. Graphically speaking, EA wins when the camera 
 is up-close, but during actual gameplay, the differences in the player models is a lot less noticeable. 
 2K7 has a much better camera system, and a stunning ice surface that puts NHL 07 to shame. In 
 addition, the AI in 2K7, on both offense and defense, outclasses NHL 07. However, it is hard to 
 ignore how fresh NHL 07s control scheme and puck physics feel, and how they transform the gameplay 
 into something really exciting.
  
  All in all, NHL 07 is a superb game of hockey that truly captures the essence of next-generation 
 design. While it is by no means a perfect game, the few flaws are only noticeable because the rest 
 of the game sets such a high mark in terms of gameplay and presentation. With its steep learning 
 curve and radical departure from the old EA NHL formula, NHL 07 may not be for everybody, but 
 those who take the time to get the hang of the new controls will find a rich and rewarding game 
 of hockey on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbelli
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 16, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  I've played both 2K7 and NHL 07 and I have to say that for the fun factor, 07 wins the prize.
 
  
  2K7 has way smoother animations during gameplay, but NHL 07's skill stick is just too much fun. 
 2K7 looks better during gameplay - the ice is beautiful, the animations are incredibly smooth and 
 the new camera is awesome. The fundamental gameplay itself is fine.
  
  Yet even though I really love to watch 2K7 for its in-game presentation (NHL 07's cutscenes and 
 replays are still great) , I just couldn't get into it when playing it like I could with NHL 07. 
 The skill stick really gets you into the game. I love the feeling of accomplishment setting up 
 and shooting a goal with the stick. It's incredibly intuitive and much more fun than just pressing 
 X and hoping for the best.
  
  The skill stick definately takes practice. I think I played like 5 games before I really got the 
 hang of it. So be patient and don't give up.
  
  Online options are pretty lacking, but frankly I don't play sports online.
  
  If you combined 
 the skill stick with 2K7's in-game animations and camera, then you'd probably have the best hockey 
 game ever created. Hopefully, EA will take a hint and step it up in the animation/camera area next 
 year.
  
  For now, 2K7 is pretty to watch, but 07 is much more fun and involving to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skihawks
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 15, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  For those fans of the NHL series, I long for the days of NHL 94 and NHL 98. Good old fashioned 
 fun in a hockey game. What EA has done with NHL 07 is bring the fun back with a whole new feel.
 
  
  The first thing you will notice is the new analog controls. Gone are the days of button mashing 
 and cheap one-timers. With the new analog control, you move the stick with the right analog. Everything 
 from deking, to shooting wristers and slap shots, all is controlled by you. You can fake a slap 
 shot and deke with fluidity. It is downright sweet.
  
  With this comes a bit of a learning curve. It took me about six to eight games to get comfortable 
 with the new system. Once I got comfortable, I would never use buttons again. To actually have 
 control of how hard my player shoots and the location, going top shelf has never felt so sweet.
 
  
  One thing that is noticeably missing is the lack of a turbo button. I miss it. I believe that EA 
 may have taken the turbo out to reduce the odd man rushes. Either way, it needs to be in the game 
 and give the player the ability to toggle it on or off. Another difference to the controls is the 
 passing. Now you aim towards the player you want to pass to and then press the right trigger. The 
 longer you hold the trigger, the more loft you put on the pass. The passing system needs work. 
 Too many icing calls. One thing you will notice, when you pull off a one-timer you feel that it 
 is earned. To actually have to time the receiving player's shot on a one-time pass makes it feel 
 like true hockey and adds to the immersion.
  
  The A. I. needs work but is challenging. Too many times my guys stand and watch the puck after a 
 faceoff but for the most part they react in a realistic manner that does not impact gameplay.
 
  
  With EA sitting out last year, we all expected huge upgrades in the graphical department. Trust 
 me, EA delivered big time. The graphics are incredible. The detail on the jerseys, the live arenas 
 and puck physics are outstanding. The new goalie animations are the best in any hockey game. The 
 goalies actually glove pucks, sprawl, flop, etc. without looking scripted. It is awesome to see.
 
  
  One other little touch I noticed -- mullets are in the game....
  
  The one thing that does lack is the framerate. Hopefully, EA will crank up the framerate in all 
 sports titles next year to 60 FPS, which is something that has hindered all next-gen EA sports 
 titles.
  
  As far as extras, the dynasty mode is excellent. The create-a-player is in the game but it is bare 
 bones compared to what current gen gamers are used to. Yes, you can input your name and local but 
 cannot customize faces or hockey gear, which is odd. All in all, I am very pleased with this year's 
 effort. EA is doing next-gen gamers right by not porting over a current-gen game but starting from 
 scratch. They continue to build on the solid foundations in all its sports titles, gamers will 
 be taken back to the Genesis days.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _LEGIONS_
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 21, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I got both games (bought 07, and got 2k7 as a gift)
  
  I had played the demo for both games, and was hyped for 07 because of the graphics in shootout 
 mode.
  
  HOWEVER....
  
  First of all, once I put the game in, I kinda got disapointed with the graphics of NHL 07 when 
 playing 5on5. The ice seemed like current-gen, and something about the overall look feels jerky. 
 One thing though, the shootout, cutscenes, and the replays sport amazing graphics.
  
  The major flaws for me were:
  1. Cheese goals - just way too many of them
  2. AI - opposing 
 team seems godly, and users' play like amateurs
  
  And what's up with the ice? It looked like PS1 graphics all over again.
  
  Other than that, 
 it's a sure rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borcic0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 17, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  For a long time EA sports fan, i have to admit that NHL 07 delievered alot this year. Im starting 
 to play 2k games and im switching from nba live to 2k this year cause Ea let me down alot. K with 
 the review, the gameplay this year is greatt, the passing and AI is pretty sharp and everythings 
 great. The downside is that it just doesnt feel perfect, like the motion capture is too fast and 
 its hard to set up an offence when your team is bumping into you and each other. Graphics cant 
 say anthing but amazing. Sound amazing like seriously the best audio for a sports game ever. This 
 year EA delievered but they should have at least slowed down the gameplay a little bit to control 
 your offence. Besides that every game you play has the realisticness of a close game and realistic 
 scores helps you get into the game more. Seriously if i were you i dont think i can wait a whole 
 year for nhl 08 so this one is a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeeRye
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 15, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  For the first time in awhile, I'm thoroughly disappointed in Gamespot's review of a game. I don't 
 necessarily disagree with the scoring of it (although I would score it higher) , but the fact that 
 2K7 scores higher than '07 is unforgivable. This is not a review of Electronic Arts or 2K Sports. 
 Nothing annoys me more than when people say Yet again EA drops the ball , or Per usual, 2K is the 
 best , or whatnot. Frankly, I've seen both companies put out great games and terrible games. I 
 find it funny when people get all possessive of their favorite sports gaming company. I've played 
 both games; this is simply a review of '07 vs. 2K7, and whether or not they match up.
  
  I play hockey frequently; I know how it feels to play. I also know how it feels to play goalie -- I've 
 played that frequently, as well. The goalie in this game is, for the first time in ANY hockey game, 
 CLOSE to realistic. Sure, there are annoying, crappy goals that end up getting scored, and maybe 
 they happen more often than normal, but typically in real hockey, the goals that are scored are 
 varied. In 2K7, you're pretty much limited to scoring a one-timer goal, which is not difficult 
 to do. Slapshots from the point NEVER score in 2K7, although they're frequent in real life. In 
 real life, getting the opportunity to score a one-timer goal on a 2-on-0 is not all that frequent, 
 and the frequency that it's messed up is much more often than not. In '07, excepting the soft goals 
 scored, the goals you score are VERY realistic. You have much more of a chance of scoring a wrist 
 shot from the slot, or deking the goalie out, than an impossible one-timer. It makes you use REAL 
 hockey mentality, that being put the puck on net and hope for something great. 
  
  Graphics:
  For anyone who said the player models look anything less than amazing, don't believe 
 them. The number of players I've looked at the FACES of and recognized is pretty vast. Obviously, 
 not every face is a complete match, but for anybody whose name is known -- from Joe Thornton to Rod 
 Brind'Amour to, well, whoever, it's dead-on. The goalies look incredible, and so does the ice. 
 The crowd is decent -- not incredible, but it certainly doesn't detract from the experience.
  
  To give credit where it's due, I like the Cinemotion concept that 2K7 implemented. If '07 used 
 it, the game would go up a huge notch. I like how with the Cinemotion camera you can really get 
 an idea of everything that's going on, especially on the Power Play. You can pass it back to your 
 D at the point, and whatnot. I'm not in love with the music they play for the Cinemotion, but I'm 
 not against it, either. I think that, if polished, it could be an incredible concept; I just don't 
 think the music is implemented correctly. The default camera for '07 is the same as previous years, 
 and although it works, often you're passing it blindly back to the point. The graphics certainly 
 aren't bad for 2K7 -- in fact they're really good -- but the fact that Gamespot gave '07 a 9 in graphics 
 and 2K7 an 8 bugs me. If you put the two side by side, there's a much more noticeable difference 
 between the two. If you give 2K7 an 8 (which it rightly deserves) , then '07 is definitely a 10, 
 maybe even an 11.
  
  As far as the skating animations, 2K7 wins. I really don't notice the difference in framerate, 
 but 2K7 looks more realistic when someone is skating. In '07, some of the movement animations don't 
 gel, such as when someone gets tripped by the goalie, they typically always spin as they go down, 
 and it just doesn't look right. So give 2K7 credit there.
  
  Gameplay:
  I keep hearing that 2K7 has the best gameplay, bar none, and that really bothers me. Again, I play 
 hockey. I don't see 2K7 as being incredibly realistic. I don't like how you can just hold the turbo 
 button and blow by everybody. EA '07 doesn't have a turbo button, and although at first that seems 
 like a terribly foreign concept, it works. In real hockey, if you turn on the jets, your teammates 
 will skate fast with you, trying to help out. It's called a rush. The defense will also either 
 try to stand you up, or more frequently, back off more to negate your speed and push you to the 
 outside. In 2K7, when you turn on the jets, nobody on your team keeps up, and nobody on the defense 
 counters it. With the turbo button being gone in '07, it makes it so you can't simply blow by people -- rather 
 you have to cut, move laterally, etc. Or, you could pass the puck. There's a concept. I like the 
 checking in '07; I think it's more realistic. In real hockey, it's very difficult (and more often 
 than not you have to get lucky) to land a huge hit. The checking is handled by the right analog 
 stick, and it's very easy to work, but more often than not you're going to simply get in someone's 
 way, instead of knocking them down -- it's more realistic. Hitting isn't always pretty in real life. 
 I dont like the poke-check in '07; I think 2K7 does a better job with it. It wouldn't be so bad 
 in '07, but you lose control of your player while you're attempting a poke check, which makes it 
 hard to be positioned correctly. I DO like how the players dive/block shots in '07. It's very easy 
 to position your player correctly, and they slide along with their momentum as they go down. When 
 you dive at someone from behind to poke the puck away, often you'll trip the player before hitting 
 the puck, which is also realistic (you get called for that frequently) . In real life it's not easy 
 to catch someone from behind and break up the play; if a guy beats you it usually requires breaking 
 the rules to stop him.
  
  The goalies also come WAY out to cut down the angle in '07. Typically, in every hockey game, they 
 stay in their crease and simply react to everything. That's not necessarily realistic. Especially 
 on a breakaway, goalies come far out of their crease to give the shooter little to shoot at, and 
 they build momentum coming back into the net so they can move with the shooter. The goalies actually 
 SLIDE in this game, whereas in other games they're able to bypass the laws of friction.
  
  The Skill Stick has been beaten to death, but I'll say this: it's not perfect, but it's the closest 
 to real that you'll come. It's fun to stickhandle back and forth, pull the puck back, start to 
 spin, pull back, and shoot. It needs more polishing, but it's pretty fun. I wish that players who 
 are terribly unskilled at stickhandling would be much worse with the skill stick, so that when 
 you try crazy moves they'd just lose the puck, but as a whole, it's an excellent concept, and especially 
 when pulling off a wrist shot (move the stick to the side and then shoot) , it feels like you're 
 really doing that yourself. Very satisfying.
  
  Offsides is incredibly annoying in '07. I can understand your guys going offsides if you make a 
 move right before going over the line -- that happens all the time in real hockey. If you have the 
 puck, it's your job to directly get it over the line. But way too many times, especially when there's 
 a faceoff right outside the offensive zone, your forwards will go over the line right away after 
 winning the draw to the defense, so you have to wait for them to come back. It almost makes you 
 just want to dump it in all the time -- which isn't in of itself unrealistic, just dump and chase. 
 If you're patient it's not a problem, but it can really get on your nerves.
  
  Sound:
  Gary Thorne and Bill Clement do a fantastic job. It's not WHAT they say; it's how they say it. 
 Typically you don't pay a whole lot of attention to what the play-by-play guy is saying when you're 
 watching a game; they just fill up the void in sound. It's typically just the sound of their voice 
 that you like, and when you pay attention it's usually when the commentator is saying something 
 specific about your favorite player, or whatnot. Let's face it. NO videogame announcing team EVER 
 says a whole lot that's interesting in commentary, and it's doubtful they ever will. Commentators 
 specifically talking about your favorite players are only interesting because they're a real person 
 talking, saying real-life intelligent things from their expertise in knowledge of the game (except 
 for John Madden -- he just talks about nothing even relatively intelligent and yet for some galactically 
 stupid reason he's wildly popular) . So you're never going to get an interesting videogame commentary. 
 Instead, what you look for in a videogame commentary team is energy and chemistry, and these two 
 really have it. Sure, it's a bit repetitive, but it's FAR better than the duo for 2K7.
  
  The rest of the sound of the game is great, too. The crowd gets into it at APPROPRIATE times. They're 
 loud when they should be loud and, conversely, quiet when they should be. They boo, they shout 
 SHOOT IT! when you've got it on the Power Play, etc.
  
  Other Modes:
  When I get a sports videogame, there are two things I do. Number one, I play it with my friends 
 when they come over. This game supports up to four players on the same system (as opposed to Madden 
 '07) , which works perfectly for my taste. Also, for when my friends are not over the house, I like 
 to create my own team and try to create realistic players (obviously upgraded to play in the NHL) 
 for that team, which makes the team somewhat personal. It's frustrating that you can't create your 
 own team; that's horribly annoying, especially since we have our own team in real life for tournaments 
 and whatnot. I've never really been one to get into the different modes of a game; I've never gotten 
 really in-depth with Franchise, etc. I also don't play a whole lot online gaming, so this review 
 has nothing to do with the alternate modes of play.
  
  Overall Summary:
  Over the past few years, I would definitely agree that 2K has had the edge in hockey games, although 
 I liked EA's version of hockey for regular consoles last year (especially since they included '94 
 in the package) . This year, EA has outdone 2K. The graphics are better, the controls are better, 
 the sound is better. The FEEL of the game is more realistic. This is the first time in awhile I've 
 been excited about a sports game coming out, and that anticipation was justified. I'm upset that 
 Gamespot reviewed 2K7 higher than this game. Neither game is perfect, but in my book '07 wins hands 
 down. The fact that average player reviews rates this to be close to a 9, and 2k7 to be below an 
 8 says something. Both games are certainly good, and each has their own innovations they've included, 
 but overall, NHL '07 is definitely the better game.
  
  --Dee Rye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbuhler
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 15, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  NHL 07 is, gameplay-wise, the most innovative hockey game ever made. For so many years sports games 
 in general have had inferior controls, making the playing experience very un-natural. Like the 
 old 3 click input everyone used for golf games... the way you controlled the game bore no resemblance 
 to the way you played the sport in reality.
  
  Finally EA has stepped up and tried to inject a more immersive feeling into the NHL franchise... making 
 you feel like you are actually PLAYING hockey. The way you pull back the stick to wind up and slam 
 it forward to let a shot rip is awesome. And the side-to-side deking is incredible... breakaways 
 have never been more exciting.
  
  The graphics are truly amazing. The texture quality is amazing and the polygon counts are far beyond 
 any previous versions. The one complaint I have is the faces. EA has added a lot more polygons 
 to the players' faces, but this seems to make it harder for them to just slap a face texture onto 
 a player and have them look like their real-life counterpart. So as a result the player detail 
 is much better, but their faces rarely look like their real-life counterparts. The animations are 
 a bit weird too... during replays of hits the players rarely even make contact.
  
  I've read a few player reviews where they criticize the graphics then they mention they're playing 
 on a standard-definition TV. Are you kidding me? You're lucky Microsoft even included coaxial hookups 
 for your dinosaur hardware. The xbox 360 is a HIGH-DEF console, and all games are designed as such. 
 If you are angry because it looks like crap on your 14 Hitachi from 1976, then give your head a 
 shake, get a job, and get a real TV so you can experience HD in all its glory.
  
  The AI is a little better than previous years, but not stellar. At least my AI-controlled defencemen 
 will throw some good body checks now and then. Unfortunately the defencemen don't hold the blue 
 line very well (they never have IMHO) so passing back to the point can lead to brutal turnovers.
 
  
  The sound deserves a real nod... it is FAR better than ever before. Not that it was ever bad, but 
 everything sounds real now. I go to a lot of hockey games and everything right down to the puck 
 ringing off the crossbar sounds great. Especially in 5.1 Dolby Digital!
  
  All-in-all this game could use more polishing, but let's remember a few things. First off, EA re-designed 
 xbox 360 hockey from the ground up this year, so they obviously had a lot less time to round out 
 the nice to have features and concentrated on graphics, sound and gameplay. Remember too that they 
 punch out a new version of hockey EVERY YEAR, so their development cycle is very short and intense. 
 Believe me, I was a tester for EA on NHL 2000. These guys take their work very seriously and deserve 
 a lot of credit.
  
  My guess is now that they've nailed the visuals they'll round out the rest of the game next year. 
 But there is no doubt this is a HUGE step forward for hockey fans and it's only going to get better. 
 Good work EA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhhale
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 15, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  I'm going to be critical about this game because after well over a decade of iterations, EA still 
 slacks off with delivering a great overall package. The game is good , but pretty disappointing 
 all things considered. First starters, the positives. The new stick control is neat and dynasty 
 mode is decent with lots of options for your team. The arenas are authentic from what I can tell, 
 and the game's pace seems a bit more realistic than previous iterations. There are several things 
 that I find frustrating about this game. None of these issues suprise me as EA is notorious for 
 delivering a half assed game at full price, year after year after year. The animations are weak 
 at best, when you are watching a replay it looks like 1970s-style stop action animation, there 
 is no smoothness to it and it doesn't blend at all. Even the puck seems to move large distances 
 without any animation to bridge it when it gets caught up in the goalies pads. When you check a 
 player it may look ok in gameplay camera, but when a penalty is called and you watch the replay, 
 most of the time the player models don't even touch each other. The collision detection is horrific. 
 The graphics are not next gen. The use of focus to provide depth of field was used well on the 
 Xbox, as were reflections, so there's nothing special in this department. The players have a very 
 low poly count for the system it's running on making them look blocky. The puck has a ridiculously 
 large gray shadow surrounding it which reminds me of Fox sports coloured puck attempt, I couldn't 
 find an option to turn this off like one could in some of the older versions of the game. I also 
 have yet to see a player or coach that even remotely resembles the actual player. With the limited 
 amount of work that EA needs to put into these games year after year after year after year, they 
 sure slack off whereever they can.
  
  The AI borders on retarded. I've seen 3 of my players skating multiple circles around a stationary 
 puck, none of them grabbing it, the AI has horrible positioning and it seems like the defensemen 
 hang around the centre line and never hold the blue line making it easy for the other team to clear 
 the zone. When you cross the blue line you can't do any skill stick moves (i. e. don't even touch 
 the skill stick until you're over the line) or turns or your teammates will go offside, gauranteed, 
 every single time. Players are also terrible for getting back onside, taking what seems like an 
 eternity. Garbage goals are frequent. The goalies will make all sorts of brilliant saves on cross 
 ice one-timers and fancy dekes, but then you'll shoot the puck lightly at the net, or accidently 
 pass it to the goalie, and it bounces in between the legs or whatever. Garbage garbage garbage. 
 Most games come down to dumb luck goals. You're better off shooting when you have the chance than 
 setting up plays, at least on Pro difficulty. The puck can also get lost in the lower corners of 
 the screen (I use a standard TV) where you can't see the puck on the screen and there's no indicator 
 of where it is. When it's against the boards at the bottom of the screen a white marker appears 
 to show you where it is, but if the puck wraps around to the corners the puck is till not visible 
 but the marker shuts off, making it difficult for players to grab it again since it's a guessing 
 game at that point. Lastly, the instruction manual is so barebones it's almost embarassing. For 
 such a revolutionary change in control, the manual is only 3 pages, and doesn't even describe some 
 of the options that can be done. If you dig into the controls menu you can get some additional 
 info on buttons, but really without a nice advanced tutorial you'll be deking and pulling odd moves 
 off unintended (sometimes cool and beneficial) but good luck with trying to repeat that move again 
 on demand. Overall, in true EA fashion, a half-assed iteration/rehash of the NHL franchise is upon 
 us once again. Expect to hear some of the worst music known to mankind on the menus, and expect 
 to see EA's logo bombarding you at every single opportunity. The only real interesting thing is 
 the skill stick, but since players can switch to old school buttons, don't be surprised to be at 
 a handicap using that while your opponent online uses the easy, tried and true button setup. This 
 is an old generation game that was ported to the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montynana
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 15, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  this game is nothing as i expected it to be hell i even had my friend make sure that if the game 
 wasnt good and i didnt like it like the past 10 years of hockey games i could return it. not this 
 year. this game is absolutly great i love it ea has finally made a good game for the 360 next to 
 fight night. I couldnt believe it. The graphics are very sharp even though at times u might see 
 .00001 second of a lag its no biggy people act as if its another full auto problem. this is a must 
 have game if u even like hopckey i have tried 2k7 and for me it does not compare. The controls 
 in the game are made so perfect it may take a while to learn how to take a proper wrist shot but 
 this game is amazing just the fact that the goalie will react appropriatly to where the puck has 
 been shot. if it goes into his glove and players are around he will smother it and cover his gove, 
 if it is about to trickle behind him he will lay on his back, it is just so good. The dynasty mood 
 is deep u can piss off a player and he will decide to leave the team after his contract is done 
 and finally they have gotten rid of the fake as hell boost butten. This game is a must have now 
 i will say what is wrong after all the good oh ya and the shootout absolutly PERFECT IM LOVING 
 IT!!!!!!!!!!!! But there is one problem the fact that the goalie when playing the puck doesnt exactly 
 have the best aim unless it is brodeur but that is realistic they shouldnt be able to handel it 
 perfect and also tat the puck does tend to hit the back of the goalie but either then that it is 
 perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nefarious13
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 15, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  Ok. First off. I've have played both games now for 4 or 5 hours apiece. I have enjoyed the 2k hockey 
 experience for the past few years now. The new 2k is the same game but with gorgeous graphics and 
 sound. This new EA effort will spell some big changes for the 2k series, because I must admit, 
 the skill stick is the real deal.
  
  I will make my comparison of the 2 in point form:
  
  Gameplay:
  
  2K- Same gameplay as always. No complaints. It is what it is.
  EA- Skill 
 Stick makes you want to get in clear to shoot and score as opposed to trying for the perfect one 
 timer. You do feel reward for scoring. It's refreshing but the gameplay is very raw. Defensive 
 play is terrible. Graphics:
  
  2K- Amazing. I can't say enough about 2K in this area. The play is smooth and slick.
  EA- I disagree 
 with the reviews out there that claim EA's hockey looks great. It doesn't. It's OK but compared 
 to 2K it pales. The game plays a tad choppy and the collisions are poor. I can't understand why 
 the reviews contradict this. It's just not that good.
  
  Sound:
  
  2K- Again, top notch. The orchestral soundtrack is weird though.
  EA- Falls short. It's decent 
 but some of the sounds are off. (hits, etc)
  
  Online Play and Dynasty:
  
  I will not comment on either as I have not ventured that far yet.
  
  
  In conclusion, if 
 I could recommend one over the other, i would say go with EA if the 2K engine is becoming boring 
 for you. EA will take over the hockey world with their next offering. This first one is raw and 
 just needs some polish. 2K is the safe choice, however, I must say, the future looks bright as 
 EA has definetely changed the hockey landscape. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 14, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Nhl 07 and nhl 2k7 were released on the same day, both with demos already on the marketplace. After 
 playing both i decided the new innovative controls and nice visuals make 07 the better choice which 
 i still think it is. The controls are great, but very hard to master or even get used to. I've 
 played the game at least 7 hours and im still not that great. The graffics are great, and are the 
 best out of any nhl game out. The physics of the players and puck work really great too. The online 
 play gives this game a little more longevity, but can get really difficult beating other players 
 since many of the goals scored are through luck. Overall this game will take you a lot of time 
 to get used to unless you change to classic controls, but it is definatly the better hockey game 
 out now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 14, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  When I played this demo, I went to Gamestop and switched my pre-order from Splinter Cell to NHL 
 07. It was that good!
  
  Graphics: STRAIGHT SICK!!! Best player models out there for a sports game. Also, the animations 
 are slick and fun to watch!
  
  Gameplay: The shot stick is the most fun I have ever had with a sports video game. Watching my 
 player rip a shot past the goalie is so awesome! it is one of the most gratifying thinigs ever! 
 I also love watching the puck bounce around. It is so realistic! The D is a bit sketchy at times 
 but I like the challenge.
  
  Audio: Perfect sounds. From the puck hitting the pipes to the puck being caught, it's spot on! 
 The crowd is awesome just like the other recent EA games. Just great sound period!
  
  Value: Okay, so there is only dynasty, shootout mode, and quick play offline and then single players 
 online. Boo hoo! I would like online leagues and the ability to do multiple user dynasties but 
 otherwise I couldn't care less! The gameplay is so good that I could play the dynasty over and 
 over again and be fine! Plus, playing with my bro is awesome! I can't wait to get four guys on 
 it and go wild!
  
  Overall, it's a sick game! It's better than any game I have ever played (hockey) which includes 
 NHL 93 (when the players would bleed) and NHL 94 when they let you do one timers. I am amazed that 
 Gamespot and IGN gave this game .1 and .2 less than 2K7 when 2K7 didn't even try anything new. 
 It plays just like the game I owned three years ago and that's not next-gen to me, it's weak sauce 
 is what it is! Get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrestlingdude
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 14, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Look no further, this is the first hockey game that has actually made me jump out of my seat and 
 scream YEAH! when I made a goal. Or if I hit the post on an almost certain goal: AWH! EA couldn't 
 have nailed the realism any better. From the animations to the perfect sounds of the game and especially 
 the new skill stick, you have it made in the shade my friends.
  
  I'll just say it, if you are a new gamer to hockey, get ready to put down about 2 hours of patients. 
 You might have a difficult time getting the hang of the new skill stick at first . Especially when 
 the Rookie difficulty level can be just as hard as Pro. So if you are new to EAs hockey game, you 
 might need some patience. However, it will pay off in a big way and that's a fact.
  
  If you are someone who just cares about gameplay and having fun, this is the game. Unless you care 
 about online options this game blows 2K7 off the chart. If you played 2K7 by now you will notice 
 the gameplay is the same as last years with not a lot of enhancements, except with the graphics 
 and options. NHL 07 is your hockey game for this year. Master the controls and you will experience 
 the NHL excitement the way it was always suppose to be in a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bundesligaBM
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 14, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  NHL 07 have closed the gap that the 2k series has enjoyed. The bold move to no turbo and a shooting 
 stick have payed off. I saw that gamespot mentioned the thrill of getting a goal what I missed 
 though was just the overall fun of the game. The challenges of getting things set up on a power 
 play, and yes the AI now supports power play tactics. The game looks even better than it plays, 
 its by far the best looking sports game out on the 360, surpassing Madden for the title. I also 
 love that you can set up personalities for your players, so say you have a offensive defenseman, 
 you can set him up that way and instead of checks.. he will look for steals and then push the puck 
 up the Ice. There is an issue with odd goals, but any hockey fan who watches his team over a season 
 knows the the puck sometimes just finds a way into the net.. no matter who your goalie is.. even 
 Martin Broduer lets a few by from time to time :) anyways its just impressive to me, you'll take 
 a shot and see it bounce of a defensemen stick and start flipping into the air... the goalie will 
 react and I've seen them hit the gloves and bounce out.. I've seen them snag it.. its actually 
 like your watch the real game... its amazing.
  
  I personally don't care to much for option, mini-games, or for that matter online play. I like 
 to get down and dirty in the Franchise and I'm a stat guy.. so if your like me, then go get the 
 game... you'll love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azorus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  For the average hockey fan, NHL 07 will offer more than enough in terms of gameplay and functionality. 
 Play a game against the computer, or go online to challenge your friends, or try a season. What 
 will stand out is the new controls with the Skill Stick. This will take some getting used to, lots 
 of practice to relearn how you play NHL video games, but once you beging to get the feel for it, 
 you can't go back. I tried going back to NHL 2K7, and I just felt like I couldn't make the moves 
 I wanted to.
  
  For me, the gameplay and graphics are very good for both 2K7 and 07, but after getting used to 
 the Skill Stick, I find myself only playing 07 now. Try it, and you'll be hooked! Hey, no hooking... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theevans
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 14, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  NHL 07.
  
  Just as the National Hockey League revamped the rules in their comeback from an alienating players 
 strike, so too has EA Sports with its latest installment of their signature hockey franchise. And 
 just like the real NHL this vid has been vastly improved and has created a much more enjoyable 
 experience of us fans.
  
  With NHL 06 being noticeably absent from EA's next-gen lineup last year, it appears the development 
 team took their time in revolutionizing way hockey is played on the Xbox 360. This game feels very 
 different than the NHL we grew up with, and while some people may shudder at the idea that their 
 favorite video game on ice has changed, most will ultimately be left with profound satisfaction 
 in the wake of new gameplay. Graphics. This is by far the best looking NHL game ever. As it should 
 be on its debut for the 360, every little piece of stadium and player looks authentic and vibrant. 
 From the dimly lit upper grandstands to the stitching on the numbers of players jerseys, EA Sports 
 has done a commendable job to make NHL 07 look amazing. There are plenty of camera angles to choose 
 from - although the standard "ice" view is basically what you'll need to see all the action as 
 usual. Some of the other angles are playable too but take some getting used to. The cut scenes 
 of players shoving and celebrating are great. Player animations are out of this world. Dekeing 
 and shooting have never looked more impressive. Goalie saves are the hallmark of achievement in 
 this department. No longer does the puck stick to goalie pads and gloves, and you'll find your 
 net minder making acrobatic moves to prevent a trickling puck from crossing the goal-line. Instant 
 replays are wonderful and exciting. Dynamic camera angles and slow motion make those big plays 
 feel even bigger. End of period recaps (sadly without commentary) are fun to watch. That being 
 said there are some weaknesses to the graphics in NHL 07. The fighting in this game is very sluggish 
 and looks rushed. Sound. Here is another example of EA going the extra mile to immerse you in your 
 console hockey experience. Sound is one of those elements that you don't particularly pay attention 
 to, but good sound effects and commentary boost an already strong product. Players shouting during 
 the play, pucks clanging off the iron of the net and foghorns booming upon hometown goals really 
 add the atmosphere of the game. While some of the booth comments are quite repetitive, overall 
 the commentary is quite good. The music is your run-of-the-mill alt-rock which serves well during 
 the menus and breaks in the action. It feels at times like some songs don't quite fit a hockey 
 game and are more like marketing pushes for bands that need to be heard. You can customize the 
 tracks to turn off any annoying tunes (thank you EA) .
  
  Presentation. NHL 07 is leaps and bounds beyond Madden in terms of showing off its product well. 
 The commentary, flashy replays, period summary montages, multiple camera angles and CPU vs. CPU 
 play are all huge strengths for this sports title. There is still much room for improvement however, 
 but this is a very solid ground to build on. Things like out of town highlights, game summaries 
 and player interviews would be nice to see. Franchise is back again with all its usual components. 
 Navigation is easy and the game feels well polished. Gameplay. This is the department that made 
 the biggest leaps and bounds over years past. The new default control scheme is called the "skill 
 stick", which basically uses the right analogue stick to map out how you control and shoot the 
 puck. Think of it as your hockey stick. Gone are the days of button mashing and easy one-timers. 
 This new control is very intuitive to how you would maneuver your hockey stick. Left and right 
 is dekeing. Up is a snapshot/wristshot (depending on combinations of left/right/up/down) . Down 
 then up is a slapshot and so forth. The effectiveness of your moves depends on the skill of the 
 player you are controlling, but the responsiveness and level of detail in control is what really 
 sets NHL 07 apart from the competition. There is quite a steep learning curve to the skill stick 
 control. You will find yourself mashing the b button to shoot and x button to pass time and time 
 again for the first few games. Gone is the speed burst right-trigger. This omission makes the game 
 feel much more realistic because player AI will only make them skate faster in open ice. Magnetic 
 passing is also a thing of the past. The right trigger is used to issue a pass in the direction 
 you aim - instead of the direct pass x button of the past. All of these improvements give the game 
 a much more accurate representation of the real game. For those players who prefer a more arcade-type 
 game, there are options in the menu that allow it. For players who want to play with the old controls, 
 that option is still available to switch to. It takes 5 or 6 games for the new controls begin to 
 feel right. Once you play with the skill stick feature you will never want to go back. There is 
 co-op and online play which make NHL a favorite among friends.
  
  NHL 07 is a very addictive and enjoyable game on the Xbox 360. This is a must have title for any 
 hockey fan. EA has proven that in markets with competition, they can indeed press forward to revolutionize 
 their games to make them better (yes that's a shot at Madden and to ESPN baseball) . NHL 07 really 
 feels like a worth while next-gen game. While small improvements can still be made, EA has done 
 a great job on the ice this season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesse767
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 14, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  Allow me to preface this review by saying that I've spent the last few nights religiously playing 
 the NHL '07 Shootout Demo (Xbox Live Marketplace) and had very high expectations for the game as 
 a whole. The demo showcases superb, top-notch graphics, the best commentary to date and a shootout 
 interface that will have you playing for hours on end. I had high hopes for NHL '07 and was under 
 the assumption (based on the demo) that this installment would not only be a great game, but could 
 revolutionize the genre.
  
  I was wrong. Before I go into any details, allow me this - NHL '07 is still a decent hockey game 
 and, perhaps, worth purchasing. I would recommend anyone else that's leaning towards buying this 
 game to rent it first.
  
  Pros: Graphics, Sound, Commentary, Dynasty Mode, Xbox Live, Skill Stick
  
  Cons: Collision 
 Detection, AI (Defense & Goaltending) , New Controls
  
  I may be a gaming relic, but there is no possible way that these new controls should make it into 
 any new NHL installments. It's unplayable and, quite frankly, not fun. In case you're unaware, 
 the new NHL '07 default controls utilize none of the standard buttons. It's all toggles, triggers 
 and shoulder buttons - which makes for a truly sloppy gaming experience. Thankfully, EA still offers 
 a "Classic" control mode that most of us are used to which will still allow you to take advantage 
 of the Skill Stick feature.
  
  Default controls aside, the collision detection isn't great and you really never feel the satisfaction 
 of checking someone. This heavily impacts the game in a negative way. I want to skate up and crush 
 someone into the boards and watch them crumble to the ice. I want to feel the impact of a well-time 
 hip check. None of this happens. They might as well have taken checking out of the game.
  
  Defensive AI is absolutely terrible as is the goaltending (goalies scoring on themselves is a regular 
 occurence and every game I've played on Xbox Live has been won or lost on weak, "lucky" goals) . 
 You can almost always count on getting scored on by a lame goal at some point in the game. Fickle 
 goaltending.
  
  Other than that, the game is solid. My first Xbox Live game was glorious, winning in a shootout 
 with a legitimate goal (topside far post, against the grain) . I have to play with "Classic" controller 
 settings, but it's still enjoyable.
  
  In the end, this game is solid, but not great. If EA can get pick up the pieces with the lackluster 
 UI / AI this game could potentially revolutionize the genre in two or three years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inapprope
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 14, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  I think that both games appeal to different audiences and shouldn't even be all that comparable. 
 To me EA this year has broken out in true simulation style while 2K is more of an arcadey hit pass 
 score fest, which is fine. This game right off the bat has I fairly high learning curve, it's like 
 the Ghost Recon of hockey games. Which is fine for me but a lot of people get pissed when they 
 get beat and complain and curse the game, which is not cool. I myself am a big hockey fan and I 
 like my sports games to be as true to real life as possible. Over the past couple of years I played 
 solely 2K hockey games. I found myself getting frustrated because I didn't have the control over 
 dekes or certain shots like I wanted to have.
  
  Enter 07. This game definately does a lot of good things right, the controls are very awesome and 
 give you a ton of ways to score. The first couple of games you play if you score at all will most 
 likely be slop goals, but as you progress you can pull off some really sweet moves. The face offs 
 are one area that could be worked on a little bit better.
  
  As for the graphics, they are stunning to say the least visually everything looks great except 
 for one thing. The animations can be a little "jerky" especially when you switch players. It's 
 not enough to ruin the game for me, it just bothered me a little bit at first but now I'm acclimamted 
 to it.
  
  Sound I really like, the sound when you hit the bar, the crowd noises, and even the soundtrack 
 is a lot better than most.
  
  Like I said, if you like more of a hockey sim then this game is for you. If you want to spend some 
 time perfecting controls and becoming freakishly good then this game is for you. But if you want 
 to just have a couple pick up games with friends that come over or online and don't mind scoring 
 10+ goals a game then 2K is for you. I'm very unbiased, I also plan on getting 2K hockey when the 
 price drops down a bit because I too sometimes like arcade style hockey and their party mode is 
 always a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fast79transam
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 14, 2006 1:09 am PT
Review:  After hours of trying to find my copy of NHL 07 I was finally able to play around with it. First 
 off let me say you need to give this game about 4-5 games before you get used to the controls, 
 so either play some quick match games or if you dont mind losing some games right away because 
 your not used to the controls then go for it in dynasty mode. Pros- Puck physics- The puck acts 
 like a puck. I played hockey for 17 years and now I coach and it was nice to see the puck do what 
 I think it should. If you ring it off the post it acts like an actuall puck going off the post. 
 I was most amazed by deflection goals or goals bouncing off of legs. Also on rebounds if your player 
 is not in good shooting position their shot will not be as good.
  Skating- Skating in this game is good. Its not perfect but the players do have momentum affect 
 how quickly they can change direction. Also no more speed burst, you have to have open ice to gain 
 speed.
  Passing- Best passing I have ever seen in a hockey game period. No more perfect passes, no more 
 goalie passes that are as good as a forward, you can saucer pass, drop pass, or try to force a 
 pass through coverage. Defense- AI defense is improved. You cant skate end to end with the puck 
 anymore, Stickhandling has some effect on D men and Goalies
  Scoring. I play 10 min periods and I am 6 games into my franchise. I have 3 wins, 1 ot loss, and 
 1 losses. The most goals my team (avalanche) have scored is 5 goals, and we won 5-2 which is pretty 
 realistic
  
  some cons I could think of quick is that when you score they dont tell you how many goals that 
 has been this season, Ive always liked that. The commentary is kinda bland, and it would have been 
 nice to see a rivalry mode like 2k7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jperc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  As a HUGE hockey fan and Canadian that won't miss a game, I'd like to offer my opinion of NHL 07 
 with mixed reactions. First off, the positive. EA Sports definitely had great things in mind with 
 this years release. Taking a year off to regroup and develop this next gen game from the ground 
 up definitely got them back into the game from a big deficit. They scored a few unanswered goals 
 with this baby! The greatest feature is the new stick handling. Many called it revolutionary, and 
 that's exactly what it is! Definitely takes some getting used to though, but after a few hours 
 you'll get a hang of it and probably never go back. The best application is in the shootout where 
 it actually takes skill to score a goal. And try a spin-o-rama backhand while the goaltender is 
 completely tricked and already commited to the wrong side. It is beautiful, not to mention rewarding 
 for the player. No more canned animations or one button for special moves. You can actually feel 
 like you scored a goal. With that said, why the hell can't you save a replay to show your friends 
 or upload when online to EA servers to show your friends a la Burnout Revenge? Back to the positive... the 
 graphics will blow you away, as always EA does a great job in that department. The animations, 
 especially the goalies are great. I've seen goalies do things never before in a video game. For 
 instance after 10 games or so, I saw a puck trickle behind a goalie and the fastest way to cover 
 it up was to fall on his back before it went in. Very realistic. Along with the animations, is 
 the cool puck dynamics. Things actually happen by fluke which is cool, happens occasionally in 
 a real game too. Gotta love when a goalie gets a piece of the puck but is unaware that it's trickling 
 in behind him. As for gameplay, finally a hockey game that plays like real life For instance, you 
 can actually keep the puck behind the net while your players regroup. The AI also does it often 
 too. You can also do a real box pattern on a powerplay. That's one thing that always bothered me 
 with other hockey games, it was never seen, but HELLO! it's the most common play in a real game 
 on the PP. Kudos to EA for actually watching a NHL game and designing that into the game. Also, 
 you can fight for the puck along the boards, it's not all just quick action here. The presentation 
 is nice, between plays and periods the replays you want to see, are shown. Again, why can't we 
 save great ones? Sorry, had to mention it again, how else am I going to brag to my friends when 
 I do a play I'm really proud of. These postives really make NHL 07 a must buy for hockey fans. 
 You'll be spending hours in the shootout mode perfecting your moves for a dynasty mode
  
  OK, now it's time to talk about the negative things in the game. First off, the camera angles are 
 horrible. EA, PLEASE FIX THIS!!! 2K7 definitely has an advantage in gameplay because of this. The 
 zoom feature is not good at all. I find it zooms out but then forgets to zoom back in on a breakaway. 
 This makes the new stick handling feature really frustrating because my player is so small and 
 far away I can't see him to do my fancy moves I've been practicing in Shootout mode for hours. 
 ;) I've tried every angle and nothing seems to make me happy. I've turned off the auto zoom and 
 it's a little better but still, come on guys, please fix this in a patch or at least for NHL 08. 
 The commentary is just downright bad. Way too repetitive. I constantly hear "that's in scoring 
 range!" change it up for crying out loud. After about 10 games, I've never heard any history on 
 players etc. Also, they announcers totally lack excitement. A puck can be rolling through the crease 
 and they will say "that's a scoring opportunity" like they are watching curling on CBC. I mean 
 come on, light a fire under these guys asses! They sound like they are half asleep. Another thing, 
 why the hell are faceoffs so bloody hard to win? After a few games, I still don't know what I need 
 to press to win one. Perhaps the manual will shed some light considering the new controls? Nope, 
 you'd think the world was running out of paper, probably the thinnest manual in Xbox history, basically 
 useless. As we're on the controls, the passing is also frustrating, how many times do my passes 
 not hit the player? Too many for sure. Oh and one-timers, yeah they no longer work. I understand 
 why EA decided to put them lower on the scoring scene because every other hockey game, it's the 
 main way to score. But now, they like never work at all. I haven't scored one goal with a one-timer 
 and I've done some amazing ones where the goalie should have no chance. Did I just hear a penalty? 
 Oh, try and get a penalty other than tripping, good luck! I've played about 10 games, and EVERY 
 penalty was the same, tripping! Where's the roughing, holding, high sticking, hooking etc.? Another 
 bug I found is the the 3 stars. They can be wacked at times. I won a game 5-0 and guess who the 
 #1 star was? An opposing team forward. For what? I do not know. Most tripping penalties maybe? And 
 my captain who scored 2 of the 5 goals, wasn't even a star. Hmmm...
  
  In summary, EA has made a solid contender this year, they definitely made a comeback in OT. It's 
 not a perfect game by any means, but the most realistic I've seen. I would call it ambitious and 
 revolutionary with some disappointments that need to be addressed for next years release. All in 
 all, if you're a hockey die hard, go buy NHL 07, you'll love it. If you just like hockey for the 
 fast arcade experience, you'll probably be more happy with 2K7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARice89
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 13, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  When I first popped 07 in I thought to myself, "God, this isnt that great." I was disappointed. 
 I had been waiting for this game for so long and I thought EA let me down. How wrong I was.
  
  I started playing and each game I got more used to the new controls and learning how to do 
 new things and getting used to everything. Each game gets better and better as I learn new techniques 
 for scoring and deking defensemen. The game's graphics are excellent and so is the gameplay. The 
 sound is great too. The things I dont like in the game are the lack of one timers and the checking 
 engine. The checking engine is from 06 and it just doesnt feel right with the right analog. I mean, 
 its definately bearable, but it leaves something to be desired. The one-timer thing I'm on the 
 fence about. It's nice not seeing one timers scored all the time but it's hard to get a good one 
 off, even if you should be able to. Dont beleive the people that are saying this game is all hype. 
 I'm sure they havent played that much. Because beleive me, I was ready to make a "I'm disappointed" 
 type review when I first started playing but after I got accustomed to the new controls I'll never 
 want to go back. This is an excellent game, it just has a big learning curve and takes some getting 
 used to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blindguardian01
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 14, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  Ok.. I was very excited to get this game.. Played it a couple of times and blah..
  Buy 2k7..
  Pros: the cutoff scene graphics, the new controls i like.. the goalies are better (even though i 
 had few how the hell they got in goals)
  
  cons: bad game play graphics.. If people dont think the graphics are worse this year during gameplay.. your 
 blind... online play seems to be very choppy.. the gameplay was not smooth at all... i might see how 
 the pc version is because its cheap.. but this game went on Ebay already..
  
  I thought ea was going to make the best game possible, bt it looks like it was rushed to production.. maybe 
 nest year... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  As video game hockey fans we are. We have been witness to some horrible games and most recently 
 2k6 for the 360 last year. What a waste of time and money that was, I was however smart enough 
 to read alot of reviews on the game not to spluge on it, but sadly alot of you have and im sorry 
 you had to go through that. Now first off from what I have seen from 2k7's demo is alot of the 
 same, the graphics looked good but they were missing something, i dont know what it was, the graphics 
 were just missing lets call it SPARKLE! All the features in the world could not get me to buy 2k7 
 only because its the same thing gameplay wise year after year. Just more 8-0 wins over the season 
 due to way easy one time goals which are um lets say 99% of the time how your gonna score in 2k7. 
 Now in NHL 07 you have to give them credit where credit is due, they took a huge risk and added 
 the skill stick .im sure you all read about it so i wont bore you, just know this it does take 
 some time getting used to but believe me as others have said once you score, no wait once you hit 
 the post with a nice wrist shot or slap shot using the skill stick you will fall in love with it. 
 NHL 07 is lacking in features but that does not hurt the genuine package. There is a create a player 
 there is a deep dynasty mode a bare bones online deal and world tourny, thats it but thats fine. 
 I will be fine just watching to computer play games all day. This game is a beauty. The physics 
 are xtremly accurate and fine tuned. The gameplay is tough but so it is in real life no more 10-0 
 wins its more like 2-1 which is the way god intended hockey to be. If you want more of the same 
 then go for 2k7 if you want new and improved go fore NHL 07 you will not regret it! BELIEVE ME! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wookiemonster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Nhl 07 breaks the boarders of the hockey video game world. When you first play this game you may 
 not know what to think. It looks amazing is one thing u notice off the bat, but what will strike 
 you is the reletivley smooth and rich gameplay. Some un-polished animations may be visible, but 
 not to noticable, at least u will be having so much fun u wont even care. And some animations looked 
 like they were just taken from Nhl 06, but 06 was a good looking game, just the gameplay fell short... VERY 
 SHORT. But this isn't the case this year! I spent a day with the game and already have the controlls 
 down, which takes some time getting familiar to. Once you get that down you are set, set to enjoy 
 some good looking hockey. The game has taken a switch this year from arcade to SIM, and let me 
 say, it feels great. But the AI can seem to get confused and sometimes stand still for a couple 
 of seconds on the lower difficulty setting. But not that it effects the game at all, cause it happens 
 rarely. Not many options in the game, but Dynasty mode should be enough to keep many hapy, I KNow 
 it will suit me, especially cause it gets so fun, beinb really realistic and good looking
  
  The Dynasty mode is so great, mabey i suck or something but ive only played on pro so far and 
 my record is 6-8, and I am the Maple Leafs, so there you go! thats very realistic. The game will 
 challange you time to time, especially on the higher levels. And the computer will step up it's 
 game after you become too good and go on huge winning streaks. SO this game is bound to keep u 
 happy, at least till next year, so my reccomendation ( coming from a hockey player/ picky realism 
 hockey sim game lover) is to get this great game! PS- online is fun, but few options are there 
 which is kinda a bummer, but still fun solid intense online 1v1 ranked/ unranked play! Yes u can 
 create player and yes can download roster update and content! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakevenom1s
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 13, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  NHL 07 is an awesome game. Plain and Simple. I was an avid 2k fan for the past 3-4 years, but this 
 year, I had to switch the NHL 07. Graphics are amaing, the skill stick is the best innovation to 
 come to a hockey game, and everything else is very well presented. It blows 2k7 out of the water. 
 I played the demo for nhl2k7 and it was the same junk that 2k6 was... Plain terrible and arcadey. 
 One timer after one timer after one timer.
  
  NHL 07, on the other hand, provided me with amazing goalie animations and puck physics. Everything 
 just feels right and the developers did an amazing job. Games are low scoring and realistic, with 
 realitic goals and bounces. This is a very strong foundation for EA, and next year they can work 
 on their online aspect, which sorta lacks the features found in 2k7.
  
  NHL 07 ftw... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbrown3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  After dropping the ball with just about every offering EA has put forth for the next gen Xbox 360 
 console, they have finally stepped up and delivered. NHL 07 is quite possibly the best hockey game 
 ever. Fans and non-fans of the NHL will no doubt enjoy this game. The gameplay takes some getting 
 used to but is tremendous. Try not to get frustrated with the controls when you first start playing, 
 after 2 or 3 games you should be comfortable enough with them to start a franchise and play some 
 online. The graphics, asides from a few animation glitches are remarkable. There are times when 
 you feel like you are watching this game on television. A definite pick up for any sports fan who 
 owns an Xbox 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assaslin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 13, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Well, for the last 3 years I went to 2K's side because the game was just plain better.
  
  But this year, I am back with EA because simply this is one of the best hockey games I have ever 
 played.
  
  The looks are great, the game is realistic and the skill stick controls (it takes a while to get 
 use to it) are amazing and gives you total control over your player.
  
  The long years of bad hockey games are gone for EA. This time, they have the better product out 
 there. 2K's game is still very good, but EA outdone themselves.
  
  Definitively wirth picking up and do not be afraid of the skill stick, you're going to love it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveld
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 13, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  This years NHL is not only hyped to be the best but it truly will perform the best. I don't think 
 there is anyone who has not bought an NHL game if they own a console. As hockey fans we love them 
 because they're hockey but as gamers they have plagued us for some time now as they never change. 
 This in itself is going to change with NHL 07.
  
  With the brand new skill stick it takes the realism to the next level. Even the puck itself is 
 seperate from the players and goalies. Ever since they incorporated it into Fight Night I have 
 loved using the right stick! Fight Night is still one of my top fav games I own to date. It gives 
 yuo the most freedom out of any sports game to date. You control everything down to the smallest 
 detail. Now we get to enjoy this with our Hockey games.
  
  I know I can't speak for everyone as there are always people who feear change and will not even 
 give the right stick a chance. They ust won't know what they're missing.
  
  In closing, Good job EA. You have restored my faith in the NHL series and I hope to see more inovation 
 like this in the future! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ram4x4Marc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  Ok first off, this is an actual NHL game that you have to get used to playing... imagine that! It's 
 unbelivable your first time around... especially the 2nd period when you're going down instead of 
 up, and the shot stick has reversed as well. You don't realize this until you shot a whiffer right 
 into the goalie. Like i said in the intro... all the people who've loved NHL for the last few years 
 cuz of the cheapness of goals, see ya later cuz this isn't the case. The gameplay is great, commentary, 
 like mentioned is repeated sometimes, but they're never off the mark so its never annoying. Graphically, 
 its so good. The thing i enjoy most out of this game so far is the on-ice sound. Whether commentary 
 is on or off... you can hear everyone yelling on the ice, fans, coaches, players... this is by far 
 the most innovative of any hockey game i've ever played in this aspect. The thing i didn't enjoy 
 the most has been the hitting/checking so far. They say they imported the same checks as last year, 
 but last season had so many wicked hits, which alone made the replay value so high. In the 4 games 
 i've played, i haven't had too many bone-jarring checks... hopefully overtime i can get them going, 
 but as of right now, either they're not there or i have yet to master them.
  
  Overall, I don't even like hockey, but the EA hockey games always get me going. If you're having 
 doubts.... don't, its sweet... and you'll also be kickin' yourself for not picking this one up right 
 away when you play it in a few months... you'll wonder what you were thinking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onthe_dl
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 12, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  It's evident that the right producer could spin the ea series of NHL games in a fresh new direction. 
 Intuitive perfectly fits the feel for this game, after playing a few games, you quickly start to 
 understand the major renovations done to the controls and why they bothered with them. Of course 
 you can choose to use the standard face buttons of nhl 06, but why? The skill stick adds much more 
 replayability to the game since it's a new way to play hockey. Every other game to this point has 
 had the same control scheme, that's why it's such a relief that ea changed this, and upgraded it 
 to feel fluid and in-control.
  
  An other obvious addition to this game is independent puck physics. Yes, at first it really did 
 seem like a big gimmick, but after a few games i noticed many strange goals that you would [un] expect 
 to see in real hockey games.
  
  Realism has been a big theme to this first season for next-gen ea hockey, where sticks flex and 
 boxes form on powerplays/shorthanded play. That's right, you can play a passive box (and it really 
 works) .
  
  Some downfalls to the game are that it's not the smoothest looking game out there. But the framerate 
 does not bother gameplay (it would just be nice to see higher fps) , and a slight delay between 
 cutscenes that looks just awkward. An option left out is fantasy draft, yes it sucks, but the option 
 to create your own roster could be an alternative. Create-A-Player is indeed featured in the game, 
 as many stated it did not make the xbox 360 version of the game. And for all those stat freaks, 
 yes you can edit current players in the nhl, be it their numbers or attributes, you can change 
 it (just not equipment) .
  
  The game features a play now mode, a world tournament, a dynasty mode and the dodge penalty shootouts. 
 the free for all mini game did not make it's way back for ea's next-gen hockey debut which was 
 a little disappointing that you couldn't practice passing and defending any other way then actually 
 playing a game.
  
  Overall the game plays like a great hockey game, the visuals are top-notch and there is enough 
 depth in the dynasty mode to keep you happy till next years nhl game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobfinance
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 12, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  If you played the demo offered on Xbox Live then you have already seen the best 07 has to offer.
 
  
  The graphics are truly amazing, sound is great and the commentary is solid. The new skill stick 
 and controls are difficult to get used to but when you finally get it together, the goals are amazing. 
 Basically the main positives for the game are great graphics, great goals, and great goalie animations.... 
 After that the game falls pretty flat. The skating animations are ugly and choppy and the lack 
 of a "turbo" button is completely frustrating. As far as the rest of the gameplay is concerned, 
 defense is downright terrible as well as AI player positioning - it seems like non-player controlled 
 players are just skating around randomly with little purpose.
  
  The dynasty mode is decent and I really enjoyed the fact that it is possible to change player types 
 - such as choosing who will play as a sniper, playmaker or grinder, etc. Also, there are lots of 
 options for managing your team which is pretty fun as well.
  
  If all you care about in gameplay is goals, than this game delivers... However, this game still 
 feels like it needs a LOT of fine tuning when it comes to every other aspect of the on-ice part 
 of hockey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathwillcome
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 12, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  EA hit the jackpot this time. I guess the hockey lockout permitted EA do rethink a few gameplay 
 tactics.
  
  Now about this new stick handling mode. This is incredible! Although extremely hard to get use 
 too, it offers new ways of enjoying a realistic way of shooting and puck handling. You can bust 
 360 moves with a final back hand shot and try and deak has many players has you can with just the 
 right stick.
  
  Note: A small trick to get use to this new feature. Play shootouts often and try to create no ways 
 of scoring. On the long run, you'll get use to the feeling.
  
  Graphically, the ice seems so realistic. The player! WOW! There facial attributes are simply amazing. 
 Not only that, the equipement itself shines in a way that you actually feel like your there.
  
  Although the game does not offer new modes of gameplay, it is still the most amazing game out 
 there. NHL 2k7 will never match this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moto-x
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 12, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  A truely great hockey game. The game plays very well, it is extremely fun to play. All the players 
 look like the real life counterparts, and it is a pleasure to look at. The new skill stick is very 
 intuitive and responsive, giving a rewarding feeling when a goal is scored. Dynasty mode is very 
 deep, including a huge variety of options. Create a player returns with the ability to create a 
 very awesome looking face for your skater. Online mode could be deeper though, not much going on 
 there. But overall it is a must buy for any hockey fan.
  
  Stunning Visuals
  
  Solid Gameplay
  
  Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyrrus147
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 12, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  After playing NHL 07 for a few hours, I have to say that this game is beyond all my expectations. 
 I play 2k sports hockey game for the last 3 years but now I can tell you that 2k is miles behind 
 EA. Gameplay
  
  You need to play at least a few hours before getting used to the skills stick. Once you master 
 it, you will greatly enjoy it.
  
  Positive
  
  -The new skills stick is a revolution in the way you play a hockey game. -The skating and the physics 
 is extremely realistic, skating to a lose puck is much harder than it ever was.
  
  -Every goal is spectacular, the velocity on the puck even on a wrist shot is extremely strong and 
 even more realistic. -The is no cheezy goal anymore. Everytime you try to score a goal the same 
 way you did before, it fail. There is so many differents way to score, a good player should be 
 able to react the best way in any situation. -The gameplay is extremely fluid.
  
  -Fighting for the puck is now a priority, keeping the puck is much more harder than it was. Negative
 
  
  -Playing in the defensive zone is not really exciting, it could use more work from the developpers. 
 Graphics
  
  Positive
  
  -The graphics are simply amazing, the animations are smooth and extremely detailed. There is plenty 
 of animations.
  
  -There is a replay of every shots between each period and everytime the play stop. There is a replay 
 of every goals at the end of the game.
  
  -They did a very good job on each players , most of them really look like their real life counterpart. 
 Negative
  
  -Some graphical glitchs, mostly on the penalites, most of the time the stick don't even touch the 
 players and the player will fall. Of course you will have a penalty. Sound
  
  The sounds is extremely solid, on and off the ice. The commentators are doing the same good job. 
 Value
  
  I only took a quick look at Dynasty but from what I heard and from what I saw, it looks very interesting. 
 -There is no fantasy draft.
  
  -There is a create of player, IGN was wrong.
  
  -You can edit players.
  
  One of the downside of the game is the lacks of game mode, hopefully 
 we can expect more next year.
  
  -Dynasty Mode
  
  -World Tournement
  
  -Shootout
  
  -Quick Match Overall the Game is superb, there is so many upsides that you will quickly forget 
 the downside. Even if you don't like hockey you should give a try to this game, this is truly a 
 NEXT-GEN game and the best hockey game since a very long time (even better than NHL 2k5!) . have 
 fun!
  
  _ 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
