-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 09
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/nhl09/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Skill stick gives you great control on both sides of the puck.
 AI forces you to play realistic brand of hockey.
 Be a Pro mode is incredibly immersive.
 EA Sports Hockey League is a great innovation in online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Online connection issues will hamper your dreams of glory.
 Poor frame rate in cutscenes and replays.
 Online interface is far from user-friendly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 16, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.9, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 1,446 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Ice Hockey Sim
Date: Sep 9, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The latest entry in EA's venerable hockey franchise is the best yet. 

  There are few moments in any sports video game more satisfying than scoring a goal in NHL 09. It's 
 more than aiming top-shelf and pressing a button before the goalie gets into position. No, you 
 have to outmaneuver the defense with quick skating and smart passing, work your way into scoring 
 position, and then manually put the puck where the goalie isn't. But if you played EA Sports hockey 
 in the past two years and experienced the stellar control mechanic known as the skill stick, you 
 already knew all this. In NHL 09, EA expands on its already outstanding gameplay with a host of 
 addictive game modes that make this, quite simply, one of the best sports games of all time.  

 
           The future of hockey? The Kid sure does play like it.      

  With skill-stick control, your right analog acts as your hockey stick. Move it left or right to 
 deke, press up for a snap shot, down then up for a slap shot, and to the side then up for a wrist 
 shot. On defense, you have 360-degree control to clog passing lanes, deliver poke checks, and pull 
 your opponent's skates right out from beneath him (two minutes for tripping.) There's also a dedicated 
 stick-lift button that, when used in proper position, will whack an attacker's stick away from 
 the puck. When not in proper position, you're likely to be whistled for high-sticking or slashing, 
 but this aggressive defensive move adds another risk/reward element to the action.  

  If anything, the new skill-stick additions transform NHL 09 into a defensive-focused game, forcing 
 you to use actual hockey strategy to get past the blue line. Indeed, flip-dumping the puck into 
 the offensive zone -- another new maneuver this year -- will allow speedy wingers to get behind aggressive 
 defenders sliding in for the pinch. You'll have to take what the excellent defensive AI gives you; 
 working passes into the slot or behind the net and cycling the puck to create scoring opportunities. 
 Simply zigzagging past defenders on the breakout isn't going to work, especially on higher difficulty 
 settings. Rest assured, there are fewer scoring opportunities than in years past, and NHL 09 is 
 a much better overall hockey experience because of it.  

  But in large part, the overall gameplay on the ice remains very faithful to last year's game. Checking 
 is mapped to the right analog stick, and the physics have been improved so big hits can only be 
 delivered at direct angles (provided the defender has a full head of steam) . A stationary defenseman 
 is more likely to harmlessly shove an attacker than knock him off his skates. This eliminates arcade-style 
 hit fests and forces you to play more conservative defense. If you pull defensemen out of position 
 to deliver a big hit, you'll open up the slot, and skilled opponents will take advantage. Hockey 
 purists won't like all the off-the-puck hits that could easily be whistled as interference, but 
 these concessions to video game fun are balanced well against the game's dedication to realism. 

  Because this simulation approach forces you to play real hockey, casual players that loved the 
 old arcade style may feel lost. Fortunately, several tutorials are included that introduce player 
 controls and some basic strategy tips. And if you still hate the skill stick, you can opt for the 
 two-button NHL-94-style controls.  

  Most of the development time on NHL 09 appears to have been spent off the ice on two new modes: 
 Be a Pro and the EA Sports Hockey League. When you first pop in the game, you're asked to create 
 and customize your own Be-a-Pro character, from the length of his mullet to the flexibility of 
 his hockey stick. You can then plug him into the AHL affiliate of your favorite NHL team and try 
 to take him from a wet-behind-the-ears rookie to an NHL legend. This Be-a-Pro mode is similar to 
 Superstar mode in Madden NFL 09. A third-person camera follows your character on the ice, and experience 
 points earned in-game can be used to upgrade your attributes. The first time you find yourself 
 alone on a breakaway, you'll be absolutely hooked. As satisfying as scoring is in the normal game, 
 a Be-a-Pro goal will have you jumping out of your seat because you're so much more attached to 
 the player scoring it. There are some occasional camera issues as you move behind the opponent's 
 net or transition from offense to defense, but overall this mode stands head and shoulders above 
 similar modes in other sports games.  

           Professional hockey players only have one professional debut. Enjoy it.      

  The 
 EA Sports Hockey League lets you take your Be-a-Pro character online and join friends for six-on-six 
 matches, expanding on the three-on-three online matches of NHL 08. If you choose to create your 
 own team, you can select your jersey from any of the NHL teams, international teams, AHL teams, 
 or European league teams. Then, you can select a team name and motto before commencing your assault 
 on the leaderboard. It's an engaging online mode for sure, but it's not without its problems. We 
 suffered significant connection issues, and the interface is confusing. Game invites are terribly 
 frustrating because accessing your friends list isn't intuitive in the slightest. Even though you 
 play as your Be-a-Pro character, your skill attributes do not carry over from one mode to the next, 
 which is a shame because it takes several games to earn enough experience points to gain just  
 one  attribute point in a category. On the ice, there's also a strange bug where a computer-controlled 
 defenseman will rip a slap shot into the stands if he receives the face-off. Despite its foibles, 
 though, the EASHL is a mode you just have to play for yourself. Forget scoring goals. Simply playing 
 good team hockey is an addictive thrill that will have you coming back for much, much more -- if 
 you manage to connect to a game.  

  If you love playing head coach and GM, the deep Dynasty mode makes a welcome return. The create-a-play 
 feature has been expanded to include breakout and sideboard plays, which are perfect for triggering 
 dump-and-chase plays for those who can't dance around defenders at will. With the AHL license, 
 you can call up hotshots from your minor-league team and send down aging veterans or simply place 
 them on waivers. If you don't care to participate in any of the hardcore management, you can play 
 your way through the schedule and let the computer handle those decisions for you. A Tournament 
 mode rounds out the game modes, letting you play through the SM Liiga of Finland or Elitserien 
 of Sweden -- there are five European leagues featured in all.  

           The classic Canadiens almost make up for the lack of classic teams. Almost.      

 
  Where NHL 09 does not fall behind is with its slick player models and excellent animations. There 
 are hundreds of new player animations, including some bone-crushing checks into the boards. The 
 frame rate holds at a smooth 60 frames per second on both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, although 
 you will notice some slowdown during replays and cutscenes. In the booth, the former ESPN play-by-play 
 tandem of Gary Thorne and Bill Clement is arguably the finest duo in sports video game commentary. 
 Gary Thorne's voice alone can carry the action of a little league baseball game, and Clement continually 
 drops insightful hockey knowledge, even if some it is recycled from last year's game. Regardless 
 of the fact that ESPN no longer broadcasts NHL games, Thorne and Clement add even more color and 
 authority to NHL 09.  

  If you even have a passing interest in hockey, you owe it to yourself to play NHL 09. EA has raised 
 the bar yet again for its hockey franchise with engaging gameplay, excellent presentation, and 
 enough game modes to tide you over until Christmas. Move over Blades of Steel, NHL 09 has earned 
 its place among the greatest sports games of all time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (102 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jercioh
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2009 7:45 am PT
Review:  NHL 09 introduced several new features from the previous year's edition of the game. Features such 
 as the defensive skill stick, dump-and-chase, and the lift stick option played into the advanced 
 user's demographic. The option to play using NHL 94 controls, however, made the game easy for even 
 a beginner to play.
  
  This year's edition of the game has also seen the return of the alternate jersey with a verification 
 code as well expanded rosters such as the European Elite Leagues.
  
  In order to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Montreal Canadiens, NHL 09 has a feature where 
 the greatest Canadiens play as an All-Star team known as the Centennial Canadiens.
  
  Online Play
  There is a slew of online features available in NHL 09. Players have the ability 
 to create a player to use in online play. Users can join online teams with friends or find players 
 to create on. There is now a 6 x 6 online team play. Users have the ability to level up players, 
 participate in tournaments (with brackets) , and receive awards at the end of the season. Rosters 
 have been updated, as well as slap shot power and accuracy to compliment NHL updates. As of 3/23/09 
 many rosters have automatically been changed for those with online capabilities.
  
  Alternate Jerseys
  In the 2008-09 NHL season, teams began wearing third jerseys again, after 
 the 07-08 switch to the Rbk Edge system. The new alternate jerseys for certain teams can be unlocked 
 with a code, the same way the Rbk Edge jerseys were unlocked in NHL 08. The Boston Bruins were 
 the last team to unveil their alternate jersey on November 24, 2008. The alternate jersey code 
 is xe6377uyrwm48frf and was released to the public on December 9, 2008. Upon a new roster update 
 that carries the alternate jerseys and many new players, there is no longer a need to enter the 
 code. Unfortunately, the New York Islanders jersey was done incorrectly in that the name and numbering 
 on the back of the jersey in NHL 09 is orange, while in real life it is white. The Buffalo Sabres 
 third jersey was also portrayed incorrectly, lacking silver piping on the torso.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 5:58 am PT
Review:  For a sport that is played mainly from big Canadian guys with broken noses hitting violently each 
 other in an ice field NHL 09 is doing well. This attemt of EA seems to be surprisingly good and 
 it is one of the BEST sport games in xbox 360. 
  
  NHL 09 puts the player into the action with a lot of details that make the difference. The players 
 react almost in everything they move well they take glances and they seem dissapointed when the 
 opposite team has scored a goal. On the contrary when they score one they get furious. They run 
 and celebrate they yell and their face changes.
  
  In addition the ice is well designed with a lot of cracks. The supporters are 3D and they seem 
 real. They have details and are not all the same. For a sport game the graphics realy look fantastic!
 
  
  The best in the game apart from the wonderful graphics is the gameplay which is almost perfect. 
 It is very deep from tactics to controls. You can make your system as you want. The customazition 
 is also very good. Another advantage is that the game is very realistic. 
  
  The movement is wonderful and opposite with other games it is very appealing. The players move 
 their legs and when they want to choose the direction they are moving the don't simply stop but 
 you can see the attempt to do this. On the whole the player feels he is in an ice rink.
  
  The controls are not complicated but simple. It is also well balanced. The left stick moves the 
 player whereas the right one controls the player's stick. Besides the ball's hit and the passes 
 have been transfered to side buttons. As a result you won't hace to move your hands continously 
 but it will take a liitle time to get used to it. Nevertheless you can adjust the controls as you 
 want.
  
  Another positive thing in NHL 09 is the Be A Pro mode (like in fifa 09) . For those who aren't aware 
 of this it is a mode in which you controll only one player in the matches and he is the one to 
 develop. This mode is also available in the online mode (5 against 5 players) (only if you have 
 signed in and have online mode.
  
  To sum up NHL 09 is a complete success and it's sure you will get on well with it. If you are a 
 fan of the sport this game is for you! It can addict you.
  
  Graphics:9
  Gameplay:9
  Sound:8
  Controls:8
  Lasting appeal:8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gonuts2410
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 3:49 pm PT
Review:  The skill stick control adds a nice element to the game that will make you feel like you've achieved 
 something when you get the puck it the back of the net. The be a pro mode is my favourite mode 
 on the game that has immersed me the most. In be a pro I love the feeling of progression and accomplishment 
 when you finally get drafted up to the nhl. The dynasty mode is fun but doesn't have many new features 
 from the games before it. On the ice play is a lot of fun. The hits look spectacular as well as 
 the player models. The only complaint I have really have is I did notice a few times a small but 
 noticable graphicall glitch at somepoints in the game. These little glitches don't detract from 
 the gameplay too much. All in all this game is a must buy for ice hockey fans and at least a rent 
 for people who don't know alot about the sport. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hockeystud92
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Hey i have been playing hockey for my whole life this is the best hockey game i ever played nhl 
 08 was the best but this is just wooooooow they added and fixed everything this is the GOTY and 
 never gets old i think that everyone should atleast try it its super fun and you can do alot of 
 different moves like 1 hand dekes and all this new stuff and also the SKILL STICK makes its so 
 realistic! GRAPHICS- 9.5/10
  Gameplay- 10/10
  Audio- 9/10
  
  Online-10/10 also this game is POPULATED like ull always find a match its just the best game and 
 so much to play it on its a fun game but not the best but funnnnnn everyone will like it and its 
 a party game 2nd fav game ever :) Therefore this game has the best online for a sporsts game IMO 
 and it doest get repetative so go give it a try and try the demo but on the actual game u can change 
 camera angles to go up therefore BUY THIS GAME if you love hockey :)
  
  HOCKEY XOXOXOXO HOCKEY 4 LIFE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HershalCrusto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 9:35 am PT
Review:  This is my first review and I am a huge sports game fan, so I figured why not do it on the best 
 sports game of all time in my opinion, NHL 09.
  
  
  NHL 09 offers a huge selection of game modes to play, that will never allow you to get bored of 
 the game. When I first got it, I did a lot of the Be A Pro and online team stuff, and was very 
 impressed at how much better being a single player in a hockey game worked so much better than 
 the soccer and football versions. 
  
  After about 20 hours of playing those modes, I started playing a Dynasty or Franchise and haven't 
 gone back to the other modes since. The gameplay when you are playing in Dynasty mode is very close 
 to the real thing, especially when you start playing at the hardest difficulty. I sim the season 
 and play the play-offs with close to full length games. I am so impressed at how you have to battle 
 for scoring chances and mix up your offence to counter the AI learning. Playing defense is more 
 fun and you feel more in control than ever. Its amazing that you can play full length games and 
 have realistic stats, other than the hits of course (but I'm cool with that) . The goalies for the 
 most part are outstanding and quite realistic in the way they move. I really wanted to give this 
 game a 10 but there are a couple things that bug me about the gameplay. When a puck is barely moving 
 at a goalie they shouldn't give out a rebound, and they do most of the time. The other thing is 
 minor but why do guys miss the net by about 500 feet sometimes, no one misses the net by that much, 
 I like that guys miss the net in this game (because thats realistic) , but not by 500 feet. I also 
 think it is just a little too tough to score on break-aways. One other huge problem, what is with 
 the fighting, wow very poor, but really not that important.
  
  Presentation wise the game is excellent, you can put your own music in the game and set it for 
 you teams entrance or when they score which I must admit is awesome. The commentary is pretty good, 
 but does get old, mind you I have played the game A LOT. The stanley cup celebration is pretty 
 good, I was hoping for a little more, but I'm definitely not complaining.
  
  All in all I think NHL 09 has set the bar very high and I'm very interested to see what they do 
 to get better. I really hope they keep things pretty much the same in years to come and just take 
 care of some of the issues like fighting and goalie rebounds. I must thank EA for coming out with 
 such a fine game, if I ever get bored of the dynasty (which I doubt I will) , I can always go back 
 to online play and be a pro mode.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamieTallica
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2009 4:18 pm PT
Review:  You will play your first game, and probably get beaten. That stick control seems quite tricky and 
 you are considering changing to the old button controls. But wait, not so fast. The new skill stick 
 will take a few good long games to master, but once you have the hang of it, there is nothing better 
 than racing down the ice on a one-on-one, and flicking that puck in off the post. Please people, 
 "persevere". Good things come to those who wait as they say. Top rate graphics, some dodgy framerate 
 niggles on replays and cutscenes, but hey, its all about the action surely? Hard, satisftying hitting 
 engine, you really feel the impact, and great satisfaction when scoring goals. Be a pro is awesome, 
 get yourself out there on the ice, get to the first line of your dream nhl team! Fancy that. Create 
 a team is awesome beyond words. Create your own team, give them a name, totally and i mean completely 
 customise their gear, and take to the ice. Create a play, yes you create plays. I have pulled one 
 off and its ace. Ace as they come. You will love it. Play it and see. Jamie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojobaker15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 4:34 pm PT
Review:  NHL 09 is a great game that's done many things to improve from previous years.
  
  First, the defencive skill stick has been added. This is a great new addition and makes playing 
 defence that much better.
  
  Next, the new Be A Pro mode is amazing. Creating a player and playing through his career is great 
 fun. Also, only playing your one player's position adds diversity to just the regular game mode.
 
  
  Also, the new EASHL is another good addition. This is a great online league that you can your friends 
 can join to create a team. It's like Be a Pro in which you play one player but the other players 
 are all controlled by other human players. 
  
  With these new additions NHL has done very well to improve the game. The game also has great graphics, 
 although for new players the learning curve may take a while but that's because of the great control 
 scheme allowing players to play the way they want to.
  
  Xbox Live is great for the game too. I've already talked about the EASHL but the other online modes 
 like VS. and Shootout are fun to. With easy ability to find games and usually they have good connection 
 too with no lag. The leaderboards are very great and have many different statistics too.
  
  In final, NHL 09 is a great addition to the ongoing NHL series which is likely the best sports 
 game made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SEVANTY7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  NHL 09 introduces an couple new moves the the wonderful game of hockey such as the stick lift. 
 Now for all the people out there who have been playing NHL games for a few years now probably won't 
 get to experience the stick lift because of the control differences. There is the classic and the 
 default controls and for all the year to year hockey fans the classic is most likely what you will 
 be playing with. Which is unfortunate because you have to play with the default in order for you 
 to use the stick lift. Which basically means the only way you get to see the stick lift move is 
 when people are hacking away at your stick when your trying to enter the zone. NHL is a fun game 
 which is very addictive but it also brings a lot of anger to your life. Probably the worst thing 
 ever is beating a person in shots, hits, TOA and ll the other stuff and losing because your goalie 
 let in a fluke shot, I have experienced it way to many time where i think EA Sports forgot to put 
 a little extra work to the tender aspect of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjsharkshockey
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2009 5:47 pm PT
Review:  in my mind it blows all the other sports games out of the water. yes, even madden 09. the depth, 
 the action, the greatest game of all time (hockey) , and most importantly the creativity put into 
 this game, make it my favorite game ever. it was a good day to be a hockey fan when i picked this 
 game up, because not only was it a great game but it was about my most favorite thing in the world. 
 i do not see anything bad about it, the Online team play is the coolest thing ever, never would 
 have thought this was going to happen. in nhl08 you had leagues where you picked a team and played 
 as the entire team, now you can do that but you now have up to 5 other people playing along side 
 you. it puts a MMORPG element into a sports game, by being able to make your own player and increase 
 his stats, equiment and even gain levels or grades. A MUST BUY FOR EVERYONE!!!! even if you dont 
 like sports games give this one a try, trust me you will like it... alot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starrdude07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 10:02 am PT
Review:  I'm usually not that interested in sports games, but as a hockey fan i was intrigued by all the 
 hype and reviews. During my first game it was as frustrating as playing golf in a monsoon, but 
 after 2 games when I finally scored and won, it was the most satisfying moment I had ever had in 
 a video game. It took me three games to finally score and 4 to win. It is really difficult to get 
 the puck to find the back of the net but that just adds to the satisfaction of finally netting 
 a goal. I jumped and screamed just like I was at the arena watching the home team. Having the AHL 
 teams with the ability to call up players to replace injured teammates is a great feature, or if 
 you just want to call up a recent draft pick. The ability to download recent rosters is a great 
 addition as well to get your favorite team's roster with trade adjustments. This game is really 
 worth all the hype it has been receiving and deserves being played by sports fans everywhere as 
 well as any other gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossmwbg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 2:36 pm PT
Review:  One of the better games out there, there is endless amounts of fun to be had playing this game. 
 If its against a friend or doing the be a pro mode, its worth having to spend endless hours on. 
 I enjoy having this game and would recommend the game to all sports fans. It has many features 
 that are new in hockey and a great create your own player system that allows you to play in different 
 positions and player types. I think the player creator is impressive and the games are just as 
 fun when only one player, as opposed to an entire team. Gameplay is highly recommended as well 
 by me. The hit stick and shot control is a great way to play hockey. It makes the player feel more 
 involved in the game. It works as a perfect way to keep the game exciting shooting with the joystick. 
 I also think that the game should be recommended for its two player. It is easy to pick up by people 
 not familiar with hockey and easy to teach, yet requires skill and can be improved. All in all, 
 the game is worth getting and should be picked up by anyone who enjoys sports and has some free 
 time on their hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redzed24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 6:39 am PT
Review:  If you loved NHL '08 then you will most definitely love NHL '09. They have taken the wonderful 
 gameplay and animations from last years game and made them both better. It almost feels like you 
 are playing '08 until you see the awesome new hitting animations or the new penalty animations. 
 They have added new moves and improved on various other aspects of the gameplay. The goalies are 
 simply wonderful to watch make saves. They are truly doing wonderful things with this game.
  
  The addition of Be a Pro is probably the biggest reason to update from your old copy. You can 
 now enter the game as yourself and play an entire season as though you were just you in the grand 
 scheme of things. You even have the option of a camera angle that follows only you around the ice. 
 If you get a penalty, you watch the game from the box, if your line is on the bench, you watch 
 the game from the bench. It can be a frustrating angle at times, but it really does immerse you 
 in the feeling of being only one player on a team, rather than being the whole team.
  
  To make this feature even better, they have created a league online for you to take your created 
 player into. You can join a team and play in a league with other friends online and actually have 
 your progress tracked. This is an incredible step forward for the franchise. If you don't have 
 enough friends playing the game, no worries, you can join a random team and make new friends. Be 
 good though, cause you can be traded by your teams manager if he so chooses. (not an ingame option 
 but it can be done outside of the game, so beware)
  
  The sights and sounds of this game are top notch. The replayability is as you would expect from 
 a sports title. It will keep you playing as long as you want. When the season is over and the other 
 sports seasons are starting up, it still might keep you involved with its many great features. 
 
  
  Graphically its top notch. Sounds are top notch. Game play is top notch. If you are a fan of hockey, 
 you absolutely need to treat yourself to this game. Its gonna be fun to see how they top this wonderful 
 addition to the series. I gotta admit, I was 2K faithful for years. They always came out with the 
 more realistic puck action. Now however, they have been pushed into the back and have not responded 
 well. They now have a more arcade oriented game that may still retain some of its realistic aspects 
 and they do have a great franchise mode, but for actually playing the game, you gotta go with EA. 
 They have really outdone themselves this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerkat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:32 am PT
Review:  I have been a big fan of EA's NHL series for a long time. I love to make a player in my likeness 
 and play in the NHL and school the goalie with a nice deke. The one thing that always bothered 
 me was the fact that from the moment you created your player you could max out the stats and make 
 him a superstar from the first game. Nothing that you did on the ice made any difference in the 
 abilities of your player. Now with the new BAP feature you make a "No Name Player" and based on 
 how you play you can take him from a 0 to a superstar and when you score your first goal, it feels 
 like you really scored that goal! Everything you do on the ice counts from the beautiful one handed 
 deke to the missed pass opportunity that labels you as the puck hog of the team. The BAP feature 
 forces you to play hockey instead of run around and button mash and hope for the best.
  There are 2 main problems that I have encountered with this game that I would like to share.
 
  One problem is the B button. This is designed for a line change. The problem is you are only controlling 
 Your Player but the B button is for the whole offensive line. It really becomes a pain when you 
 are on Defense and you go to stick lift (A) and all your players head for the bench. The second 
 problem is Changing your on ice tactics. This is done by pressing on the D-Pad. you can change 
 this on the fly when you are on the ice, but as soon as you hit the bench you have no control over 
 it. I am not sure if changing the tactics affects the whole team or just your line but either way 
 you should be able to set them while you are on the bench so you don't have to take precious moments 
 on the ice to set them. Just my 2 cents.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthvader57
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2009 9:52 am PT
Review:  The good: Game looks great commentating is better than ever, The online ticker with the scores 
 of all sports going on in the real world at the bottom of your screen is the best new invention 
 Ive seen. Unless its been done already and I just didnt know... Uploading videos and clips is cool. 
 
  
  The Bad: The controls are still messy and the guys dont skate smooth unless theyre turning a corner. 
 I was excited to try the nhl94 controls but theyre not the same. What made this game so cool for 
 the genesis was the speed bursts and smooth skating. A little button mashing is good for a game 
 like this to make you skate faster but for whatever reason they wont put it back in the game. The 
 game is very hard and while that doesnt bother me so much, I know it will others. 
  
  All said its better than the ones in the recent past and so it makes it worth buying....... probably..... eh, 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMaximus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 11:12 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Fast pace, great graphics, good music and good commentary.
  
  The Bad:
  Skill Stick, AI, Learning curve, documentation, same old 3rd period shenanigans.
  
  As many 
 have already said, the skill stick took a step backward, unfortunately this leads to bad gameplay 
 and this is a game so no matter the be a pro or dynasty or anything else that might be cool it 
 cannot over come that, add to this horrible AI and well you are left with a so-so game that can 
 be fun. Many try to taunt this game as a sim, well try starting a game at any difficulty level 
 but especially pro and above and play defense on the blue line only, after 1 period when the opponent 
 has scored somewhere between 4 and 8 points you will see why calling this a sim is a joke... and 
 AHL team has better goalies and defense. Also expect the computer goalie to be superman most of 
 the time none of this make this a sim, it's a cheap way for the developers to have to write code 
 for a decent AI.
  
  I thought I would be able to get friends and family to play this game as we usually do (they all 
 play madden and previous NHL games) , but they all hate this one, especially the newbies to hockey 
 games, that hurts the genre and unfortunately things could have been done to prevent this either 
 through difficulty levels or customizable control schemes or other means many other sports games 
 have and any game that would turn away many users is not a good game. None of this is to say it 
 is not a decent game, but the 9's and 10's you will see is alot of hype, the problems this game 
 has had on the 360 alone is reason enough to knock this title down to at least an 7 (at least for 
 those of us who expect a working product when we open our wallents) . To top it off the documentation 
 stinks, there are some tutorials in the game that are so-so but there are many settings and other 
 things in the menu's with no explanation at all... documentation is a joke... again this turns 
 off people new to the genre and that is always a bad thing.
  
  I have spoke with several seasoned hockey gamers who initially loved this title, but later admitted 
 that scoring was more luck than anything to do with skill, like real hockey position is a key in 
 this game, but most admitted scoring was more number of chances and pure dumb luck than skill at 
 the playing the game. Some of the suggestions I have heard sound good to me which would be make 
 the aiming of the shot take over only when the left trigger is pushed down, then it becomes aim, 
 other wise it stays skating, automatically switch to player closest to the puck on defense setting 
 and play as only 1 player setting regardless of who has the puck, of course far, far better AI 
 from almost everyone because the AI in this game most of the time should loose the "I".
  
  Also Gamespot should look at it's own previous reviews of games because this game has one of the 
 flaws that previous games have had which is 3rd period foolery, if you are in the lead plan on 
 the computer scoring especially in the last minute or 2 just about 100% of the time no matter what 
 you do, the same goes for you if you are trailing in the 3rd, just shoot from where ever at the 
 goal and you will almost certainly score in time to the tie the game. In an actual hockey game 
 there is certainly more pressure in the last minutes by the trailing team, but NHL 09 like previous 
 versions works way to hard to make dramiatic endings and O. T. games, so much so that it becomes 
 boring and it is real easy to spot this flaw, they should have a 3rd period only mode because this 
 flaw is so consistent.
  
  Now for some of the good... The graphics are great, it is almost like watching an actual game in 
 HD, the commentary can be suprisingly detailed and is professional although after playing awhile 
 it gets stale, music scores picked for the game are great and on the xbox custom music from your 
 xbox, usb stick or networked drive is a great feature (not available on the PS3) . Create a play 
 is a great feature as is be a pro mode and the 25 year dynasty.
  
  In the end the game is awesome if you can get 2 full teams together online to play so AI is not 
 an issue and it is somewhat fun to play against the computer for awhile but the AI gets annoying 
 after some time, in the rookie setting the pop up tips you cannot turn off become anoying withing 
 the 1st game, this is a big turn off to new comers and this should have a setting to turn it off. 
 
  
  Most of those who really just have to have the latest hockey game or are huge fans of the genre 
 will probably find the game ok to good, I really did not set out to rip this game, but offer and 
 honest review and as much good as this game has, all that has been covered a billion times. I wanted 
 to point out especially to new comers they should beware the learning curve and points mentioned 
 as you will probably wind up frustrated and not liking the game and get turned off by the genre, 
 if EA listens to all the complaints on AI and the new stick, perhaps NHL 2010 will be worthy of 
 all the hype and bring new people to the genre of all skill and interest levels. Most of us who 
 have played hockey games for awhile though will quickly become less excited once the flash and 
 hype cools down. This game is a solid 7.5, with all the positives this game has I wish I could 
 give it more, but it is what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedgreen2-1-5
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 6:51 pm PT
Review:  if you were thinking of getting 2k9 i advise you to get 09 instead, i have both and 2k9 is just 
 collecting dust, 09's graphics and physics are better, the gameplay has less bugs, I've rarely 
 seen any in 09 and the game modes are fun, especially be a pro, playing on an AHL team like hte 
 Phantoms is fun and you would earn you way up to the Flyers or whatever team you chose to play 
 for. Commentary is good but nothing to brag about. Earing new cards for your player is fun and 
 playing online league is the top feature of the game, you can join a team and play with a whole 
 team of user controlled players.
  
  one problem is the fighting engine, fights can end in 2 punches 6 at most. this is the only thing 
 2k9 had over EA's game. The music is okay, alltogether this is one of the greatest games in a long 
 time and people who arent hockey fans would enjoy it as much as me
  
  a perfect 10 with 2k9 trailing farther and farther behind each year.
  
  Go Flyers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patso75
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 10:05 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best hockey games to ever come out. I've already been through two seasons 
 of dynasty and am in my second season of be a pro. This is a game that you don't get tired of playing 
 since there is no beating it. The controls let you do more with the puck than in any previous game 
 and getting used to them takes no time at all. I do wish that the on-line roster updates would 
 come around a little more often and there would be better celebrations for hat tricks. Also the 
 GM in be a pro mode is a little bit like Matt Millen; doesn't know what they are doing. While playing 
 with the Rangers I was informed by the GM that Chris Drury had been traded straight up for Corey 
 Stillman??? Then in the off-season King Henrik was traded for Mattieu Garon. Overall this has been 
 the most engrossing game that I have played in a long time and fully recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihavtugo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  NHL 09 not only blew away all the other hockey games but all the sports games.
  
  Everybody thought that it would be hard to come close to NHL 08 but it seemed effortless. EA took 
 this to a whole new level.
  
  NHL 09 puts you right in the middle of what seems like a real NHL season. Other team difficulty 
 varies on the skill of there team. Opposing teams learn from your every move. Making you mix up 
 plays, And change game strategy. No play is the same. One minute your getting wide open shots from 
 the slot and the next you cant even get in to the offensive zone.
  
  A new addition this year was the be a pro mode. Which allowed you to be a already existing NHL 
 star or rookie. Or you could create you own custom character. In this mode you pick the team that 
 you would like to be on and start out in the minor leagues. Which is the AHL. You are given certain 
 objectives to complete through out the season. like the amount of goals you should score. As you 
 get better you will eventually make it to the NHL. And hopefully from their you will help your 
 team win the Stanly Cup.
  
  Overall this game was amazing. It was by far the best sports game i have ever played. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: teleblue47
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 23, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  I can't believe there are so many people out there that think this game is good! Maybe on other 
 platforms, but for Xbox 360 this is the worst game EA sports has ever compiled!
  There are so many glitches that totally ruin any positives that this game might offer. I'm sure 
 I am not the only one who experienced the "disc read" problems. In fact after returning the game 
 twice, I finally contacted EA sports directly and they finally admitted that this game is a nightmare! 
 I was informed that they did not want issue any patches because they didn't want to scare off potential 
 Christmas purchases. That is just lame!
  So after packing up the game and sending it back to EA directly, (and not being reimbursed for postage 
 and packaging, I might add) finally after two and a half weeks I received my "new and improved" 
 version.
  Guess what happens next? I set up the franchise mode, play two games and low and behold the same 
 crap happens again! I contact EA and they tell me to clear the cache and don't use the autosave 
 feature. C'mon now! Whats the use of offering features if they don't work!
  That was the final straw that broke the camels back! I returned the game and demanded my money 
 back, which was promptly returned. You see I wasn't the only one who returned this product!
  So EA if you are going to release a game that is supposed to be better than the previous year's, 
 make sure the thing functions like a profesionally made video game before you release it to the 
 public!
  Now I know alot of you are going to think that I am biased because of a bad experience with this 
 game, but if your are seriously considering buying this game for the Xbox 360 platform, just Google: 
 cache problems for NHL 09 Xbox 360; and see how many pages fill your screen!
  I love hockey and I wish I would have had more success with this title, but for now I guess I'll 
 have to be content with playing NHL 08. As for EA sports, I have totally lost all respect for this 
 company, and may NEVER buy another product from them!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWARNER4787
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Well the first thing you will notice is that there is a whole new game mode and that is the Be 
 A Pro mode and all I have to say is it's about time. I have been watching as all the other sports 
 games came out with their versions of the Be A Pro or Be A Player mode and hockey just kept getting 
 passed up but finally it happened and we can now enjoy being a hockey player or at least pretty 
 close to it. I think the Be A Pro mode is great but there are a few things that could be better 
 or even added, one of them being the ability to ask to be traded. I have to say that is a big deal 
 with me if I am unhappy with the team I am on I like to be able to ask for a trade so that should 
 be added in next year for sure. The other thing is that you get to pick where you want to play, 
 which is cool but I think it would be better to be entered in the draft and get drafted by a team 
 that is looking for a player like you but other then those things I think the Be A Pro mode is 
 great. Now for the other game modes they are pretty much the same not much changed from the year 
 before. So the things that did change is the ability to set how you want your players to train 
 or practice so that way you can develop each player on your team to how you want him to play or 
 based on what type of player you want him to develop into, and you can set the training in both 
 leagues your NHL team and you AHL team so that's cool. But there are some things that they still 
 didn't fix like the ability to buy out or release players from your team. But Overall I can say 
 that EA Sports have just continued to improve their hockey game each year and this year is no exception 
 if you are a hockey fan you have go to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hogger21
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I believe this game has to take it hands down for sports game of the year. The way they have made 
 be a pro is just amazing getting into the gear seeing your player walk out with his respective 
 team almost takes your breathe away. the career tracking will keep you engross in playing trying 
 to reach all the goals set by the GM of the team. You start in the minors and work your way to 
 top like which doesn't take long if you play well in the minors. You have full control of everything 
 you player does to signing contract to throwing the gloves to fight. The hitting is also much improved 
 along with the goalies not as much weird saves as the past few years. Amazing attention to details. 
 most have for the collections. The online play is incrediable how they let 10 people play on one 
 team each a indivdual on the ice. The fighting they have changed to and i believe for the better 
 I like the face when you punch someone you can knock em out with the one punch if you don't grab 
 the player before the fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiNap65
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Even if I didn't love playing hockey, this game would still be on my Top 5 Best Ever Sports Video 
 Games. What makes this game stand out is the "Be a Pro" feature which by far is the best part of 
 the game. The only negative thing I can find is the fighting part which tends to be very robotic 
 and ends too quickly. If you love hockey, this is a must buy! Side note: I just ended my first 
 season as a Rookie Defenseman for my Bs and won Stanley Cup. And look what the Real Bs are doing. 
 Coincidence? I think not. 
  Go  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathHeart95
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  The NHL series was revitalized last year when NHL 08 came out, and it was a game that every sports 
 fan had to own, a NHL fan or not. NHL 09 is even better, and EA expands on an already incredible 
 game.
  
  First off, let me say that the graphics are incredible. Facial features are very nice, and all 
 of the other on ice stuff looks great. Sure, the stands and the crowd look like the players from 
 NHL 98 (at best) , but EA focused the graphics on where your attention would be. Believe me, your 
 attention will be drawn to the ice for the entire game.
  
  Let me start with Be A Pro mode. Absolutely addictive. I suggest creating your own character and 
 building from there, because it's a lot more fun than playing with an already existing player. 
 Basically in Be A Pro mode, you control one character for the entire game. Sounds boring, but it 
 isn't. You can call for passes so you can essentially get as many shots as you want. Your coach 
 also gives you grades on position score (just follow the blue arrows) , team play (don't turnover 
 or commit offsides) , and stats (self explanatory) . Based on what position you play, you need different 
 stats more than others for the stat score. For example, goals are more important for a forward, 
 while plus minus is more important for a defenseman.
  
  You can also take your character online with the EASHL. You can play with random players, or get 
 invited to a club and play with them. Clubs are a lot more fun as they aren't as much puckhogs 
 as everyone in the random EASHL games are.
  
  That brings us to the community. More often than not, you will meet people who are either puckhogs, 
 or shoot "cheap goals", or goals that a normal goalie would save, but the computer goalie is too 
 incompetent to save. That is the one thing that makes this game frustrating at times, especially 
 in ranked matches.
  
  The gameplay itself simply makes sense. You can play with NHL 94 controls (press buttons to shoot) , 
 or NHL 09 controls. With NHL 09 controls, you aim with your left analog stick, and shoot with your 
 right. For a wrist shot, simply flick the right analog stick, for a slap shot, hold it back then 
 flick it up. The controls are fluid, and work out very well. Although the 94 controls are probably 
 better for beginners.
  
  Overall, this is a must own game for any sports game fans out there. It doesn't matter if you don't 
 like the NHL. Trust me, you will love this game.
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hahnasty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the best NHL of the series. They improved the features from the last game and 
 added some really fun new modes also.
  The newest feature of NHL 09 is the "be a pro" mode where you create a player and assign a position 
 to them. Then you play games as that single player and bring them up through the minor leagues 
 and hopefully end up on the NHL roster. The game mode is made easier because the computer has lines 
 that shows you were you should be positioned. It is a little frustrating at times because the computer 
 players are not very smart, but when you learn how to use them and learn that you can make them 
 shoot and pass then you learn to fully utilize them.
  As for the dynasty mode, it is similar to older versions of the game, just cleaned up a little. 
 The trades are still fun, and there are different game levels which you can play on which make 
 the game fun over time. You just have to gradually move up levels as you get better. The only thing 
 that may make the dynasty mode better is if there was a draft for all the players to make a custom 
 team.
  There are is a new stronger interest on defense in 09 as well. With increased skills that you can 
 use on defense like the movable poke check, and stick lift, it is easier to defend as you move 
 up levels. There are new moves on offense like the one handed deke, but those moves are not as 
 effective or often utilized as the defensive moves.
  The game is just right in the fact that there is a learning curve on what shots work and where 
 to shoot it, but it is not impossible to beat the hardest levels. For this reason, it is extremely 
 easy to play this game for hours and not get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayo_93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Opening NHL 09 was one of the most exciting September days I have ever had.... I know that sounds 
 sad, September days have never had too much to offer me though. The point is it didn't disappoint. 
 EA sports had incorporated its FIFA 08 Be a Pro mode model into NHL giving you one more online 
 and offline option. As you likely know, yes, you can be your own player on line in the EA sports 
 Hockey league (EASHL) . 
  
  The offline version runs really well. You join whichever franchise you want, playing any position 
 you want, and you do your best to get a shot at the pros. They judge you in three categories: Positioning, 
 rather self explanatory if you are where they say you should be you will get an A+. It does, however, 
 get annoying when a winger, or D-man tries to switch sides with you and puts you out of position. 
 Secondly is Team Play, again there are minor problems such as suicide passes making you lose the 
 puck and it giving you a negative score. And finally, Stats, which is the most consistent for non-goalies. 
 If you get a goal an assist or a plus it goes up. A negative it goes down. As a goalie the same 
 rules apply but big saves and shut out periods make your Team Play go up. Total saves makes stats 
 go up and goals against makes it go down. As a goalie the stat category is extremely frustrating 
 for anybody playing 5 minute games as you rarely get enough shots to get to an A+ even if you save 
 every shot. 
  
  The EASHL has it's own problems. Dropped games should have a more serious punishment for the teams 
 leaving as it can be annoying to finish games. Also it is difficult to find a team if you do not 
 have many friends playing the game. As there is not a lobby dedicated to recruiting players... I 
 mostly would like the lobbies to work like socom clan lobbies do. This isn't a problem of the games 
 but more of the history or background of the people playing online. However, if you do not have 
 a team to play with you can play in an Online team game. Which still uses your character. This 
 works better than imagined. Generally the games don't lag and I have had very few games end abruptly. 
 It gives a different place to possibly meet up with a future team or just take your character for 
 a spin. 
  
  The mechanics of 09 are nearly identical to that of 08 with a few tweaks and fixes. A few of the 
 goalie glitches have been fixed... pucks balancing on goalies shoulders only to roll in has become 
 a thing of the past. Also goalies are able to stop shots on the rush now... that doesn't mean they 
 are perfect. A couple of new, less frequent problems have occurred and are prevalent when you try 
 the goalie mode. You will notice that goalies at unconventional times will attempt to stack the 
 pads. After playing the goalie mode I realized that after a player skates out of the corner and 
 is close to me the fivehole is extremely weak. Either way this is a problem. And also recovery 
 time from big saves is too long. The only really noticeable change to the forwards is the one handed 
 deke and better hit animations... on a side note the day a sports game of this caliber incorporates 
 a strong physics engine will be a great day for any sports fan. 
  
  I realize I have been relatively negative during this review, but don't get me wrong this is a 
 great game and a pretty strong improvement from 08. The game still has the great pace that 08 had 
 and the skill stick is as good if not better than before. You are now able to save replays or take 
 photos of your player. The EASHL is a really fun and creative new addition that I would like to 
 see implemented into more sports games. Again if you cannot join the league online team play is 
 an adequate substitute for sometime. Be a Pro mode offline is a lot of fun and gives you another 
 look at a Dynasty mode if desired. Goalies and general AI has gotten better. This game is a strong 
 improvement on its predecessors and I hope to see more of the same from EA Sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UrNameInBlood
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  NHL 09. At first I absolutely loved this game, i agreed with Gamespot, but then I saw it's evil. 
 Solo's pretty fun, until your player locks up and can't move for 10 seconds right before you score 
 the game-winning goal. Or maybe your teammate's AI flips out and he starts skating in front of 
 you slowly and prevents that breakaway in OT. Or maybe the disk stops reading in the third period 
 of the Stanley Cup Finals (This is not MY disk OR Xbox problems it's happened to all of my NHL games 
 since 2003.) Or try this, you lose connection to your online game 10 straight games despite your 
 perfect connection. OR maybe the puck gets stuck between the pipe and net so you have to restart. 
 Another problem is the new skill stick. I like it, it's revolutionary. But it's not perfected. 
 My biggest conflict with it is, when I try to one-time a perfect pass into the net, I wind up checking 
 the air (The hit/shoot is the stick) SO ANNOYING! Finally the whole deal with the puck getting stuck 
 on the back of goalie's necks is starting to get old. As much as I have complained about this game 
 I now will compliment it. The graphics= AMAZING! The new game modes online and off are pretty sweet. 
 And push all negatives to the side and the gameplay is good. So even though all of these problems 
 suk, the NHL games are improving in certain areas, but remain medicore in a few places. So, ignore 
 online and play solo or split screen and I would recommend rent before buy, but its defintely worth 
 checking out in the long run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nino_03
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  There is only one disappointment I really have for this game but unfortunately it's a major one. 
 What attracted me to the EA Hockey series and away from the 2k series was the great addition of 
 the Still Stick introduced in NHL 07. I've never played 07 but I finally bought 08 and gave it 
 a try. The first time i used the skill stick in 08 I loved it. 98 percent of the time i could put 
 the puck anywhere i wanted in the net. I could go high with the wrist shot or drill it with the 
 slap shot. If I wanted to wrist the puck in the top right corner or top left corner i could do 
 it. well you get the picture.
  
  Well when 09 finally came out i was really excited because i heard of the want to be a pro scenario. 
 And it's a very great concept but the skill stick in 09 to me is awful. I can't place where i want 
 to shoot the puck anymore. I aim left with both sticks and for some reason the puck shoots right 
 or vice versa. Sometimes i miss the net completely. I agree with some of the other negative reviews 
 about how horrible the AI is. I agree but it wouldn't be so bad if the still stick was accurate 
 like it was in 08. I might actually have a chance and the game could be competitive. I really hope 
 they go back to the accuracy of the still stick in 08 for nhl 2010. I guess I'm just going to play 
 nhl 08 until it's changed in future EA NHL games. If it ever changes :- ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicide2005
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  EA Canada (Xbox 360 and PS3) and HB Studios (PC, PS2) develop this almost perfect Hockey game, 
 which in my view is one of EA's best sporting games in a very long time.
  
  Pretty much this game takes what was great about NHL 07 and 08 and puts it into this game, eliminates 
 what fans didn't like and adds some really cool new features to the game. 
  
  There are some cool new features in this game, obviously the biggest new addition is the Be The 
 Pro mode, which is a pretty cool mode. You play a rookie that is looking to make it into the pros, 
 you start out in the AHL and work your way into the NHL. Or you can skip that and play an already 
 established Pro in the NHL. This mode is interesting because you only play that player, no one 
 else. I think it is probably one of the most realistic modes ever put into the game. It's also 
 nice to see the AHL league play a more prominent role in this game.
  
  Other modes from previous games still exist. The Dynasty mode and Create-a-team or player are still 
 featured. 
  
  They stick to the same control concept that has been around since 07, however, they add a new setup 
 to the list, which is known by fans as the NHL 94 controls. This makes the controls much more easier 
 with only two main buttons to hit, minus the directional buttons. 
  
  Graphically, the game looks fantastic. While the graphics were great for 08, they really cleaned 
 them up and made them look even more realistic.
  
  The Physics in the game are also very improved. This game features much better body-checking, which 
 seemed lacking in 08. The skating is very realistic and the players move very well.
  
  There is are two negatives to this game. While the game runs very smooth while playing the hockey 
 game, the replays and all the cut-scenes before the game have really bad frame-rate speed and this 
 is a problem for all the versions. The other is its online mode. While the online can be fun, it 
 is too difficult to handle. Sometimes getting on is easy, sometimes it's a complete pain.
  
  There are four console versions to this game. The PS3 and Xbox 360 are almost completely identical 
 versions. The PS3 frame-rate issues are little more problematic then the 360 but since its only 
 during replays and cut-scenes, it doesn't really matter. The PC actually looks a bit better visually 
 but as usual you need a great PC to tell. The PS2 is actually a pretty good version, obviously 
 it doesn't look half as good as the 360, PS3, and PC but the gameplay still remains intact and 
 that's what makes it a good version.
  
  Overall, this is the best Hockey game in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadmanMorris
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  
  I've been a 2K hockey fan for a while, but have skipped the last 2 versions (rented them though) 
 and wasn't impressed at all. In fact i was put off. I went on hiatus. Which was sad because I'm 
 a big hockey fan. 
  I haven't thought about NHL games in a while, since i never liked EA's NHL series, because they 
 were always arcade-y. So along comes this year's EA iteration, i played the demo and thought I'd 
 buy it, since i love hockey and it was getting god reviews, and i wanted to BELIEVE. (that there 
 would be a game of hockey that would satisfy) And...
  NHL 09 is the best game of hockey I've played PERIOD. (especially with the new patch)
  One of 
 the greatest modes ever put in a video game, BE A PRO, is the closest you can come to a sports 
 RPG than anything else. It ALONE is worth buying, I have logged at least 30 hours in this mode 
 alone, i still haven't even TOUCHED dynasty mode (which is the main reason why i play sports games) . 
 So i have a LOT more playing to do. 
  If you Love hockey, if you remember when hockey games used to be fun, great, super, etc. but have 
 since stopped playing and now watch bull riding on versus. PLEASE get out that dusty old Xbox 360, 
 and play/buy this game, it truly is the best hockey game I've ever played.
  Enjoy ! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguino522
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This NHL has everything right stick handiling, puck  
 great everyone looks like themselves! The be a pro brought more realism and fun into the game! New 
 hits, dekes, and movement makes the game look extremely real! Thats all i have to say. Botttom line 
 if you like hockey you should tottaly get this game! Random word time! bob phil penguin giraffe 
 ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice stick stick stick stick stick skates skates skates skates ice 
 ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice stick stick stick stick stick skates skates skates 
 skates ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice stick stick stick stick stick skates skates 
 skates skates ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice stick stick stick stick stick skates 
 skates skates skates ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice stick stick stick stick stick 
 skates skates skates skates ice ice ice! im done =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  *** NHL 09 ***
  
  THE GOOD 
  -Very realistic hockey action
  -Solid controls
  -Incentive to playing your position
  -Excellent multiplayer
  -Be A Pro mode is addictive
 
  -Nice graphics
  -Realistic sound
  -Good selection of music
  
  THE BAD
  -Online connection issues
  -Confusing menus
  
  OVERVIEW
  NHL 09 continues on the great 
 success from the previous year with its new Be A Pro feature. This new feature lets you create 
 yourself as you start in the AHL, gain experience and hopefully become a super star in the NHL. 
 Now you have the chance to play on the same line scoring goals with Alexander Ovechkin. Or if defense 
 is more your style then wouldn't it be cool to pair up with Nicklas Lidstrom? Or if you are goalie 
 minded you could try winning the starting job over Martin Brodeur. All this is possible in NHL 
 09 if your performance is top notch.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  NHL 09 is a very realistic hockey game. More of an emphasis was put into the defense so you'll 
 see games where the score isn't a blow out like 15  0. Instead you'll see games that are more 
 like 1  0, 4  3, etc Because the scores are more reasonable, there is lots of excitement when 
 your team does score a goal because it's hard work just like in the NHL. The controls may seem 
 complicated but once you get use to them it will feel natural. Skating is performed using the left 
 stick and all your puck handling is done with the right stick. You don't have to worry about the 
 annoying "speed burst" button, which is nice. For deking, all you have to do is more the right 
 stick from side to side and you can even pull the puck back with the toe of the stick to unleash 
 a wicked wrist shot. There are two types of shots you can perform which are the slap shot and wrist/snap 
 shot. It's all intuitive too. For a slap shot just pull the right stick backwards and then forwards. 
 It takes a little extra time so make sure you have clearance before attempting this shot. For a 
 wrist/snap shot just push the right stick forward. Other offensive things you can do in NHL 09 
 are passing (RT) , shielding the puck (A) , loose puck deke (LB) , and the nice vision control (LT 
  which turns the camera to aid in seeing where your teammates are in the offensive zone) . The 
 controls on defense have a few new features to help you put that "hot shot" player in his place. 
 We have the body check (right stick) , the poke check (RB and right stick for more control) , the 
 block pass (LB) , the lift opponents stick (A) , the hook/start a fight (Y) and the dive (LB + RB) . 
 As a fellow hockey player, I've noticed that the controls for this game are very good and feel 
 more practical than other hockey games.
  
  Alright, now let's get into each of the game modes. NHL 09 offers the same exhibition and league 
 modes like before. Here you and your friends can customize the game or league with the option to 
 use all the NHL, AHL, and worldwide hockey teams. Rosters are updated automatically by EA sports 
 too. This is pretty much the same stuff you've seen before but the other mode that you'll really 
 like is the Be A Pro feature. Here you have the option to play as an NHL (or AHL) superstar or 
 create yourself and start off in the minors. The objective is to become the greatest NHL hockey 
 player that ever played the game (or at least come close) . If you really want a complete authentic 
 feel you can keep line changes on and you'll actually come to and from the bench during the game. 
 NHL 09 is also the first hockey game to implement a leveling system based on performance. Your 
 Be A Pro character will earn a letter grade (which turns into experience points) in three different 
 areas. There is a position score (based on whether you play your position or not) , team play score 
 (based on how many hits, turn-overs, take-aways, etc you get) and a stats score (based on how 
 many goals, assists, and plus/minus you get) . This is really cool because there is an incentive 
 to playing your position (so you won't find all five users in front of the net leaving the defense 
 unattended) and the role playing aspect is nice because you can increase your players attributes.
 
  
  All of the offline game types can also be played online. This includes the Be A Pro feature which 
 also works the same way. Playing online with friends can be very addicting. There are options to 
 create your own club team to invite people and play against fellow hockey teams from around the 
 world. Your club team is ranked and placed into a division with other teams with the same skill 
 level too. Unfortunately, there are a few setbacks in the form of connection issues. Sometimes 
 you'll experience some bad lag and frame rate problems that can really be quite irritating. Another 
 crumby thing EA did is that it stuck you with a labyrinth of menus. The first couple times navigating 
 through them and you'll see how terrible they are but it's a good thing that there is a built in 
 FAQ.
  
  NHL 09 also offers a few other nice features. You have the ability to record videos and take pictures 
 to show off your mad skills to entire world. You can even use the pictures you take to customize 
 your own hockey card. Plus, you have the ability to change up the music by customizing your own 
 playlists.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The visuals are very good in NHL 09. The ice rinks look very sharp. Plus, the details in each of 
 the player's faces are exceptional too. For example, if you're playing as the Pittsburgh Penguins 
 and happen to get a close up of Sidney Crosby you'll be stunned on how closely the game resembles 
 the real man. Also, there is a funny easter egg with the crowd watching the game in that they are 
 all male. Apparently, females don't watch hockey.
  
  SOUND
  The sounds effects rock. From the bone crushing hits to the scorching slappers at the point, you'll 
 enjoy the sounds this game has to offer. The alternative music in NHL 09 is a good fit and sounds 
 like hockey.
  
  CONCLUSION
  NHL 09 picks up where 08 left off and really stepped it up even more. The new Be A Pro mode is 
 probably one of the best ideas for a sports game yet. I would recommend this game to anyone whether 
 you are hockey fanatic or not. So, it's time to lace up those skates and light the lamp! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IlKeithlI
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:00 am PT
Review:  Best sports game for the 360 that I've played and I own a lot of them. Outstanding graphics, smooth 
 gameplay, improved checking, excellent use of the joysticks... just to name a few of the high points 
 of the game. Also, the addition Be A Pro mode adds a whole new element to the experience. Minor 
 flaws include some suspect play by the goaltenders at times, a fighting mechanic that could still 
 use improvement, and the whole roster update "procedure". I was also disappointed that I wasn't 
 able to fantasy draft my own team in Dynasty mode. The multiplayer is another strength. Leagues, 
 Clubs, Teams, etc. are just some of the options and the games run smooth. With all that is great 
 about this game you won't be thinking about those few minor issues I couldn't be more pleased with 
 the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adompe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  I hadn't played EA's NHL series since college. That was NHL '92 on the ol' Sega Genesis. Ok, so 
 yeah, the game has changed. A LOT. But I've played more of EA's recent sports games like Madden 
 and FIFA, so I know graphics and overall gameplay have changed.
  
  All of I've been playing is the Be A Pro mode, and I love it. You start by creating a positin player: 
 goalie, defenseman, offenseman. But you can also choose your style of play. Will you be a Hatcher, 
 hard hitting defensemen or a puck slinging Zubov? You can also customize your player's appearance 
 down to equipment detail. Once done, you see YOUR player in the tunnel, with YOUR name on the back 
 of the sweater, heading towards the ice. Awesome game intros. The gameplay itself is fantastic. 
 You really have to be a team player in Be A Pro mode, find the open ice, the open man, when to 
 dump it in and be disciplined on D.
  
  You start out on a minor league team to your choice of NHL team. Then as the season progresses, 
 you get called up. I actually go traded to another team, which at first I thought was a bummer, 
 but I've grown to like my team.
  
  Everything in the game has been done with great detail. The in game commentary is fantastic and 
 doesn't grow stale. The graphics are of course superb (I play on 360) . And the gameplay is addictive.
 
  
  If you're remotely an NHL fan, pick this up. You'll see the sport in a new light. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buzzcann
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  NHL 09 can be a compelling yet stripped down experience of the life of a player in the NHL and 
 AHL. The game itself has new animations which are top notch and new player models. A few new moves 
 on offense, defense, sorry i mean defence. not to mention new goalie saves are what makes it worthy 
 for a new look.
  
  The real addition that will keep players on the ice the longest are the be a pro and online hockey 
 leagues. The be a pro mode starts you out in the AHL on the third line and makes you work your 
 way to 1st line in the NHL. With all of the options in the game, difficulty is really up to you. 
 
  
  Theres really not much else to it. You have some options for your player and can set up online 
 teams and compete for a virtual championship. The menus are repetative but slick, the sound track 
 could use some help but they give you the option to add your own music. The commentary is sharp 
 and unique as well a sold play by play and a diverse enough color commentary as usual.
  
  Overall its the same great gameplay that we have come to expect from the series. The addition of 
 be a pro and of course new rosters, jerseys, teams, etc. make it worth picking up the latest versions. 
 While the new animations are top notch and better than before, the gameplay doesnt highlight these 
 much as your model in the game is different than that in the cut scenes. Theres no facial expressions 
 or other details on the actual ice. 
  
  The points system can be frustrating and will force you to play many many games to beef up your 
 players ratings. Other additions such as player cards and player milestones are nice features but 
 could be presented in a much better way. The cards could have stats on the back and function as 
 actual cards rather then being static images with copy along the side. 
  
  If you're a fan of the series you wont be dissapointed, new comers may be daunted with the variety 
 of gameplay and if they love the game will embrace it for eons. While vets will probably stick 
 to their favorite mode old or new and enjoy it about the same length they usually do with this 
 game. 
  
  To Improve
  -EA should seriously consider the following.
  -Skills competition
  -New easier funner controls for fighting
  -More creatable features on 
 the player editor
  -More robust soundtrack 
  -Sports radio functionality
  -Unlockable moves
  -Trick shots
  -Broken and loss of sticks
  -More coach animations
  -First 
 person perspective for goalie option or a more over the shoulder GOW feel to it
  -ZAMBONIS!!!!
  -Some in between period entertainment could be good
  -The Bad
  -Should have 
 never changed the line change controls
  -A better hybrid between the new and classic controls is needed
  - Suspensions, fines, 5 minute 
 majors, and other additions to overall realism should be added as well
  - In game analysis should be more intuitive to each game and not so canned, reffering to specific 
 hits, shifts, goals as turning points etc. would help bring each game to life.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: serge99100100
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  A lot of bugs, like when your player scores, he goes with the other team goalie or player (seen 
 on PS3 and 360) . The score box is often becoming light gray, so if you want to remove your goalie, 
 you need to go in the menu to see the time remaining in the game, or when you will leave the penalty 
 box. On 360, there is also an CD error, on about 1 game out of 4. Also, when you try to do achievements, 
 sometimes they don't work. You need to do a little workaround to make it work. You cannot see the 
 first name of the player who score sometimes because the background of the box is the same color 
 as the one of the foreground. All little things that are annoying, but are forgettable since it's 
 the first try for the Be A Pro mode. Still a very good game. You can also go with your custom player 
 online and play in a real team in a real league. The thing to remember is that you can be trade 
 in an unwanted team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cluskenator
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Here we go again, another NHL game. I will admit, this seems like the best one (really it isn't) , 
 but, its just another one of those games. Its one of those games that is like drinking a slurpee, 
 you take your first couple of sips and you say 'oh boy this is really good I'm glad I got this'... only 
 to then drink it to fast and realize brain freeze SUCKS! Well, this game, like a lot of other games, 
 is great at the start, but then you start realising the bad things about it.
  
  There are just far to many problems with this game. The goalies for one thing, are absolutely terrible. 
 The goals that can be scored against are just ridiculous. Goalies come off the post to early all 
 the time and it seems they don't properly cover the holes. I'de rather use those floppy monkeys 
 from NHL 06 and 07.
  
  More bashing... nothing like being score on 5 times in a club game because somebody can do a pathetic 
 wrist shot from the face-off circles... really? I've been playing NHL games for 12 years, and suddenly 
 there is a glitch goal that easy to pull off? Whatever.
  
  Next point, something not really wrong with the game, but something that should be taken into consideration. 
 Its frustrating how you can get a penalty for hitting a guy with the puck, yet when you get decked 
 in the middle ice 40ft from the play, there is no penalty. Honestly, there should be no random 
 penalties. Cross-checking, elbowing, roughing and boarding should never be called. Again, not fair 
 if either one of those are called against you. Interference should be called everytime since it 
 NEVER is and should be the only hitting penalty. Now, penalties such as highsticking, slashing, 
 and tripping should only happen when you hit the poke/sticklift buttons 3+ times. Again, its not 
 fair how you hit either button once and get a penalty but then somehow somebody hits it 5 times 
 in a row, doesn't get a penalty and gets possesion of the puck.
  
  Its also frustrating how somebody can dive infront of you causing you to trip over him, if thats 
 not inteference I don't know what is. Second, get rid of the tripping over the goalie stuff, its 
 really unnecessary.
  
  CPU D. There is something wrong with them. A lot of the time they let people skate by them for 
 easy breakaways, they tend to stare at the puck without doing anything (no pass called for missed) 
 and its especially unfair how they get penalties. Nothing like losing a game because the CPU put 
 you a man short. 
  
  Only welcome addition to this game is the whole Pro idea. Needs some fixing, but its awesome that 
 its finally here. Hopefully the Pro Mode can be expanded a little more. But I'm definitely excited 
 for next year, I expect more from it.
  
  Lastly, WHO TESTED THIS? This game was generally a waste of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyreofKoL
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  My excitement and anticipation for this game actually started way back when I saw the first release 
 bits for NHL 2008. I did a double take on seeing the first screenshot, due the fact that I initially 
 thought it was a photograph from an actual hockey game. From that moment on, I was sold on that 
 game, and was absolutely blown away by what EA did to bring the NHL series back to its former glory. 
 The skill stick was a stroke of pure genius, and was flawlessly implemented, but equally as important, 
 the AI was given a major overhaul that actually made it worth playing against. So... needless to 
 say, I was bouncing off the walls when I saw the first pre-release article for NHL 2009 and once 
 again was completely satisfied by the end result. EA wisely took a "If it ain't broke, don't fix 
 it" approach to the control set up for this game. However, the two new moves they added are great 
 additions to this control set up. The stick lift is great for me in particular, since I'm mainly 
 a defensive player, and don't risk full body checks very often. When used properly, it can drive 
 offensive players completely bonkers. However, the offense is given a counter to this in the puck 
 guard command. It's a simple move that keeps the puck on one side of the user and completely away 
 from the defender. It does carry a bit of risk if used improperly, though, as it slows down the 
 user a bit and leaves the user open for a body check. The AI has been improved once again in this 
 game, in particular as far as goalies are concerned. Combine that with the plethora of new goalie 
 animations, and, well, it's truly a sight to behold. EA added a fascinating new mode, called Be 
 A Pro mode, that was implemented extremely well. In this mode, you create a player and take him 
 through the AHL and then hopefully to the NHL. The player plays one and only position, but this 
 is made fairly easy via hints from the game to help keep you in position. This also means that 
 you get to watch from the bench during line changes or from the box if you take a penalty. It's 
 a great concept and I really hope that EA keeps it in future installments. The last major addition 
 to this game is six on six online play. Brilliant, simply brilliant. For all those who wanted to 
 make a team with their friends to take online (myself included) , our dreams have come true. This 
 game is graphically stunning, somehow improving on the excellent graphics from the previous game. 
 NHL also excels in the sound department in all but one area. There plenty of great songs for a 
 headbanger like me, and the in game sounds are so realistic I feel like I'm rink side. My only 
 complaint with the sound is the announcers, Bill Clement in particular. They're quite informative 
 for the most part, but are often times just plain annoying. This is a must have for NHL fans, and 
 honestly could be pretty easily picked up by anybody else. EA has truly brought the NHL series 
 back to its former grandeur 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nailclipper
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Another year has come and gone and if you're like me and you've spent your last year yelling obscenities 
 at your tv set than you know that to avoid becoming the laughing stock of the online gaming world 
 you'll need to throw down and add another digit to all of your ea sports titles. Fortunately when 
 you lace up the skates and tape up your blade this year you will begin to realize that this year's 
 installment in EA's perennial nhl series is the most realistic to date. Sure you will feel a sudden 
 worry when you realize that none of your go to moves (ie the one timer in the slot and triple deke) 
 are no longer automatic goals but when you understand the many enhancements to the defensive controls 
 you will see that it provides for a much more enjoyable playing experience.
  Long Time players of the series know that since 2007 the implementation of the skill stick revolution 
 has changed the realms of virtual puck forever. Last year the programmers at EA focused on the 
 offensive side of the game by improving the dekes and adding the ability to do off the puck dekes. 
 To balance the experience for gamers, this year the focus has been on defense. The new stick lift 
 and 360 degree defensive stick will make it easier to break up passes and prevent one timers. The 
 new puck dumping controls give a player a nice weapon against players who play the blue line trap. 
 A plethora of new animations and physics programming makes the game feel immediately more fluent. 
 No longer do hits seem like pre-programmed collisions on tracks and goalies will dive and do the 
 splits in order to make game stoppers on the breakaway. The gameplay is not flawless and you will 
 still get the "medusa" player frozen in his skates as a pass goes by your stick, nevertheless this 
 years nhl is by far the most realistic and longtime ice hockey players will find themselves making 
 the same mistakes in the ea realm as they made on the rink.
  The newest addition to the game-modes is the new be a pro mode which allows you to lace up as an 
 existing pro or as your created player for an entire nhl career as one player played through the 
 new action cam. From the first time you see your name on the back of your jersey as you wait in 
 the tunnel before the game you will know that this is an entirely new hockey gaming experience. 
 Scoring goals and lacing nice assists is all the more satisfying because you are so much more emotionally 
 invested in your pro. That isn't to say that the game is all end to enders and highlight reel goals 
 as you will be rated based upon your positioning, team play as well as individual stats.
  The other offline game modes in this game have been left relatively unchanged you'll find the dynasty, 
 practice, shootout, creation zone (which actually has a full end to end create-a-play option so 
 expect to see the flying V.) Where the most improvements have been made is to the online gaming 
 in nhl 09. The creation of EAs online hockey league is an amazing addition which takes the innovation 
 of be a pro mode and allows you to play with up to ten skaters and two goalies for a total of 12 
 players competing online. There are some expected lag issues and sometimes finding a game is difficult. 
 That being said as an online NHL player I was very impressed with the overall gameplay and anyone 
 who has the experience of competing on an entire team as one player will be amazed at how satisfying 
 it can be. 
  Other nice touches to the game are the inclusion of throwback jerseys and even a fully playable 
 all century montreal canadiens team which is sure to have true habs fans drooling at the possibility 
 of streaking up the wing with lafleur only to feather a pass over to Maurice Richard. The players 
 look like their true likeness and Ken Dryden even stands on his stick. Another innovation is the 
 ability to create custom soundtracks so you can change the entrance song of your team to Wu-Tang 
 Clan.
  The inclusion of all these gameplay modes as well as the enhancements to the actual gameplay make 
 this years nhl engine among the most realistic representations of any sport period. Although the 
 game is not flawless it is undoubtedly the most solid NHL playing experience to hit the consoles 
 since NHL 96. If you haven't already tried it out get your copy and start dangling hosers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: originalchubbs
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  pretty much the same game as NHL08 but they have made improvements. i love the fact that the skating 
 feels more real and the goal tending is very good. I also love the new features like protecting 
 the puck all the the different plays u can set up. one handed deeks and stick lifts not mention 
 laying the stick on the ground. My problem is the stick lifts work way to well. the goal tending 
 is actually way to good in this game. I was scoring at least 5 to 6 goals online last year but 
 in the game 2 goals if i"m lucky sometimes. I still keep winning cause i get tons of shut outs. 
 I enjoy the team play. Pick this game up its awesome but make sure u set up plays to score goals. 
 Also, the competition this year is definetly way better. Alot of people that were skiled last year 
 are much more improved over the time playing so if you are new to the game plan on getting schooled 
 online a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  It took a good long while for any NHL series game to supplant NHL 2000 on PSX for me, but it seems 
 they have finally done it. The game is smoother, more intelligent in the controls and added something 
 I can look forward to playing most days.
  
  The new be a player feature has simply turned this game into something I never imaged EA would 
 ever offer, a game play mode that rocks and works. I expected there to be a lot of bugs, but for 
 once EA seems to have tested its game a little better than usual. This is not to say it is perfect, 
 I am realistic and know there is no such thing as a perfect video game, but this a very polished 
 version right out of the gate.
  
  Even if you don't have Xbox online, this is still a worth while game, but it is even better when 
 you can play it online with your friends on a team full of your own individual players.
  
  Past the new be a player mode there isn't a whole lot new, but that is alright, the franchise mode 
 was fine before and continues to be just fine now.
  
  All I can say to EA on this one is: finally! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conartjumper
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  It's hard not to love a hockey game. NHL 2k for Dreamcast was a golden feat of greatness in its 
 hay day. Now we find ourselves in '08 looking at NHL 09 - and it has to be said, this is the best 
 hockey game created bar-none. Ok, I'll try to keep the cliches to a minimum from now on. 
  
  NHL 09 doesn't slightly improve any singular quality, as a whole it has been drastically enhanced. 
 AI has tighten up on defense, making one timers harder to find. Offense has added weapons in the 
 form of dekes for skilled skaters. The best part is custom control settings. WAIT!! Before you 
 get all excited, like I was when I saw the terminology -- you cannot change your control scheme. 
 
  
  There it is, the major black eye on an otherwise beautiful model of hockey (near) perfection. I 
 added the (near) because there are still a lot of areas to improve upon in the NHL series, both 
 EA's and 2ksport's version. However, given the choice, which you are every year, EA still manages 
 to outshine 2K in real hockey simulation. From me, that statement means a lot. I semi-boycotted 
 EA long ago, and have only purchased the NHL titles since, and Madden 08 after taking a 2 year 
 Madden hiatus. 
  
  Back to the point, calling something custom should mean that you, the player are able to change 
 it. In this case it just means "Hi, EA here! We'd like to give you a third option in control and 
 see what happens" - What happened is they pissed off a lot of players who normally use "Classic" 
 control, myself included, who thought that they could customize the scheme to utilize every move 
 the game had to offer. Sadly, not true - and some forums mention EA will patch it to be truly a 
 custom scheme set-up, but that remains to be seen - I'm not getting my hopes up.
  
  Back to the good parts of the game. Having spent numerous hours pelting goalies with virtual vulcanized 
 rubber, I am more than happy to say the infamous "Tractor beam saves" are gone. If you aren't sure 
 what I am talking about, you probably never questioned a would-be goal in NHL 07 or 08 --- they 
 happened A LOT.
  
  The tractor beam save, is just like it sounds. The puck would flip over the goalie - usually after 
 hitting him in the chest or head, but I have seen it happen with arms and legs. The puck would 
 then land on the ice behind the goalie and begin to drift toward, if not completely across the 
 goal line. Magically, the puck would scoot backwards toward the goalie as he pulled off a lay down 
 technique.
  
  It would also appear that "phantom limb" goals have been fixed as well. Pucks would phase through 
 a goalies arms, legs, torso, and on one truly drunkenly wonderful occasion - right through the 
 head, hitting the cross bar and plopping dead behind the goal line. 
  
  Adding to the fact that these odd goals and saves are gone, EA finally got around to looking at 
 how a real goalie moves. Sprawled animations look more fluent and natural, almost like pornstars 
 and gymnasts were brought into the mocap studio. Additionally, skater animations as a whole look 
 and feel more realistic. 
  
  As for the other "major features" in the game, be a pro is fun - but ultimately more enjoyment 
 will be found playing against friends with actual NHL teams. 
  
  The standout feature of this game remains to be the improved defense. The added moves help to give 
 you the illusion that you are watching a real hockey game. Defenders raise their sticks to deflect 
 shots, lift snipers sticks to miss slap shots, actually CHECK players and generally just play more 
 solid D. The past two years entries were good, but this game true delvers what a hockey game should 
 have been 4 years ago. 
  
  Now if only someone other than EA would make an attempt at a decent NHL sim, I may have something 
 different to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin8919
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  This year's NHL game by ea is spectacular. The all new create a pro is fun. It keeps you involved 
 in the game. Sometimes I don't feel challenged and then there are other games where I just can't 
 manage to make a decent pass. This all in all can be annoying. Playing as the goalie in Be-a-Pro 
 mode is awesome, though again I feel the CPU for your time makes it boring from time to time. I 
 haven't been able to get online and play the online dynasty due to an unwilling internet connection, 
 but I hear from a good source, that it is awesome and well put together. The dynasty mode is my 
 favorite, not to all I don't like playing as one player in any game. Your opponents adjust much 
 better than last year. The user CPU can actually play defense this year which is a first for this 
 franchise. If you don't trust me I would recommend just going out and renting it for a couple of 
 nights, then you will definitely want to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SldSnke90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  The game is amazing, but the frame rates during the cut scenes are very poor. The scenes will lag. 
 I just skip them anyway, but it would be better if they ran at a better rate.
  
  Other than the frame rates and replays, the game is amazing and lots of fun. Small details have 
 been worked on and it helps make the game more realistic and interesting. The Be A Pro mode is 
 realistic and bases your career progress on your stats and average grade for your games. You get 
 to watch as you start out in the minors and work your way up to a pro. 
  
  The controls aren't very hard to get used to. I saw in the instruction manual how to maneuver my 
 player and make plays, and at first I was a little intimidated, but once I started playing, I was 
 able to adjust very quickly. The controls are. in my opinion, somewhat easier than how they were 
 in previous games.
  
  The game is very addictive and I highly recommend it. Be A Pro mode makes this game a lot of what 
 it is and without it, it'd be just another hockey game. Two thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skuggan_r
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 9, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  Me like so many before me was totally amazed at the be a pro function so I started playing it right 
 away, it was great and I thought wow finally a EA game worth buying I gotta tell all my pals about 
 this, but the more you played the more annoyed you got, as usual with EA games its full of bugs 
 misses and totally crappy AI, I play as a goalie and your own team is just worthless, they don't 
 think at all, the opposing team can play without a keeper and they are passing around in the zone...
 
  
  Sometimes you line up perfect for a shoot and your goalie makes some stupid no good save letting 
 in a Tommy Salo shoot (You know the worlds worst goalie)
  
  As with all EA NHL games throughout history the computer just won't shoot unless certain to score, 
 In my 70 games career (20 AHL, 50 NHL) games my record of shoots against is still 24 shoots, this 
 even though I play the game at the most difficult setting.
  
  There are just to many bugs in the game, my advice is rent it first and try it for a couple of 
 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suplax
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I didnt got a Hockey game since the PS1 because its really not my kind of sport so i just buy it 
 like 5 in 5 years or so.
  But when i saw the 9.0 rate and the Editors choice medal. I saidRent it now!!!! "
  After like 
 1 hour playing i was like running to a store to buy it. Its a great game and this new mode 
  "Be a pro" its simple outstanding.
  The visual is very good , the sound's are great , this new 
 mode make you want to play the game more and more.
  The controls are easy to catch **BUT**... the trick gameplay with the 2 analog sticks are very 
 hard to get it. The game have like 8 deck moves and the 1 deck move with 1 hand (the new one) . 
 I played for at least 40 hours and i still can't do 2-3. (actually i do but for pure luck) 
  Maybe because i didn't played the last 7 games of NHL but still is very hard to get it.
  But 
 this doesn't make the game bad. Make it challenging.
  I really recommend this game for everyone. But the first rule still's apply here... Rent it first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lecavalier4yr
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  best hockey game.
  
  best sports game.
  
  great graphics, very realistic, great modes (bap...) , the best multiplayer mode ever made, very accurate 
 gameplay...
  
  i cant stop playing it, without a doubt the best hockey or even the best sports game ever made!!! 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla lvalf drfger sgh fdgw th bfdskmh rthk 
 hberjkh lkghe rjhergb jne krbnkg g jkf h vjh f jhk hj fkj fkds jh fdjk dshjksd fhjk fdshjkfd shkj 
 dshjkdshfd hjkdfh fdjdsksjdh fhf hjdsf kqh; sdkj fhiue dfiuhuqekdf sdgjf. sd hgadf ghdfyvg dhjfgbv 
 kdfvjh kdefrhkjgh kdfgh jkdfhbv ksdfjv hhjkdfgvh jkwsfhbfk jgh bekdf hgkfg fg tehg fd hndfbg ndf 
 gndfv nmdf gvmndf vnm dfgn vfdmgnv wefjvg dsfvm, sfdbvnm dfgn dfjg sdfnm gefdgbjdk fbg fdmnvb dfkm 
 bgkjfgb mdfgvb djkf vbdfmkjg bdkfb vkdfjb kdfbv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTifer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  I consider myself a sports fan. More on topic, I consider myself a sports game fan. And this game 
 has had me hooked since I dropped my disc into my 360's tray, much like a referee does a hockey 
 puck to start the game.
  
  Usually, I forgo a lot of online play, so I had focused entirely on Be A Pro mode. Then I found 
 the wonders of online play and found that even better!
  
  Whether it's a quick online shootout, a Vs. match-up, or better yet, Online Team play, you're going 
 to have fun. Each of them is done extremely well. And that's somewhat of a surprise because EA 
 has a very checkered past when it comes to online game play.
  
  When everyone's connection is up to snuff, you can hardly tell that it's not a local connection 
 you're playing over.
  
  At the very least, give it a rent, and when you decide that this game has a ton of replay value, 
 find a cheap used copy. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlehman1975
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Being able to choose your team you can join whichever team you like!! Start off in the minors (on 
 the third line for me) and work your way up the depth chart and possibly - GASP - be called up 
 to the big team.
  
  So many modes so little time. Too many maybe...
  
  Either way simply the best hockey title ever.
  
  Too bad this game doesn't sell enough copies 
 to warrant making another game. Imagine if you could start as a kid in the OHL or NCAA hockey?
 
  
  Oh and here's another tip EA, make the save games from past years transferable to the next season. 
 That way instead of trying to play a bloody 20 yr franchise we can carry them over to the next 
 year. Either way a hockey fan can dream, and a couch potato can feel like a superstar.
  
  Alright and my picks for the Stanley Cup this year?
  
  Tune in to to find out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eudog23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I am going to start by saying I don't agree with some of the ratings in the game. This is an MMOG 
 for sports fans, and if you don't play or watch hockey but like sports games BUY this game! It 
 is a addictive experience that leads me to feel ea goofs off with madden and takes risks with other 
 sport franchises. Hockey by far is in the bottom of the sports hierarchy in the us, but this is 
 THE sport game to get. I have been entrenched in the MLB 08 experience and feel that made me feel 
 like I was a team player, but when i am engrossed with 5 people online on the same team i feel 
 like no other sport game makes me feel. I feel ten times better giving the great pass and seeing 
 turn on the red light than when i score myself. In no way do i feel ea can recreate that feel in 
 madden, but maybe basketball can come through (2k9) whoever the developmental team for this game 
 please provide madden with life, and i for one would like to say this is the best madden in 5 years, 
 but really that is not saying much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROLLTIDE06
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I just want to say that I really enjoy playing this game. I'm looking at all of these 
 reviews and I'm wondering how you people are giving it a 9.0 and 10.0. You must be the lucky few 
 that didn't get a defective game. 
  
  I started playing this game and had no initial problems. I go online to do the MMO 6-on-6 game 
 and it starts freezing up in the lobby and disconnecting me when I make it into a game. 
  
  From there, it keeps freezing up or giving me a disc read error when I'm playing Be A Pro mode. 
 Pretty annoying when I'm in the 2nd or 3rd period. This is the first NHL game that I've bought 
 in a long time. I bought it on the basis of the reviews and the demo. 
  
  I know they released something saying that they were going to give us a patch or something to fix 
 it. I'm not crossing my fingers. They also said that you could clear your cache, but that didn't 
 work for me. It made it worse actually. After I did that, it won't load past the EA Sports intro. 
 
  
  It's absolute garbage to release a game like this and it be so defective. How can this be? Then 
 EA has the NERVE to say that this problem is "rare" ... maybe they should check their forums a 
 little more closely. 
  
  Use caution when buying this game.
  
  PS. How are you people not recommending this review? I'm clearly pointing out a glitch in the game 
 and warning people to beware of the product. You clearly must not be reading the review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjoplin35
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I heard about the Be A Pro mode, and the depth that they were including in the game, 
 I started listening intently for even more news about this game. As soon as I got my 360 back from 
 Microsoft for the second time in under a year, I rushed out and purchased this game. 
  As soon as I started my Pro, I was enticed. The controls aren't much different than last year, 
 but they feel a little more responsive and more precise this year. This plus the addition of the 
 Defensive Skill Stick make this game feel realistic and even more special when you pull of a big 
 hit or score two goals within 2 seconds of each other. (I did that to start of the 3rd period, 
 when my team was down 3-0. That felt SO good. We ended up winning 6-4 in a shootout.) The inclusion 
 of this game mode is what sports games are going to be all about in the future, because of THIS 
 game. 
  They also added a great online mode, EA Sports Hockey League. Yes, there are some kinks to work 
 out, but the ideas are great and fun. Yes, there can be a bit of lag, and the menus are horrible 
 and getting your team ready to play a game can be a pain. But when it works right, this game mode 
 is why I play online sports game. Never played any online before this. And I will keep playing 
 for months to come.
  If you are a NHL fan, you have to pick this up. And even if you aren't a hockey fan, but love sports 
 games, PICK THIS UP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodymassacre
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  From the moment I put the game in, I loved it. It has a great music collection, and fun modes to 
 choose from. I've never been a big sports game fan, but I heard around that it was a good game, 
 and well it is. It never feels like it's too easy, or too hard, even offline... you're always trying, 
 and if you sit back thinking you've won, well they'll score. When you win and see your team celebrating, 
 it really makes you feel like you've accomplished something... something other sports games are 
 beginning to leave out. It gives you the option to either try and play a good game, or you'll lose. 
 It's a well balanced game, very addicting, and highly fun to play alone or with friends! I highly 
 recommend this to anyone at all, especially if you're a hockey fan at all. The only thing I wished 
 they would've added is, for Xbox Live being able to play with other people at your house on the 
 same screen, on Xbox Live. That would've added a better experience, other than that, it's simply... amazing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Unlike most sports fans in this country, hockey is my favorite sport and always has been. The game 
 is fast, frantic and unappreciated. It is the only sports game where the differences from the prior 
 edition are improved upon. madden is the same game year in year out. NHL this 1year is better. 
 This year the editions are be a pro mode where you either create a player and raise him from the 
 minors to the pro or an all ready established nhl star to legendary status. Another when you score 
 a score that is inhuman you can record it. Nice! Another mode is the game audio mode where you 
 can use playlists from your HD and use them in the game. And this thing I love the most because 
 when ever I score a goal I play Angel of death by slayer. That is a song that will never be on 
 EA Trax. The defense improved like poke checking stick lifting ect. In other words the controls 
 got better also. Overall if you are a hockey fan in any way or long time such as myself or just 
 a casual fan get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari_tom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  One of the best sports games ever created, NHL 09 finally realizes the importance and realism in 
 the defensive aspect of the game, adding a more effective poke check and the innovative 'stick-lift'. 
 For once in the game, if you play a sound defensive game, you have a good chance at keeping your 
 goals against average low. Goaltenders don't simply go on their knees and let goals in glove side 
 like Carey Price against the Flyers in 08. Offensively however is my only bicker, as it seems they 
 too have made puck control a more realistic task. In the shootout you simply can't blaze from forehand 
 to backhand to forehand... etc and top-shelf it automatically. Too many moves will make you more 
 prone to losing the puck (as evidence with Peter the Great missing a wide open cage after a simple 
 forehand-backhand attempt) . 
  
  The Be a Pro Mode is very interactive and can have you sucked in for days making it through the 
 AHL, waiting for your call to the big leagues.
  
  All in all, an extremely addictive and enjoyable NHL game that ties together some of the most important 
 aspects of the game and makes it seem as though you really are a superstar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemaster-1234
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  NHL is back and back better then ever. In this game you will expreince NEW AWSOME MODES ( Pro mode 
 etc...) new controls and way more realistic then any other NHL gam ive played... The be a Pro mode 
 aws kinda a copy from Madden and MLB, but whocares as long as they made it awsome and cool I dont 
 really if its a copy... The online mode is CRAZY you can play with other players except 6 on 6 
 play, and you can create a club and take on other clubs and make your way to CHAMPION..
  
  They also have new dekes such as one hand dekes and flip dump. Also there is some NEW commentary 
 they are Gary Thorne and Bill Clement.. You can also go Old school bye playin if you really dont 
 get the controles, use the NHL 94 controls the controls will get simpified and it will be easier... Theres 
 alot more to the game but i dont want to ruin it for you NHL fans, go buy the games its worth bying.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelcoo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Amazing detail, so many animations and facial expressions, although some animations look 
 pretty cheesy, but most of them are great.
  
  9.0
  
  Sound: Commentators are great, loaded with hockey smarts and information, play by play can get 
 pretty annoying after a while though. Great sound effects, from the crowds cheering "Fleury, Fleury" 
 to the realistic On ice SFX.
  
  10.0
  
  Gameplay: Be a pro mode itself is the greatest thing to ever come to a sports game. Incredibly 
 deep Dynasty Mode. Great Online Experience.
  
  9.5
  
  Overall: 9.0
  
  The greatest Hockey game experience i've ever had, and i'm pretty sure i'm not the only one that 
 thinks so.
  
  Thank you for reading my review.
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Having been fully impressed by the game play in NHL 08, I was highly anticipating NHL 09. I must 
 say that while most of my expectations have been met, NHL 09 still feels much like 08. There are 
 some adjustments to the Defensive skill stick, an addition of a "lift stick" button, and improved 
 hitting engine, but the game still looks & plays very much the same (in the standard game mode) . 
 The main difference that makes NHL 09 so much better than any previous NHL game is "Be a Pro" mode.
 
  
  New to NHL 09 is "Be a pro" mode, in which you create a player chose a position, and play through 
 the AHL to NHL system. Once you have selected an AHL team to play for, it is your job to play the 
 position to the best of your ability, while attempting to meet goals set by the computer coach. 
 As you meet goals, your player moves up the lines, and eventually make it to the NHL. As you progress 
 your player earns experience points which you can utilize to purchase skill upgrades to make your 
 player an elite superstar.
  
  The best part of the "Be a Pro" mode is online team play, in which you take your player online 
 against teams of up to six human opponents, or humans assisted by A. I. As you play more and more 
 online games, you earn XP which you can use to upgrade your players online stats. Additionally 
 to this mode is League play, in which teams of players can be formed to compete in league style 
 play.
  
  Online team play is the most fun I have had with a sports game in a while, although it is not completely 
 without its frustrations. There is a lot of lag, which is a huge problem if you are playing goalie. 
 Additionally you do get stuck with some teammates who think they are Wayne Gretzky, and tend to 
 hog the puck and ultimately become the down fall of your team. But when you get on a team, that 
 works together, passes the puck, and covers each other's positions when someone is out of position 
 it is a satisfying experience as close to playing on a real team you can get in a video game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobhoffnee1985
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Now I'm not pretending I'm a hockey expert. In fact - the last hockey game I played was Wayne Gretsky 
 on the N64. I tried this Demo on Xbox Live though and was hooked immediatley. The controls are 
 relativley straight forward and the Be A Pro Mode is awesome! If you don't know your Hockey (at 
 all - like me :P) then you'll be confused when the whistle blows seemingly randomly due to some 
 obscure rule but hey, that's hockey! Even if you don't know it - its still very fun. I highly reccomend 
 it if you like Sports games. Great online too!
  There is so much to do on this game as well you'll never get bored. Not much customisation on the 
 Create A Player but he's wearing a lot of padding and a helmet so it doesn't really make a difference! 
 Would have been nice to have a Tiger Woods style Game Face option. Either way, it's a stonking 
 game and deserves to be played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ap316
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  Not having owned a NHL game since 94 on the Sega platform, I wasn't exactly sure what to expect 
 when I bought this game. Upon setting up my settings I noticed the menus were pretty easy to navigate 
 even though they may seem cluttered. I first started by creating my skater using the Be A Pro mode, 
 which in itself is a lot of fun. Although the options seem limited to just a basic creator visually, 
 It does have a lot of options as to the equipment your skater prefers. You start off picking your 
 team you would like to play for and you start playing for the AHL on the third line and work your 
 way up the ladder through the second line, then first, and into the NHL. The difficulty doesnt 
 seem to change until you reach the 
  NHL. But its in the gameplay where this game really takes off. The controls are set up very well, 
 everything from simply skating, to dekes and shots seem natural and the response is very good, 
 but does take getting use to. Line changes seem a little more frequent then needed. Graphic-wise 
 the game looks stunning, The arenas look pretty decent but doesn't really show them off at all. 
 The player models look great and the effects are done very well. But there seems to be flaws in 
 the cutscenes, as the framerate drops in big numbers. The commentary was done very well, and is 
 spot on with action on the ice. and when sitting in the box not having any control of your players 
 head movement is disappointing. Online play is extremely fun now that you can have a 6on6 match, 
 but you may find it difficult to find people who stick around long enough for a full game. There 
 also seems to be some connectivity issues as I kept having to log off the game because it kept 
 freezing at the loading screen during player match ups. All in all this game turned out to be very 
 addictive and stood up to its legend status i remember in 94. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borrrat360
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  wow wow wow... this game is just all you want from an NHL game ... great job by EA sports. Be a 
 pro is AWESOME! Truly one of the best sports games ever made ... playing against the computer was 
 never more challenging and scoring a goal in "be a pro" mode is just something else! I chose to 
 play as a playmaker (shouldve chosen "sniper") and it is easier for me to score goals than to have 
 many assists hmmmm. Whenever I make a nice pass, my teammates cannot finish haha but that should 
 be better when I have better players around me in NHL instead of AHL. This game will keep me busy 
 until 2010 hahaha. There is so much depth in every game mode. I still have not played an online 
 game (heard it has some issues) , but no matter how it goes there, this games deserves a perfect 
 score - 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IHaveABigBanana
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This is easily one of the best sports games ever made. The controls, game play, graphics, everything 
 about it is very well done. Even if you have never played the game of hockey or even watched a 
 game, this is still a must play. It has countless hours of replay value. 
  
  Go buy this game now!! Go buy this game now!! Go buy this game now!! Go buy this game now!! Go buy 
 this game now!! Go buy this game now!! Go buy this game now!! Go buy this game now!! Go buy this 
 game now!! Go buy this game now!! Go buy this game now!! Go buy this game now!! Go buy this game 
 now!! Go buy this game now!! Go buy this game now!! Go buy this game now!! Go buy this game now!! 
 Go buy this game now!! Go buy this game now!! Go buy this game now!! Go buy this game now!! Go buy 
 this game now!! Go buy this game now!! Go buy this game now!! Go buy this game now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ometayer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting this new version for a very long time and the game is great that for sure.
  
  But really better than nhl 08 ? if you exclude the new be a pro mode there is not so much new 
 and when, like I do, you prefer to control all the players of your team then the interest of this 
 new mode is not so high.
  
  The game is now much more defense oriented which gives some great battles on the xbox live, and 
 that's the best part. In nhl 08 when you were 2 or 3 goals behind you still had some good chances 
 to recover. In 09 it is much more difficult to do so.
  
  I think in terms of gameplay the improvement was much bigger between 07 and 08, less this year. 
 But this is because 08 was already a fantastic game, as illustrated by all the awards the game 
 has received over the past year.
  
  NHL 09 is just a little bit more fantastic :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo3g0d
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Well lets see now deep dynasty, be a pro mode, create a play, 1 handed dekes what more could a 
 sports agmer ask for in a game?
  
  The be a pro mode does have some flaws. Just enough to make it not as good as it could of been. 
 The major 1 i find is that you are unable to move the vision well sitting on the bench. Many times 
 the referee as stood right infront of me and i couldnt see the play. But BAP also has many good 
 features which counteract the bad and leaves much room to make this a great game mode. personally 
 my favourite thing about BAP is the hockey cards you can earn: p.
  
  Dynasty is the same great old game mode we love to play. This year it took the back seat in updates 
 as BAP was interduced but it remained the same with a couple of new features.
  
  The only reason this game did not receive a 10 is beacause of once again the fighting. Ea said 
 they were going to revamp it so it would be more fun. No offence but you actually might of made 
 it worse!!! I have never seen a fight that has lasted 5 seconds or less and guess what all my fights 
 do. 2 quick punches and boom fight over!
  
  Now well they ruined fighting basically they very much improved checking. I found last year it 
 was very easy to lay people down with a big hit where it didnt belong. Now a lay down is very rare 
 to comebuy but when they do happen it gets the crowd going.
  
  The best thing ive done in this game is yes injure Jarome Iginla. He was coming down the boards 
 and i took him cleanly off his feat with Brad Lukawich and guess what... he landed it first on the 
 ice and is out for the next 50 days with a Severe concusion. Lol my best thing ive actually done 
 though is i got a hat trick with my BAP within the final minute in the 3rd to win the game 1 goal 
 game tier, 1 goal game winner other goal insurance. (none of those goals were in an empty net) .
 
  
  Solid game EA. Next year i recamend focussing ion revamping fighting again. (i like 2ks fighting 
 this year looks like a real fight try that) . Sorry i didnt say anything bout online play. Cant 
 play on xvbox live where my 360 and computer are. (diff ends of house)
  But overal you wasted about 10 mins reading this that you could of spent playing this fantastic 
 game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andru97
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  NHL 09 is great. It takes what I think was the best hockey experience I've had to date (I've owned 
 every nhl game since NHLPA 93) in NHL 08 and adds the phenomenally addictive Be A Pro mode. There 
 is absolutely no better feeling in sports games than playing in that mode and throwing a big hit 
 or scoring a goal.
  
  EA has all the building blocks now to make possibly the most complete and immersive sports ever 
 in 2010. All that's missing in my opinion is maybe divisions/separate leagues and contracts for 
 the online Be a Pro as well as endorsement deals and other little things in the offline Be A Pro, 
 kind of like the superstar mode has in Madden.
  
  Also, I'd like to see the Dynasty Mode have a few more details when it comes to the NHL-NHLPA CBA.
 
  
  However, the meat of the game is it's gameplay and with the added defensive skill stick, it delivers 
 the most complete and realistic hockey experience you'll ever get off the ice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  First of all I have to admit I haven't been around enough to try out EASHL. I've read there has 
 been some sort of statistical issues with it, but since I have no real clue, I'm leaving the whole 
 EASHL out of this.
  
  Of the new features, Be a Pro is the most/second most interesting feature. Playing BAP works well, 
 but there's a few nagging things. First of all, I would have hoped to actually fight for getting 
 some powerplay and penalty killing time, and not getting handed out for free. Also, I don't think 
 there's a hockey team existing that opens their game with 1st line of offense and 3rd line of defense 
 (I'm playing a defensive defenseman) , so that sort of sticks out.
  I suppose my biggest mistake so far was not to select Superstar skill level immediately, but instead 
 of taking All-Star. I'm not sure if it's the skill-level alone, but there has to be something wrong 
 if I'm in the NHL 1st defensive line within 20 games into the season (12 games in the AHL, 8 in 
 NHL) . And no, I didn't nearly as good to be rewarded like that, even while staying in my position 
 is easy. I still got scored upon many many times and took penalties and such, so it wasn't all 
 roses, except to the coaches obviously.
  Generally I got everything way too easy, never had to fight for anything, everything just got handed 
 out for me. Guess pleasing the massess isn't the way to go.
  
  Second and relatively big gripe as well, is the fact that I have a new goalie in Toronto now. Nothing 
 wrong with new and different goalies, except when they're called as Sabrine Ladha, a 19-year old 
 girl (who actually is probably like 10 or so) , who's supposedly nearly 2 meters tall and weights 
 about 100kg. Oh and yeah; has an overall skill of 98. And I'm still not talking about any online 
 mode.
  This thing pisses me of a bit, since in BAP I cannot kick her out as far as I know, so now she 
 plays the majority of the games instead of Toskala. I really wonder how the hell they thought it 
 would be a good idea to add some developer's kid into the game and make her best goalie in the 
 game and obtainable from the free agent pool. They just couldn't see this one coming, huh?
  
  Other than those two things, I've found NHL 09 even a tad better than NHL 08. Sometimes the 
 goals your teammates make are a bit awkward and sometimes they don't get from sure places, but 
 it all at least seems so much better now, and scoring in general seems to be harder than before, 
 which is only a good thing after those effortless 10-1 scores on hardest difficulty in previous 
 games.
  
  One thing I could nag a little, are some of the cutscenes (and even occasional playing scenes) 
 where the screen is hitching around and looses the fluid animation. It's not gamebreaking bad, 
 but it's still weird because NHL 08 never had anything like this. I could almost expect an update 
 fixing this at some point.
  
  Gameplay in general has had some little improvement with a bit slower pace to the game (perhaps 
 not the best thing, but at least it doesn't seem so frantic now) and some enhanced animations. 
 Defending is now a little bit easier with the sort-of auto-aiming stick poke and sticklift, and 
 same kind of things have been brough up to offense as well with the covering of the puck with your 
 body. AI works ok, even while not being the most aggressive in front of the goal, but at least 
 they try a bit harder than before. I guess only goalies use their new split-animation way too often 
 sometimes, resulting easy shots since the goalie is only covering the low section, but gladly AI 
 doesn't score on those every time, on neither sides.
  
  NHL 09 is pretty much the best NHL game available, if you ask me. Now we just need more meaningfull 
 goals and things for BAP to make it more interesting (getting rewards for your efforts is always 
 the best in any game) and get some sense to EASHL's system with everyone having a proper player 
 name (no Ninja Guy's, Moose Man's or I-wanna-be-a-known-player guys like Ilya Kovalchuk and Scott 
 Stevens) and a proper league system with seasons lasting couple of months and normal NHL points 
 system, instead of this scaling crap we have now. Fix those and... we're pretty much perfect here. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcross198_basic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Being from Pittsburgh, PA the real NHL is tons of fun for me right now and possibly equally as 
 awesome the last 2 years have been the EA NHL 08 and now NHL 09 games. I started buying the EA 
 series in 2007 and each year has gotten noticeably better each time, this year for sure!!
  
  3 letters sum up the game for me and they are B, A, P. I love the Be A Pro mode, i've barely 
 touched the Dynasty or Online yet because this is consuming my life. It was quite difficult to 
 get used to playing for me, and i would consider myself a pro in NHL 08, so if you expect too go 
 into this game and do what you did last year, the results most likely aren't going to be quite 
 the same. It took me 55 games and 56 goals to finally get called up to the Pittsburgh Penguins 
 (Superstar difficulty) so expect to be down in the minors for many hours probably if you use those 
 settings. It took me 20 games to finally truly get the hang of it so maybe you can get up much 
 faster if you are a quick learner. The Baby Pens only won like 25% of their games when I was down 
 there, it gets frustrating but it's so much fun to feel like you are actually in control of your 
 destiny instead of playing as the team. 
  
  I don't have much else to say, the game is worth the $60, it's much more than just a roster update 
 and more realistic. The gameplay is a bit slower than last year and i had to sleep on it to finally 
 get used to the new skating and when i woke up the next day i was much more used to it. The custom 
 audio is wonderful, i ripped my own playlist for the menu and for my ingame music so i get pumped 
 up now when i play (not that the music it comes with is bad, i like it, but i like my own more) .. if 
 only GTA IV would have done this. As everyone said, there are framerate issues sometimes on replays 
 like if you were to run Vista on 1gb memory.. not very good. But I can see past that and the game 
 is almost perfect for me. 9.5/10!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  So I was thinking that NHL 08 couldn't really get any better... Boy was I wrong! NHL 09 takes the 
 NHL series to a whole new level! The Be A Pro feature is a blast and being able to play with that 
 character online is awesome! The graphics are stellar as usual and the gameplay is spot on! The 
 announcers are also very solid (as usual) and the atmosphere the game creates is unmatched! I am 
 very happy with this game and will be playing it for some time! Get this game if you haven't already, 
 hockey fan or not! You will be very happy that you did.
  
  Here is how I would break it down:
  
  Gameplay: 9.5, the most realistic hockey game ever!
 
  Graphics: 9.3, would be a 10 if the cutscenes were more fluid
  Audio: 10, everything about the sound is great!
  Replay Value: 10, due to the fact that you can 
 make your own team online with other people as well as play offline.
  
  Overall: 9.75 would be my actual number if I could do it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duncan-Idaho
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Full of cool new features... I wait for "Be a pro" mode for about 15 years now... Great goalie 
 mode!!! It's intuitive!!! But again... We wait for good goalie control to long... It's the most important 
 player on the ice... Who will play a baseball game if you cant control your pitcher efficiently?
 
  
  Online league is cool even it's not perfect yet But ... when you have an afternoon to spend with 
 a friend, a classic playoff mode is just the perfect challenge... They forgot this mode!!! I have 
 to start a dynasty to get into playoff!!! what's that? Tournament? We don't care about tournament 
 in Canada. Hockey is about winning the Stanley Cup. 
  
  French Version is completely BAD!!!!!!!
  EA have Studio in Montreal and they still do that kind 
 of translation???
  So we switch back to English... and surprise!!! Our profile doesnt exist anymore!!!! QA???
  
 
  graphic are great (i wish: it's 360!!!)
  Gameplay is great : this is the core... so i will play!
  Game menu is bad... You need to create 
 a player when you start the game for the first time... a tutorial with that??? please make thing 
 simpler. To much useless options...
  
  And some detail on Vintage teams:
  We have brown goalie pad... cool ... but where are the tubular skate???
  What Ken Dryden is doing 
 in butterfly style???
  
  My advice: do less feature... but make them perfect. And perfection is most of the time about simplicity...
 
  
  T0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DantheMan9856
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 17, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  I wanted to like this game. Every year I try to like the EA NHL series but I just wind up putting 
 it away for awhile. Certain things stand out to me with this game that I just hate. The puck physics 
 are not good. The puck bounces around but it just does not look right even for video game hockey. 
 I find it really stupid there is still not a speed burst button. I ultimately see this is as a 
 cop out to restrain people from using it all the time, otherwise it would create a lame hockey 
 game. Also it seems like the players are floating like there is no grind or anything of that nature. 
 There are hardly any broken plays in this game which really a majority of the play in hockey is 
 broken. I adjust some of the sliders but it doesn't really seem to do anything too noticeable. 
 It leaves me feeling kind of ripped off because I really thought to myself... this is it? This is 
 the greatest sports game ever? NFL 2k5 was the greatest sports game ever hands down. For being 
 called the greatest sports game ever, I played it, but after awhile it gets pretty dull with some 
 of the same monotonous goals and seemingly lightning fast goalies that can go to the bench get 
 a drink and come back in time to make the save before the play breaks out.
  
  "There are quite a few excellent enhancements to the gameplay and the computer's artificial intelligence 
 hidden beneath NHL 2002's dizzying array of flashy new features."
  
  This is a quote from NHL 2002's PC review. Play that game and tell me does it deserve a 9.2!? Not 
 even for it's time it didn't. NHL 09 is fun, but it gets boring pretty quickly therefore I think 
 this game is overrated in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leems
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Since 1994 or so I've approached the upcoming hockey season with the same anticipation as a kid 
 approaching Christmas. I knew some years there'd be the bike I'd always wanted and other years 
 there'd be the socks and sweater vest from Aunt Irene. EA Sports has given me both the bike and 
 the socks over the years. Some years provided an outstanding take on professional hockey and 
 
  other times they'd send out skaters with two left feet. More often than not, I'd be more than 
 pleased with what was offered from EA with regards to what they developed when it came to hockey. 
 For every release that was the equivalent of a 5 minute major, there'd be 3 or 4 that would be 
 the equivalent of a hat-trick. When it came to hockey, EA was king. But, it wasn't too long ago 
 that I felt that 2K Sports brand of hockey (most notably NHL2K5) had taken the thrown from EA.
 
  
  What a difference four years makes. I was looking forward to NHL09 based on all the hype and previews 
 I'd read and watched for the last few months. Additions to the Skill Stick, Be-a-Pro mode and the 
 ability to play 6-vs-6 in an online match with 11 other earthlings were things that really piqued 
 my interest. And none of these features have failed to impress or live up to their advanced billing.
 
  
  The ability to sweep your stick nearly 360 degrees to thwart passes while playing defense is a 
 welcome balance to what you can do with the Skill Stick on offense. So, is the ability to lob the 
 puck into the opposing corner for some dump-n-chase with your speedy wingers in hot pursuit of 
 the puck.
  
  The action and pace of the games is just about perfect, and if it's not to your liking you can 
 simply tweak a few sliders to make the game play as you see fit.
  
  Join a league or a handful of friends and take the ice playing your favorite position in some terrific 
 multiplayer matches. Leagues are forming like crazy with dedicated hockey enthusiasts and sports 
 gamers looking for live action. My experience with 6-on-6 hockey was terrific, even though I lost 
 my first game 5-1 and my teammates weren't as disciplined with playing their assigned (or chosen) 
 positions as they should have been. The match was fairly lag-free and I can see myself playing 
 more of these live matches as time goes by.
  
  But, what really surprised me was the "Be-a-Pro" mode of play. I had no intention of using this 
 mode at all but thought I'd give it a try just for the heck of it. And am I glad I did.
  
  Since I'm not all that great at using the Skill Stick I thought it would suit me best to play as 
 a defensive defenseman. After all, how hard could it be to bang around opposing forwards, clear 
 the slot and let loose the occasional wicked slapshot from the point? Well, old habits die hard 
 and when you're used to doing everything in a hockey game from blocking shots to setting up one-timers 
 to firing wristers through a screen it can take some discipline to learn the 
  intricacies of playing one position and one position only. Luckily you have a blue arrow to show 
 you where you're supposed to be at all times when you're on the ice. And, you'll see in a hurry 
 that you're not on the ice all the time (while using the "Authentic" option) . When you're player 
 gets tired you need to get his butt to the bench before he becomes a liability from fatigue. Get 
 him rested and he can be back out on the ice in a shift or two, ready and raring to go.
  
  Your player will get graded according to how well he plays his position, how good a "team" player 
 he is (don't hog the puck) and how well he scores (based on his +/- ratio) . Good grades got my 
 player moved from the 3rd defensive unit to the 1st defensive unit in a relatively short period 
 of time (7 games or so) and after my 11th game I was promoted to the NHL to play with the Boston 
 Bruins 3rd unit. In my rookie debut I had 2 assists and was voted the #1 Star of the Game. I got 
 more of a thrill out of assisting on the 3rd goal of the game (which proved to be the game-winner) 
 than I did in any other game in years past where I might have scored all of my team's goals. There 
 is a lot more satisfaction that comes from playing a game like this where it truly makes you feel 
 like you're part of a team. No other sports game I've ever played has ever given this level of 
 immersion.
  
  Kudos to EA for finding new and innovative ways of making an already terrific game even better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoyousOblivion
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  I guess I can ask for a coach. Seriously this game will embarrass you a little bit off the get-go, 
 if you are not ready for it. The gameplay is similar but refined to a point where the AI is actually 
 competent, and you can just rush down the ice, zip off a quick one timer and get the timely goal 
 you so needed.
  
  Gone are the 18-5 type games we saw in NHL '08 as the enemy Defense and goalies have gotten better 
 on comparable settings and difficulties.
  
  After playing through 2 months of Hockey on All-Star setting and getting 1-3 goals max per game, 
 I wondered if the game was totally shut down or if it was only the difficulty level. I dropped 
 it down to rookie and promptly blew away the Anaheim Ducks 18-, so the game's challenge ramps up 
 considerably with the higher difficulties now.
  
  Take your time in game, set up some plays, and you'll be rewarded with the siren but spend all 
 your time doing odd-man ruses and trying to cram the puck down the goalies throat and you'll be 
 surprised how many games you will lose :)
  
  Also I'll say the game looks phenomenal but so did '08 so that isn't new.
  
  Rent it if your 
 a sports fan. Buy it if you even have a passing interest in Hockey, it won't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hugo_Gingras
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I'm disappointed of this year's game. I was expecting a lot more since '08 version had a lot to 
 offer, I told myself that this year we were going to get a game close to perfection if they take 
 care of what was missing or neglected in NHL '08. It's not a total disaster, but let me express 
 the bad (especially) and the good (the few improvements) of this game from a Montreal Canadiens' 
 fan point of view. I only play on Dynasty mode.
  
  The Bad:
  
  GM management: There are no more ticket prices management??? In the last couple of years, we used 
 to manage ourselves the price of tickets in order to make the more money as possible and this influenced 
 the attendance. This feature used to be very cool. This year: no more, that disappoints me a lot. 
 I like to manage my team's money and also see than my rink is filled with its maximum attendance 
 capacity.
  The draft pick is still the same with the same family names as last year and the announcer rink 
 can't pronounce properly Scouting and draft pick are still as dull as it was.
  
  Sound and Images: Why did, in NHL '08, we have the right coaches' face for every team and this 
 year Every team has an unknown face behind the bench. Did Alzheimer also reach the rink announcer??? 
 He forgot Alex Kovalev's name (how could we forget a star player like him???) And he still pronounces 
 the name of Guillaume Latendresse with inaudible retarded syllables like last year. Why did they 
 change the face and hair of Andrei Markov??? They were perfect in last year edition with his starting-to-lose-his-hair 
 plantation and his face was pretty alike and they changed it into a perfect hair plantation and 
 a modified visage (???) Why did they change faces that were right from last year???
  
  The sound from the crowd is less lively than every previous version when we score a goal in our 
 own rink, in my opinion. The announcer lacks dynamism when he announces the home team goals. It 
 could be very interesting if he could elevate his voice with a colored announcement for the home 
 team goals like they tried to do in NHL 05, when star players scored in front of his own crowd.
 
  
  Gameplay and glitches: When you play in a broadcast view, the manual dekes are mostly impossible, 
 also like last year. The puck goes erratically and independently of where you want it to head with 
 your controller stick.
  It's still impossible to put the puck in the top corner with a backhand shot when you are close 
 to the net. Speaking of shots, this years' game still have those very bad looking wrist and backhand 
 shots from time to time. Also, it appears that there are still some awkward physics laws from last 
 year. Sometimes the puck goes into the crowd after hitting the behind-the-net glass (???) . 
  This year, it's still impossible to hit the puck instantly when it's loose. We have to take a quarter 
 of a second to take possession of it and then, shoot.
  
  The fighting engine has improved a little and maybe less than a little. Zdeno Chara appears to 
 be as tall as Martin St-Louis in the fighting mode and as soon as your grab your opponent, both 
 fighter stand in his position without any movement whatsoever from the legs. It would be great 
 to be able to decline a fight like in a previous version. As it is, your player that is supposed 
 to fight rarely drops the glove as often as your tough guy.
  
  So far, I noticed a major glitch. When you hit a player who has possession of the puck behind the 
 net and the puck goes towards and hit the back of the net, you'll see the red light flashing and 
 a goal was scored (???) . When it happened I exited the game to start another one and I kept myself 
 from throwing my controller through my window.
  
  Rosters: They put a "Sabrina Lahda" in the free agent. Whatever the motive was to put her name 
 and photo in the game, I don't want to have her in my dynasty to screw up the reality of it. I 
 bought this game expecting a realistic one and I was disappointed to see that any team could fetch 
 her (a fictional goalie) from the free agent list.
  Players are not rated accurately. One out of a 100 examples, Ty Conklin is rated 76 while he finished 
 2nd in the league in save %. Last year, I spent almost 30 hour and more to re-rate almost 400 players 
 from the NHL and the AHL. I can see that I'm going to have a hard time again this year. I will 
 propose to EA to hire me for rating players. At least I won't squander my time after the release 
 date of the game and other buyers could enjoy a more realistic player and team rating.
  
  Stats: The goalies' save % is still low. At the end of an NHL 09 season, the top goalie (with at 
 least 25 games played) has a 91,4% when in the real nhl he has at least 92,4% every year. Also, 
 They are not many with a higher than 90% (still with at least 25 games played) : maybe 10. Where 
 as in the real nhl, at least the first 25 goalie with that many games played have at least a 90% 
 save percentage.
  
  PK% is ridiculously high. About half of teams have a PK% higher than 88% which is way too far from 
 realism. In the real nhl, the best PK team has 86%, just to say.
  
  They didn't fix the penalty scoring issued. When a penalty is called, the time of the penalty that 
 appears in the game summary is the time where the referee sees the penalty instead of the time 
 of the whistle. Another issue appears from it: if a ref sees a penalty for a team and the other 
 team scores before he whistles, the penalty still appears in the game summary even if they are 
 no penalty in reality because of the goal.
  
  Shots on goal : Maybe the goalies save percentage would be higher if they had more shots against. 
 The average of shots per game in NHL 09 is 25-26 per game (better than last year though) where 
 as in the real nhl, the average amount of shots is 28-29 per game. And it's far worse compared 
 to your AHL affiliated team where your goalie receive a little 22 or 23 shots in simulated games: 
 which is way too low compared to reality. 
  When you decide to simulate a game and watch the progression of it, you see that the most amounts 
 of shots are taken in the last 5 minutes. For example: your team will shoot 4 times in the 1st, 
 5 times in the 2nd, 4 times in the 3rd (first 15 minutes) and 10 times in the last 5 minutes of 
 the game for a total of 23 shots : which is still as low.
  
  
  The Good (improvements) : Apart from all good features of NHL '08
  
  
  -We can now select 
 our defensive pair independently from our forwards line.
  
  -The defensive moves are a good innovation and fun to use making more realistic defensive plays.
 
  
  The rest is all the same from last year in my opinion.
  
  
  This review seems to be very negative, but I kind of enjoy this game with the rosters update and 
 the new defensive features. If it weren't because of it, I would have stuck to my NHL '08 (with 
 all the modifications I did to make it realistic) until NHL 2010 come out, hoping that next year 
 version will reach my expectations of a realistic game, as much on the statistic side as on the 
 graphic and gameplay side.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matth1us
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is all about EASHL. If you want to get the most out of it, join/create a team. Very unique 
 game experience.
  
  Graphics are killer, gameplay is amazing. There are noticeable bugs/glitches though currently with 
 the game, but EA is working hard at fixing them. Some menu improvement could be implemented as 
 well to make things even better, but for the first incarnation of the EASHL, they've done something 
 very special for all gamers! I look forward to seeing this implemented in future EA Sports games 
 like Fifa/NBA Live.
  
  If you are on the fence on this game, get off it as you won't be disappointed with your purchase.
 
  
  I don't have much else to write about the game and I'm short atleast 100 characters, so...
  
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beatle_Matt
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  NHL 09's gameplay surpasses previous iterations of the series by focusing on the "Be A Pro" aspect 
 of NHL hockey, putting you in the skates of an "up and coming" superstar. You build your player 
 from the depths of the farm system, working your way up to the big leagues.
  
  A couple of technical problems hamper the game. For one, the frame rate drops during game cutscenes, 
 which happen primarily at the beginning and end of the game, but also sometimes crop up when you 
 have the puck behind your own net at the bottom of the screen. In the days of "next-gen" consoles, 
 this is totally unacceptable and seriously detracts from the enjoyment of the game.
  
  Also, during the "Be a Pro" mode, there is time that you spend on the bench, recovering from your 
 shift, waiting for your next turn on the ice. The problem is that there's nothing to do other than 
 "recover" and wait for your health meter to fill up. At the very least they should have mapped 
 a button so you can "quick view" your stats for the game while you're waiting.
  
  All in all though, the actual playing of the game is fantastic. The controls feel perfect, and 
 handle great.
  
  All in all it's a brilliant hockey game, and compared to NHL 2K9, it's like easting cake instead 
 of eating sand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theevans
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  NHL 09
  
  As the ending of NHL's short summer hiatus draws near, the first and perhaps most anticipated calendar 
 event occurs nearly a month before skaters take to the ice - the release of EA Sports annual hockey 
 powerhouse franchise. NHL09 is the 3rd edition in the Xbox 360's history. The smartest thing EA 
 did was to take an extra year off in 2005 to revolutionize the way we play hockey vids when they 
 finally released NHL07 - a year after other EA Sports supremely disappointing launch titles. NHL09 
 continues to build upon a solid foundation of game play mechanics while offering an ever expanding 
 library of options.
  
  Game play: The "Skill Stick" remains one of the best innovations in sports videogame history. It 
 allows gamers to move their players with the left stick as has been custom for almost a decade, 
 but molded the right analogue stick into the player's hockey stick. This replaced the traditional 
 method of using buttons to deke, pass and shoot the puck. The result was an ultimately satisfying 
 level of control and intuitive game play. Until now EA has focused on refining its Skill Stick 
 controls on the offensive side of the puck. NHL09 finally delivers with a much more defensive variety. 
 A host of new controls like keeping the puck away from attackers, sweep checks, hooks and lifting 
 your opponents stick really add to the authenticity of the experience. The game feels much more 
 complete and balanced. Body checking is still an issue at times. Lining up hits can be frustrating. 
 Despite this frequent problem, player control is excellent. The skating feels accurate and smooth. 
 Everything from turning, cutting to the net, stopping and dekeing take what was best about EA's 
 hockey game and makes it even better. Computer AI which has been an issue in years past seems to 
 have been tightened up. You'll find less dumb decisions by your computer controlled team mates. 
 Fewer offsides and lame passes keep the game moving and simulating real life hockey like never 
 before. There are an incredible amount of game play options - ranging from intricate sliders, rules 
 and controller configurations. For those daunted by the increasing level of detail, EA has also 
 thrown in the option to play with the ultra-simple NHL 94 buttons. From making smart line changes, 
 altering offensive and defensive strategies on the fly and using the plethora of dekes, passes 
 and shot types, NHL 09 is easily the best playing hockey simulation ever made.
  
  The biggest new feature is the Be A Pro mode where you take to the ice as either yourself or an 
 existing NHL player to play out a career. This feature is one that has been used in Fifa and Madden 
 for years, but really feels at home in NHL. If you choose to create your own player, you'll begin 
 on the 3rd line of a minor AHL team and try to work your way into the NHL. You'll earn points and 
 recognition for your contributions to the team based on what position you play. This position-specific 
 analysis is what makes Be A Pro rewarding for all types of players. The emphasis is not only on 
 scoring goals and wining games, but accounts for all aspects of your play including positioning, 
 team play/passing and stats. One of the games biggest blemishes occurs often when making line changes 
 in this mode. Gamers will find themselves unable to get their already exhausted players to the 
 bench and end up surrendering them to the loitering CPU. Hopefully this bug gets fixed in an upcoming 
 patch. 
  
  EA Sports is working on improving its online playability. The new EA Sports Hockey League is a 
 fantastic addition to the franchise. Assembling a team of human controlled players and taking them 
 online to compete against other teams is nothing short of an incredible feat. With 6 on 6 (yes 
 you can even be the goalie) online play, taking sports vids to an MMO experience is truly revolutionary. 
 But in true EA fashion you may experience issues with the game once you get going. Connection problems 
 return from time to time - slowing down the framerate or kicking you off altogether. Hopefully 
 these launch issues will be remedied soon. All in all this is the most ambitious EA Sports game 
 on the Xbox 360 offering superior control and game type options. 9.7/10
  
  Graphics: NHL 09 looks great. Visually, the game doesn't make any big upgrades from 08 aside from 
 the addition of new animations and better cuts between them. The players are very well designed. 
 Nearly all of the faces are easily recognizable. Jerseys are rippling and flowing quite well. You'll 
 still see the odd stretch once in a while on some player movement, but this is a minimal distraction. 
 The rinks themselves are on par with last season. The crowds are fine, but don't hold up on close 
 inspection. More variety and atmospheric effects would be a welcome boost. Still the overall environment 
 feels authentic and exciting. In player creation and customization, there is an extensive library 
 of skates, sticks, blades, helmets and gloves to choose from. While these options allow gamers 
 to best dress their player, the surprising lack of facial types and absence of morphing ability 
 really hinder your final result. Importing your own face or allowing some control over the look 
 of a user created player is needed next year. The graphics don't really push the envelope but they 
 certainly are not an area that need too much attention either. 8.5/10
  
  Sound: From the thundering of the crowd as you make your way up the tunnel to the ice, to the echo 
 of the foghorn on hometown goals, to the shushing of skate blades, NHL09 sounds as good as expected. 
 The lifelike sound effects marry the graphics perfectly. Slapshots sound intimidating. Big hits 
 are explosive. Fans react well to the action taking place. Players calling for passes and talking 
 strategy show nice polish this season. The commentary, while a bit too familiar at times does take 
 some new liberties in calling the game. Gary Thorne and Craig Simpson return with a bit more analytical 
 prowess. Revisiting big goals and discussing overall team performance is a very nice touch. It 
 would be great to see these "smart" quips continue to develop in the coming years. The soundtrack 
 to NHL09 is a mixed bag of familiar alt-rock that is customizable. There are a few questionable 
 acoustic additions that don't quite fit the genre, but you only endure them for the length of time 
 you're navigating the menu. 9/10
  
  Presentation: The instant replay feature is much more active this season and it looks fantastic. 
 After virtually every stoppage in play, the game cuts to the big play of that series, or will revisit 
 a defining moment from earlier in the game. The accompanying commentary is just a hair shy of where 
 it could be. Mirroring the visuals with dynamic audio would be a major undertaking, but something 
 that ALL of EA's games need to work on. NHL09 appears to be slightly ahead of the rest of the pack, 
 but could use more integration. The multitude of camera options is impressive. My criticism of 
 EA's presentation crosses all of its games and that is the lack of broadcast appeal. NHL09 is one 
 of the best, but definitely suffers from a lack of innovation. Its nice to see period highlights, 
 but it would be even better to see them with some commentary and overall perspective. Showing some 
 out of town scores and highlights would be an added level of detail that help immerse players in 
 their franchises. One very nice addition is the "Edit Highlight" feature, where gamers will be 
 able to view, cut and position cameras to best frame their bragging rights for uploading online. 
 NHL09 clearly leads EA's effort to bolster its lackluster presentation, but still has some ways 
 to go. 8.6/10
  
  Overall: If you love hockey there is no question this game needs to be in your collection. If you're 
 a casual fan or a curious gamer then NHL09 is at the very least deserving of a rental. The sound 
 and graphics pickup where last season left off, tweaking and improving them slightly. What drives 
 the success of this NHL09 is the phenomenal game play. Between the game modes and control, hockey 
 has never been so enjoyable or addictive. If EA can back up its online offering with smooth accessible 
 game play for 6 on 6 competition then this game will surpass its already lofty expectations. This 
 is the best playing sports game on the Xbox 360. All of this is coming from a very casual hockey 
 fan. Hardcore fans will no doubt make NHL09 a staple - if not an exclusive tray warmer for months 
 to come. Final rating - 9.2/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miles13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Sure NHL 94 was cool at the time.. but I honestly wouldn't touch that game today, or 5 years ago 
 for that matter. So to the point at hand, NHL 09.
  
  This game adds some huge improvements in longevity with the new Be A Pro game play, customization 
 and online options. The best option integrated into the game is the Be A Pro / Online Team Play. 
 This to me is the best feature of any sports game in a while. Every goal scored feels earned. The 
 fact that you are playing as yourself with stats you have to personally buy and build up makes 
 it more of an "in the game" experience. The amount of customization is pretty good too. With the 
 ability to add custom soundtracks into not just the menus but actual game play situations is a 
 great addition, considering in years past the poor choice of music. Another key addition in the 
 online play is all of the options available. Team play, One vs One, Shootout all return but new 
 additions of the EASHL, Play a friend and online community are huge. Although there still are some 
 server problems the online team play and EASHL modes are some of the most addicting gaming you'll 
 experience. 
  
  
  Grades
  
  Graphics: 9.0 (Not much changed from last year, which isn't necessarily a bad thing.)
  
  Sound: 
 9.5 (Game sounds seem spot on, the addition of custom soundtracks makes it that much better.)
 
  
  Gameplay: 9.0 (Similar controls to last year, but some new defensive additions. Sometimes they 
 don't feel as smooth, but after playing some games it gets better.)
  
  Playability: 10 (The game can be played over and over again, every game feels like a different 
 game especially online.)
  
  Overall: 9.5 (NHL 08 was gonna be hard to top, but they did it. Can not wait for NHL 10.. as weird 
 as that sounds.)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielnault333
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I got the game one day before the release date, and I did play it everyday since i got it. This 
 09 version is close to the perfection, honestly it's the first hockey game who got prety much everything 
 into it.
  
  i was a little desappointed of last year version, but they had a lot of nice stuffs like;
  
 
  real pock check
  better body-check
  better goalie saves
  one hand deke
  custom music during icing, intermission...
  montreal legends team
  be a pro mode, which can 
 be play online with a creat team (wow insane)
  better animation
  and much more new features !!
  
  
  i suggest to create a player in be a pro mode, then start 
 a online team, to play with friends against other online create teams
  
  I been playing all type of games since the biginning of videogames, and honestly this is the first 
 game with rock band (included downloads songs) which i gave 10/10 rate just buy it !! you won't 
 be dissapoint ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan9797
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Ea has once again provided gamers with the most realistic hockey experience on the market. The 
 graphics have only improved though, there are some experience with frame-rate issues. 
  The new Be A Pro mode is immersive and gets addictive. You start out as a young draft pick, playing 
 for your favourite NHL's team AHL affiliate. As you play each game you gain experience and can 
 improve the attributes of your player. You can customize your player pretty well with officially 
 licensed equipment, different player looks and player styles. As you progress in your career, depending 
 on your skill, you can progress up to higher spots on the lines and eventually make it into the 
 NHL, where u start on a lower line again and work your way up to the top. 
  The new defensive skill stick is a bit tricky at first but once you gain command of it, you will 
 be poke-checking and stick lifting like the pros. the new momentum based hitting system provides 
 a realistic feel to body checks, where you won't have a 5'4" player hip-checking a 6'6" player 
 and sending him flying, thus keeping realism at its best. 
  EA has also induced a Media-Hub feature where you can take video clips and screenshots from offline 
 and online games aswell as add your own musical touch to the gameplay. this allows players to put 
 in their own songs for different situations such as the opening of a game, goals and penalties. 
 Though there are some issues with the volume of custom music is less than that of the default music, 
 it is an innovative feature that adds depth to the game. 
  The ability to take screenshots and video clips is a long awauted feature for the franchise, as 
 many players have scored spectacular goals, but had no way of proving it to rivals. Now players 
 can upload their clips to the Ea Sports World website and show off their skills and created plays. 
 This is a feature that most games should now have, with the internet providing a ways of sharing 
 videos, it should be taken advantage of. 
  It seems that EA has once again only improved on the previous years NHL game, continuing the franchise 
 in a forward direction. It should be interesting to see what EA has to offer in the later years, 
 but until then, NHL 09 can provide hockey fans with the best game to date. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Southpaw2451
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  NHL 09 is similar to 08 in many ways, but better in others, and worse in even others.
  
  the new deke is a fun addition, and an improved defensive skill stick helps a bit, but they are 
 not quite as effective as they could be; for example, the one-handed deke severely slows down the 
 player performing it, which often but not always destroys the advantage of using it. the defensive 
 stick is better, but on the higher difficulty levels the opposing attackmen seem to have a resistance 
 to poke-checks. the new hitting engine is a good solid improvement over the engine of 08, and i 
 have no major complaints about it. the shooting system is identical to 08's, which i liked (i used 
 the default controls) and the option of using the old school 94 controls is nice as well.
  
  the goaltending system, as a goalie myself, is where i get more critical. 09 made an attempt 
 to make the goalies more realistic and not so perfectly mechanical on everything, but it ended 
 up with only 3 or 4 new animations of a goalie doing a split or falling on his ass after getting 
 deked out. the goalies also seem to be allergic to the one handed dekes, as whenever i use them, 
 my chances of scoring seem to skyrocket. there is also a steep difference in the goalies' skill 
 levels between pro mode and allstar mode. in pro i was averaging 7-8 goals in the game when i played 
 as the buffalo sabres (not one of the stronger teams in the game) and when i played all-star or 
 superstar i was limited to 2-3 goals per game.
  
  my biggest problem with nhl 09 is the speed and the AI. the AI's offense is very controllable. 
 that is to say that if you play defense solidly, the AI offense will end up doing roughly the same 
 thing every time, and fail miserably at it. the defensive AI is better, especially when you turn 
 the "AI learning" setting all the way up, as it will adapt a good deal to your offensive tendencies, 
 but it can still be beaten if you shake up your attacking strategies. the speed of nhl 09 however, 
 is by far the most blatanly obvious and horrendously annoying flaw. at top speed, the game goes 
 at a walking pace. it destroys the beauty and excitement of hockey. it takes the fastest sport 
 on earth, and slows it down to a crawl. it's worth a buy, and the new instant replay features, 
 media hub, and be a pro mode are fun, but it's a depressing letdown that i strongly hope will we 
 improved upon in 2010 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hello_kitty97
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  NHL 09 is hands down the best hockey (or sports game) i have played. If you were like me, a person 
 skeptical about buying this game because you thought it was going to be just like nhl 08 but with 
 updated rosters, you are mistaken. The be a pro mode single handedly makes this game worth buying, 
 as it makes you actually care about how well you play, and puts you closer to the action. It meets 
 the authenticity of not managing or coaching a team, but actually playing as a professional player. 
 You will see your player imrove as you have to play a realistic style game to get positive feedback 
 from the coach and make it to the big leagues, and as you do this, you earn skill points to "level 
 up" your player by doing good things. Meanwhile, new animations and minor tweaks on an already 
 superb graphic model just make what was the best sports game last year that much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtslammer91
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This game may very well have a lot of the same old NHL franchise qualities, but it adds a great 
 variety of gameplay and different options in game to make this game a quality game. The Be A Pro 
 mode made me a bit worried at first because it seemed like a "too good to be true" kind of thing, 
 but it turned out to be basically amazing like everything else in this game! The online works perfectly 
 and I have had absolutely no problem with anything such as connection issues or glitches whatsoever. 
 The new player animations are outstanding i. e. the goalie butterfly, the one hand deke, and all 
 of the hitting (checking) animations are great as well. EA has definitely produced a great NHL 
 game that has, believe it or not, made this gaming franchise even better than before. I played 
 nhl 08 all the time and I was very worried because my expectations for this game were through the 
 roof and EA definitely came through on this one... 9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asswarrior
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  EA Sports recently came out of their slump with 3 great hockey games. First came NHL 07, where 
 they introduced the revolutionary skill stick that got people talking. Then NHL 08, winner of numerous 
 sports of the year awards, and yet another great addition to the EA's NHL franchise. Finally, the 
 floodgates were opened and NHL 09 was released to the world. After 2 years of solid hockey games, 
 NHL 09 has managed to top them all and give it's fans the best hockey game of the decade. 
  
  The Good:
  
  
  The good? Well, thats an understatement. NHL 09 completely revolutionized 
 hockey games with the addition of new game modes, and new online features. We'll start things off 
 with the offline game modes. The new addition this year is the all new "Be a pro mode". I'm sure 
 many of you know what this is already, so I won't explain it for the next 8 paragrahs. Instead, 
 I'll tell you why this is a great feature in NHL 09. First, you start out by making your player. 
 This is the first thing that happens when you put the NHL 09 CD in your 360. Then, you go to be 
 a pro mode and pick your team. Once you're done with that, you go to the Be a pro mode main menu 
 where the Coach and the GM tell you what the expect of you. Remember, you can be any position, 
 whether its Goalie (I chose that) , Center, Right Wing, or a Defenceman. After a few games, you 
 will gain experience points which you can use to help upgrade your characters stats. After a few 
 weeks (or years) you will finally get called up to the NHL. You gain hockey cards along the way 
 as you climb up the ladder to legendary status. 
  
  Also, NHL 09 provides a Dynasty mode, you guys obviously know what this is. This year the mode 
 is pretty much exactly the same as previous years, but its still fun. You can play up to 25 seasons, 
 but the question is... will you win the Stanley Cup? Ok, lame promo... whatever. The tournament mode 
 is also available if you want to play some classic world cup hockey. Its a solid mode that will 
 keep you busy for some time
  
  The all new custom tracks option is icing on an already very tasty cake, its a useful feature that 
 you can utilize if you get sick of the same old songs over and over again. Also, the player models 
 are superb in this game. Martin Brodeur looks like Marty, and pretty much all the players look 
 like their real life counter parts. 
  
  As far as online is concerned, well, only one word can describe it.... AMAZING. From the OTP games, 
 to ranked matches, to shootouts, and the grandaddy of them all, the EASHL. NHL 09 online gives 
 you many online features for you to enjoy, it truely is a hockey fan's dream. I am on an EASHL 
 team right now we're called the "Victorious Secrets", and we are division 1 ranked 35th in the 
 world. I play in net, and well... I pretty much stop everything :) On a serious note, the EASHL 
 is awesome, I love seeing my player skate out on the ice and I get a good feeling like that really 
 is me out there. Unfortunately, I will never be able to play hockey in real life, but at least 
 with the EASHL I can get a taste of how it feels to play my favorite sport in the world.
  
  Goalie Mode is improved this year, I enjoy it even more than last year's offering and it is even 
 more fun than NHL 08. 
  
  
  The Bad:
  
  
  While the player models in NHL 09 are superb, the overall graphics are nothing to jump up and down 
 about. When you sit on the bench in be a pro mode the graphics just look horrible. Everything looks 
 very choppy, and the animations look weird. When you're actually playing it looks better obviously, 
 but not by much. The ice looks very plain, and the crowd/lights/arena looks plain as well. I feel 
 like they didn't put much effort in to try and make the game look better than last year. Sure, 
 the player models are much better, but thats about it. Its 2008, the game is on the PS3 and the 
 Xbox 360, we all know they can pull out better graphics than this. 
  
  The create a team and create a player leaves something to be desired. There aren't many options 
 for both modes, and it just makes me feel like they could have added more. 
  
  
  The actual gameplay doesn't have many problems. There are a few glitches and bugs here and there, 
 but thats it.
  
  Overall: NHL 09 is the best hockey game of the decade. It offers an awesome online mode, an all 
 new be a pro mode, and it will keep you busy for hours everyday. It is addicting, and it is a game 
 that every hockey fan should pick up. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PadreGordini
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  If you have played NHL 08, you will feel right at home with this game, except now you live in a 
 mansion. Everything that the community has asked they have given, plus more.
  
  The "Be a Pro" mode sucks you in very easily and gives you the feeling of playing a real game on 
 ice. Giving your character an option for a nickname would have been nice though.
  
  Dynasty mode is just as we all remember it for last year. Props to EA.
  
  On-line play is good. 
 No lag and puts you in a game right away. I'm sorry to say I haven't tried the leagues out yet 
 though.
  
  The only problems and complaints I have are that there are a couple of AI glitches I have seen 
 with the goalie and a defensemen. Also, it seems that they have kept the same audio from 08 for 
 the announcers, which get very annoying after 2 games.
  
  This is a must have for any hockey fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trammelly
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the greatest hockey game since the old classic Sega/Nes days...
  
  im going to start with the things ive noticed well playing be a pro mode
  
  Dislikes:
  1. 
 too me it seems like the cpu team players have a slight advantage over the user controlled players 
 team (ie my team when im on the bench cycle the puck way too much yes i know there looking for 
 the right shot but i would rather have them shot the puck a lil more than cough it up 9/10 times 
 where as the computer player team shots alot more even if it isnt a good shot.. anyone else notice 
 that?)
  2. DONT LET the computer do a wrap around cause it seems like this is a glitch goal cause they usually 
 score that way
  3. ive never seen a goalie flop down so much (minus the thought of hasak lol) i dont know if its 
 just me but my goalie (justin pogge) seems to think its alright to flop to ice at the most stupidiest 
 times and usually gets burned for doing that.
  thats about all i can think off for dislikes 
  
  Thing's i like about be a pro mode
  1. i 
 love the fact that you get to sit on the bench and watch the game unfold in front of your eyes.. nothing 
 says "wicked" like seening a hipcheck right in front of you well you watch from the bench or as 
 the puck bounces down the ice from a flip clear or the puck wrapped around the boards and slides 
 down the bench
  2. finally they got the puck over the boards call 
  3. taking screen shots for your player card/cards and uploading them along with video of a cool 
 hit or wicked goal
  4. the whole thing that your not in control of the team that you could be traded or sent back to 
 minors is very cool (i cant wait too get near trade deadline too see if i get dealt or not)
  
  all in all this is by far the best hockey game ive played in yr's.. if your a hockey nut buy 
 this game if you want a fun sports game buy this game
  
  and here is a list of things i would love to see in '10
  maybe if we speak up now EA might listen 
 and add some for '10
  
  
  Things i would like to see in NHL'10
  
  1. Linesman
  2. the ref's and linesmans name at during the warmup screen
  3. coaches disagreeing with so/so 
 calls
  4. game misconducts (for starting fights/hitting from behind/slashes and so on)
  5. when the home team scores and they are announcing it over the PA they get into it like they do 
 in real life
  6. hit of the night/week, save of the night/week, goal of the night/week
  7. highlights of other games during intermission (this would be really cool feature during a tight 
 playoff race)
  8. better goaltending 
  9. powerplay and PK stats popups 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: baker63
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  I love this game i have yet to start a franchise. Playing as yourself is great especially when 
 you score the game winning goal or get into a fight. I have played some recent nhl games and i 
 just couldnt get into them. EA is finally at the top again... I have yet to try out the german 
 or czech leagues yet i think thats gonna be a great edition too. I would love to see a franchise 
 mode with these leagues in the future. I would love to get into online play but i just cant afford 
 comcasts high internet prices. But online seems like it would be very fun to play with since you 
 can play 6 0n 6. Madden 09 is the best i have ever played and i have a feeling nhl 09 is gonna 
 be the best hockey game i have ever played.
  
  The pens are my team and im just waiting to see them take the cup this year. But first im gonna 
 do it on NHL 09. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackCrow2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  Listening to requests from gamers, EA has finally stepped it up in departments that gamers felt 
 before to be overlooked. The graphics are smooth, the animations are great, the menus are improved 
 over last years, and gameplay is as fluid as ever. The soundtrack has had better years, but custom 
 soundtracks more than makes up for it. As for the gameplay, everything feels just right, seemingly 
 tweaked from last years version, while your surroundings help you capture the atmosphere of an 
 NHL game. The Be a Pro mode is the addition fans have been waiting for, and it does not disappoint. 
 Dynasty Mode feels as deep as ever, and for the second year in a row, the addition of minor league 
 teams makes it feel that much better (Although in NHL 2010 id love to see the ECHL thrown in.) . 
 The create a team is one area where the game fails to impress. The amount of logos is limited and 
 on top of that, you'll be waiting through lengthy load times and lag to create a team. All in all, 
 NHL 09 is a fantastic NHL game, offering a lot more than just a roster update. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbans
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  To begin with, the graphics are. WOW! Not a whole lot better than 08, but noticeably improved. 
 Then there's the game mechanics. It looks and feels even more realistic than before. Big hits produce 
 a plethora of different and detailed animations, the gameplay is even more fluid than its predecessor, 
 and the AI is vastly improved. The computer adjusts quite well to your playing style. If you start 
 thumping the CPU with onetimers, well, just wait until the next period. All of those beautiful 
 and enticing passing lanes that you oh-so cleverly took advantage of will disappear faster than 
 Ray Emery's career! But this also works both ways! If you understand hockey, and you recognize 
 what the computer is doing to you, then you can easily and effectively change your coaching strategies 
 both offensively and defensively, to lay the smack down on him! Additionally, your defensive efforts 
 reap greater rewards as the poke check and big hit buttons have more of an effect this time around. 
 The computer doesn't just walk through your poke check anymore and get a cheap breakaway like last 
 year's did. You still have to time it correctly, but you no longer need the pope to declare it 
 a miracle in order to pull it off when you really need it, or when the CPU decides it's time to 
 get a couple of cheap goals on you and blow your shutout! The replays are stellar, and the types 
 of goals that you pull off feels like it does in real hockey. The days of the 12 kilometer and 
 hour, 50 foot knuckle ball going in on you from the short side, 2 or 3 times a game are thankfully 
 gone. Overall, this game is a must have for any hockey enthusiast, and easily one of, if not the 
 single greatest sports game ever made. Thank you EAThank you from all of us Canadian hockey nuts, 
 who finally have a game to lay atop of an altar to worship. More importantly, to place inside of 
 our 360 and engage in endless of hours of fun and enjoyment, while keeping the griping to the barest 
 of minimums. Excellent, excellent, excellent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeyBrash
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  What can I say.. this game is nothing short of incredible. If your not even a big fan of hockey 
 be a pro mode and the EASHL online will still be a ton of fun for you. The game is a lot like 08 
 just a much more polished version in and out with the addition of a terrific defeseive skill stick 
 and stick lifts which work great for playing people online who love to use one timer after one 
 timer. The addition of be a pro mode makes a already great hockey game incredible, when you start 
 your game for the first time you will create your hockey player and basically its all about you 
 and what type of player you want to be, you play from the minor league and up in hopes of making 
 it to the big NHL club. You also take you created player and play in the EASHL and can join a club 
 to build up your stats and go after the first ever EASHL Stanley Cup.. its all about team play and 
 you will be graded so be a team player and don't worry about the hat tricks or you will never get 
 to see your real name on the Xbox Live NHL 09 leader boards. My only complaints about this game 
 are the usual with EA, in be a pro mode there are times when the play slows down a little bit in 
 the heat of the moment but nothing too bad to really make a differance, the fighting took 1 step 
 forward and two steps back this year.. they actually listened to us compalining about how bad the 
 fighting is went in and changed it and it still feels awkward and clunky and just not real at all.. its 
 VERY disapointing that this keeps happening every year because if they got this thing right and 
 actually captured the intensity within the game as it happens instead of pointless horrible fighting 
 I would give this game a perfect 10 hands down its very frustrateing and a shame because of how 
 good this game already is, how can you create a grinder and try to come up to the NHL without useing 
 that very thing and fighting your way into the NHL?? Hopefully next year its fixed for good. Again, 
 go out and buy this game it will take over you life as you know it, I have never to this date had 
 so much fun playing a game online as I had playing this game with my friends together its incredible 
 and has to be experianced to understand how good this game really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattygabe
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This years game was, to be honest, going to be a difficult task for EA Sports to accomplish. After 
 all, I had spent countless hours playing their previous entry, NHL 08 and I can easily say that 
 it was by far one of the best hockey games (or sports games, for that matter) that I have ever 
 played. The physics were right on, the strategies were almost as true as can be, and the level 
 of fun was next to none.
  
  08 wasn't without its bugs, and after a while the same old game mode got boring. Here's where Be-A-Pro 
 comes in at. Playing with a 3rd person camera, getting on and off for shifts, and starting on the 
 3rd line and moving your way up from the AHL to the NHL, Be A Pro adds that little bit of fun and 
 difference the previous title was lacking. Sure, in 08 you could turn position lock on and play 
 as just one position in a game - which makes it much more difficult to win, as you rely on the 
 CPU to do the majority of the play - but it's much more fun with the personal aspect added to it. 
 Add in the fact that your stats are ranked and filed for your consumption for both online and offline 
 play (separate stats, of course) just makes this an A+ addition.
  
  The franchise mode was great last year and returns nearly unchanged. It remains to be seen if the 
 trading/free agents system was spruced up/fixed (two-for-ones or three-for-twos are impossible 
 to even make, and even one-for-ones are difficult sometimes depending on the makeup of one or both 
 of the teams. Some more code on EA's part could have made the GM-side of things a bit more fun 
 here) .
  
  The game isn't without its faults. While the online mode is incredibly deep and adds depth never 
 seen before in online sports games, getting on and playing with friends in unranked games isn't 
 as easy as it should be (see: Halo 2 or 3 for the type of ease of use that devs should strive for) . 
 The wealth of menu options sometimes makes it easy to get lost or confused upon your first or second 
 time through the menus.
  
  A low framerate during some of the cutscenes in Be-A-Pro mode (and lesser so during regular gameplay) 
 still plague this game during certain points. Perhaps nothing more than a major annoyance, but 
 something nonetheless.
  
  Also, a few odd bugs were discovered in Be-A-Pro mode in two situations:
  One - when leaving 
 the penalty box, I wasn't aware that I had to go straight to my bench. I used the analog stick 
 once or twice, and then I was either in a perpetual state of standing next to the bench (without 
 control of my player) , or the CPU took control of my player.
  Two - When switching the view type from the Gameplay mode (from Authentic to No Line Switch, for 
 example) , I went from a non-authentic option to authentic, and I ended up spending the entire period 
 with full agility and not a minute on the ice.
  
  Regardless, 09 brings the same great hockey from 08, fixed a few bugs the old one had, added a 
 couple of GREAT features, and overall rounded out another GREAT product.
  
  One of the reasons EA has gotten to this point is the competition 2k Sports has fielded. But this 
 year, 2K offers little or no competition to EA's offering. Here's to hoping that next year with 
 yield a much more competitive hockey gaming environment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Mojo_Risin_7
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  So far the game has been all it's been advertised as. I have seen a few forums where some are saying 
 the game has freezing problems. Fortunately, mine has only frozen once and that was during a practice 
 session. If this doesn't turn out to be an issue the game rocks. I never thought sitting on the 
 bench could be so much fun! Watching the play while waiting for your player to rest really is kind 
 of neat. The controls feel right and after you learn the buttons there really isn't much you can't 
 do. The only thing I have noticed lacking is a pentalty clock to tell you how much penalty time 
 you have remaining while sitting in the box. The game's many adjustable settings and rules allows 
 you to configure your experience to your liking. The graphics are great with the exception of a 
 few close ups of the crowd in which they look kind of cartoonish, but that's not a real problem. 
 Good Job Ea Sports! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyalGoal
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  I haven't even gotten 3 games into the "Be a Pro" season, and I am already loving this game, I 
 have the difficulty level set to a notch higher than usual for me, and then I toned down the settings 
 (to make it as realistic as possible) . After I adjusted the settings, I was blown away at how realistic 
 this edition of the NHL game is. The game had tons of momentum swings, and the goals were actually 
 believable. Every player move, in addition to the goalie saves, were realistic. No shot going 50 
 feet over the glass. This is definitely worth the $60 for the game, and I would go so far as to 
 say this is worth the $200 to buy an Xbox 360 to play it on! So far I have scored 3 goals and gotten 
 an assist, and all of the scoring plays that I have been involved in have been hard-fought, authentic 
 NHL goal-type scoring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tribesmaster
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  I have been playing NHL games since NHL 94, and I ALWAYS get excited when a new NHL is coming out, 
 so when I read up on NHL 09, even the little added features made me want the game real bad.
  
  I was pretty disappointed with NHL 08 for a few reasons, but it was still a very fun hockey 
 game, what NHL 09 does is fix a lot of the little problems and adds some greatness to the series.
 
  
  First thing I got real excited about was the Be A Pro mode, which is the kind of mode I have wanted 
 for years, and turns out to be a great and very addicting mode. You create your character as soon 
 as you start the game up and change his appearance and stuff, which then can be used for offline 
 or online play. Over time you gain experience from playing games, which gives you points to spend 
 on your character sorta RPG style.
  
  There is also a feature seen on other sports games, where you can take a clip from your instant 
 replay and save or upload to the EA sports world website for others to see, Which is another great 
 feature I have always wanted in an NHL game.
  
  Graphics are nice as usual, looks same as NHL 08, but plays much better.
  
  I would like to 
 say this game has no problems, but I do get CONSTANT freezing in 6 vs 6 OTP games, sometimes even 
 freezing while just sitting in OTP lobby. Although that is the only problem I suffer with, my friends 
 have had disc read errors and other problems with online at times.
  
  There may be a few online issues, but there are a lot of little changes and additions to notice 
 in NHL 09 (new hitting, skill stick update etc, all of which make the game great and worth playing. 
 If you like hockey games I highly suggest you get NHL 09. It's the best in the EA series, and the 
 best hockey game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matstie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  I have played pretty much every hockey game since 94 sega genesis (which was awesome at the time) , 
 both ea and 2k series. This is simply is the best, no question.
  
  Gameplay is fantastic both on offense and defense. Be a Pro Mode is really addictive and fun. Tons 
 of options to cater to how you exactly want to play. I will be playing this game for a very long 
 time both online and offline.
  
  A few very minor hiccups prevent me from giving it a 10, but they are so minor that you hardly 
 notice them.
  
  It is hard to imagine how NHL 10 is going to top this in any way.
  
  I wish EA could put out its other sports games with this level of fun, polish and content.
  
 
  I mean you can choose the pattern of you stick blade in this game and the flex of your stick, 
 along with the radius of your skate blades! You then get to test out your stick and skates when 
 creating a player, which is very cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APOLLOCJD
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  EA Sports' NHL Dev Team has done it again by taking the NHL series to the next level. With the 
 addition of Be a Pro Mode and an online League this is surely the best sports game of they year.
 
  
  EA has added additional control mechanics that only improve upon the current dual-stick controls 
 for NHL 09. In previous games playing defence consisted of timing open ice hits properly and pokechecking 
 at opportune times. Now with NHL 09 you have much more control of your defensive players stick 
 with a full 180 degree movement of your stick as well as a new mechanic allowing you to lift other 
 players sticks to interupt passes, steal the puck and stop one-timers. 
  
  New mechanics have also been added to offense that allow the player more freedom with dekes, including 
 a new one handed drive (where you use your other hand to create space between you and the defencmen) 
 and one handed dekes to beat the goalie.
  
  The Be a Pro mode is the greatest addition to this years NHL game. In the single-player mode you 
 start out as a rookie prospect playing on the 3rd line of your favorite NHL team's farm team and 
 have to work your way up to the pro level and eventually become a superstar in the NHL. The camera 
 angles are up-close and exciting amd the AI does a particularly good job controling the other 4 
 players on your team. The best part about this game mode is how rewarding it can be, for example 
 if your line is out and you assist a goal or even participate by screening the goalie I find myself 
 experience enormous amounts of satisfaction. This also works the other way around if your team 
 is scored on while your on the ice.
  
  The online version of Be a Pro mode is even more impressive, with a full championship league in 
 place on EA's part and the option to create and join teams of up to 60 real players all competing 
 to be the number one team in NHL 09. As you play you earn EXP that you can use to increase your 
 players stats. 
  
  This is definetly the best NHL game on the market and probably even the best sports game and I 
 highly recommend it to anyone into sports games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon5180
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  I have been a big fan of EA's NHL series for a long time. I love to make a player in my likeness 
 and play in the NHL and school the goalie with a nice deke. The one thing that always bothered 
 me was the fact that from the moment you created your player you could max out the stats and make 
 him a superstar from the first game. Nothing that you did on the ice made any difference in the 
 abilities of your player. Now with the new BAP feature you make a "No Name Player" and based on 
 how you play you can take him from a 0 to a superstar and when you score your first goal, it feels 
 like you really scored that goal! Everything you do on the ice counts from the beautiful one handed 
 deke to the missed pass opportunity that labels you as the puck hog of the team. The BAP feature 
 forces you to play hockey instead of run around and button mash and hope for the best. 
  There are 2 main problems that I have encountered with this game that I would like to share.
 
  One problem is the B button. This is designed for a line change. The problem is you are only controlling 
 Your Player but the B button is for the whole offensive line. It really becomes a pain when you 
 are on Defense and you go to stick lift (A) and all your players head for the bench. The second 
 problem is Changing your on ice tactics. This is done by pressing on the D-Pad. you can change 
 this on the fly when you are on the ice, but as soon as you hit the bench you have no control over 
 it. I am not sure if changing the tactics affects the whole team or just your line but either way 
 you should be able to set them while you are on the bench so you don't have to take precious moments 
 on the ice to set them. Just my 2 cents.
  I have not tried the EAHL online league feature yet but am very exited to play with a team of people 
 instead of CPU controlled players. To practice, train, and play with the same group of people will 
 be great!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddog00
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  Going to make this short and sweet!
  
  This game is the best console Hockey game ever created by a country mile!!! There is soooo much 
 to do besides actually playing hockey that it can be overwhelming at first. Once you familiarize 
 yourself with all the play modes (which are numerous) the game becomes an injection of incredible 
 Hockey directly into the bloodstream!
  
  Everything about the game bleeds polished, exciting, challenging, hyper fun, and just downright 
 incredible Hockey!
  
  A must have for any hockey fan or sports fan in general! Get it now you will not regret it!
  
 
  [By the way this is the first XBOX360 game I have paid full price for in over 18 months and I still 
 feel like it is at least double the full price! Absolutely incredible! Can you tell this is the 
 best Hockey game ever made ;) ] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N9ne-xx
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  Surprisingly getting a 9 on IGN, who knows for gamespot? I understand why they have such good scores 
 to it. It surpasses 08, but it just expands on it.
  
  ----
  
  The whole fact of you starting off in the AHL, then onto the NHL is something new for some players 
 and it'll give you a little look of the industry. People are too used to being a NHL team and playing 
 dynasty.
  
  But if you don't feel like making your way up and you say you'll do it when the time comes around 
 (If your future is to be a hockey player) then by all means, when the time comes.
  
  ----
  
  Multiplayer expanded 1 man, and now has official teams which you can go into leagues, 
 win cups and whatever else you do and win in hockey. Be a pro online team play expanded with full 
 players being on the team. 
  
  ---
  
  When your playing depending on which position you are you can now expand what dekes to do to make 
 your goalie look stupid. With normal dekes you can now do one handed dekes, and win over the goalie. 
 Too bad you can't do that with Broduer...
  
  : The Good :
  New Be A Pro
  Multiplayer
  One Handed Dekes
  Leagues
  
  : The Bad :
  Might take a while waiting for be a pro
  Faceoff 
 glitch is still in
  
  ... and the kids of x box live/PSN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ejg24
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  From the new EASHL to the Be a Pro mode to all the old favorites, this game is addictive and all 
 around entertaining. If you love hockey BUY IT NOW, if you just like playing sports games with 
 your friends BUY IT FASTER. GREAT GREAT GAME. There is no other game like this, and even when others 
 try to copy, it won't match it. And please, if you are a 2k faithful, give it up. There is no comparison. 
 NHL 09 blows 08 out of the water when 08 destroyed 2k8. Madden has forever fallen behind nhl games 
 when it comes to innovation. Madden just can't pull off the same modes.
  
  The best part of the game will be the replay value based on the fabulous EASHL. This will be one 
 of those rare games that will be heavily played for its entire lifespan. 
  
  Sure, there will be those who claim madden is better or 2k9 is better, but why listen to just me 
 when there are tons of sites like this one rating nhl better than all of its competitors. Without 
 question it is the most impressive sports game made to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffizzzle
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  I was super hyped up when I bought this game, because I loved NHL 08 and couldn't wait to get the 
 new one. When I first started playing I was really disappointed because it was like EXACTLY the 
 same, but then I started learning the new controls like one handed dekes, bumping others sticks, 
 and the new physics in the checking is AWESOME! 
  
  But my favorite addition is Be a Pro Mode. This gives you the real feel of rising to the tops. 
 Playing as one player, your created player, and getting better and better, learning the direction 
 of every play -- is so cool. Especially the camera view when youre on be a pro mode, the view is 
 incredible. 
  
  And if you are using a HDTV, you WILL notice the graphics difference. It's a lot better now.
 
  
  I was also glad to have Gary Thorne back as the announcer, he is great! 
  
  I absolutely recommend this game. Get rid of 08 and get the new one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbilow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  this game is extroardinarily done, the be a pro mode is amazing the character customization could 
 be a little bit better but is none the less very well done, and the ranking system (rookie, pro 
 etc.) is also very well done. EA has very little they could improve upon for the next nhl game. 
 i love the fact that the mainscreen back drop changes every time, different teams, i also like 
 how you get to choose what team your player will be on, but i think it would be more interesting 
 if you could go through a training program then get drafted to a team. i think it would bring alot 
 more to the game if you could go through shooting drills, passing drills a skrimish then depending 
 on how well you do there will help to decide the team you will end up on later in your carreer 
 with trade oppurtunities, it would bring in a whole new aspect to the game with new options avaible 
 and soo much more value to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is so groundbreaking and perfect that it consumes my waking play hours.
  
  I own all of the sports games on the market, I am a sports gaming junkie and this game is the threshold 
 all games should build upon.
  
  The game itself is pretty much as last year except for a few additions including Be a Pro and minor 
 different stick play.
  
  My only problem is 08' was/is so great that you really don't need 09' except for roster updates 
 and having a good supply of opponents to play online.
  
  The only downside that I can see is online: It seems to play alot slower than 08'. The players 
 skate and pass much slower. The few games I have played online does feel alot slower but it could 
 be my imagination. 
  
  The upside to online play is it's alot harder to actually score giving it a "real" feel opposed 
 to scoring 7-10 points per game. Most of the games I've played online have gridlocked to a shoot-out 
 which rarely happened to me in the 08 game.
  
  Updated graphics, gameplay and overall presentation makes this game a no brainer. If youhave the 
 dough, buy it and I'll see you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HabDragon
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Last years NHL game was a huge step forward, and for once EA has continued that forward trend with 
 NHL 2009. While I have not played everything in great depth thus far, I have touched upon most 
 of the game aspects to formulate the following review.
  
  I will start with the new Be A Pro mode. Simply put, it's a ton of fun! The game lets you play 
 in one of three ways. Authentic lets you experience everything, including sitting on the bench, 
 position lock will allow you to play the player coming on to replace you while you are benched, 
 and finally you are able to turn off line changes. At first I was not entirely sure this would 
 work, but after playing it I discovered it is actually a lot of fun and very realistic controlling 
 one player.
  
  The only real complaint I have with this is that sometimes your teammates are just in stupid positions 
 or should be passing/shooting instead of skating around. However I suppose these problems arise 
 in real life hockey as well.
  
  On to dynasty mode. Nothing much has changed, and perhaps I am mistaken, but there is no longer 
 the ability to play with the financial aspects of the team like ticket prices and such. If this 
 has been taken away (or simply not added) then I consider it a pretty big let down as far as dynasty 
 mode is concerned.
  
  In the end however this game is still very fun to play, especially online (I have not yet tried 
 the EA league online yet, looks like a blast though) . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
