-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 2K6
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/nhl2k6/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gameplay engine continues to be the most realistic out there.
 New passing and play-calling systems are fantastic additions.
 Franchise mode is the deepest and most enjoyable it's ever been.
 New goalie control system is quite a bit better than the versions found on other consoles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Graphical improvements for the 360 are minimal at best.
 Commentary is a big step down from previous years.
 A few bugs and glitches mar an otherwise excellent experience.
 Nothing in particular about this version justifies the sudden price jump from $20 to $60.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 48 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 764 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Genre: Ice Hockey Sim
Date: Nov 16, 2005
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's got new goalie controls and marginally improved graphics, but taken as a whole, NHL 2K6 just 
 isn't as appealing on the 360 as it was on other platforms. 

  NHL 2K6 on the Xbox 360 does not bear quite the same resemblance to its NBA counterpart, which 
 was also recently released just prior to the system's launch. Whereas 2K Sports went to a great 
 deal of trouble to overhaul that game's graphics and animations, that level of effort isn't nearly 
 as apparent in this port. The requisite smoother-looking, somewhat more detailed player models, 
 ice, and whatnot are all on hand, but even with this game running in HD, it's tough to say that 
 this is the next generation of hockey gaming. In fact, the only thing that separates this version 
 of the game from the Xbox and PlayStation 2 versions is a solid new iteration of the goalie control 
 feature implemented this year -- well, that and its $60 price tag, three times what you'd pay on 
 the other two platforms. Still, there aren't any other hockey games available for the Xbox 360 
 this year, and the gameplay is still as fantastic as it's ever been. But out of the three versions 
 currently available, this isn't necessarily the ideal version to get.  

           Hockey gaming makes its debut on the Xbox 360 in NHL 2K6     

  In case you haven't 
 already played 2K6 on another platform, here's what you need to know. For this year's game, the 
 developers have actually thrown together quite a number of new gameplay features compared to last 
 year's version. We say thrown together, because in some ways the gameplay feels more chaotic due 
 to all these new components, some of which are excellent, and some of which are not. Starting with 
 the positives, the best new aspect of the game is the new pro control passing system. One of the 
 problems with setting up good plays in hockey games has been trying to accurately pass to all the 
 right players in a proper succession. This has been nearly impossible with the standard passing 
 mechanics. Here, you can simply click the right analog stick, and button icons will appear above 
 each of the other four players on the ice. You need only press the corresponding button, and the 
 pass will be sent to the right player. This gives you the ability to create lengthy strings of 
 passes that can be especially effective on power plays. The defensive artificial intelligence won't 
 let you pull these plays off easily, of course, but if you can get past them, you can pull off 
 some extremely satisfying goals. The one annoying thing about this feature is that you have to 
 re-click the button to bring up the icons after every shot attempt. Maybe an option to just leave 
 them on indefinitely would have been a good idea. But, even with this one minor gaffe, the feature 
 is great.  

  Another great idea added into this year's game is on-the-fly play calling. The D pad is utilized 
 here to let you tell your team exactly what you want it to do. This works on both offense and defense, 
 and by pressing specific directions you can have your team do everything from crash the net and 
 screen the goalie to clearing the front of the net and collapsing. When these plays work, they're 
 immensely effective, as the AI does pretty much exactly what you tell it to do. We did run into 
 some instances, though, where it seemed like defensemen in particular weren't quite doing their 
 part on offensive plays, like crashing the net. They definitely come in closer when you ask them 
 to, but they still hover very close to the blue line inside the offensive zone, and trying to utilize 
 them without controlling them directly can be a hassle. But apart from these hiccups, the new play-calling 
 system is a welcome addition.  

  Yet another good idea that isn't perhaps as well-put-together as it could have been in this year's 
 game is the new enforcer system. Every NHL team has at least one serious tough guy who loves to 
 intimidate the other team's players through rough play and occasional brawls. NHL 2K6 calls these 
 players out by slapping a fat E icon on them that's impossible to miss while you play. If your 
 enforcer does his job especially well while he's on the ice, then opposing players may become intimidated, 
 which is denoted by a big I icon for said player. Intimidated players will also take hits to their 
 stats, most noticeably speed, for some reason. It's kind of odd that a player frightened by the 
 presence of an enforcer would suddenly slow down -- if anything, you'd think he'd want to speed up 
 to stay out of the enforcer's way. Apart from that weird bit, the mechanic makes sense and works. 
 The unfortunate thing, however, is that there's never any recourse. The enforcer from the team 
 with the intimidated player never comes out and tries to start a fight -- at least, not on the default 
 settings. Fights are incredibly rare in the game, and when they do happen, they aren't much fun. 
 Then again, 2K's fighting model has never been very good, although fights should still happen with 
 far more frequency than they do in 2K6.  

           The new goalie control system is quite different from the PS2 and Xbox versions, in that 
 it's actually kind of fun.     

  The last big change happened to be the most incidental on the previous two platforms: goalie control. 
 It was a fairly basic system in the previous two versions, letting you use the right control stick 
 to push your goalie into different stances and save types, and hold down a trigger button to automatically 
 position yourself. Neat idea, but not one that was fully fleshed out, it seems, and it wasn't much 
 fun. This system still exists in the aforementioned fashion on the 360, but there's also a whole 
 new version of it that's far more involved and enjoyable. By clicking the right control stick button 
 when in control of the goalie, you'll go into a third-person view behind the net. The goalie becomes 
 somewhat transparent at this point, but you'll still be able to see him and where he's positioned. 
 In front of you is a V-shaped vision cone of sorts that represents your goalie's position to the 
 puck. When the cone is red, that means you're out of position to the puck. When the light's green, 
 the trap is clean, so to speak.  

  When someone actually takes a shot at you, provided you're in position to deal with said shot, 
 time slows down, and you'll see a little target icon in the back of the net that shows where the 
 puck is headed. You have your own save icon you then move to as close as you can to the target 
 icon. Hit it, and you'll make the save. If you're seriously out of position, you can tap the right 
 control stick to make a diving save. It's less precise, but it can help you in a tight squeeze. 
 The whole system isn't exactly geared towards realism. When in the third-person goalie perspective, 
 the puck has this red glow around it that gives you a better view of where it's moving, and the 
 whole slow motion thing... well, that isn't realistic. But it's also a lot more fun than it would 
 be if 2K had just gone for straight realism, since, you know, you can actually make saves this 
 way.     

  The one thing that's still a pain in the ass, however, is trying to switch between the goalie and 
 skaters. There's no quick, one-button "snap to the goalie" function, so you'll need to switch around 
 players a fair bit before you can actually get to the goalie, which can often be too late. Also, 
 during multiplayer games, a little picture-in-picture window will pop up when it's goalie time, 
 and that's just disconcerting as all get-out. What you can do is lock your control to the goalie 
 exclusively for a game, which does away with the whole switching issue. But that tends to lead 
 to dull spots where you're not really doing much. Still, it's a lot better than trying to aimlessly 
 switch between players. Ultimately, the point is that this is a cool feature, and with some more 
 interface tweaking and fixes, it could be an amazing one in the future.  

           Passing icons make complex scoring plays much more accessible -- just don't think the defense 
 will let you walk all over them.     

  With all these changes and additions and tweaks to the gameplay, some might be wondering if the 
 core game still feels as solid and realistic as it has in past years. The answer is absolutely 
 yes. The pacing still feels completely perfect, moving fast at all the right times and generally 
 feeling like a real game of hockey with lots of back-and-forth action. Realistic numbers of shots, 
 goals, points, and practically every stat you can think of are typically on the postgame boards. 
 The game still doesn't do a particularly good job of getting all your lines involved automatically, 
 but tweaking the setting to manual line changes is all you need to do to correct this. All the 
 new rule changes are in full effect, and this version of the game includes an updated roster with 
 nearly all the active rookies (minus a couple of recent call-ups, like Ryan Whitney) . All told, 
 2K has delivered another extremely realistic and exciting game of hockey on the gameplay front. 
 Though some of the changes might rub some people the wrong way, the overall flow of the game is 
 as fantastic as it's ever been, and the AI can really be some of the most challenging out there 
 when you up the difficulty.  

  For 2K6, the developers have put together yet another very deep roster of modes that was a ridiculous 
 steal for the $20 price tag on other platforms. It's certainly not a steal for $60 on the 360, 
 but there's definitely no shortage of content here. The franchise mode by itself would be worth 
 such a price. All the great features from last year, like international rookie scouting, contract 
 negotiations, and staff communication are joined by a new practice mode and team chemistry. Practice 
 mode lets you set up individual practices for your players, put together group scrimmages for the 
 purposes of upping chemistry, and create individual skill drills for bonus stat upgrades. Practicing 
 ties into the new fatigue system. Players, like in real life, will now become fatigued if they're 
 overworked, so you'll need to strike a careful balance between how hard you practice them and how 
 much game time they'll see during a week.  

  As for the chemistry system, it's not unlike the system that was introduced in EA's NHL 2005 last 
 year. Players are broken up into four categories: scoring, skating, hard-nosed, and utility. Like 
 the EA system, putting too many players of the same type together just doesn't work. Generally, 
 it's good to have a single skater, a single scorer, and either a utility or hard-nosed player to 
 complement them on a line. Having a line with good chemistry nets stat boosts for those players, 
 and bad chemistry has a converse effect. The system is great, save for one annoying hitch: Sometimes 
 chemistry on a line simply won't work for reasons that just aren't obvious. Part of it may have 
 to do with the game's happiness measurement, which actually tracks how pleased a player is with 
 his overall role on the team -- sort of a morale tracker, of sorts. And sometimes players' happiness 
 will just take big dips, even if they're getting significant play time. There's no communication 
 with players via the e-mail system, so it's impossible to see what, if anything, is causing this 
 dip. Fortunately, it's rare that such morale drops actually result in serious problems, but there 
 are times when you may have to trade away a high-ranked player just because you can't make him 
 happy.  

           Gotta love those minigames.     

  For what it's worth, this year's franchise mode progresses like a real hockey season, more so than 
 it ever has before. Trades are frequently offered, especially toward the trade deadline, and pretty 
 much every offer makes sense on some level. For example, you won't see the CPU try to trade you 
 Rick Nash for Aleksander Suglobov, or vice versa. Free-agent bidding works similarly well, and 
 although there's no definitive salary cap, each team has a hard budget that it can't go over, which 
 is just about as good as a signified cap. Over time, rookies develop, older players retire, and 
 things go on pretty much as they ought to. The CPU now actually knows how to auto-fill a line when 
 an injury occurs (making it so you don't have to constantly jump out of a schedule simulation and 
 reformat your lines yourself) , and 2K has added in an interest meter for contract signings, which 
 gives you an idea of how interested a free agent is in the money you're offering. These are all 
 good fixes.  

  Outside of franchise, all the modes that made their respective debuts last year are back once again. 
 Party mode works fundamentally the same, but with some variations. There are 12 minigames in total, 
 several more than in last year's game, but less actually than what was available in the Xbox and 
 PS2 versions of the game. That's not an altogether terrible thing, though. All the games that were 
 so much fun previously are here once again and still enjoyable. Some of the ones cut were the most 
 extraneous of the bunch, it seems (although some of those still remain) . It's one thing to have 
 a game where four players compete for one puck and try to score as many goals as they can into 
 a net that has a blocker that goes up and down. It's quite another to have to do the same thing 
 with a bunch of obstacles on the course, and periodically have to scramble to a musical chairs-like 
 target in order to not have your point total drop. Frantic action is certainly what you would want 
 in games like these, but in some cases, it feels like 2K just had to stretch these existing concepts 
 too far to come up with something new. But hey, at least all the old games are still a blast.  
    

  Other modes included in 2K6 should sound pretty familiar as well. There's the dream team ladder, 
 where you go up against teams put together by superstars like Marty Turco, Martin St. Louis, Jeremy 
 Roenick, and the like; the skills competitions from the all-star weekend; the skybox mode, which 
 houses all the stats for completed in-game challenges, as well as all your unlockables; and, of 
 course, online play. The online functionality is precisely what you would expect, with basic quick 
 games, tournaments, and league play all available. The lack of ESPN licensing hasn't prevented 
 2K from building a Web site stat-tracking system similar to last year's game, so you'll still have 
 access to all those goodies. The online play itself works functionally the same as it always has, 
 so while our mileage may have varied, all the games we played online were smooth and ranked properly. 
 The one serious downside to the online, however, is the menu system. Simply put, this menu system 
 is completely unintuitive and just plain weird. Certain button functions just don't do what they 
 seem like they ought to, and other times completely random buttons will do key functions. For instance, 
 if you get a challenge while sitting in a lobby, the only way to access it is by pressing down 
 on the right analog stick to bring down a previously hidden menu, and the text denoting this is 
 barely visible.  

           Character models are more detailed in this version, but not impressively so.     

 
  The online menus aren't the only ones that suffer from being terribly confusing. Even during the 
 ESPN days, NHL 2K's menus have had problems, and this year they're exacerbated by the lack of a 
 definitive look and feel. Button functions sometimes simply don't do what you would intuitively 
 think they would, most of the stat and option menus in the game are just plain ugly, and everything 
 has a kind of hacked-together feel to it. You can certainly get around the menus, but it's more 
 of a pain than it ought to be. Incidentally, a few of the menu navigations have been cleaned up 
 from the versions seen on the Xbox and PS2 -- but only a few of them, and overall everything's still 
 pretty cluttered.  

  That's basically an accurate description of the in-game graphics, too. Some improvements have been 
 made to the way this game looks on the 360, but without an HD setup, you might as well be playing 
 the Xbox version of the game. And even in HD, the differences are subtle at best. You'll certainly 
 see more detail in player faces and jerseys up close, and the ice does look really damn good, especially 
 from the goalie perspective, because that's a lot closer to the ice than most camera views. But 
 again, you don't see most of this stuff when you're just playing the game. Replays and cutscenes 
 are where you get the most out of these visual upgrades, and those aren't the bulk of the game. 
 There are no real animation differences that are immediately apparent, so you're basically watching 
 the same action you'd be seeing in either of the other versions of 2K6. So while you'll get better 
 graphics in this version, these are definitely not next-gen-caliber visuals we're talking about 
 here.  

           All told, you're probably better off grabbing one of the other versions of 2K6 for $20, 
 rather than dropping $60 on this one.     

  Perhaps the most depressing loss stemming from the ESPN license changeover (as well as ESPN's dropping 
 of all things NHL from its television lineup) is the departure of commentators Bill Clement and 
 Gary Thorne. The twosome delivered some of the best in-game commentary of any sports sim available, 
 and sadly, they've been replaced by a significantly less-interesting team. Hockey Night in Canada 
 announcers Bob Cole and Harry Neale are the twosome in this year's game, and while they're certainly 
 not bad, they lack the kind of cohesive dialogue and rapport that made Thorne and Clement so fantastic. 
 Not to mention that they rarely have anything especially insightful to say, and periodically they'll 
 get things wrong on the play-by-play. Thankfully, the in-game sound effects are still great, from 
 every ping of a puck going off the pipes to the sounds of helpless forwards getting driven into 
 the boards. The soundtrack mainly consists of inoffensive rock music that you've probably never 
 heard before, but it actually isn't too bad.  

  In the end, NHL 2K6 on the Xbox 360 provides an interesting quandary. Every feature found in the 
 other versions of this game is on hand here, and there are even some improvements, like the new 
 goalie control system. But visually this isn't a particularly impressive game -- most certainly not 
 for a game launching with a next-gen console. And the fact that this version costs three times 
 as much as the PlayStation 2 and Xbox games... well, that's a tough sell if there ever was one. 
 If you're dead set on getting this game for your 360, and have no interest in it for other platforms, 
 then NHL 2K6 does deliver enough content and excellent gameplay to make it worth your while. However, 
 less single-minded folk ought to just grab one of the other two available versions. It's a much 
 more thrifty proposition, and you're not missing all that much.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (68 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  Even though its 2008 I am going to try to review this game as if it was new and not to compare 
 it to later releases only previous ones. While this is a hockey game and certain game aspects will 
 always be the same no matter what console or company that releases them. I will just try to review 
 the game aspects that might appeal to the gamer.
  
  Content:
  In depth in terms of players pictures and previous stats as well as different jerseys. Running 
 the franchise is also a nice touch but it's the same with most games released at the time. The 
 commentary is much improved from previous versions on different platforms.
  
  Game play:
  While you still have the usual skating, passing and shooting. The play calling is a nice addition. 
 The game play in terms a realism is much more refined and enjoyable.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are decent with a few glitches. Up close the player faces are recognizable. The jerseys 
 stand out as authentic. The crowd could have been a bit better.
  
  Sound and Music:
  The sounds are well done. You hear ever pass hit stick too stick. The bone crunching hits can be 
 clearly heard. The Menu soundtrack is not overly annoying. The announcer little comments get tiresome 
 by your fourth or fifth game into a season.
  
  Difficulty:
  While the controls get some time to get used to even the hardest setting might be a little too 
 easy for the seasoned hockey gamer. After a few shifts you will learn how to beat the computer 
 very easy. 
  
  Final Thoughts:
  While it might seem a bit dated compared to newer releases. Most bargain bins will make it very 
 attractive especially to Gamer Score Mongers who would like an easy 1000 points.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xunhallowed
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 22, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  Well, this game has not only killed 360's, but it has also killed itself. How, you ask? After EVERY 
 game, be it Franchise or ANYTHING, the game sticks at the loading screen. Since the new update, 
 EVERY COPY OF THE GAME WILL DO THIS. I just bought it for the achievements, and I got a good 650 
 points, but the last achievement isn't even worth trying for, even though it's 350 points. Getting 
 a penalty shot is impossible, and yes, I know hockey, so I know you have to be on a breakaway and 
 get fouled to get it. The game rarely, if ever, gives them, even when you set penalty shots up 
 to max. The achievements are the only reason to get this game, and still, that's not enough. I'm 
 not playing this game anymore for fear of my 360 breaking. It gets a 3 because I like Crease Control, 
 even if it freezes after I finish the game I'm using it in. And because I like ESPN NHL 2K5, since 
 this is essentially that game. Even the commentary is recycled, except with new, bland commentators! 
 I implore you -DO NOT GET THIS GAME. IT WILL GLITCH ON YOU. EVERY COPY IS GLITCHED. Get ESPN NHL 
 2K5 if you want a cheap hockey game. It's backwards compatible. And no, I'm not hating on 2K, I 
 have 2K8 reserved, and I'm very excited about it. Again, I don't hate EA either, I have NHL 07 
 for PSP and I love it. This is a completely unbiased review, and I swear on my life that I'm telling 
 the truth when I tell you not to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 13, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately, sports games did not fare well back in the early days of the Xbox 360. EA decided 
 to give us nice visuals while NOT including most of the gameplay features found in the 'curren-gen' 
 versions. 2K Sports took the other route. They kept in most of the features, but only gave their 
 360 versions a minor visual upgrade. In my opinion, neither company got it right and NHL 2K6 falls 
 right in the middle of that.
  
  This is a very solid, all-around good hockey game. There are tons of things to do here and the 
 online features can't be beat. The problem is that the visuals aren't much of an improvement over 
 the Xbox version. The music isn't very good and the commentary is terrible. Other than those presentation 
 issues, the game is very fun to play. It's just hard to recommend purchasing a game that is basically 
 the same game you can purhcase for the 'current-gen' consoles, with minor visual upgrades, at a 
 much higher price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comit2000
Rating: 8
Date: May 10, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Very good game! I had some one over and we got a kick out of being ownded as kazakstan when we 
 took on Canada (no suprise) . The goalie thing is kinda hard to master but incredably fun. The gameplay 
 is well done but then, I'm a hocky lover :D you won't regret spending the 15 big ones. I didn't 
 give it a 10 because it's not best of the best; but still easily worth it! It needs ariban teams 
 though, just for fun. The controls could use some work but I have little complaints other than 
 that.
  
  A MUST HAVE FOR ALL HOCKY FANS! WELL WORTH THE 15 BUCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackDragon582
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  All in all i thought that this is a good game. The only thing that i thought was a little cheesy 
 is the replay, sometimes the people can get pretty messed up but other than a few little thing 
 that prevents thise game from being a 10, its great. This is my second 2k6 game and my forst hokey 
 game and i didn't know any of the controls, i didn't have a clue but once i tried it out it was 
 like i've been a pro at this for ever! I mean, if your not a bog fan of hockey games, you don't 
 know the comtrls, and you have not even played a hockey game, i thought i did pretty gosh darn 
 good, well thats all the time i got for this reveiw and the bottom line is to buy this game, play 
 it, hope you win, and then buy Gears of War and play that. Well you don't really have to do that 
 but stoi, l, thise is a great game and you don't evemn havre to know the game, to really know it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xHxKxDx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 1, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game being a huge fan of NHL 2K5 for PS2 and right after buying NHL 2K7 for PS2, 
 so I'm quite familiar with the NHL 2K series. I must say, this is the best one I've played.
  
  Although gameplay is very similar to 2K5 and 2K7, the 360 version of 2K6 is a step up from 
 the other consoles. Simulating games in Franchise mode is very fast, which I really like because 
 I can move along quickly and not have to wait 13 minutes to simulate one game like on the other 
 games.
  
  The graphics are a bit better than on PS2, which has good graphics to begin with, and the sound 
 is crystal clear. The crowd-to-commentary volume comes close to that of an actual telecast at times 
 because the crowd overpowers the announcers, which is pretty cool. It gets you more into the game.
 
  
  I highly recommend this to any fan of the NHL or hockey in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jstarzyk
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 27, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  My understanding is that to those who have played 2K hockey before, this games controls will seem 
 simple. For those who have not, it is pretty easy to pick up. Your basic actions (hit, shoot, pass, 
 etc.) are mapped to the face buttons. More advanced functions are wholly optional, but they will 
 certainly help you. The first is total pass control. With the click of a stick, your passes are 
 instantly mapped to each of your three forwards and two defensemen. This is an awesome feature, 
 which allows to complete some crazy break away passes and put a one-timer in the back of the net. 
 This feature is for more advanced players, and will be necessary on higher difficulty levels. On 
 defense, a click of the stick brings you to 2Ks most forward moving feature this year: Crease 
 control. Crease control puts you in the skates of the goaltender, allowing you to control the direction 
 he faces as well as his blocks when your opponent shoots. When a shot is released, a bulls eye 
 is set from this behind the goalie perspective. Simply line up the blue selector with this target 
 (or if you need to, you can do an emergency save by a flick of the stick in the direction you wish 
 the goalie to dive) and watch the goalie pull off an amazing save. Sometimes, but not always. This 
 is one of the major complaints I have with the game. Controlling the goalie is easy, but he does 
 not always do what you want him to. Other than that the game play is fabulous.
  
  Graphically the game is not anything to look at. Compared to other launch titles, it falls solidly 
 at the end of the pack. It still looks better than last generation versions, but it fell below 
 my expectations. The sound in the game is actually pretty good. There are some great songs on the 
 soundtrack, and the commentators are really lively. There are points where the sound conks out, 
 however, such as drilling and practicing. It makes for a very boring three minutes!
  
  The replay value of this game is going to be high if you like hockey. There are a variety of modes, 
 including season and franchise (although I was disappointed that the season had a standard all-star 
 game rather than incorporate Olympic hockey into the game) . There are a couple of mini-games, which 
 I didnt spend much time with at all. My interest was mainly in the season mode, which turned out 
 to be a lot of fun. Online play Well, online play can be fun. There are several exploit goals, 
 which a goalie can almost never get to (with or without Crease Control) ! This severely hampers 
 the games online value, as most people just go for a record amount of goals rather than actually 
 play a fair game of hockey. The achievements are sparse. There are five in total, and only one 
 may actually give you a problem. If you play with the sliders a little, you can get them without 
 any problem, so they dont actually add to the experience at all.
  
  NHL 2K6 offers a familiar game of hockey to 360 owners. If you like hockey, play this game. If 
 you do not like hockey, rent it and see what you think. You may like it, or you may want to wait 
 for next years incarnation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 15, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This is my first Hokey game i've been on, my first American sports game in years!.
  
  GOOD- Fast gameplay; plenty of modes all fun to play;
  BAD- Rubbish graphics; to many rule braking; 
 being British you dont understand non of it O. o! only 5 unlockable achivments
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  NHL 2K6 is a fun fast game with plenty of modes to go through, the controls are simple 
 and easy to use, but i keep using the wroung bottons cos i keep thinking its like the FIFA games, 
 but the gameplay is very good!.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The worst point of the game, and i think everyone agrees with this!, its not even next gen graphics, 
 the only best graphics part is the ice rink which is very realistic!
  
  SOUND:
  It has that american sports theame tune!, which is..... kindda... well, puffy and not very good, 
 which i dont like 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjordon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 4, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  as you you play it it gets more addicting you just can stop. the gameplay is great. wene you block 
 a shot its so realistic . the crease control (only for the xbox 360 version.) its so fun!!!!! you 
 can see wat the goalie sees and its shws target and you get on the target and you press A then 
 the goalie will make a save unless its going to go in. you have full control over your goalie like 
 you can smuther the puck, coverer the puck. you can poke check. you can pass to your player and 
 the best thing is you can dive. so if its a one timer your going to have to dive. to dive. to dive 
 left click the right analog stick left. if you wanna dive right just click the right analog stick 
 right. your goalie makes outstanding saves. there is a light like on your crease if its red your 
 in bad position if its green your in good position. iam not happy about the season its like the 
 same as last years you play games. you play the playoffs. its the same. there are new fun minigames. 
 the rest is the same. i hope you liked my reveiw. if your a hockey fan i say you get this game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parow
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 28, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  I bought Nhl 2k6 yesterday i got it for 15 because i know people its not as bad as everyone says 
 it is pretty easy until you get to the harder difficulty levels it does freeze sometimes but not 
 that bad if u get rid of the cache do it from the dashboard not in the game the fans are good during 
 playoffs they are different from regular season fans the gameplay is fun total control options 
 and goalie view thing there are fun and easy to use the mini games are interesting i really enjoy 
 playing it but i wouldnt have bought it for 60 and i say rent it first cuz there are people that 
 hate it but i enjoyed it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 23, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  --------
  Pure hockey experience
  
  Cons:
  ---------
  Pure hockey experience, very little in the way of graphical improvements, not next-gen by a long 
 shot.
  
  For the PS2 and XBOX, NHL 2K6 is an OK game, but here on the 360, we have higher standards, this 
 game is LESS THAN OK! As part of the 4 part 2K6 series, all featuring American exlusive sports, 
 this is the black sheep, it is much worse than all the others. Of course, if you are a huge hockey 
 fan, you should contemplate getting this game, but if your not, steer clear of it.
  Not so good graphics or gameplay, this is a lackluster hockey experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffdog_65
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 28, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  NHL 2k6 is the best game i've played for the 360 to date. It is a very fun game. I've got many 
 hours on it. Gameplay is just great but the graphics could have been alot better. They were definitely 
 not next gen. A little better than xbox version but still a good game. From the puck hitting the 
 pipe and the slapshots the sound is just great. This is one of the few good sports games out for 
 the 360 right now. It is definitely worth $60.00. I highly recommend this game. I found this game 
 a lot more entertaining than madden, nba, mlb, and fifa. Good job 2K. Go Wings!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 16, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Since the days of blades of steel developers have never seen to get hockey games right. Also todays 
 America doesn't seem too much to care about hockey. Fans of the game got a glimpse of the next 
 gen console game in NHL 2K6. Personally, I could do with out. 
  
  Gameplay - the game play is so strait forward it will bored you in record time. I found the controls 
 to be difficult to control and when I wanted to change them it was still difficult.
  
  Graphics - the gameplay graphics don't do much to the game. Maybe because I don't know any of the 
 players..... I don't know
  
  Replay value - NO! NO! NO! Nothing here tells me to keep playing this game over and over.
  
 
  This is not even a rent unless youre a fan of hockey
  
  RENT IF!!! (BIG ... IF) you want achievement points
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 12, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I did not have very high expectations before playing this game, but I was 
 pleasantly surprised. If you play of Physical mode, the gameplay is very fun and you can always 
 go for huge hits. The graphics could be fine tuned a little. The figures are a little rough around 
 the edges. The new goalie mode is cool to, where you can actually play as the goalie and block 
 shots. It is to unrealistic at some point; you can skate all the way down the ice weaving in and 
 out of defenders to score a rediculous goal. 
  
  This game is better than expected and the franchise is only on its way up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: habinator
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 25, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is clearly a port from the Xbox version to the 360. They in no way improved anything. 
 I mean, I understand they wanted to get this game out in time for the release of the 360 but my 
 god. I mean the big thing with these next gen consoles is Graphics and Visuals but with this game 
 all I see is XBOX-Gen graphics.
  
  NOthing new here people. Still overall a great hockey game, and yes still better than NHL06, but 
 if you are thinking of buying this game stick with the XBOX or PS2 version instead, they are cheaper 
 and look pretty close to the same thing. Definatly not worth the $60 price tag, go with the XBox 
 version and pay $20.
  
  And believe me, the Goalie mode may sound cool but you'll never use it. You may screw around with 
 it a few times but you'll never actually use it, especially not on a shot in Game 7 in overtime 
 for the Stanley Cup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mentalicca
Rating: 5
Date: May 21, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is not complete. I am a diehard hockey fan, and bought this title for the original Xbox 
 the day it came out. I lved that games. But then I decided last week to give this version try. 
 Now I did a lot of research, and many people complained of a freeze. I figured it would be a mild 
 inconvenience. But nope, it is terrible. After every game it freezes. Apparently there is a problem 
 with the removeable hard drive. Apart from this, the game is great. The graphics are greatly improved, 
 especially for HD tvs. The gameplay is great, although their are far too many money goals. Sounds 
 great, although the commentators can get annoying.
  
  So, if you are contemplating purchasing this game, be warned it is bugged. You will eventually 
 be unable to complete any games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CassiusVII
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 14, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  Where is EA on the whole next gen hockey? No where! They are to busy messing around with their 
 not so hot madden. The game is good. It isnt the best in some areas though. 
  Gameplay- Its good... but not great. The choice of fighting is good instead of being on a breakaway 
 and all of a sudden your in a fight. The control of the passing and shooting is awesome. It makes 
 it easy for people who know what they are doing in a real game of hockey.
  Graphics- Good, but this Is the next gen guys! You couldve stepped it up a little bit. The ice 
 and boards look fantastic, but the players still look like they are out of tune. Otherwise everything 
 else looks great! Especially the goalie vision.
  Sound- Good, No flaws, but sometimes it gets boring hearing it.
  Value- 10 ... you can play it 
 forever! You have the long franchise mode plus online. Nothing to lose there.
  All in all I love hockey games but a next gen game should look and feel a little more then this. 
 The game was still good. Gamespot actually came pretty close on this one with their 7.5. But considering 
 it had no competition ... it should be at least an 8. 8.3 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerZer0
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 10, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I like it.. it was rough hard and painful.. we did it hardcore!!.. my hands even swelled up.. all this 
 happen.. when I played this game!!.. I know what you were thinking!!... yes it sounds awesome!!... and 
 I agree with you.. I really enjoyed my playing experience with this game.. I won a few.. and lost 
 a few.. actually I lost alot when I played online but I still had fun.. its definatley my type of 
 game.. I recommend it to any gamers that are interested in sports games.. and as I say in all of 
 my posts please rent it before buying it.. I don't think you want to regret it later on although 
 I have no doubt about it that you wouldn't regreat it.. I just don't want to say go out and buy 
 this game!! and then some psycho killer buys the game tracks me down finds me and kills me making 
 me have a slow and painful death all because they did'nt like it.. yes.. well that was awkward.. the 
 game rocks.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjf_80
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 6, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  I've played the original Xbox version of 2K6 and when compared to the 360 version - nothing is 
 changed - except for the crease control mode of course. :)
  
  Controls are great, graphics (unfortunately) are ported from the Xbox1 version, but the sounds 
 are amazing. Using one's own created playlist is a complete waste of time, due to the fact that 
 after each goal, loading screen or whatever, the custom created soundtrack never ends - they just 
 keep on playing. And in the menu you only get to play one custom song - over and over again. Shame 
 on you 2K..!
  
  But, the sounds are great, no doubt. The rink sounds real, when the puck hits the posts, it sounds 
 as if I was down to my local rink and made a shot on the goal posts myself, that's how real the 
 sounds are.
  
  Okay, let's get this started:
  
  %Graphics: On an alphabetical scale from A to F (A being the highest & F the lowest) the graphics 
 don't get more than a C- from me. Ported Xbox graphics don't impress me much (Hey just like that 
 Shania Twain song lol)
  
  %Sounds: Awesome. What more can I say? 2K has certainly put an effort to make the game "feel" like 
 an actual hockey game with authentic sounds and atmosphere. But, the grade goes down a notch because 
 of the faulty custom playlist function. Grade? B-
  
  %Gameplay: Impressive. I thought 2K5 had the best controls and the most lifelike hockey feel, but 
 when I got to play 2K6 I noticed how wrong I was... :)
  Grade? A+ for great controls!
  
  %Value: 2K6 offers more than enough gaming with it's variating modes. Party mode, Shootout, etc. 
 Franchise mode has gotten a minor improvement, according to me anyways. To play a franchise seems 
 to be more easier than before, and giving the players certain roles* is a fun addition to the game 
 as well. (*=Skater, scorer, hard nosed, etc..)
  
  %Tilt: Superb game in total, even if it's been ported over from Xbox1. Good first debut on the 
 360 in my opinion :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 4.6
Date: Apr 23, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  Well, hockey is back. I was kind of bored, so I rented this. I was hoping this would be the best 
 one I have ever played, but when it got here I was majorly disappointed.
  The graphics look unchanged from the X-Box version. That's all I got to say about that.
  The gameplay 
 is nothing, but the same old thing with new rosters. You know.... totally boring. It's rediculously 
 hard to shoot a damn goal.
  The AI on your opponents is pretty dumb. They'll slap the puck right to you.
  The presentation 
 is horrible. The announcers repeat theirselves over and over again.
  The soundtrack totally sucks! No name artist singing crappy songs if there's any words in the song 
 at all.
  Don't even waste your moolah folks. Just keep NHL 2k5. It was much better anyway. It's not even worth 
 playing to boost your gamer score. A complete waste of my life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechosenone827
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 20, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  NHL 2K6 for the Xbox 360 is a very good hockey game, 2K Sports did an excellent job in creating 
 a quality hockey game. The game has a easy navigation system and has some decent looking graphics. 
 The players models do not look as good as the player models in NBA 2K6, but they are pretty well 
 done. The sounds are excellent, from the music to the crowd chanting in the arena, you can clearly 
 hear when you check someone against the wall. I really liked the game play, it is a little complex 
 and is not one of those games that you can just pick up and play, but after a while learning how 
 to shoot, pass, and call your plays it becomes a little easier to score. 2K Sports included a fighting 
 system, but it feels a little awkward, more time should go into making some better controls for 
 fighting. There are plenty of modes to play as well as online play via Xbox Live, and there are 
 some very easy achievements to unlock with the exception of scoring on a penalty shot. I wish that 
 2K Sports could continue to have the ESPN License, because the presentation is good, but not as 
 good as the former ESPN series. Maybe they may be able to pick up the Fox Sports License and put 
 that presentation in their games. Overall NHL 2K6 is a very good hockey game for the Xbox 360 and 
 is definitely worth a rental, but if you are a big hockey fan I definitely recommend that you buy 
 it because it is a really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  NHL 2K6 is a good game some people would even say that it's a great game but it's not that much 
 different then the xbox's version of the game that cost 1/3 of the price that the 360's game costs. 
 The two things that are new are the graphics, not that much different that the xbox's, you won't 
 notice it that much if your just playing, you will though during cu-scenes and replays, the games 
 got great ice! The other new thing that they have added is the "crease control" this is when you 
 control the goalie with a 3rd person view it is really entertaining but could be improved on in 
 the future, now that thing is cool but i don't think that it's $40 cool. NHL 2K6 is a fun game 
 that you should check out, if not a buy then a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: If you've played NHL 2K5 or 2K6 for Xbox or PS2, NHL 2K6 for Xbox 360 is hardly any different. 
 This is the same incredible gameplay as the previous versions, except with one new feature. Crease 
 Control allows the human player to take control of the goalie in this new mode, with a 3rd person 
 goaltender prospective. If you click on the Right Thumbstick, you go into Crease Control. From 
 there, you have buttons mapped on the 360 that convert to specific saves. There is a colored cone 
 that shows up in front of your goaltender once you enter this new mode, Green will indicate youre 
 within the pucks range, Red will indicate youre not. When a player shots, you will have 
 the chance to lineup a small target symbol (where the puck is headed to) with a Red ring (you control 
 this ring to lineup with the target) . Its pretty difficult to explain in words, but once 
 you see actual gameplay it makes sense. As for everything else, like I said its the same. 
 The only bug I noticed besides audio (explained in Audio section) is Ive had a split second 
 freeze happen right before I scored a goal. It doesnt ruin the gameplay, but it isnt 
 what youd expect from next gen. Ive also heard around the boards and other reviews 
 the notorious Franchise mode is still bugged, which is also a disappointment. 7.5/10
  
  Graphics: The game looks exceptionally well in actual gameplay mode. The ice glimmering reflections 
 and holding skate streaks to add a realistic effect. The scoreboard also looks great, with the 
 new TV screen projecting penalty and goal replays. The crowd is now fully 3D, which is also nice. 
 However, you can tell majority of the cut-scenes were brought over from the Xbox version and brushed 
 up. However, its still a great looking game, the best hockey game Ive ever seen 
 thats for sure. 8/10
  
  Audio: If you try to use your custom audio tracks, you may in counter some glitches which is a 
 disappointment. The sound effects are too low (even with the sliders completely filled) . The crowd, 
 commentary and horns are great. 7.5/10
  
  Controls: As previous versions, it controls like a charm. There are many customization options 
 to suit your needs, which has always been great about the 2K series. The new Crease Control is 
 a very neat idea, but could be re-worked as it tends to get confusing changing prospective from 
 goalie to player so often. 9/10
  
  Replay: Xbox Live Online adds tons of replay value that will keep fans busy until 2K7. There are 
 online season leagues, tournaments and quick match options if you want to play a friend or some 
 random opponent. There is no lagging, the game runs smooth. 9/10
  
  Overall: If you already have the Xbox or Ps2 version, maybe you might not want to spend $60 for 
 some brushed up visuals and Crease Control. I would definitely recommend it to any hockey fan that 
 missed 2K6 on the previous versions, like myself. Its an incredible game, but $60 for a 
 game that costs $20 on Ps2 or Xbox may be asking a bit too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMightyGwin
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 24, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  The player models are off, the announcers sound bored, and Mark Messier has hair. What isn't wrong 
 with this game? The worst part of this game could be the intimidator feature. Enforcers, such as 
 Scott Stevens have the ability to intimidate players with large checks. This sounds fun, but after 
 you see tested stars such as Modano, Mats Sundin, and Mario Lemieux skating around scared of Darius 
 Kasperitus, you grow weary of this feature. The graphics are also very disappointing. They look 
 very 1995-ish. If you want a real hockey game, buy the EA version. It is cheap at $30 and well 
 worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 17, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  For those of us that do not live in snow infested climates where hockey is the second national 
 sport, the NHL has a lot of ground to pick up. Of course one of the ways to draw in new viewers 
 are through games, giving us the chance to learn the rules and some of the players before we watch 
 a single game. NHL 2k6 is not the first in the series but the first I have played since the dreamcast.
 
  
  Gameplay was ok... almost a little broken. Even on the harder difficulty levels it was not unusual 
 for me to score 8-9 points in a game and my opponent to score 2-3. Good for my offense... not so 
 good for my goalie. Also I don't think I have ever seen a game score that high in the real word...
 
  
  Graphics were nice, but this game has the look of a near direct port to it, not what I was expecting 
 from a 360 title. 
  
  Sound seemed pretty realistic, and the crack of the stick as you took a power shot was a nice touch... even 
 if I couldn't tell what the crowds were chanting.
  
  Value - Unless you are a mega hockey fan with only a 360, get it on another console... there is 
 nothing special to this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carsonpalmer09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  well this game was pretty good no even better VERRYY VERYY GOOD i absolutely love it all of my 
 friends come voer and we ahve massive tournaments already at the hightest lever of difficulty an 
 dit makes it pretty tough on you i recomend it to anybody who likes 2k games or hockey at all
 
  
  i personally do not like hockey at all so it was a big surprise when i played it and now istill 
 dont like hockey but this game is sweet
  and i have ntohing else to say about this game so right now i am jsut tryig to get to 100 words 
 so it will let me submit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TA_Gen_SaMaXt
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  yah, hey everybody. its me crazy ferret from the reviews you loved, if u want some next gen crap, 
 then track me!! ok lets get down to buisness. this game is confusing. i dont know the rules, so 
 i wouldnt know, so i turned off penalties. i was beating the crap out of people which was fun, 
 but its just hard to control, and its hard to make a real goal, and i just think they could have 
 added some fun gameplay, not to say its not, its just that maybe there could be some more VIOLENCE!!! 
 thats right. violence. theres practically none. so if ur hard core on hockey, then go ahead. knock 
 yourself out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanleyHandyman
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  NHL 2k6 is a good hockey game just not a next gen one.
  
  Gameplay
  Good: Goalie mode is REALLY awesome. Great franchise mode.
  Bad: Nothing else has really changed, 
 mini games are boring, somewhat glitchy
  
  Graphics:
  Good: Ice looks great
  Bad: Poor player and fan models
  
  Sound
  Good: Sound FX are good
  Bad: Lackluster commentary 
 and a terrible soundtrack
  
  Value
  Can be fun for a while especially if you have a franchise
  
  Overall
  If your a hockey fan 
 and you need a hockey game for your 360 than by all means buy this ,but otherwise just wait and 
 see what next year has to offer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnwerpny21
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  this game is is way better then nhl 2006 it is funner and plays better
  and you can actully have a shootout thats the best thing there is 
  i like the franchise mode 
 the best though you can play that for hours
  there is all 30 nhl teams and lots of classic teams to all the nhl players are in it and i like 
 they keep every stat there is good online play its good game for any hockey fans and its good to 
 have some people over and play multiplayer but there are some bad things about the game like lak 
 of fans
  and the graphics could be better the announcers get repetitive they keep saying the same thing 
 and it gets annouing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: den1233
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 17, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  nhl 2k6 is a good hockey game but not a good one for the price. its almost the same game with a 
 few minor updates like new golie controls and better looking ice. the thing is its $40 more than 
 the ps2 or xbox version. thats not very fair for a game basicly the same. but if you can get past 
 that its a great hockey game. it has all of the features the other versions have plus a little 
 more. the sound is very good , makes you feel like your there. if your a hockey fan and don't have 
 a hockey game yet this year and happen to be lucky enough to have a 360 than i think you should 
 go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stranger_tan17
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 15, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  this game was kinda a let down for me i definatly dont think that this game is worthy of 360 graphics... the 
 game was i dunt no kinda leggy.. like when i scored a goal teh game would pause then it would continue... the 
 hitting isnt very good unless you ajust the gameplay... i loved the idea that you see the actual 
 lines that you make its not just a preset in the ice u actually see the lines you make as u skate 
 so u could write stuff in the ice... fighting was kindof cheasy after every fight the screen would 
 jump to the winner ontop of the player on the ice even iff that didnt happen in the fight but over 
 all its still a fun game so enjoy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xJellyBirdx
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 23, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Another poor hockey game, suprise suprise. It seems to resemble NHL Hitz more than a real NHL game. However, 
 this one can be quite exciting when customized in league play. 2k sports did an amazing job with 
 the leagues and if you have not had a chance to check this out I strongly recommend that you do. 
 All the stats of games are transfered over to a website where everyone in the lague can chat in 
 forums, propose trades, edit line-ups and much much more.
  
  Gameplay: Fair at best. Very customizable which is helpful for more experienced gamers and league 
 players but for typical ranked games the gameplay is extremely poor. Also, the goalies are dumb 
 and the game turns into an offensive shoot-out.
  
  Graphics: Little change from Xbox. Players resemble hunch-backs more than people. Some subtle differencesfrom 
 the Xbox version such as reflection off the ice and instant replays.
  
  Sound: Good, but not amazing. Its fun to hear the fans chant and the annoncers announce the plays 
 (even though they can get redundant) . Its also impressive how you can here the puck hit the pick 
 during a pass and the air escape a players mouth when he gets leveled.
  
  Value: No other hockey games out there so it kind of creates a hockey monopoly with no "NHL" (EA 
 sports) this year for Xbox or 360.
  
  Recommendaiton: You must be a hockey enthusiast or super fan for this one because being a middle 
 of the road fan won't do it. The $60 is just too much money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Italia_13
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 13, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Well at first I thought this game was going to be pretty damn fun.... until the bugs came in. When 
 scoring it lags on certain area slaps shots, some pictures are totally incorrect this happens randomly 
 also the game just freezes and shuts down. I know they wanted this game out for launch, but the 
 cost of these bugs are to high.
  
  With that said you can still have some fun playing it with friends because a little competition 
 is always fun, but other then that it losses its replay value quickly.
  
  So my opinion is do not buy this game especially for its price and just wait till the next 2k comes 
 out... even then 2k games are getting pretty bad so watch out for them completely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chad_711
Rating: 2.2
Date: Feb 10, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  The game play is great, however I do not recommend this game to any one. 2K Sports is not willing 
 to live up to there screw up. This game will not work unless you use a Memory Unit. The HDD does 
 not work with this game. In order to save a season or franshise you need to remove your hard drive 
 and use a memory card. 2K sports will not respond to any one in the community.
  
  I have sent numerous emails to 2K sports tech and customer support staff. I have not received one 
 response from this company. Check the forums where ever you go, you'll see that every one is having 
 this issue. 
  
  DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. WASTE OF $60.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amazingz
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  NHL 2k6 is a game that hardcore hockey gamers will like, but if your like me and are not crazy 
 about it, DONT BY IT!!
  
  The one thing i liked was how you can controll your goilie and i found that great. The graphics 
 in this game do not scream out next gen to me AT ALL, and i was very dissapointed at the player 
 models. Unlike nba 2k6 (which i reccomend to everyone) the graphics were overall garbage and that 
 was a big turn off
  
  Overall i do not recommend this game to yall and try going out and get nba 2k6 which is the best 
 basketball game out there!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makal10
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 7, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  When the only NHL game is NHL 2K6, I had to buy it, becuase i'm a hardcore hockey fan. If you want 
 to buy it just because of next gen graphics, don't. I bought it because I wanted to play hockey, 
 simple as that. It's not pretty and all, but I think the gameplay is enough to keep me playing 
 day after day.
  
  Graphics are not next gen, they're just regular Xbox graphics jumped up to Xbox 360, nothing big
 
  
  Sound isn't too bad, I think the idea of Bob Kole doing the announcements is neat, sounds nice
 
  
  Gameplay rocks, with the goaltending, there are some nasty exploits though, you can play the same 
 shot everytime and score a goal (Top shelf, left or right corner) . 
  
  Again, it's decent, good enough for me. I can't wait for next years sports games, they are gonna 
 kick butt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benzeta
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  A lot of reviews for NHL 2K6 have been hard on the graphics aspect of the game. I'll admit that 
 when I first put the game in, I was expecting way more than what is possible for a hockey video 
 game. After recently playing NHL 2K6 on regular XBOX, I have to admit that the graphics are a lot 
 better, and the gameplay is a lot better. The game is much better for 360 than it is for regular 
 XBOX not just because of the graphics, but because the gameplay is smoother, faster, and more realistic. 
 
  
  Being an avid video game hockey player, I have to say 2K6 is by far the best hockey game ever made 
 for any system, ever. New features like on the fly coaching, and the new goalie control definately 
 add to the game's prestige, however, I feel certain aspects need to be improved.
  
  The number one thing that must be eliminated is "video game" scoring. AI must become smart enough 
 to stop those avid video game professionals from finding "for sure" ways to score every time. I 
 know of one for sure way to score, which will work every time, and I know of about three others 
 that score probably 75 to 80 percent. To make the game more realistic, the goalies must be able 
 to adapt to someone scoring the same type of goal over and over and over. Recently, I lost an online 
 game 13-12 because the guy I played kept doing the same shot over and over and over. Allowing something 
 like this to occur reduces the overall realism of the game, because suddenly it's no longer a hockey 
 game, suddenly it's a battle of who knows the cheap ways of doing things better. 
  
  In addition, the green/red goalie vision thing is really really annoying to play against, especially 
 if you have more than one player playing, and especially if it's online. Imagine you have a game 
 of three on three (6 total users) ... that's a lot of colours out on the ice. Now add some green 
 and red goalie vision to all these colours, and prepare for a seizure! Designers should make it 
 so only the person using the goalie can see the green and red vision indicator for online play. 
 Additionally, If I take a shot during online play, and someone is using manual goalie for the other 
 team, I shouldn't have to see them try to hit the target with their cursor to make the save... 
 instead, my screen should be unaffected, as in real hockey, if I take a shot, I don't all of a 
 sudden teleport into the goalies body to see him make the save before teleporting back to my body 
 to get the rebound... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick109thou
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 6, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is all you need in hockey.... minus the amazing graphics. We all know that nhl is not 
 visually the best, but the game play is good. This game seemed more realistic to me and I hade 
 alot of fune with it. The sound was also very good. (I love the sound of the puck hitting the post) : lol: 
 anyways this game is not a must have unless you are a hockey fan. There is a francise and a create 
 a player, which is prettey good. I just say if you dont love hockey rent this game... and then if 
 you like it you buy it.. lol.. I didnt get to play this game that much because my box crashed when 
 I was playing perfect dark 2 weeks after I got the game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtk2k
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 5, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  NHL 2K6 was a fun little game that isnt such a bad buy, as it may seem. Its a great game to play 
 with friends and online its surprisingly fun. My only bones to pick are its graphics and party 
 mode. The graphics are definitely not XBOX 360 quality and party mode isnt fun at all. I would 
 suggest just playing a shootout with friends if you dont want to play a game instead of party 
 mode. The game isnt as fun as some other platform versions like the PS2 version for example. The 
 game is worth renting though. So next time you have an extra 8 bucks check it out as a rental. 
 Its a pretty fun quick game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjakybob
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  Well for a first hockey game on the 360 this is not what i expected, this game was so damb bad 
 but it was kind of fun to play, the comentairy was like talking to a wall the whole game for example 
 draper passes sundin passes to tucker to domi and so on. That is basically how it went and the 
 animation for the crowed was like the worst part of the game every time it showed a celbrity it 
 would be the same face just different body even for the women they looked exactly like the men, 
 they could have atleast made a veriety of cheracters.
  
  Gamplay: Well if you are a hockey fan/player than you will love playing this game like i did it 
 was fun playing this game, it was similar to watching it on TV exept for the comentairy.
  
  Graphics: They were actually better than i thought they would be but not as good as they could 
 have been, the visuals for the ice say close to the end of the period looked real and worn thats 
 what i think they improved on the best.
  
  Sound: Hands down this is like the best thing in the game if you closed your eyes while playing 
 or close your eyes while your buddies are playing you could hear everything from getting hit on 
 the boards to the skates on the ice it was one of the things that i really liked about this game. 
 But because of the crappy comentairy this game didnt seem to be all that great.
  
  Value: The value is pretty good you could do franchise mode and you could play that for a couple 
 of months and then you could also go online and play there which was also fun.
  
  If you are looking for a good hockey game this isn't the one to play wait for the EA version to 
 come out, but if you are a hockey fan/player you will like this game maybe not a whole lot but 
 it still got me playin git and i had some fun playing it. Also this games difficulty varies for 
 what difficulty you pick. The achievements for this game were pretty hard to get on the higher 
 difficulties but when you got them it will feel like you have releaved your self big time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iBoxCarBobi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  To start out this whole review, i must point out the main problems with this game. Since this game 
 was created for the 360 the first reaction before playing, was that the game is going to have amazing 
 graphics. But as soon as the game started, it was clear that nothing really changed from the old 
 games. The fans that are shown in the bigenning of every game and during it, look like they were 
 copied from the old game and just inserted to fill in the space. The only part where the graphics 
 look ok for the 360 is when a player is highlighted after he scores, but other than that, there 
 are no amazing graphics that will actually blow you away. The game play is alright, but its only 
 because nothing really changes in sports games. The sound of the game is not the worst but those 
 annoucers get annoying after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bill8750
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 26, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  I got this game at launch with my 360 system and it was the first game I played on my 360. At first 
 I was very unimpressed with the graphics, especially after seeing Madden, Call of Duty 2, and Fight 
 Night on my 360. It looks like the same game I had for my original Xbox. 2k probably just reprinted 
 the game, and slapped a number 360 up on the top corner.
  
  But anyways about the glitching. I had the Major League Baseball last year for the Xbox, and it 
 was probably the glitchiest game I'd ver played, until this one. When your pitcher would get a 
 save or a win, they would award the win to my right fielder or a minor leaguer not even on my active 
 roster. It was ridiculous. I spoke to a couple friends and they recalled encountering the same 
 problems, so I know it was widespread. But this NHL game was far worse. First of all, when I went 
 to start a franchise, all was fine and dandy for the first week and a half. Then I got a call from 
 a friend about the game, and he said when he tried saving the game, his 360 said all the files 
 were 'damaged'. He restarted and then had to play all the games over again and then was able to 
 resave. Well what happens to me a day later, you guessed it...'damaged'. I can't tell you how annoying 
 it was playing 3 games in a row, just to have all your stats for those game lost entirely. And 
 it didn't happen just once, it was quite repetitive. It grew to a daily occurence. Needless to 
 say this game is probably one of the worst 360 games available. Take my advice and if you wan't 
 to play a hockey game, nabiscoworld. com has a better hockey game, and its 60 dollars cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 619Style
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  NHL 2k6 Has the whole package Great Graphics, updated online roster, Crease Control, Wrap around 
 goals, and realistic Physics. Any hockey fan or non-Hockey fan will like this game and agree with 
 this Review it really s best in Series and one of the best rated sports games on Xbox 360. the 
 only bad things are that online games can get Massive LAG and easy disconnections this game needs 
 a patch for online but the rest is the best of all Sports games. This game is the Real deal it 
 has Create a Player/Team and rosters that can be altered and you can send players to the minors 
 to get in some practice in Francise mode and have Free Skates and Battles modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killm4
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Just returned NHL 2K6 back to Gamefly, and all i can say is THIS GAME SUCKS!!!.
  There is really no goal or point for playing this game. LOL i was literally falling a sleep while 
 playing it. If you guys just get it for the achievements i got to tell you that the penalty shot 
 award is almost impossible to get without a second controller. As you can see i didnt get it because 
 i only have one 360 controller. If you try to get it by yourself without the help of a second player 
 it will be a b**ch to get. Because the AI never trips you on a break away (The only way to get 
 the penalty shot) . I got to tell you i never felt like breaking my 360 before gething this game, 
 but after i got it i felt like shooting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GanstaWHAT
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 19, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Horrible Graphics don't buy it wait until the EA Sports 2007 comes out it will be much better. 
 The Ice and players look way diffrent one is a little blurry and the other is clear it makes to 
 sense, and when looking down the ice on a replay or somthing it looks foggy. It shouldn't look 
 foggy...
  Horrible Graphics don't buy it wait until the EA Sports 2007 comes out it will be much better. 
 The Ice and players look way diffrent one is a little blurry and the other is clear it makes to 
 sense, and when looking down the ice on a replay or somthing it looks foggy. It shouldn't look 
 foggy...
  Horrible Graphics don't buy it wait until the EA Sports 2007 comes out it will be much better. 
 The Ice and players look way diffrent one is a little blurry and the other is clear it makes to 
 sense, and when looking down the ice on a replay or somthing it looks foggy. It shouldn't look 
 foggy...
  Horrible Graphics don't buy it wait until the EA Sports 2007 comes out it will be much better. 
 The Ice and players look way diffrent one is a little blurry and the other is clear it makes to 
 sense, and when looking down the ice on a replay or somthing it looks foggy. It shouldn't look 
 foggy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattathome
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 18, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  I have this game on my Xbox 360 and its flippin awsome!!! Its an easy game to get used too and 
 very fun. You can play in all the different difficulties. Play as your favourite team and switch 
 if you want. This game delivers a **** of fun!!! I recommend it to any hockey and game fan. If 
 your looking for a fantastic hockey video game then look no more. DO NOT get NHL 2006 or some other 
 hockey game!!! GET NHL 2K6 because its got better graphics and more stuff cramed into it for a 
 faboulas game. 2006 has poor graphics and not a very realistic experience. 2K6 ,however, you can 
 change the experience from brutal to ralistic to custom. So for these reasons get 'NHL 2K6'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnm00
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  This is the first hockey title I've played on the 360. Actually, I think it's the only one available 
 right now. But, overall, my opinion of NHL2K6 is not that great.
  
  The graphics on this game aren't bad at all. They look good, but not 360 good. To be honest, they 
 don't look any better than EA's NHL 06 looks on the standard Xbox. That's a disappointment considering 
 what the 360 can do visually. I would have hoped they would take advantage of that power.
  
  From a sound perspective, the commentary is quite good and the overall sound effects are realistic. 
 I wouldn't complain about that at all. There's nothing earth shattering about the sound, but it's 
 good.
  
  The gameplay of NHL2K6 is just average. I think it's a preference thing, to be honest. If you've 
 played previous versions, you may be comfortable with it. But, in my opinion, it's not as fluid 
 as EA's version and not as responsive, either. Granted, EA doesn't have a 360 version, so you don't 
 have many options. But, 2K's version didn't do much for me so I'm inclined to stick with EA on 
 the old console. I guess that says a lot for my opinion of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clean1984
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty fun but the graphics could be better , and the people walk around as if they 
 are body builders or something , The thing that realy makes me mad is iv been trying to figure 
 out the scouting as best as i could untill i went to the instuction book and it gives you nothing 
 on any of the scouting what it does/ what it means so if you are going to buy this make sure you 
 have a good idea how to use scouting from previouse games so your not confused on what your doing 
 ( Iam ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackNumonerian
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  
  
  I have NHL 2K6 for the XBOX 360, and I have to say that this game is very complex in the way of 
 reviewing. 
  
  First of all, graphics. I have to say that I wasn't all that dissapointed about them because I 
 didn't see much of a difference from 2K5 from 2K6. Next I will say I was dissapointed with the 
 commentary, and everyone knows how much better a sports game is with its commentary. Delayed comments, 
 yelling names when they don't need to be yelled, and saying things that don't have to do with hockey 
 really dissapointed me in the aspect of the game. 
  
  Another thing is the glitches that occur in the game. Floating helmets, sticks, and gloves were 
 some issues in that department, and players flying back up when they are beaten in a fight. But 
 to a lighter note, I was happy with the gameplay itself. I liked the deking, shooting, passing 
 and hitting and overall hockey game feel of 2K6. The crowds could look more like people rather 
 than looking like they still have hockey equipment on underneath their cloathes.
  
  All in all, 2K6 is slightly on the dissapointing side in my opinion. But no one should knock it 
 off as bad, but there definatly is room for improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer_Of_SeeD
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Having already been blessed with some fierce competition on the Xbox and PS2, hockey fanatics will 
 be glad to know that the chase for Lord Stanleys Cup can be continued on the Xbox 360 as well 
 with NHL 2K6. 
  
  Gameplay and Fun Factor
  
  Anyone who is familiar with the previous Xbox or PS2 versions will be glad to know that everything 
 has been left intact with the 360 version. Instead of building the game from the ground up like 
 EA Sports did with many of their titles, developer Kush and 2K Games decided to leave the core 
 gameplay intact, and build upon that with a few new additions. We have already seen the same thing 
 with their NBA 2K6 series, and the results for that title were a mixed bag to say the least. Even 
 though it was pretty much the same game as the ones from the previous generation, the spiffy new 
 visuals seemed to be just enough to carry the experience, but in no way matched the atmosphere 
 of NBA Live 06. 
  
  Well NHL 2K6 is almost able to tread the same path as its NBA brother. It still offers the same 
 incredibly realistic take on the sport, followed by a slew of exciting mini-games, and one of the 
 deepest franchise modes around. The problem, however, is that where NBA 2K6 excels, NHL 2K6 falters. 
 The visuals have been upgraded, but unless you know exactly what youre looking for, telling the 
 difference between this generation and the last will be a difficult one. Luckily, NHL 2K6 does 
 something that NBA 2K6 didnt, it offers a completely new and engaging feature. The only question 
 is will one new feature be enough to warrant a 60$ price tag, which is nearly three times the amount 
 of the PS2 and Xbox versions. 
  
  
  
  
  
  The new Crease Control goalie feature is possibly the games only saving grace when it comes to 
 comparing it against the previous versions. With the help of cover boy Marty Turco himself, the 
 developers really wanted to change the way people manually control goaltenders in videogames, which 
 up until now, has been a complete disaster. When the opposition enters your teams defensive zone, 
 simply clicking the right analog stick will allow you to assume the responsibility of the goaltender. 
 Once you do so, the action zooms in to the goalies perspective, who then becomes transparent in 
 order for you to see through his eyes more clearly. After the offensive player lets the puck fly, 
 time will slow down immensely, and youll see a red target indicator telling you exactly where 
 the player is planning to shoot the puck. In order to make the save in time, you have to place 
 your blue target over the pucks destination before it goes in the net, which is actually very little 
 time at all. Once you start giving up rebounds and facing an onslaught of shots, this becomes very 
 intense and plays out much like it would in real life. 
  
  Other fine additions to the franchise are the new pro control passing and on-the-fly play calling 
 systems. Passing is extremely simple, and so much so that its hard to figure out why this hasnt 
 been implemented in other games before now. When controlling a player with the puck, just pressing 
 the analog stick will cause button icons to appear above each one of your teammates, and all you 
 have to do in order to pass the puck is to hit the correct button. This isnt necessarily that 
 important during regular situations, but this is nearly priceless when on the power play. Setting 
 up the appropriate play is a cinch now, and you finally really feel like you have control during 
 special team situations. One problem does occur, however, as the button icons disappear after each 
 pass, which in turn makes you press the right analog stick every time you wish to make a pass with 
 this new system. Just by allowing me to turn the feature on and off with a click of the analog 
 stick would have been a much smarter, and more enjoyable way to use this feature, but even with 
 its faults, this is something that should be in every hockey game from now on. 
  
  The on-the-fly play calling works very easy as well, and once you memorize the command inputs, 
 you will have it working like a charm to your advantage. This can be accessed on both offense and 
 defense by tapping the d-pad in the appropriate direction. These commands can include things like 
 crashing the net, screening the goaltender, setting up breakouts, and even pinching in your defensemen 
 for some last minute scoring chances. There really are tons of things to do on both sides of the 
 puck with this feature, and most of them work to perfection. I did notice a few players slightly 
 confused at times on what to do, kind of like they didnt quite have the plays memorized, but hopefully 
 these issues will be ironed out in future releases, because this is one gameplay aspect that I 
 absolutely cannot live without. 
  
  The new passing and play calling systems really help add to the realism and fun factor with the 
 360 version, but its the Crease Control aspect that will give players something new. I have to 
 say though, that even with the new gameplay features; many veterans of the series will find it 
 hard to justify such a steep price tag. NHL 2K6 is the only hockey game on the market for the 360 
 though, so this may help coax serious hockey fans into a purchase, even if theyre not too excited 
 about doing it.
  
  Graphics
  
  This is one area where gamers expect to see great things, you know, since the next-generation 
 has now officially become this-generation; people expect to reap the benefits, especially in 
 the visual department. Sadly, thats just not the case with NHL 2K6. The player models and ice 
 effects have indeed received a slight bit of polish, but its not very apparent when playing with 
 a useable camera angle. If you zoom in close, however, you will see some very realistic looking 
 ice, and some spot-on player models, equipped with some very nicely detailed jerseys and equipment. 
 This is really only apparent during replays when the camera zooms in on the action, but during 
 actual gameplay its almost hard to differentiate this version from the previous ones. This becomes 
 a little easier when viewing the game in HD, but even then, everything looks a little too familiar 
 to get excited over.
  
  
  
  
  Audio
  
  The play-by-play is handled by Harry Neale and Bob Cole, who might not sound too familiar to your 
 American ears, but in actuality, theyre rather big hockey sensations in Canada. They work well 
 for the most part, but their lack of reputation might scare some lesser hockey enthusiasts away. 
 The action on the ice is represented well, but for some reason the audio just lacks the same explosiveness 
 offered by its competitor. The ability to integrate your own music is a nice replacement for the 
 games less than desirable soundtrack, but the interface is still a bit too clunky for my taste. 
 Its a shame too, as NHL 2K6 offers the most variety when it comes to doing this, so hopefully 
 the menu system will receive a few tweaks to make it more user friendly in the future. 
  
  Depth
  
  An extremely deep and engaging franchise mode, along with a slew of incredible mini-games 
 really add to the depth department and the new passing and play calling systems help keep things 
 fresh as well. The real reason to keep playing, though, is the new Crease Control, but even this 
 feature might not be enough to keep veterans of the previous versions happy for too long.
  
  Overall Comment
  
  NHL 2K6 offers the same incredible gameplay as the Xbox and PS2 versions, 
 but a real lack of movement towards the next-generation will probably be its major weakness. Therere 
 a few new features that help make the game unique, but when compared to other sports titles on 
 the 360, NHL 2K6 is probably the least aesthetically pleasing of them all. It is however, the only 
 hockey game available on the 360 at the moment, so serious fans of the sport may want to check 
 it out regardless. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: louthar
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  When I played NHL2K5 I thought it was one of the finest games as far as gameplay that I had played. 
 I never got a chance to finish the game because of the crappy bugs that plauged it. 
  
  That being said i was tennitive to get NHL2K6 for the 360 because of this problem. But becuase 
 i'm a die hard hockey fan, I got it anyway.
  
  Graphically its not that big a leap from the regular XBOX. Gameplay wise, its quite fun. Starting 
 my franchise i did have a problem with the game locking up, but that was because I had invalid 
 rosters. Since then I have not had a problem with the game. 
  
  So I'll keep plugging away at this game. I just think that the 2K sports people hurried this one 
 through the door for the 360's launch. I'll play this one until the next one comes out, and because 
 its hockey, i'll get that one too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexistheshitbe
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of hockey, you will love this game. Period. Gameplay is great, way more goal-scoring 
 than previous versions makes the rivalry more intense. There's nothing like coming back from a 
 3-0 deficit to win the game. And there's nothing like the reaction you'll get from your opponent 
 either. The 360 version has marginally better graphics but the new goalie control thingie is worth 
 it. It is easy to use and you can actually make big saves.
  Control is great -- you can do everything a real player can do except for spitting on the ground 
 or putting your teeth back in. It has a great feel to it.
  Tempo of the game is good. If you are looking for an arcade type of hockey game, this probably 
 isn't for you. Realism is this game's best assett. Also, momentum shifts are very important -- 
 when it's on your side, you can bang goals in as the opposing team is on their heels. Keep your 
 men in position or you'll get scored on.
  No longer can a beginner pick up the controller and put a couple goals past the hardened veteran. 
 You gotta be skilled to win at this one. As a hockey-loving canuck, this game gets my stamp of 
 approval. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerrockr1977
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:23 pm PT
Review:  I recently spent some time playing 2k's NHL 2k6 at my friends house on the 360. At first glance, 
 you would probably think you were playing an Xbox 1 game, because the graphics are in the stink 
 area. In fact, they are easily crappier than my ps2's Nhl 06. However, where 2k6 lacks in graphics 
 it mostly makes up for in gameplay, mostly. Hell the checking in 2k6 is probably the best part 
 about it, and will definitley keep you entertaining. The realistic momentum and physics are a bonus 
 as well, but i found it exceptionally hard to score, which i guess you could also call realistic. 
 From what i saw, the AI was pretty good, and i had trouble beating them on marginal settings. The 
 Party mode was very fun, and the minigames in it were something you and your friends can enjoy. 
 It appears 2k6 has a lot to offer, but can you really say its a next gen stunner? That for you 
 to decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladragon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 1:21 pm PT
Review:  nhl 2k6 is right now the most realistic hockey game nowadays, unlike nhl 06, positive aspects of 
 this game is the whole game play on the ice, the players move more realistically, the graphics 
 for the players r alright and the sound for the game was solid. negative aspects of the game is 
 the whole menu which looks ugly, the controls r confusing and the graphics for the crowd looks 
 very bad, and is one of the main reasons that annoy me, everytime you score all you see is a bunch 
 of flat paper people in the crowd.
  
  in the game there are improvements and problems that seems amateurish towards the previous 2k5 
 which was a very fun hockey game. nhl 2k6 is still the better hockey game now, so anyone wanting 
 a hockey game should get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chybby
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 27, 2005 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I taugth it would have been a bit more like the EA hockey game, but they screwed this one big times, 
 the controls are so clumbsy it takes all the fun away from the game, i should have rented this 
 one instead... :l 
  
  Great sound, the effect are some of the best i've seen, the commentating it real nice too but the 
 graphic aren't up to the console's potential.. The players have akward movements in the cutscenes, 
 seems really unnatural.. and the game feel like it could be better for a ps2 or xbox.
  The game in overall feel weird, its hard to score and there is still gliches in the marketed product. 
 ( I got stuck in the goalie view, while trying to score) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenJaws219
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 25, 2005 5:41 pm PT
Review:  NHl 2K6 is the only hockey game available on the Xbox 360. I brought the game on Xbox for $20 bucks, 
 and jsut months later, NHL 2K6 is release at the pricetag of $60. Both games seem similar to me, 
 so I went out and rent it. Not much differences are there in the game, the overall arena, fans, 
 and ice looks more convincing, and the overall graphics are better. Franchise mode is there with 
 the most current roster update including rookies like Ovechkin and Crosby. Most trades are updated, 
 except the recent blockbuster Joe Thornton trade, which should get a update very very soon. Overall, 
 NHL 2K6 feels too similar to the original game, graphics are improved but by Xbox 360's standard 
 it's just below average. The sound are improve, from hits to echo from the stadium. In other words, 
 NHL 2K6 is decent rental if you have the Xbox/PS 2 version or have played it, because it's definately 
 not worth $60 bucks nor does it improve much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffyess
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 25, 2005 3:59 pm PT
Review:  jeeze i was expecting the xbox games graphics to be a little more impressive...... i got the hang 
 of them game after playing for 20 minutes or so. i find it dissapointing that they left out a deke 
 feature.... like slipping the puck through yyour legs..... i was looking foward to that.
  
  
  
  
  
  job job job job job job job job 
 job job job job job job job job job job job job job job job job job job job job job job job job 
 job job job job job job job job job job job job job job job job job job job v job v job 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmrcnIdiot85
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I played hockey all through HS, and I must say that this game is as close as you can get to the 
 real thing. The controls are incredibly easy to get the hang of, and the graphics are sick. The 
 players' movements are very lifelike and realistic, in regards to puck handling and skating. They 
 have a new feature that lets you take control of the goalie mid-shot to defend your goal, which 
 is seamlessly integrated and an integral part of the game. The dynasty mode is of course the most 
 addictive part of the game, and I've been playing ever since I got the game about 2 weeks ago. 
 Seriously, the BEST hockey game I've ever played... I highly recommend it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  First off, I have to say that my game had lots of bugs that would cause infinite load times. Nothing 
 would 'crash' per se, but after a match I couldn't do anything unless I restarted my console. This 
 is the first and only incident with something like this I've had in all the times I've played my 
 360, and it was NOT... I repeat NOT an overheating issue. It may have been a bad disc (since I rented 
 it) or the game just has bugs.
  
  That said, the game is still something I couldn't say that anyone should buy, hockey fan or not. 
 For $40 less, you could get practically the same damn game for another system. If you think the 
 graphics are gonna be a lot better, think again. Want the achievements? Think again, there are 
 only 5 and 2 of them are ridiculous.
  
  It may sound like I'm bashing this game, and that isn't my intention. The game has problems and 
 a hefty price tag, but it's still a damn fun game. If you are a hockey fan, you could do no wrong 
 in giving this a rental, but I'm sure that unless you really REALLY like you some hockey, you couldn't 
 justify the price tag. The game plays, sounds, and for the most part, looks identical to NHL 2k6 
 on the Xbox.
  
  The gameplay is solid and the controls are pretty tight for the most part. The controls are kinda 
 silly at times, for example the pass button for when you have the puck is the same button that 
 changes players if you don't have the puck. This leads to lots of missed opportunities if you can't 
 see exactly what's going on. I also found that on higher difficulty levels, the 'turbo' of your 
 team seems like the normal speed of the opposing team. I was constantly getting caught up to and 
 the puck was just taken from beneath me more than a few isolated times. Your goalie also becomes 
 increasingly inept at higher difficulties, but that is kind of expected.
  
  Overall, take my bad experience as merely a word of warning. If this game was $20 like it's Xbox 
 cousin, I would have scored it much higher, and probably even bought it myself... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 11:04 am PT
Review:  NHL 2K6. I was in gamestop with my friend and he said we should get it since i get some spare cash. 
 Im not a hockey fan but i did own NHL2K2. When we started playing i liked it. It is not hard to 
 score like in old games and the new goalie controll is good. I expected the graphics to be better 
 but they are still better then regular consoles. The online mode is ok when i go on there is like 
 5 people online, so it s hard to get a game going. You can make your own rooms and tourneys which 
 is fun. If you like hockey and you have 360 then buy it no question! But if you want to see a sports 
 game on 360 rent it. NHL2K6 is a good game with SO much more potential. Check out 07 next year 
 if you want great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redzed24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2005 7:49 am PT
Review:  I read some of the user reviews and cant believe the gripes they have with this game. Complaining 
 about the name of the "Corel Center"?? Maybe the name wasnt licensed for the game. You complain 
 about every minute little detail and completely miss the fact that when tweaked to a setting that 
 works for each individual, this game rocks. EA cant hold a candle to the realism of the 2K series. 
 You just have to know about hockey, thats all. If the players skate at 150kmph then lower the game 
 speed. I know from playing hockey that you can stop on a dime, thats why its called stopping. You 
 dig in your blades and you stop. I have a hard time believing any of the bad reviews this game 
 got by these people are remotely reflective of the game. 
  
  It has its flaws for sure. The goalie AI was far superior in the Xbox version for reasons unknown 
 and it does start to hang after each game as it seems to have a conflict with the hard drive. That 
 is the main reason for not purchasing this otherwise great game. The graphics I will admit look 
 very very similar to the Xbox. They appear to have just been "cleaned up" a bit. But if you think 
 the best reason for buying a game of hockey is cause of "player faces" then you shouldnt be playing 
 hockey. Everyone gets so caught up in the graphics nowadays that actual gameplay exscapes them. 
 They might not be as good at a game that TRYS to make it hard for you to win, so you have to get 
 better, so they say its not a good game. Well.. here it is. If you like real hockey and play real 
 hockey, 2K sports is still not perfect but its leaps and bounds ahead of the arcade style of EA. 
 They both have there audiances but if you want realistic puck action, you have to go with the 2K 
 sports version. 
  
  Buyer beware though, the 360 version as I mentioned above, has a flaw that seriously affects its 
 playability. For a yet unknown reason, quite a number of people have the game freeze after playing 
 one game, all the time. No matter what mode it freezes on the loading screen. It worked fine for 
 weeks, and then one day it just froze after a game and has not worked past one game since. The 
 Xbox version has a few minor flaws but no severe flaws as this one. The xbox version will not work 
 on the 360 keep in mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Large_Soda
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 28, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  I rented this game over the weekend because I really felt like playing a hockey game on my 360. 
 And since I have no other choice of game I rented NHL 2K6. I'll clarify that I have played NHL 
 2K3, 2K4 and 2K5 almost exclusively, but I decided to make the change to EA this year. I truly 
 feel that NHL 06 is the superior game.
  
  Now let's talk 360. I knew going in that this game didn't have the graphical ovehaul that one would 
 hope, but needless to say I expected better. The player models are very subpar, not one player 
 in this looks authentic to their real life counter parts. Some of the replays look good with some 
 neat effects but they are usually the 3rd or 4th replay. They should be the 1st.
  
  There are so many flaws and mistakes in the game it's sickening. The commentary makes so many mistakes, 
 like saying you are down by 2 goals when the score is 1-0. Players will lose their helmets about 
 10 times a game, when this rarely happens in real life. On the default settings, there is so much 
 bodychecking it's dizzying. I'm not talking little love taps here, these are full on raging, back 
 breaking hits. A small player like Martin St. Louis can flatten a giant like Zdeno Chara and it 
 really detracts from the realism. I understand that you can change these things with the sliders, 
 but to think that straight out of the box this is what they think hockey is. Sheesh.
  
  Another thing that really makes me mad is (I live in Ottawa) when you play as the Senators it tells 
 you that you are playing at Senators Arena. There is not Senators Arena, it is the Corel Center 
 and has been for many years. Also, the commentators mention that "We are here at Sentors Arena, 
 on the banks of the Rideau Canal." Not that it matters to anyone outside of Ottawa, but the statement 
 is so graphically incorrect. The Rideau Canal is abut a 30 minute drive from the Corel Center. 
 Point is they should no better.
  
  Even after tweaking all of the sliders to my benefit, I still found I was playing a very unsatisfying 
 game of hockey and I really find it hard to believe it scores better than EA's series (this year 
 anyway) . I'm sure that Alex Navarro enjoys hockey, but after reading his review on this game, I 
 can certainly say he doesn't know hockey. Someone who understands the game should know, that 2K6 
 is simply not it.
  
  On a bright note, the crease control is suprisingly addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_manboy
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 4, 2005 7:18 am PT
Review:  I rented NHL 2K6 the other day and It was a total waste of money. I'll admit, the gameplay is decent 
 and the music is good but this is supposed to be next-gen! These graphics look like they're from 
 the N64! I mean, I know 2K games is fairly new at this but come on! The controls are weird and 
 the checking feels just plain weak. Although, I do like the idea of mini-games, I find "Unlockable" 
 things fairly tacky and very last-gen. I wouldn't recommend this game to anyone and I have officially 
 branded this, the Wrestlemania 21 of hockey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExquisiteGamer
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:58 pm PT
Review:  First Off I Can't Believe This Title Was Even Released. I Have Played The Xbox Version And Thought 
 It Was Mediocre At Best, So I Went Out And Spent A 3 Times The Money On This Game Thinking It Was 
 Going To Be Improved... Boy Was I Wrong. Ya, The New Rule Changes Are Here And The Rosters Have 
 Been Updated But Thats It. I Have A 720p HDTV And The Graphics Look Exactly The Same As The Xbox 
 Version And The Gameplay Has Not Changed Either. If You Want A More Detailed Review Your Not Going 
 To Get One Because I Dont Review The Same Game Twice. Overall I Iam Very Disapointed With This 
 Release, The Xbox 360 Is Capable Of A lot More And NHL 2k6 Took The Easy Way Out And Delivered 
 A P**s Poor Product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 12:27 am PT
Review:  NHL 2K6 is definatly A LOT better for the 360 then it is for any other console. They added the 
 updated rosters and the rule changes but the gameplay is still a little dull. I have really never 
 liked the 2K hockeys as I am a huge EA NHL fan. But still I havent really enjoyed either series 
 latly. I think they really need to get some goalies to help them fix the goalies in every hockey 
 game out. Its just to easy to score. I play in the hardest difficualty in every hockey game have 
 line changes on but still win 10-8... I want to see a hockey game where you win or lose 1-0 or 
 2-1.. this game just doesnt provide that. The enforcers are kinda cool in this game but really 
 this game is nothing special... If you want a hockey game for the 360 you really have no other 
 choice then to buy this game but other then that really not "next gen" worthy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newfg311
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:20 am PT
Review:  Despite all the credit that is given to the 2K series of hockey games, none of them have been very 
 good, and this game is just another game that can be added to that list. The graphics are almost 
 identical to those of the regular Xbox title, other than a few flashes during cut scenes. The game 
 flows as if it were an actual hockey game, but the game play is less than is to be desired. The 
 hits don't look real, and goal scoring is incredibly easy. If you are looking for a hockey game 
 but don't like the EA franchise, your better off just waiting till next year. This game is definately 
 not worth $60. 2K needs to rethink what they are doing and try to appeal to people who actually 
 know hockey and play the sport, rather than someone just looking to score 35 goals per game. What 
 a dissapointment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatshott
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun may not have that big jump from regular Xbox to Xbox 360 but game is a blast. 
 Graphics are quite good arenas look excellent; as well do the players and the fluid animation. 
 one glitch I see happen quite allot on my 360 is if you shoot from close in range with the goalie 
 the you will always know if you scored or not because game freezes for a second then next thing 
 you know its always in the net after it un freezes. Happens all the time. Sound is good sounds 
 descent in 7.1. all in all allot of moves to try and learn and game play is smooth awesome party 
 game enjoy it its worth getting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subtizzle
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2005 11:36 am PT
Review:  i got a 360 and 3 games PD0, PGR3 AND THIS GAME NHL2K6.
  
  LET ME TELL YOU THIS GAME IS SOO COOL I PLAYED GOALTENDING MODE THAT IS FREAKIN SWEET THE GRAPHICS 
 ARE SWEET (AND I HAVE SDTV) \ THE WHOLE GAME IS FREAKIN SWEET MUST BUY TO ANY HOCKEY FAN. 
  
  IF ANYBODY HAS THIS XBOX LIVE GET THIS AND SEND ME A FRIEND REQUEST MY GAMERTAG IS SUBTIZZ, THIS 
 IS NOT THE BEST GAME OUT THERE BUT HEY ITS HOCKEY SO GO GET AND START SCORING THEM GOALS
  GIT R DONE 
  I MIGHT HAVE A REVIEW UP FOR PERFECT DARK ZERO
  I MIGHT ALSO HAVE A REVIEW OF 
 PROJECT GOTHAM RACING UP SOON'
  THE XBOX 360 OWNS THE PS3 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
