-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 2K7
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/nhl2k7/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cinemotion brand of presentation is a unique and enjoyable alternative.
 Vastly improved graphics over last year's 360 game.
 The same deep, engaging gameplay the series is known for.
 Lots of available features, both offline and online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Core gameplay has changed little since last year.
 Not much in the way of new features.
 A few ugly holdover animations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 12, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.0, 56 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 821 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Kush Games
Genre: Ice Hockey Sim
Date: Sep 12, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The outstanding gameplay mechanics will be familiar to fans of the series, but NHL 2K7 makes important 
 strides in the realm of presentation with this year's 360 offering. 

  To coincide with the launch of the Xbox 360, 2K Sports published a port of NHL 2K6 for the system 
 in a fairly quick-and-dirty fashion. Sure, it retained the excellent gameplay of the Xbox and PlayStation 
 2 versions that had been released a couple of months prior, but it also retained practically the 
 same visuals and features of its Xbox counterpart, leaving you with a three-times-as-expensive 
 update of a game you probably already bought. Fans can breathe a sigh of relief that with NHL 2K7 
 for the 360, they haven't been dealt another cheap port. 2K7 is a game that seems to have been 
 developed specifically for the 360 hardware, and it revamps the presentation of the game significantly, 
 both on the ice and off. However, while presentation is the name of the game this year, the gameplay 
 is mostly the same as it was last year. That's hardly an indictment, since for the last few years, 
 2K hockey has been the gold standard in this regard, but with so much emphasis on the presentation 
 and with the competition making long leaps forward with its gameplay engine, NHL 2K7 won't offer 
 you too many surprises.  

          2K brand hockey returns to the Xbox 360 in much improved form in NHL 2K7.     

  The 
 biggest, most elaborate change involves the excellent new on-ice presentation system. Titled "cinemotion," 
 this optional feature strips away the normal game-time TV broadcast setup and audio commentary 
 in favor of a more dramatic interpretation. A rousing orchestral score pipes up from the moment 
 the game begins with the coach delivering his opening pep talk to the team. From there, it moves 
 to the ice, changing distinctly in tone depending on what happens. If you're well behind in the 
 game, the tone is more somber. If you're on the comeback, the music kicks in to higher gear. And 
 if you win, you get the sort of happy, inspirational score you'd expect from the end of a good 
 hockey movie.  

  While the music might sound a touch cheesy, it's added subtly enough that it never seems over the 
 top. It's more  Miracle  than  Mighty Ducks  in its tone and delivery. In fact, if anything, it 
 could stand to be a little more in-your-face. The default audio levels for the music are rather 
 quiet, and sometimes it's tough to hear the music over the din of typical on-ice action. It's not 
 a volume issue so much as understated musical sequences. But when it swells up at the key moments, 
 you notice it, and it's an interesting and cool change of pace from the typical TV broadcast. It 
 makes the on-ice cutscenes more entertaining, too. If for some reason you really miss the commentary 
 but don't want to give up the music, you do have the option of turning the commentary back on via 
 the options menu.  

  On top of the cinemotion feature, 2K7 also includes a new default camera angle that might just 
 be the best one ever put into a hockey game. This parametric camera comes down at more of an angle 
 than the typical top-down camera view, and turns and zooms ever so subtly depending on where you 
 are on the ice, and what's happening. It's the sort of thing that casual fans might not even notice 
 or take note of initially, but dedicated players should certainly appreciate this change, since 
 it gets you just that much closer to the action without sacrificing any level of control or visibility. 

  These are all great changes, but from there, the additions begin to get fewer and further between. 
 On the gameplay front, just about every feature from last year's game, including the crease control, 
 icon passing, enforcer, and on-the-fly play-calling systems return once more, and they're all basically 
 the same. The few additions to the gameplay engine include a new drop pass button, and the new 
 pressure control scheme. The drop pass is assigned to the right bumper, and by pressing it, you'll 
 pass the puck back through your legs to a nearby player. With the pressure control system, if you 
 find yourself having particular trouble with on individual opponent, you can order your teammates 
 to pressure them by holding down the left bumper and pressing the right control stick in the direction 
 of that opponent. You can set the level of pressure via taps of the left bumper. A single tap applies 
 light pressure, a double tap applies more physical pressure, and repeatedly tapping sends your 
 players in for a very hard check. You can cycle through opponents easily enough by simply tapping 
 the right stick around while holding the bumper.  

          The new parametric camera angle is excellent, putting you closer to the on-ice action without 
 creating visibility problems.     

  These new controls, much like many of the previously mentioned gameplay control systems from last 
 year's game, aren't exactly amazing by themselves, but when combined with the wealth of other available 
 options, they help make NHL 2K7 one of the smartest games of hockey around, if not the flashiest. 
 The basic gameplay engine hasn't really changed dramatically in the last couple of years, and those 
 familiar with how 2K hockey plays will find yet another game of 2K hockey in this year's offering. 
 Of course it's hard to call that a bad thing, since the depth of play, especially in the defense 
 and core strategies of the game of hockey, is unmatched by any other available hockey title on 
 the market. But when it comes to some of the faster and more exciting aspects of hockey, like scoring, 
 offensive moves, and fighting, little has changed, and these aspects of the game engine are starting 
 to show their age.  

  2K7's feature list is also quite familiar. Party mode returns with a familiar roster of hockey-based 
 minigames; mini rink and pond hockey provide similarly goofy yet enjoyable distractions; and the 
 skybox once again houses all sorts of unlockables, statistics, and other fun things. All the usual 
 in-game skybox challenges are still on hand, though they mostly do not correlate with the game's 
 achievement system. Fortunately, the achievements are a little better this year, and more are available. 
 There are 17 in all, with the five from last year's game appearing once again, as well as several 
 new ones, ranging from scoring a penalty shot on all-star difficulty or higher, to winning 100 
 games. You won't get many of these achievements without working at it, though there are a few fairly 
 easy ones, too.     

  Franchise mode returns with most of the same great features introduced last year, as well as a 
 few small additions. A hard salary cap has been implemented for all teams in the game, though it's 
 not detailed in the ways of the NHL collective bargaining agreement. It is still displayed as a 
 basic budget, and there isn't a realistic contract system in the game with regard to sending players 
 to the minors or letting them go. You can't sign two-way deals, so you can send a player to the 
 minor leagues or cut him outright, without having to put him through waivers.  

          The dramatic musical score of cinemotion might seem kind of crazy at first, but it's quite 
 a bit better than the available commentary.     

  On the plus side, the franchise mode still has an excellent rookie scouting system, a solid free-agency 
 interface, and a minor-league roster to keep track of as the season progresses. Trade logic is 
 still solid, if a bit overly frequent in its offers. Though you get plenty of offers right near 
 the trade deadline, you also get a lot of offers throughout the season, perhaps a few more than 
 is realistic. Injuries occur mostly in a realistic fashion, though you'll sometimes find a proliferation 
 of minor injuries, like broken hands and bruised faces, and they sometimes take overly long to 
 heal.  

  Other additions include a more-emphasized rivalry system that creates statistical bonuses and takeaways 
 depending on how players play in games against their rival teams. We all know how much the NHL 
 loves its rivalries, and with this system, players are physically affected by how they play in 
 rivalry games. Another addition involves messages from the team owner. Along with receiving the 
 typical day-to-day e-mails, you also have an option called "opportunity knocks." Here, you'll get 
 specific bonuses and takeaways for various players based on news delivered to you by the owner 
 via a cell phone call. For instance, if one of your players just got a sponsorship for a new energy 
 drink, his attributes will go up for the next few games. Or, conversely, if one of your players 
 looks ragged and tired, his attributes will go down for a few games. It's sort of random as to 
 which way a call will go, and the only way to avoid bad ones is to not receive the calls at all. 
 Of course, if you do that, you won't get the good ones either, so it's up to you to decide whether 
 it's worth the risk. The bonuses offered are rarely significant enough to make it worthwhile to 
 take time out of your schedule to check the feature.  

  The online-play setup is very much how it has been the last couple of years. Basic competition 
 is available for two to eight players (four to a console) , and you can engage in competitions of 
 varying difficulty levels, with or without the crease control turned on. The party games and minirink 
 modes are also available online. Most importantly, online league play is once again available for 
 tournaments or full seasons and involves anywhere from four to 30 teams. The options for leagues 
 haven't changed much, though with so many options available for scheduling and stat tracking via 
 the 2K Sports Web site, it's hard to complain, considering there's still nothing else like it available 
 in other hockey games for consoles. But it would be nice if in the future some little features 
 could be included, like fantasy drafts, free-agent pools, and the like. As far as how the online 
 modes play, our experiences playing the game online yielded little to no lag.  

  NHL 2K7 is a big step up graphically from its previous appearance on the Xbox 360. Whereas last 
 year's game was basically an Xbox game with a couple of bells and whistles, 2K7 looks like a 360 
 sports game. The player models are a big improvement, with great-looking faces, body builds, and 
 jerseys. Animations have also improved, with the skating engine in particular looking fantastic. 
 The flow of the players on the ice is much better than ever before, and they move with more realistic 
 momentum. There are some holdover animations, like dekeing and checking, that could stand a similar 
 revamp, but they still look good. However, there are also some clunky looking animations, specifically 
 some transitional animations that appear missing at times. Players will sometimes go from being 
 doubled over to raising their arms cheering with no transitional movement in-between. Sometimes 
 they'll go from standing prone to practically upside down instantaneously when checked. These aren't 
 frequent issues, but they're noticeable. If you've got an HDTV, you'll certainly get the best of 
 the graphical experience, but even on an SDTV, you'll notice the improvements to the game's visuals. 

          You can now put pressure on individual opponent players, but beyond that and a quick drop 
 pass move, this game plays an awful lot like last year.     

  Apart from the cinemotion music, NHL 2K7 goes through a lot of the same audio motions as previous 
 games. Bob Cole and Harry Neale are on hand again for commentary duty, and functionally, it seems 
 like much the same commentary as in last year's game. It's sometimes informative, but it mostly 
 serves as background fodder. The on-ice effects, however, sound excellent, especially the on-ice 
 dialogue by the players and coaches, shouting to you and other players on the ice as the game goes. 
 The game's indie-rock-heavy soundtrack is better than the average indie-rock-heavy soundtrack, 
 if only by a small margin. It consists exclusively of bands from the Sub Pop record label and has 
 songs by The Postal Service, Mudhoney, Hot Hot Heat, Band of Horses, Sealter-Kinney, and more. 
 It's unusual to hear something like Band of Horses or The Postal Service in a hockey game, but 
 you could do worse.  

  For what it's worth, as much as you could argue that 2K7 hasn't leaped forward from a gameplay 
 standpoint since last year's release, there are a number of smaller, clever changes that add to 
 what is already an incredibly deep package, and the new cinemotion feature gives a cool, new alternative 
 to how sports games have played out over the last several years. When you consider how unimpressive 
 the series' debut was on the 360 last year, 2K7 is leaps and bounds above what that game offered. 
 It's familiar hockey, but it's great hockey, and whether you're a longtime fan or new to the series, 
 it's absolutely worth checking out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (50 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: IAMSHAWN
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  2 words. goalie mode. I'v played the ea hockey games as well as the 2k hockey games. EA's on the 
 360 are far better in pretty much every way. the skill stick definitely. I'm gettin nhl 09. not 
 2k. However, Goalie mode is AWESOME. Im not sure why but thats the mode I always wanna play and 
 This game pulls it off unlike any other. Its ridiculous. Buuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuut. if u ever want to 
 play another mode, ul be dissapointed in the game. And after all the talk I heard about the skills 
 competition.... THERE IS NONE! that pissed me off. Especially considering u get to pick cinemotion 
 song options for skills competition games. AND THEY DONT HAVE THEM! so if u ever play this game 
 DO NOT spend 2 full hours searching for a mode that doesnt exist! Its a good thing the goalie mode 
 is so awesome. I'm the Best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  NHL 2k7 is a great game to play. it is a very realistic hockey simulation. the skill stick is really 
 fun to use. the game play is fast paced and really spectacular fun. the final scores are very realistic 
 to that of real NHL scores. its a great challenge on the harder difficulties. the graphics are 
 very good and the game play flows quite nicely. the sound in the game is great aswell. everyting 
 sounds just right. bob coles and harry neal's commentary is great and adds to the overall enjoyment 
 of this great game. the controlls are top notch and the replay value for this game is endless to 
 say the least.
  i give 7.5 out of 10 for the game play. very good game play. 7.5 out of 10 for the graphics. really 
 good graphics. 8 out of 10 for the sound. the sound effects are great, the commentary is awesome, 
 and the music suits a hockey game quite nicely. 8 out of 10 for value and replay value. this game 
 has great replay value. 9 out of 10 for the tilt. the controlls are as i said top notch. so overall 
 i give this great game a 8 out of 10. simply a fun game to play. one of the best hockey games out 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmokehtheFirst
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Although it might seem like nothing special at first, 2K's take on the genre will grow on you the 
 more you play and become one of the most addicting hockey games ever released (and I've played 
 a good load of them) .
  
  You'll want to start playing right away with the "Quick Game" mode, which takes you directly to 
 the ice with a team of your choice, against a team of your choice. The gameplay in this mode is 
 completely malleable, from the speed that players skate, to the period length, to the frequency 
 of fights. Your first game will be clumsy and seem long, but hang in there for a few more games 
 to not only develop your skills, but decide how you play the game and which settings you prefer. 
 Any settings you change in-game can be saved for quick selection in a later game to avoid going 
 through the whole process again.
  
  The games themselves will seem overly complex at first; and to be honest, they are. The main flaw 
 I found in this game is the controls are too complex, and you'll find yourself button-mashing at 
 times to try and replicate a fancy move you did earlier, but have no idea how. Scoring will be 
 the most frustrating thing to you right when you start, so turn down the difficulty until you get 
 comfortable with scoring, and gradually adjust it to your level. Besides the scoring and goal mechanism, 
 control is simple: you tilt the control stick in the direction you want to skate, pass, or shoot. 
 Three of the face buttons can be used for shooting. Holding down X and releasing will deliver a 
 slapshot. The A button will pass the puck to your teammates. However, I have no idea what the Y 
 button does. I want to saw it dumps the puck, but I have scored using Y a number of times. It seems 
 to lift the puck up and let it float through the air in an odd way, which I'll just call floating 
 for lack of a technical term.
  
  Once you've familiarized yourself with how games are played, you can then move on to check out 
 the full scale of the game. 2K7 is perhaps the most deep hockey game out there; all rosters are 
 fully customizable, all settings can be changed, there are several different game modes, and much, 
 much more. One of the most enjoyable features was that you can create your own team. You can even 
 create your own player, customizing their number, name, size, physical appearance, stats, and just 
 about anything you can think of. Although right now you'll be wanting to create a team full of 
 your own players, it is a somewhat long process, and I doubt many people have the patience required 
 for it. You can also customize your coach, arena, goalie, and various other mechanics. Another 
 feature that I wouldn't play another NHL game without is that the names you select for your created 
 players (so long as they're in a certain range of commonness) are all recorded in-game, so commentators 
 often use the names you choose for you players.
  
  Starting a Franchise mode is where the addiction will kick in. Franchise is the career mode of 
 2K7, and will present you with so many choices, it'll melt your brain into a gooey stew of amazement. 
 The deepness of Franchise is enough to keep you from playing a game for long periods of time, while 
 you're busy making trades, adjusting salaries, and scouting free agents. Playing a franchise with 
 a created team (and doing well) generates an extremely rewarding feeling, one that you'll keep 
 playing to experience again.
  
  Although only half of the game has been discussed in this review, it's already clear that NHL 2K7 
 is one of the best, if not the best, hockey games out there, and 2K has succeeded in making a goal 
 with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aldo_nova
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is good , but it could be better by the commentators saying different things than in 
 NHL 2K6. rosters could use a bit of work , goals r scored way to easily but hey its a good game, 
 great on the fly coaching BUT it is confusing to use. the international teams are a little goofed 
 up in the overall part. I don't like to knock games but this game could be alot better. And some 
 of the better teams arent as good and the bad teams are equal to the good teams. ANYWAY the game 
 is good if you could get it for under 10 bucks like I did GET IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjf_80
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  The past few years, 2K has had lots of trouble getting their act together when it comes to the 
 NHL2K-series. But this year around they made big steps forward, not babysteps like EA does.
  
  First, the graphics: Well, to be honest, the graphical detail per say is not top notch, and 
 I know 360 can crank more juice than that. But, however, players move on ice just like their real 
 life counterparts. If 2K only lifted the graphics level just a bit, it would compete with EA's 
 looks-god-but-plays-bad so called hockey game. Score? - just an 8 this time around..
  
  Sound: Music in the game is acceptable this time, and it doesn't get on my nerves as easy as the 
 one they shoved in 2K6. And putting in your own created playlist is a blast, if you get it to work 
 that is... Thanks to Microsofts spring update, they playlist decides to put a tombstone over itself 
 and claim itself dead - simply put, it stops working (way to go M$..) If you want to play your 
 own songs in the game - don't download the update!
  
  Don't let this info get you down, sounds in general, like the new broadcast style, are amazing. 
 State of the art, if you ask me. Commentary though, is a bit lifeless, and you get the feel that 
 there is a couple of rookie NHL players in the booth making the feed seem out of play . But anyways, 
 score? - 9 right there.
  
  Gameplay: This is where the fun begins! Since 2K has always included sliders to let you tweak the 
 gameplay any way you want, you truly want to get a head of yourself as you grab the control and 
 get on the ice. The gameplay from 2K6 is here, and more than just that, its very much advanced.
 
  Players move so realistically, that the chill starts to run down your spine. Is it a game or real 
 hockey, comes to mind. Score - nothing less than 10!
  
  Totally:
  This game is awesome. It goes well past NHL07 in gameplay and playability. The controls are perfect. 
 It feels like real hockey, just like a simulator should. Nothing like insane arcade scoring fest 
 where games end 15-20 more or less, like they do in EA's hockey games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjordan66
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Nhl 2k7 is good but when I played nhl 07 I couldn't believe my eyes how much nhl 07 is better than 
 nhl 2k7. Nhl 2k7 is good but the gameplay is to slow the passing and how small the players are. 
 I stopped playing it for so long instead i played nhl 07 when i came back to play it for fun I 
 was so suprised the i realised the flaws of nhl2k7 im not saying nhl2k7 is not good its good but 
 nhl 07 is better you can see the flaws in nhl 2k7 so easy and nhl 07 is better in everything exept 
 for crease control for nhl 2k7. So you can get this game or nhl 07 doesn't matter both are good 
 but nhl 07 is much better than nhl 2k7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjordan1
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  this game is bad. the ai is really bad and the goals are fake like sometimes the puck goes through 
 the netting which or the puck can go through the goalies body part like pads gloves and etc. this 
 game is not realisitc at all! the graphics arnt so great. the season and dynasty are like the same 
 thing and there boring. this game has a lot of bugs like when the puck is stuck some where the 
 puck just flickers up into the air out of no where then you have to do a face off. i recommend 
 not to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bxferrarif50
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 21, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I have played both NHL 2K7 and, NHL 07. As much as I enjoyed playing NHL 2K7, I enjoyed NHL 07 
 more. Let me explain.......
  
  First of all, I am not a big hockey fan. I do know about the sport but, had little knowledge on 
 how to play it. So, I decided to experience a new challenge. I decided to buy NHL 2K7. Why not 
 NHL 07? Because at that time, NHL 2K7 was cheaper. So, I went with the cheaper one.
  
  Immediately, I was impressed on the presentation. It seems to be the biggest emphasis of the game. 
 The graphics and game play, are very good. As I played the whole season, one thing I did notice, 
 was how much I dominated the game; not on rookie level, with ease. Anyway, my brother knowing that 
 I finished and got rid of the game, stressed for me to try NHL 07. I did not have in mind of buying 
 it until the fall. But, the game became cheaper; Best Buy-$19.99, so I decided to buy it now.
 
  
  Immediately, I noticed that the presentation was not as good as NHL 2K7. However, the graphics 
 was just as good. And, here's the difference, the famous stick.
  
  I have read many reviews on both games. Many, unfairly to both games and in my opinion, because 
 the individual reviewer either liked 2K games or, EA. Me? I like 2K games more. But, in this case, 
 EA much more.
  
  Back to the stick.... it makes you feel like you're playing an actual game. Also, there are no speed 
 burst in the game; not that I know of, so the speed of the player is what it is; unlike the 2K7 
 which has it-I believe the one of the back buttons.
  
  I have found that playing the 07 game, it offers a more true game feel of the sport. So, I guess 
 it is up to you. If you are making a decision based upon brand, then the choice is obvious. If 
 you want a game with a little more challenge and more of a feel of the sport, then the EA is the 
 choice. Either way, both games are good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshS24
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 14, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I've had a fun time with this game. The graphics are pretty good, sound is spot on. The franchise 
 mode is pretty deep, but not over whelming. Game play is very good. Its a lot of fun, a game you 
 can play for hours with friends in tournament mode. The models are good, except the faces,. They 
 have that dead look to them. Scouting is kind of difficult, but the skills challenges are a great 
 addition to the game. My favorite was the shot accuracy. I would recommend this to any hockey fan 
 who is looking for a much better alternative to EA's. Its cheaper and more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorch799
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 23, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  2K Sports released 2007's version of NHL 2K in the second year of the 360 and the PS3's inaugural 
 year, and they created a pretty good game. NHL 2K7 features the same control layout as the previous 
 years with only a few new introductions designed to make gameplay both simple enough for new players 
 and advanced enough for those with experience. The game is fun both online and offline, and like 
 any other sports game features the ability to play through a whole season as one's favorite team.
 
  The graphics have improved from last year, although there is slowdown at points in the game, and 
 everynow and then the game does lock up on you, which can be annoying. The players talk, the fans 
 chant, and locker room discussions are seen in between periods.
  The only real problem with this game is inconsistent online play. Far too many games come down 
 to a matter of the CPU controlled goalie being able to stop shots. One can literally out shoot 
 and opponent by more than 15 shots and get blown out because of a horrible goalie. Yes that happens 
 in real life, but its annoying to lose a game because of that. The online play can still be amazingly 
 fun though, with leagues and ranks to experience. Overall, NHL 2K7 is still an amazing hockey experience 
 that anyone can enjoy, whether they're an NHL fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostAdvenger
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  Yep, 2K7 has outdone EA again.
  
  The improves:
  -The new camera angle is very impressive. It makes me want to hang from the ceiling of the next 
 hockey game I go to.
  -Good models. The players are getting better at not moving through one another. And they look pretty, 
 too. However, I was disappointed that Colby Armstrong's model didn't have a huge nose. Oh well.
 
  -Goalie control is still a hoot.
  -Franchise mode is enjoyable.
  -Achievements are at the right difficulty.
  
  The sustains:
  -Battle mode. I never actually 
 played this with anyone. I don't think any ever did, actually, but it's still there, and one day 
 it may save the world.
  -Unlockables are okay. Less rinks, however. What happened to Big Head Mode?
  
  The dives:
 
  -New in game features are cool, but are starting to get unnecessary. Personally, I never see myself 
 usinig the new pressure thingy. -Cobly Armstrong has a normal sized nose.
  
  Why I didn't give this game a 9.9:
  -IT FREEZES!!! Probably the funnest hockey (video) game that 
 you can play, but the sudden freezes will leave you ripping your hair out. Don't get me wrong, 
 it doesn't happen always, but your bound to get one every five or six games at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRIPPL312
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 29, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion this is the best hockey game out, but i can see why others could disagree. The game 
 is a phenom when it comes pick up and play fun and depth in player/team chemistry. The controls 
 are simple and not very hard to understand. There are different control configurations for advanced 
 control but i found it isnt really all that necessary. Sound in the game is just as good as any 
 (crowd reaction and on-ice activity) . Players, arenas, and crowd dont appear to be up to snuff 
 comparedn to NHL 07. That being the only real let down. The menu screen and cut scenes should have 
 been given a make over this time around but that doesnt pull away from the fun and easy gameplay 
 of NHL 2K7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit this is the first hockey game I've played since the early 1990s. I finally decided it 
 was time to give the next-gen console a try in the rink. I wasn't disappointed. NHL 2K7 is just 
 plain fun and addictive. I'm not one of those players that needs to build a franchise and control 
 every aspect of every player and deal with trades and line-ups and stats; I understand this is 
 a huge part of the fan base, but for me, I just want to play a game of hockey. With Gamespots score 
 of 8.3, I figured this was high enough to merit a try.
  I won't even bother reviewing all the in-depth behind-the-scenes action that you can do when you're 
 not going for goals. I'm sure the coaching and franchise modes have their ups and downs, so if 
 you're interested in how that layer of NHL 2K7 plays out, this is the wrong review for you. If 
 you want to know how well the play on the ice is, read on.
  I put this in my 360 and played a quick game to get used to the controls and found that it was 
 very intuitive. I was skating and controling the puck well enough to score within five or ten minutes. 
 Thumbing through the booklet, i discovered a dozen or so more moves a player can do both while 
 on offensive or defense, and it really added a lot to the game play. The new feeatures work great; 
 it's a thrill to send your team mates over to an opponent to give him a litle enforcement. I've 
 read some reviews where gamers are complaining about graphics, but I don't see it. Granted, i own 
 a 32 LCD flat-panel high-def TV with 5.1 surround sound, and when the game is in play mode, it's 
 simply jaw-dropping. I turned off all the names and other on-screen intell and cranked up all the 
 audio options and it felt like I was watching a real game. No joke. Yes, when the cameras zooms 
 in on players up close, a lot is lost, though not nearly as bad as some are suggesting. These guys 
 sweat, and breath heavy and when they are on the ice, they move like real athletes. And yes, most 
 of the off ice animation is weak, including close-ups of the crowd, but once the game is play, 
 the presentation is silky smooth and some of the best the 360 has to offer in sports titles. I'll 
 agree that the there is a lot of emphasis on the same old tried and true one-hit as the best way 
 to score, but that's only if you don't want to try and be creative and set up a play. Sure, it's 
 more difficult, but if you look carefully at all the nuances over player control that is avaiilable, 
 there is a lot of opportunity for diversity. Think of it a Ninja Gaiden on Ice. Timing and button 
 sequences make a huge difference. And that's pretty cool.
  If you want a very high quality pick up and play game of hockey, you can't go wrong. For those 
 seeking to spend more time off the ice, coaching, trading, and reading fan email, I really can't 
 help you. Sports games have become so focused on the almost RPG elements of running a team, I think 
 a lot of gamers are missing out on what really makes sports games fun: playing the game. There 
 is a lot to do out on the ice in NHL 2K7, and if you have the system, it'll look and sound sweet 
 as hell. If you love hockey and just want to run up the score on a lousy team, this is your game. 
 If you want to play a season and skip all the hassle of building a dyansty, this does that too. 
 Just have fun. It's what games are about. That and knocking a dude on his arse just before you 
 flip the puck into the net. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknferno12
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  If you haven't heard NHL 2K7 is a lot like 2K6 with a few added features. The Cinemotion is ok 
 but the commentary is more important for a sports sim, the drop pass really adds to the sim which 
 will allow you to create a lot more plays, the new skating engine is good even though there was 
 nothing wrong with it last year but improving is never a bad thing. I expected something new from 
 the commentary i know they added the Cinemotion but nothing has changed from the commentary same 
 old lines. The graphics are fine 2K games are not know for their graphics and it isn't as bad as 
 people make it seem. The A. I. seems to be a lot smart now they will try to stuff the puck, block 
 your options by putting their stick on the ice, they will now use wrap arounds a lot more. The 
 only thing i didn't like was from the gameplay was the dekes because there is no real way to deke 
 out a goalie so this is something that need to be added for the next game at least. The create 
 a player is still in (you can't take teeth out now) but everything you need and want is here. Overall 
 the gameplay is still solid so you can't go wrong by buying NHL2K7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanepyro6
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 3, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  If you don't have a Hockey game, Buy this game!. If you DO have a hockey game, BUY IT ANYWAY. I 
 would go as far as saying this is the best sports game I've ever played. The camera angle stays 
 the same, so you don't have any crazy shifts that make your head spin. If you don't Likey, CHANGE 
 IT! It gives you the option. Don't like the music? (It's only decent) , then mute ur TV until you 
 are in a game. You just can't complain. Now to the actual game. It's cool how real they make the 
 rivalry games. It's a more excited crowd, the fights are more frequent, and not to mention, the 
 camera angles ROCK! I love everything about the game. Nothing to critisize, except the commentators 
 are the same. THATS IT =)
  
  Get the game... now... (unless ur waiting for 2K8) lol it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 29, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  The one-timer. In real life hockey it really isn't used a lot, but when it works it's very effective. 
 In the world of videogame hockey, it has become a HUGE weapon over the years. And while EA actually 
 came up with a slick innovation (I am as shocked as anyone to utter those words) to change the 
 way you score goals, 2K Sports decided that it will stick with the status quo. This results on 
 this game relying WAY too heavily on the one-timer to score. Because of this, and a few other reasons, 
 NHL 2K7 feels like a game made 4-5 years ago with updated 'next-gen' graphics.
  
  Nothing about NHL 2K7 stands out to make you feel like you are playing a 'next-gen' game other 
 than the nice on ice visuals. And even those aren't incredibly impressive either. The menus are 
 all pretty standard and nothing you haven't seen before. This is actually a good thing, considering 
 what EA decided to do with their menus of their sports titles this year. Awful. Anyways, the sound 
 is even pretty lame. The selection of music here is pretty lousy even for a fan of the genre they 
 were aiming at, like myself. The commentary while playing the game itself is terrible. They repeat 
 WAY too many lines and so almost zero emotion in what is happening on the ice.
  
  The graphics themselves aren't terribly impressive, but they are a definate step up from last year. 
 Of course, that's not saying much. The player models look nice, but some of the faces look nothing 
 like their real-life counterparts. I was very impressed on how good the ice looked, however. The 
 players all move around and animate very nicely. There is a standard, but deep franchise mode. 
 Again, it's nothing that will blow you away with something that you haven't seen before. Yes, the 
 Skybox make another appearance. While it's fun to unlock classic teams &amp; jereys, like most 
 of the rest of the game, this could use some upgrading. The online play is rock-solid with a nice 
 set of features like online league play, etc. And the game is fun to play for awhile as it really 
 doesn't do anything wrong on the ice. The goalies are pretty tough to beat (if you don't use the 
 one-time trick) and the defense plays a lot better than in EA's games.
  
  What I wrote in the two paragraphs above is nice, of course. The problem is most of that stuff 
 I have seen in hockey games for years now. NHL 2K7 is a fun, but functional hockey game that relies 
 on the one-timer to score. Even the new 'Cinemotion' presentation feature is a pointless feature 
 that I didn't even use after a few games. If you are a videogame hockey fan, it's a pretty tough 
 year. EA's game added a nice 'skill-stick' feature, but skimped out on the features and gameplay 
 modes. NHL 2K7 has tons of features and even more gameplay modes (pond hockey, anyone?) , improved 
 visuals, the best online hockey in the biz, and is a fun game to play. Out of the two, I would 
 rather have NHL 2K7. The real test will be next year when EA gets another year under it's belt. 
 2K Sports needs to really re-evaluate their hockey franchise and try to do SOMETHING that will 
 make their game not feel like NHL 2K3 with updated graphics. Until then, we are left with a fun 
 and functional hockey game at a nice price ($30) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burger_boy_9
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 23, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  NHL 2K7 allows you to do somethings which previous games in the 2K hockey series wouldn't allow 
 you to. The graphics in 2K7 are greatly improved from previous NHL hockey ganhs. In this game you 
 get a variety of game choices. Some of these options are, Playing a season in the NHL, a quick 
 game, the classic shoot-out, and even a simple tournament. Although the game sometimes glitches 
 out but very seldomly. In the 360 version of the game there aren't and noticable glitches. The 
 gameplay in 2K7 is very similar to all of the previous NHL games, but it's still very fun.
  The only thing bad is that very reason... The NHL gameplay almost never changes. The graphics are 
 improved which was a really needed improvment, and the sound is very realistic just like an actual 
 NHL game.
  The learning curve is very fast because you don't unlock any new skills or wepons and it's very 
 addicting. This game is definately worth the time and money! Overall it's kind of good and bad. (mostly 
 good) Any hockey fan should definately check this game out. This game is greater on the 360 rather 
 than the PS2 but, for $15 the PS2 version is a bargain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreamtale666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 21, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  Now i have always loved ice hockey games, EA sports used to be my own personal persuasion but since 
 the release of 2k6 and now 2k7 im hooked on 2k's brilliant styling, let me say if you like ice 
 hockey buy NHL 07 if you LOVE ice hockey buy 2K7, this game it quite simply amazing, from the new 
 cinemothion option which adds a dramatic musical score over your game insteaad of commentating 
 (it does get tedious right?) to all the old favourites that fans will recognise. season mode is 
 superb and the mini games are a nice touch too and despite what people say this game is greatly 
 superior to 2k6 in every aspect, the new camera angle is fantastic, the graphics are 100% better, 
 the sound is more authentic with your coach yelling out orders from the bench and even the gameplay 
 has been re-vamped.
  
  Gameplay 10/10 - I can honestly find no grievences with this even with the game setting on rookie 
 it can still be a challenge to slide one past the goaltender but on the flip side goals will come 
 to those who work for it. excellent... fullstop.
  
  Graphics 9/10 - Ice looks nice and gets scuffed up as you go, players now drip with sweat which 
 is a small touch, but a beautiful one, players look like who they're supposed to be, what more 
 can you want?, unfortunatly we still have arms, legs and sticks venturing through players but shhhh!
 
  
  Sound 9/10 - Fans cheer the homeside on breakways, away sides get booed alot, as mentioned your 
 coach will yell out tactics from the bench and even players will interact with each other... erm... verbally
 
  
  Value 9/10 - Season mode is long and can get tedious, but there are plenty of things to distract 
 you from season no and again and hey its selling for about &pound;19.99 new now so go buy! :D
 
  
  Tilt: 10/10 - Best hockey game around, what more do you what me to say.
  
  As i said if you like hockey and care more about graphics you probably should buy NHL 07 if you 
 want a real hockey game buy this, plain and simple, 2K has knocked EA off its perch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carterhc
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  i am a hockey fanatic being from up north =) . first i had this game on my PS2 but finally decided 
 to go up to the big leagues. This is an excellent game with probably the best hockey engine out 
 there. it hasnt progressed since probably 2k5 but the needed steps are there.
  
  gameplay 8/10
  this is probably the best engine for hockey gameplay. the players move as they 
 would in a real situation. The problems mostly stands with the checking. There seems to be alot 
 of checking that really makes the game feel like a bashing game. the strategies though move really 
 nice as the AI seems to actually set up and know what you want them to do. goalie feature is nice 
 but added only mininum excitement in
  
  controls 8/10
  the controls are the same as usual with 3 modes to choose from. the addition of the right thumbstick 
 as a deke move while holding LT was a good figure, but not truly up to par as the other game. The 
 buttons seemed to lack in reaction time as well, as it was about half a second slow in what you 
 wanted them to do.
  
  graphics 7/10
  this is probably the weakess part of the game as it doesnt seem to be up to par with being a next 
 gen system. The graphics are the big improvment to the PS2/xbox counterparts, but they just seem 
 smoothed out not improved. The ice in the rink it probably the best ice in any hockey game however.
 
  
  storyline 7/10
  playing a franchise mode really shows the detal this game carries, its probably one of the best 
 features as a full season or more doesnt feel too long, but if your struggling it can add the white 
 hairs, it does give you a good feel into what being a GM is all about.
  
  worst feature
  slow response time on buttons and graphics needed the next gen push
  
  best feature
  game 
 engine is the best with intelligent AI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoSox09
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 6, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I love Hockey and so I decided to pick up a hockey game for my Xbox 360. Immediately I bought NHL 
 2K7 because I always loved 2K hockey games. Right when I popped it into my 360 I was amazed at 
 the gameplay and graphics. This game has really good ice effects. I also love the crease control 
 mode, NHL 07 is a good game but NHL 2K7 slightly beats it having crease control in it. It makes 
 you fell more into the game, NHL 2K7 is more realistic and a great Hockey sim that should not be 
 missed. It also has MINI GAMES!
  
  
  Pros: Crease Control, Gameplay, Graphics, Mini games, Crowd effects on the hockey game.
  
  
 Cons: Commentary is not really good and whats up with the cheesy orchestra music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taximan56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 12:44 am PT
Review:  I am an avid hockey player on game consoles and over the past few seasons and I buy the top two 
 rated hockey games available for each year and i play them both for nearly 50 hours each and then 
 i stay with the one that i have the most fun with, my trend goes as follows:
  2001 - NHL 2001
  2002 - NHL 2002
  2003 - NHL 2003
  2004 - NHL 2004
  2005 - NHL 2k5
  2006 
 - NHL 2k6
  2007 - NHL 2k7 Now, after reading this pattern, you would infer the obvious trend of a decline 
 in my favoritism of the EA sports brand hockey game. EA sports recently introduced controls in 
 which you could totally control your players movements (whoop-dee-friggin-doo) , what i found was 
 a very lacklustre effort in game speed even when adjusted to 100%, with a slow game tempo and a 
 very edgy style of game that involves a poorly developed A. I system with player placement and the 
 player movements are choppy in all aspects, i DO however give kudos to EA for spending time on 
 the graphics component of the game, the character models were excellent as well as the environment 
 and it made me indeed feel i was amidst the crowd in whatever hockey arena i was playing in. In 
 2005 i was introduced to the 2k sports brand, a brand that i has left an impression of success 
 in the console sports world in my mind, and for the past 3 years it has put out an amazingly solid 
 effort to make the game better every year i have purchased it. The very uptempo style of play, 
 from the bone-rattling hits to the amazing goals i have scored makes me wanna stop writing this 
 and go play it. Flaws? well there is one minor thing about the game, about a split second before 
 each period ends u can visibly notice the game freeze before the buzzer sounds, it has not affected 
 me in anyway so far. Otherwise, it's a completely smooth and well rounded game. The online component 
 of the game is definately one of the best for a sports game. If you don't own NHL 2k7 GO BUY IT 
 NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  in  2k7 &gt; NHL 2007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trifecta2k
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  I've played both NHL 07 and NHL2K7 and I think this year NHL 07 is definitely better. The one thing 
 that I really like about 2K is that the action is fast and fun. Plus the mini games and the online 
 experience is way better than 07. However, the dekes that you can perform with the right stick 
 are simply lame. The cinemotion is neat, but ultimately you want some play by play or you just 
 get bored. The play-by-play is horrible. They seem so disjointed from the game. The sound for the 
 most part is nice. I really like the sound of the ice and players fly by but I'm not a huge fan 
 of the player chatter. SOMEONE PLEASE TELL GAME MANUFACTURERS THAT PLAYER CHATTER IS LAME!!! If 
 you want to make player chatter, use real voices and make sure it sounds like something that the 
 players would say. Throw in some emotion and some swearing. The crease control is fun for a while, 
 but for some reason the animation looks and feels slow during that mode. I know they slow it down 
 to give you an opp to save the puck, but its more than just that. Overall, this is still a pretty 
 good Hockey game, but nothing special! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CassiusVII
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I always did like NHL 2k better then any EA game. EA upset me with the new controls and I finally 
 got a hold of NHL 2k7. This game is way more realistic then 07. The only change in 07 was the right 
 stick. Can you say Goalie control 2k?
  Gameplay - Superb! This games gameplay is amazing and realistic. Changing your lines becomes essential 
 because your guys actually get tired. You can score from the Blue line :O ... yes its true... just 
 like in real life you can score from somewhere besides right in front of the net. So 07 have you 
 ever scored from the blueline? Well.... I can deyke! :P Graphics - At first I didnt see it... then 
 i really started to play the game and relized the little things. You can see your reflection on 
 the ice. The fans are actually fans. The ice is white! :P
  Sound- The new sound is amazing. It adjusts to how you are doing in the game... If you dont like 
 hereing that then you can always change it to the saved music you have on your xbox.
  Value- Superb... this game I will play until the day before the next installment. Only 50$ USD 
 already. This game is worth it and that about sums it up.
  I love hockey and I play hockey... I really didnt think this game deserved less then a 9. As you 
 can also see I have played this for more then 20 hours just SO THAT YOU KNOW THAT I PLAYED THIS 
 GAME BEFORE YOU JUDGE MY BAD JUDGEMENT and if you think I have bad judgement.... i mean seriously 
 who likes 2k anyways. 9.3 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  I rented this, because I had been hearing good things about the hockey games this year. Since I 
 hate EA, I obviously went with 2k.
  The gameplay, well this year this game came with many styles of gameplay. You can play the version 
 that makes it seem like a very tense ending to a hockey movie, or you can play the traditional 
 broadcast style. Both are done very well. You also get a party mode, mini games, and of course X-Box 
 Live. You get top notch play for your dollar.
  The graphics are very good. Reflections off of glass and helmets, the collisions, and the stadiums.
 
  The soundtrack is so so, but the in game sound is exceptional. You can actually hear the hockey 
 sticks hit each other when you try to steal it, the crowd is very into it, and you can hear the 
 puck hit anything from the goalie's pads to the poles of the goal.
  If you're a fan of hockey, then I think you shouldget this game. If you're a diehard EA fan this 
 review isn'tgoing to change your mind, but do yourself a favor and at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creeper6
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Back with the rival next generation hockey title is NHL 2K7, Where do I start? This game has it 
 all. From the deep franchise mode to the old timer commentator's Bob Cole and Harry Neale. One 
 thing I noticed about the game is it is the opposite of of EA's NHL 07. There pretty much isnt 
 a Skill Stick persay. Instead your stuck with the old fashioned arcade style with some pretty cool 
 new features. One of the new features is the all new crease control. In this mode, While a player 
 is on the breakaway you can zoom in on the goalie and go into Puck Time and pick the target that 
 pops up and press A to save the puck from going in the net.
  
  The Graphics in this game are superb as well. There faces at times I notice do look abit.... off. 
 The sound is incredible, You can hear the puck slap off the hockey stick and bounce off the goalies 
 pad. You can also hear the coach yell actions like THREE ON TWO while closing in on the goalie. 
 Final Verdict:
  
  Worth Every Penny, If you are a hockey fan.. GET IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: standarddamage
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 21, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  When you go to the store and purchase any game, there is always one thing you should expect from 
 the experience: You should be able to play the game.
  
  Unfortunately, that is not the case with this particular title. Many XBox 360 owners have discovered 
 the frustrations of the constant lock-ups that happen as you try to play the game.
  
  This is real shame, as the game has so much potential. While the graphics aren't stellar, the animations 
 are incredibly fluid, and more than make up for the lack of glossy graphics. The worst downfall 
 is that every coach looks the same, just with different hair colors and eye colors.
  
  2K7 has an outstanding camera angle that is probably the best one ever put into a hockey game. 
 It keeps you closer to the action without missing where your teammates are located. Sound in the 
 game (especially on a surround-sound system with a decent sub woofer) is very good. You can hear 
 everything with crystal clarity from the roar of the crowd to the skates sliding across the ice 
 to the slap-shots. The commentators are really lackluster, but you can shut them off. They even 
 offer a new mode where the music will escalate and decline with the action.
  
  The controls are highly complex, which is incredible for advanced players but very hard on first-timers. 
 That's okay, however, because you can adjust the difficulty accordingly to play at your speed until 
 you familiarize yourself with the game. Then you can go at full force.
  
  Gameplay is incredibly rich with several different modes from Season to Franchise . You can trade 
 players, change lines, and adjust difficulty sliders for just about every variable you can think 
 of, or you can simply leave them at factory settings if you'd rather no have to play around. With 
 all this potential, the one area where 2k fell short was in the quality control department. Much 
 like the ill-fated MLB2K6, also developed by Kush Games, the game constantly freezes for no apparent 
 reason, the referee drops the puck and neither team is there for the face-off, and sometimes you 
 lose your entire offensive line.
  
  2k's customer service just makes things worse. When you call them, they simply blame the 360 for 
 the issue, and tell you to call Microsoft or send your system back. A really bad problem becomes 
 even worse when your other games start to lock up, and you then have to remove all of the NHL2K7 
 save files from your hard drive.
  
  A great game should not have fought with this much. As a result, I ended up returning my copy of 
 2K7 for EA's NHL07 (which plays just fine, by the way) .
  
  In short, rent this game for the 360 before buying the game and test it out. You may find this 
 one has more technical glitches than you can handle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobo2k3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 10, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Great controls, the new camera system is superb, and this is the closest thing I have ever felt 
 to the real thing. EA games look good... but the 2k series is the only one for serious hockey fans.
 
  
  This game is a fantastic addition to any sports fans' library. The things i wish were better were 
 the fighting controls, the commentary (i miss gary thorne) and the save system. currently i have 
 to go to two or three menus to save profiles, seasons, etc.
  
  But this game has made my month, and nitpicks aside, handles and controls better than any hockey 
 game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p8tball99nyr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 7, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Ok first if you are reading this on deciding on ea or 2k for a hockey game. Let me tell you this, 
 that i both both and i touched my ea game once. Once i played the ea game with the glitch across 
 the ice with the puck flying across. I played 2k sports for the rest of the time and i am loving 
 it.
  
  2k sports in my mind has always been better then ea. Even the football. Does everyone rember thoes 
 20 dollar football games. I do and they were great. This hockey game is awsome. I watch a hockey 
 game every night. I own nhl center ice. so u can call me a hockey nut. This game makes me feel 
 like i was playing the sport in my room. Its hard, fun, and exciting. Now i always belived d-fence 
 creates offence. IN this game if you cant play defence in all star mode. Your screwed. The new 
 pressure controll is really cool too. I always put mine on the best player on the team. So i no 
 when they enter to zone its to watch him. Now back to this game being hard. Playing on all star 
 or hall of fame. the only way to really score is to cycle the puck around the offenceive zone. 
 The ai is that good that they will hit you and prevent u to getting in the slot unless u suprise 
 them. So gl with that. If you play defence on these modes. OMG u better learn how to maser that 
 pressure controll and poke check. Once i played through the game on pro mode i made me want to 
 look foward on hardmodes to see how hard it is. Now back to gameplay i can play this game all day. 
 The online features are amzing as well. Online season with 8 people? how cool is that. Does ea 
 hockey have that? no they dont. Now i no gamespot said its offence is boring. And they said they 
 have to invent somthing like a skill stick. AHHAHAHHAHAHA. Gamespot hold the left trigger and there 
 you go. You can do some pretty cool moves with that stick. Shoot it top self and manualy deak. 
 Come on gamespot how u miss that? Also if your ever bored with your friends they still have the 
 mini games you can play. Its like a mario party but hockey style. Great for hockey freeks like 
 me. Franchines is done well too. When you trade players and make offers for free agents it has 
 to be reasonable you offerings. But game play is just plan out good
  
  Ok gfx. This is the only downfall of the game and truly it isnt that bad. I no ea has amazing next 
 gen gfx. But the ice in 2k is so realistic looking its just freeking sweet. The player modles arent 
 that bad but they have to work on that for the future. No curnet gen tho could pull off that ice. 
 There is no glitches eather but one. Some times the anoucer will say that wrong team is changing 
 but its cool. ITs just a sound error. Now presentation. HOW COOL IS IT WHEN U SCORE THE CROWED 
 JUMPS UP. Some times i just go to the replay just to watch the crowed jump up when i score at home 
 ice. Now they just need the rivaily chants and it be perfect. One bad thing is that the crowed 
 gfx are kinda eh. The new cininmintation how ever u spell it, is wonderfull way of looking up and 
 down up the ice. When you cycle the puck, the camera moves with you. Its weird at first but after 
 a wile it comes natural.
  
  Sound is top notch. The anouncers are great besides that one glitch. But i dont mind the hockey 
 nightin cananda guys. They grow on you after a wile and its usally not reptive eather. I hear new 
 things everytime i play. The puck slaming the boards and the pads and the crowed going OOOOO when 
 i just miss. ITs great. The sound is awsome.
  
  Over all the game is fun, good looking, and sounds great. By far it is the best hockey game i have 
 played up to date. There is still improvments but i think gamspot gave it too low. I no its not 
 a huge improvment from 2k6. But still it desevers a highscore then ea alot more then just 1 point. 
 I would give ea a 8.2 But not this game.
  Thx for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steven_bergen
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Hockey, the manliest sport in today's world, no question about it. The only game where fighting 
 and kicking the crap out of your opponents is encouraged. Open Ice body checks, knocking people 
 over the boards, it's all here. Not only that, the game is smooth as hell too. The first thing 
 I did when I played this game was put my Sharks against Edmonton for redemption. Thornton and Cheechoo 
 needed to show em who's boss. I immediately went for Thornton-Cheechoo one timer, and it didn't 
 dissapoint. One of the cool things about One-Timers is you can press the shoot button before you 
 even get the puck and your player will automatically shoot the puck when it gets to him for a true, 
 blind and fast One-Timer. Markkanen didn't stand a chance. Another cool shooting feature is the 
 auto-wrap around. No more having to do your lame versions of the tricky wrap-around move as your 
 players now do it in style. On the defensive side, the hits in this game are just brutal. The sound 
 echoes throughout the stadium when you slam a guy against the boards. Another cool feature are 
 the Enforcers AKA the big hitters. These guys can put players out for good. They are marked by 
 a red triangle on their cursor. On the contrary, there are players with blue triangles who run 
 away in fear of the red triangles which I find absolutely hilarious. As I was saying before, the 
 sound is amazing. They added a cool feature called cinemotion music where this intense orchestrated 
 music plays throughout the game. It may sound cheesy, but it can really get the blood flowing. 
 They also have your standard commentary, which is pretty decent in my opinion, but I prefer the 
 music thing they have going. The locker room atmosphere is pretty cool as well, hearing your players 
 talk about the game is pretty awesome. The graphics are alright but the characters faces, especially 
 the coaches look silly. As my friend put it, they look like crackheads. and they pretty much do. 
 The graphical presentation of the highlights is well done here as well. It's always fun watching 
 yourself score goals, or body check some sucker. Of course, if you are a hockey fan this game will 
 last you through the season so you can vent out your frustration when your team loses and do your 
 own little rematch. Get into fights with Anaheim's front line, Slaughter Dallas, whatever. Overall 
 I love this game. Hockey fans rejoice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 23, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  I am new to the 2k hockey series, but ive gotta say its pretty impressive. I bought NHL07 and this 
 around the same time, and this game has so many more features its ridiculous. This game isnt a 
 big step in the realism department, but has alot of arcade features that will keep ya playin long 
 after youre done with a season. i started playin the game and it was pretty smooth, but than I 
 went into the mini game section and was blew away. If youre into playing party type games with 
 friends than this is your department, the competition can get pretty fierce. There is a Skybox 
 section too thats got its own little mini games, like air hockey and shuffle board. This game also 
 has plenty of unlockables for your abuse, like classic teams and jerseys. The graphics dont hold 
 a candle to the competition, but what it lacks in beauty it makes up for in pesonallity. You will 
 get more use out of this game than you will NHL07, for the simple fact there is just so many options 
 of play and depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick0091
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Game play: 9/10
  
  This NHL has fantastic game play. First off the Ai is very good you don't see too many weird goals 
 or cheap plays that results in goals. However there still are always a few weird goals but then 
 again if you watch the real NHL the same thing happens in real life. It is very realistic and plays 
 much like any other hockey game but the best thing is you can tweak every little setting to fit 
 your needs.
  
  If you think the game speed is too fast lower it, if you want bigger hits and more injuries change 
 it, If you don't like how good the goalies are get those goalie skill settings down.
  
  You can tweak any setting imaginable, goalie anticipation and skill, fatigue effect , recovery 
 , speed burst effects and length.
  
  You can play this game your way!
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  Defiantly this games biggest flaw however even though the player models are 
 not exactly next gen they are fairly realistic too most players real life looks. Also the fans 
 are all modeled as well so it is pretty impressive. However the Ice in the game looks amazing! 
 If you have every been to a real arena then you will just be amazed at the detail.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The best part of this game is the sound. Custom sound tracks, fan noises player 
 chatter, you would swear you were at the rink when you hear the players talk and the announcers 
 are just like watching cbc's hockey night in Canada. It is amazing all the options you can do with 
 custom music you can have certain music play when your team gets a penalty, goal, opening sequence, 
 etc, etc, you can even play certain music based off different arenas.
  
  Value: 9/10
  
  Defiantly worth the money especially if you need your hockey fix for the year however if you own 
 nhl2k6 it may not be worth the money for nhl2k7.
  
  Reviewers tilt: 8/10
  
  Custom teams/players, great online and offline play, mini games, complete stats and records even 
 some from the 1920's that you can personally break!, and enough features to keep you busy for a 
 long time to come. This is one great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ejf0256
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 19, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  2K7 won the stanley cup again on it's TRUE game play. Weak graphics will hurt it's sales and due 
 to NO real advertising it will most likely be outsold by NHL 07 which is a horrible product.
  
  If you want the beauty queen of hockey (as if hockey players should look like movie stars) 
 go buy EA's offering. If like me, you wish to play hockey go get 2K7. The EA stick thing is somewhere 
 in the area of annoying like a fly or ants at a picnic. Defense is absent like Ferris Bueler on 
 NHL07, 2K7 is the most realistic hockey game this year. So sum this up, 2K7 = HOCKEY wherein NHL07 
 = Beauty Show !!!
  
  Love the new tricks on broadcasts on 2K7 sometimes you like your name read off and sometimes a 
 nice piece of music can make you feel just as good... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokurocks2442
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 18, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Well let me start off by saying GO BUY THIS GAME! Because after every nhl game you watch this season 
 it will get you hyped to play this game. The online in this game is awsome!! Tournaments, Mini rink, Quick 
 match, Player match, Ranked match you name it!!
  
  I do think its kind of stupid you can't play as a international team in ranked matches but you 
 can in player matches. If you lose a match in ranked mode you will have something like this
  
  0-1-0
  
  If you win a match, lose a match, Tie a match it will be like this
  
  1-1-1
 
  
  So basically what im trying to say is this game keeps track of every game you win lose or tie unless 
 you play player match. The single player is great to with lots of diffrent things to pick from 
 like creat your own team and i belave there is a create your own player to.
  
  Nhl 07 or 2k7=2k7 is the way to go!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrissnyder
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 9, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  I've been playing EA's NHL 07 for a couple of weeks now. And it is really really realistic, in 
 terms of physique and AI. The game looks alot more like hockey does IRL.
  
  I've always loved the 2k stuff, even since it was ESPN games. But this NHL game is TOTALLY overrated. 
 It doesn't look good, really pixeled and the players heads looks giant in comparison to the bodies, 
 ugly animations and the same cutsceneces over and over again. I mean the net doesnt even move when 
 you shoot the puck in the goal. The gameplay is like it was in like NHL98, still the 100%  
 We've been through that for soo many years, please do a more intelligent game. I've played the 
 game for the FIRST TIME in Hall Of Fame level and won with 6-0. That's ridiciolus. It took me 4 
 games to win at EA's NHL 07 on Pro level.
  
  No, this game is totally overrated. It doesnt deserve more than the basketgame I think.
  
  
 Don't buy it, you'll get really disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeeman07
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 7, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  This year is a treat for hockey gamers. The 2 major companies, EA and 2k, released 2 very solid 
 hockey games. I purchased both games on the day of their release, 2k7 first, and then 07 later 
 in the day. I played a game of 2k7, and i enjoyed it very much, but i had to rush to class, so 
 i didn't get to experiment too much. After i purchased it, the first few weeks of my hockey gaming 
 went to NHL 07. it is a good experience, but the game just lacks replay value. every game ends 
 up the same. after i got bored with that, i popped 2k7 back in, and i wondered how i could have 
 left it sitting around for so long. the game is deeper than the marianas trench. the number of 
 modes are reason enough to look at this over 07. franchise is great, party mode is fun, and the 
 game play itself is perfect. the flow of the game is so spot on. my main beef with NHL 07 is it's 
 lack of fluidity. the flow of the game is pretty sketchy at times, and it really ruins the experience. 
 2k7 on the other hand just flows like niagra. the animations flow from one right into the next 
 with no skipping. the difficulty of the game is just right as well. you won't be winning games 
 with outrageous scores on the higher difficulties, and you might even lose a few. the lame goals 
 for the AI have been all but eliminated, and the exploits from past years are pretty much gone 
 as well.
  
  I had never been one for fantasy drafts, and i never really played around with them, but after 
 playing around with it in this game, i realized just how much depth it can add to a game. you can 
 setup a team that is filled with players that you would never expect to play with. this also evens 
 out the teams throughout the league, and makes the games even tougher.
  
  Overall this game is just a better experiance than nhl 07. it has a very long life with all of 
 it's features. Now don't get me wrong, NHL 07 is still very good, and it is definatly worth a rental 
 at the least, but if you had to pick one game, i would personally suggest nhl 2k7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFREY35
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 25, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Nuff Said!!!!!!! You can't keep putting out the same game every year, And expect people to buy 
 it just because you put the NFL films music, or show locker room footage before the game with bad 
 voice acting! I've never played real hockey with a turbo button! What happened to the players Helmets, 
 and uniforms? did the equipmeny guy wash them in hot water, and put them in the dryer? It looks 
 like the grew out of them! Oh the ice looks good, and the camara angle is cook, but how do you 
 spened a year on a title, and come up with this? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Headbanger88
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Hockey, the manliest sport in today's world, no question about it. The only game where fighting 
 and kicking the crap out of your opponents is encouraged. Open Ice body checks, knocking people 
 over the boards, it's all here. Not only that, the game is smooth as hell too. The first thing 
 I did when I played this game was put my Sharks against Edmonton for redemption. Thornton and Cheechoo 
 needed to show em who's boss. I immediately went for Thornton-Cheechoo one timer, and it didn't 
 dissapoint. One of the cool things about One-Timers is you can press the shoot button before you 
 even get the puck and your player will automatically shoot the puck when it gets to him for a true, 
 blind and fast One-Timer. Markkanen didn't stand a chance. Another cool shooting feature is the 
 auto-wrap around. No more having to do your lame versions of the tricky wrap-around move as your 
 players now do it in style. On the defensive side, the hits in this game are just brutal. The sound 
 echoes throughout the stadium when you slam a guy against the boards. Another cool feature are 
 the Enforcers AKA the big hitters. These guys can put players out for good. They are marked by 
 a red triangle on their cursor. On the contrary, there are players with blue triangles who run 
 away in fear of the red triangles which I find absolutely hilarious. As I was saying before, the 
 sound is amazing. They added a cool feature called cinemotion music where this intense orchestrated 
 music plays throughout the game. It may sound cheesy, but it can really get the blood flowing. 
 They also have your standard commentary, which is pretty decent in my opinion, but I prefer the 
 music thing they have going. The locker room atmosphere is pretty cool as well, hearing your players 
 talk about the game is pretty awesome. The graphics are alright but the characters faces, especially 
 the coaches look silly. As my friend put it, they look like crackheads. and they pretty much do. 
 The graphical presentation of the highlights is well done here as well. It's always fun watching 
 yourself score goals, or body check some sucker. Of course, if you are a hockey fan this game will 
 last you through the season so you can vent out your frustration when your team loses and do your 
 own little rematch. Get into fights with Anaheim's front line, Slaughter Dallas, whatever. Overall 
 I love this game. Hockey fans rejoice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracosoul
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 20, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I've been buying the 2K series of hockey ever since the first one on Dreamcast. These games have 
 always been better then the EA series. If you like true hockey games and not arcadey games like 
 EA makes, then this is definitely the one to play. If you're Canadian then this is definitely the 
 one to play for a real hockey experience. The 2K series has never failed to create a game that 
 makes it as exciting as when you actually watch it. When we score, it's like we're watching an 
 actual game because it's tough to score and not easy like EA's versions, those ones you figure 
 out one cheap move and you have it made, never with the 2K series. This game is even an improvement 
 on all that, definitely the best in the series and more realistic. The animations are alot more 
 realistic then the past and the controls are nice. If you like the 2K series, but were thinking 
 EA might actually be better this year because of the analog shooting, you're wrong, this is still 
 the best one to buy and definitely worth the dollars you spend. The Xbox Live features are awesome 
 and will keep you playing and challenging anyone in your path. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 20, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  The 2K Team's last NHL entry on the 360 left us a little wanting. While NHL 2K6 introduced a snazzy 
 new feature, Crease Control, the game didn't do much else to separate itself from its current-gen 
 counterparts. NHL 2K7 steps back onto the ice after an intensive overhaul - it sports all-new animations 
 and a host of new presentation and gameplay features. It's all great stuff in principle, but how 
 does it all hold up on the ice?
  
  There are hundreds of new animations - not only have old animations been replaced, but new transitional 
 animations have been added to smooth out those quick turns and fast stops. The physics have been 
 modified to more realistically simulate the skaters' momentum - no more spinning on a dime - it 
 takes a moment to slow down and start moving in another direction. The more weighted players add 
 a nice touch of realism, giving you more to think about when you try to turn into an opponent to 
 deliver a big hip check.
  
  Despite the new animations, the graphics still don't seem as good as they could be. Take, for example, 
 the cheering fans; they all appear to have had their fingers chopped in half. But we can forgive 
 the sideline shortcomings - during gameplay the new athlete animations look great, and an array 
 of little graphical details, from the dynamic snow that builds up on the ice to the players' frosty 
 breath, come together to complete the experience. It's only when the close-up cut scenes play that 
 things feel lacking
  
  
  The 2K Team didn't just upgrade the animations; they wanted to invent a whole new way to experience 
 hockey games, and they've dubbed it Cinemotion. Cinemotion refers to everything related to their 
 new presentation - camera angles, cutscenes, music, and sound effects.
  
  The new camera dynamically follows the puck down the ice, keeping you close to the action without 
 ever obscuring the bigger picture, so you'll still be able to see open players to target passes. 
 It never hinders gameplay, and helps make some of the little graphical flares more apparent as 
 you play. We never felt like flipping over to one of the old &frac34; or overhead views - the new 
 camera felt just right.
  
  
  Cinemotion Music refers to dynamic music which changes in intensity and volume to reflect what's 
 happening on the ice. In overtime, for example, the music crescendos and picks up pace, while during 
 lulls in the game it fades into the background. We wouldn't blame you for turning off the dynamic 
 music - while it's an interesting idea, the orchestral vibe makes the game feel more like a battle 
 from The Lord of the Rings than hockey. It's another reason we're glad we can mix and match commentary, 
 existing music or a custom soundtrack. Meanwhile, players, coaches, and even fans can be heard 
 shouting across the rink in various accents as they react to events on the ice. It's especially 
 effective in surround sound.
  
  Also considered a part of Cinemotion is the overall presentation of the games. The idea is to get 
 you pumped up - the game begins with the coach addressing his players in the locker room, and then 
 follows them out to the ice where lasers fire and lights flash. Unfortunately, the whole thing 
 feels more embarrassing than exciting, especially since the generic coach looks more frightening 
 than he does compelling.
  
  Last year's Crease Control feature put you between the pipes to make those big saves by matching 
 up targets in slow-mo. Crease Control is back, of course, along with a couple of new features. 
 Pressure Control allows you to select an opponent during gameplay and sic your teammates on him. 
 As you increase the pressure, your teammates will check your targeted opponent more vigorously. 
 You can also execute drop passes with the right bumper, sliding the puck between your legs and 
 on to the stick of a trailing skater.
  
  
  With the return of all the old features, such as On-the-Fly coaching and Pro Control, we hardly 
 felt like we had time to pay attention to Pressure Control. Serious strategists, however, may enjoy 
 the added complexity. For the clueless, there is a series of tutorials designed to familiarize 
 you with all these features.
  
  All of the old game modes are back, including three new mini-games for quick and accessible multi-player 
 challenges. Franchise mode has been updated to reflect the changes made to the NHL by the CBA. 
 Also new in Franchise mode are rivalries. Each team has three major and three minor rivals. Games 
 against your team's rivals are more intense - the fans are more pumped up and the players are more 
 physical. Beating your rivals ups you're team chemistry, so it's worthwhile to focus on those games. 
 Rivalries will change throughout the season, or throughout multiple seasons, as tensions either 
 increase or decrease.
  
  While there is nothing specifically wrong with any of these new features, it feels as if piling 
 feature on top of feature will only hold up for so long. Cinemotion includes some wonderfully intuitive 
 changes and we like having the ability to perform sneaky drop passes - but how much before it's 
 too much? NHL 2K7 is a solid game and the new animations help to make it feel more next-gen worthy 
 than last year's entry. However, despite the sheer number of new features, nothing feels particularly 
 groundbreaking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rradune
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 19, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I have not played NHL 07 but it sounds like I made the right choice in NHL2K7. Besides, NCAA and 
 Madden have really turned me off to EA in recent years.
  
  All things aside, this is a fantastic game and will deliver the goods to anyone with even a mild 
 interest sports games. Lots of smooth game play action keeps you riveted. The presentation and 
 navigation is great in this title and I really cant think of anything that has majorly detracted 
 from the game experience for me. Well, the goalie's seem to be a little tough to get shots past 
 at times. I have not considered looking for a Goalie AI setting so this may be configurable, dont 
 know. The counter seems to be sending one timers at em'. Sometimes wristers seem a little slow 
 which could be why they are consistently blocked. Hmm, must consider this further :) Anyway, most 
 of my playing has been with the default settings in Franchise mode and Ive enjoyed the hell out 
 of it... very deep and rich. The game has a nice AI and it seems to be somewhat adaptive. Have 
 not taken this game online but I have herd its good.
  
  This game will not disappoint! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 18, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I have never struggled in choosing between two sports games as I have in the last week. I have 
 been buying and playing NHL 2K games since the brand was introduced in 2000 and have always been 
 very pleased with their quality and depth. However, I saw the previews of NHL 07 and had to admit 
 the shot stick intrigued me as well as enhanced puck physics. I was conflicted to try it though 
 because I have been sore at EA Sports since they nabbed the NFL license in retaliation of 2K games 
 cutting the prices on some of their sports titles. An EA Sports fanboy I am not. However, I knew 
 I had to try NHL 07 for myself because I knew I would always wonder what the other side of the 
 fence was like. So I took the plunge buying it knowing I could return it if it came down to it. 
 In addition, I bought NHL 2K7 because I admit I am a 2K fanboy at heart and no matter what I would 
 always enjoy their style of hockey.
  
  NHL 07 automatically takes you into the a shootout to immediately get a sense of the new style. 
 I was taken aback because it seemed a little unnatural at first because my fingers kept straying 
 towards the face buttons (which you can use if you don't like the stick) . However, within 1 or 
 2 games it felt totally natural and gave a sense of control I never would have guessed a game could 
 convey. Its one of those situations where its easy to learn but has the depth there to become a 
 master. When you pull off a shot it just feels more rewarding than any other hockey game. You feel 
 part of whats happening without the need of any of that Wii nunchuck nonsense. What makes the experience 
 even more powerful is how the controls are connected brillantly with the rumble feature (See PS3 
 we still need rumble) . When you take a shot or perform a body check you FEEL it. It seems like 
 most 360 games have toned down the rumble feature from the original Xbox days but this game uses 
 it to full effect. It does not feel superficial like it does in so many other games.
  
  The graphics, especially in 1080i, are really, really nice. There is just a more realistic feel 
 to them. I was concerned when I heard about flaky animations and framerate issues other reviewers 
 cited. Some of the animations could use a little more Crisco but they are by no means ugly and 
 I just noticed them because I was really looking for them after all the complaints. If you just 
 play the game, I guarantee you will be just so captured up in the action that you was easily miss 
 most if not all. I have not experienced any framerate issues but then again I never noticed frame 
 rate issues in Quake 4 either so maybe my 360 is special. Online so far there was a short period 
 of a hiccup but performs otherwise very admirably.
  
  The thing that really takes away from NHL 07 is the lack of features. You get Quick Games, Dynasty, 
 International Tourney and Dodge Shootout. Navigation through menus is pretty messy unlike last 
 years EA Sports games but because there are not many features you won't be using it much. The Dynasty 
 mode has a good amount of depth but there is no organic feel to it between managing the team and 
 playing the game. It feels like to separate activities.
  
  Finally, how did it compare to NHL 2K7? Big difference! NHL 2K7 is a good looking game and they 
 did a great job with the ice effects. The animations are more varied and smooth especially skating. 
 However, I think NHL 07 player models, coaches and audience look more realistic. There are so many 
 things to see and do in NHL 2K7 that it feels like a trip to Hawaii while NHL 07 feels like Idaho. 
 This can be a deal breaker for some especially for those who do not buy a lot of games. You definitely 
 get your money's worth in terms of content with NHL 2K7 so if you want something that can really 
 occupy your time you may be better off with it. However, keep in mind they are pretty much the 
 same things you could do in NHL 2K6 if you have that game already. This also goes for online features 
 which is another area that NHL 07 is in dire need of next year.
  
  The Cinemascope feature in NHL 2K7 is the biggest change this year and it does make you feel the 
 drama and glory of the game. The music, as many have said, is nice but just way to soft to get 
 you really into it. NHL 2K7 tries to immerse you with its audio and visual effects while NHL 07 
 tries to immerse you with the actual gameplay. What it really comes down to is the experience. 
 NHL 07 is truly an evolution of Hockey just as Fight Night Round 3 was for boxing. Once playing 
 it I could not help but feel kind of detached from the game when I went back to NHL 2K7. Its that 
 big of a change. If you want to go for something different I stronly suggest giving it a try. However, 
 if you need the more robust features or just hate EA Sports then you will not be disappointed with 
 NHL 2K7. I am sure that NHL 2K8 will come up with its own shot stick next year so you can always 
 wait until then.
  
  Thanks for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 17, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the 2k hockey franchise since 2k3, and i will be the first to admit, when 
 i saw the new EA game i went right out and bought it.... boy was that a bad idea.
  EA is pretty and the shooting controls are cool, but it still doesnt have it where it counts. 2k7 
 still has the flowing game, its defense is good, and the inclusion of a drop pass is awesome.
 
  Where it lacks, oddly enough, is where EA shines. The graphics are weak and it doesnt sit well 
 with me that i have to pay 60 bucks for a game with graphics that don't look next-gen. Add to that 
 the shooting controls are not too responsive. i still find most of my goals are scored on one-timers 
 and that its a pain to do shootouts on the higher difficulty settings.
  But I insist, with those two things said, 2k7 is still a better playing hockey game than 2007, 
 and even with EA's pretty graphics i traded it back in on the same day to come running home to 
 the 2k series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: interstate78
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 16, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  The very high expectations of the 360 hardware seems to be doing a lot of wrong to this franchise -- 
 most people you hear act as if a game cannot be good on the 360 if the graphics are not jaw dropping. 
 The graphics of NHL 2k7 may not have been rebuilt from the ground up, but the core gameplay is 
 where the game truly shines and despite it being simply improved over last year, it is still the 
 best hockey game that's out there.
  
  First things first, let's toss aside all your presumptions of what a next-gen title ought to be: 
 As much as it would be cool, you simply cannot reinvent the wheel. NHL 2K7's attitude is just that. 
 Rather than trying to innovate, they aimed for perfection. They took their already great engine 
 and improved it in every way. The result? Well, I don't mean to disappoint you but perfection does 
 not exist, but you got to admit it's an honorable objective. The game still has flaws, but you 
 can clearly see they're slowly getting there. They have added a few cool new features such as drop 
 pass, and you can now select a player on the other team on which you wish your teammates to put 
 pressure on. A few tap of the left bumper will ruffle his feather a bit, and a few more will send 
 someone for a big hit.
  
  One thing you will notice from the onset is that the presentation was given a much appreciated 
 face-lift. The camera swivels as you play in a very comfortable fashion and the arena simply looks 
 stunning: No other game will give you the feeling of being there like 2k7 does. In what they dub 
 'Cinemotion' you will now hear the team coaches, players on the ice and a music that follows the 
 tension of the game. Of course you can also toggle the game back to its regular format, but though 
 the music may go I'm pretty sure you will love the new camera If you are to compare the graphics 
 to its Electronic Arts counter part, you'd probably feel that the replays and videos of EA's title 
 look much better, while on the other hand the actual in-game of 2k7 really stands out. The animations 
 have been smoothed to near perfection, always connecting in a very realistic fashion. The players 
 adhere to the ice and move on it very believably, making it a much more authentic experience than 
 ever before, and any other game as well.
  
  The one area that the developers need to work on is the goalie AI. While it had clear flaws last 
 year, with 'tricks' working almost every time, this year it just seems like goalies are small gods. 
 On the All-Star and Hall of Famer setting, they will stop anything. A-N-Y-T-H-I-N-G you throw at 
 them. That is of course unless you shoot one timers or use the deke trigger (holding the LT and 
 deking with the right thumbstick) . It makes the game very frustrating at times because most goals 
 you will make will just be garbage shovelling: rebounds, bad passes, etc. One on one, even during 
 breakaways or shootouts, the goalies are just too strong. However since their weakness relies in 
 one timers, you cannot opt to lower their AI ('skill' and 'anticipation' namely) because then you 
 open a much larger door for one-timers. The developers have thought about this and added a mode 
 to toggle on a higher difficulty for one-timers but so far, I have yet to find the right settings 
 to make the game more believable and enjoyable. I am confident that I will find it, so this ranting 
 is really only about the default settings. One last gripe is about the actual action of shooting. 
 For some reason, it seems slow. Even wristers have a slow feeling to them. Additionally, the penality 
 settings are much, much too forgiving at the default setting. With the new rules in place as of 
 last year, 2k should have reflected the changes in the game. Hockey is not about roughing your 
 opponent and holding him with your hockey anymore, it's about speed! Sheer quickness!
  
  One area in which the game truly shines is in its online components. Playing leagues, tracking 
 your stats online at 2ksports. com, engaging in tournament, playing minigames, gaining ranks on 
 the leaderboards and messaging and more is what you can do in this game and makes of it a very 
 worthwhile investment. Chances are that if you are connected to Xbox live and you're a fan of hockey, 
 you will still be playing this baby online in April.
  
  So in conclusion, despite a few problems with the default settings, this years' iteration of 2K's 
 popular hockey series is a great improvement over last year and still proves to be the best Hockey 
 Simulation out there. It is also customizable enough to become an arcadey scoring and hit fest, 
 which I'm sure some of you enjoy thoroughly. Is it worth spending over 50$ for? Well to answer 
 this question, I must ask another first. If you're a casual hockey fan just looking for a hockey 
 game to play once in a while with your buddies, then do yourself a favor and get a used copy of 
 2k6. They're easy to find and are relatively cheap now. If on the other hand you are to play this 
 game a couple of times a week all throughout the Hockey season both offline, in the great Franchise 
 mode, or online, in Leagues and Tournaments, then I'd say it's worth that much and then some -- 
 it's simply THE Hockey Game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cafenjl
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 16, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  EA's NHL 07 may look better... and the action stick is where the game is going. But, beyond those 
 two things, NHL 2K7 is far superior.
  
  My biggest pet-peeve of any hockey game has always been the skating mechanics. I'm a life-long 
 hockey player and I've never found the skating motion recreated to my satisfaction in a game. Until 
 now. This is as close to real-life skating as I've every experienced in a game. And what's more... 
 players actually seem like they play position. Defensemen stay at the point. Wingers stay on their 
 side. The AI is very well done in this game.
  
  I have no problem with the tradition button use in this game as opposed to EA's action stick. Like 
 I said, I bought NHL 07 first thinking the stick would make the game for me. But, there just wasn't 
 enough there otherwise. Players skate all over the place, willy-nilly. It's not hockey, so much 
 as a mosh-pit on ice.
  
  2K7 also has much more in the way of Franchise Modes and extras like 'air hockey,' which are a 
 ton of fun with your friends.
  
  The only negatives I would say are that it's hard as hell to do a deke with the way they have their 
 version of the action stick set up... and changing your lines manually on the fly is pretty clunky.
 
  
  Trust me... I'm a long-time EA fan... but, 2K7 is the game to get this year.
  
  EA should be thankful it won the NFL liscense... otherwise 2K Sports would have the top game in 
 two sports now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kchmpn9802
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  NHL 2K7 is back on the Xbox 360 and brings in some changes. One the camera is lower giving the 
 player a wider view of the ice surface. Cinemotion gives the player the feeling of playing the 
 movie Miracle (Even unlock the 1980s Olympic Teams) . Pro Control and Crease Control return as 
 well as the in-depth online features. The game is still the same as last years game, but thats 
 is what made last years game better then NHL 06. Graphics look good, but could look better. Some 
 players look almost dead on to their real life counterpart, while others aren't even close. Sound 
 draws you in with the players and coach dialouge as well as the crowd noise. Cinamatics and cut 
 scenes add on to the experience being movie like. Online play is smooth with little to no lag. 
 The right stick could be more involved and not provide canned animations but still is a great hockey 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loanduck
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 14, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  2k gamers don't hesitate to buy 2k7, Overall it's NHL 2k gameplay but better and more realistic, 
 As soon as you pop it in to your 360 your going to be blown away, I was.... Best NHL 2k game nice 
 2k5, the on-ice graphics will blow you away, the new skating mechanics brings more realisim to 
 the game, you'll like it, fast face-offs following offisides, net of moorings etc.. cinemotion is 
 cool, but I preferred the standard commentary, If I have to be critical of the game, the player 
 face models could have been much better but other than that the games is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fivefurlife
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  Do yourself a favor and get this GAME! This new updated year of NHL 2K7 is the best fot the best... 
 I have played both EA's NHL 07 and NHL 2K7, 2K takes it hands down. EA's taking the right steps 
 to make there game better but 2k7 is always ahead of the curve and continues to blow the competition 
 right out of the ice. I really recommend this game to anyone, hockey fans and non hockey fans... 
 Everyone will enjoy this game! It is nonstop action, and there is not a moments rest for all 3 
 periods. The new camera is great and it really feels like it puts you right on the ice. There is 
 not enough great things that I can say about this game.... 2K games has taking the lead and made 
 not only the best playing hocky game, but also the best looking and the most indepth hockey sim 
 game to date! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xlegend4Lifex
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 13, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  FIRST of all i would like to say that this is the best HOckey game i have ever played. SECOND this 
 game has soo much to offer and u will never get board of it. SO U MUST GET THIS GAME. THe franchise 
 mode is awesome. You should just get this game for the online play like i did ( being owner of 
 the 2k6 addition also) so i knew what to expect but got a few more things to learn. THis game has 
 a crisp graphic engine and awesome sound too. It really feels like ur playing ( not literally but 
 u know what I mean) so U MUST GET THIS GAME. ONline play is awesome. Im currently 13th in the world 
 and im reaching the number 1 spot soon. This has sooo much for u too do and is very much worth 
 the 60 bucks on 360. but the xbox and ps2 users well have some fun with it too . FOr only 20 BUCKS 
 u cant beat this game . so all im trying to say is this is probably the best game to come out in 
 a while when it comes to hockey games so thats all im gonna say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo on both games and i was bunked into the amazing on ice eye level play EA showed 
 me. I was more excited to get EA because of the level of immersive playing.
  Boy was i wrong !! 2k simply crushes EA in all categories. The gameplay is smooth as the ice in 
 the game. As far as EA?... don't think that the demo shootout will look the same in actual gameplay... wrong!!! 
 This game is in a category all by itself.
  
  I hate to keep comparing the 2, but, EA looks and plays like "VERY" old gen.. so don't waste your 
 money... I'm serious.
  
  2K is very tru-gen... from the characters, gameplay, etc, etc.. You truly must play this game to 
 believe what i am saying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gangsta-Mack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  I was never a fan of video game hockey, or... hockey period. But this game totally changed my mind. 
 You really feel like youre playing hockey with the great controls, and the camera is amiazing. 
 It's like a movie when youre playing because of the camera. I dont really like the music though, 
 it looks like nhl 07 from ea seems like it has alot better music. But still the graphics make the 
 players look almost real. I just got the game this morning, and it seems like it is never ending 
 with all the modes there are. And the minigames are fun as hell. I reccremend this game to everyone, 
 even if youre not a hockey fan. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
