-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 2K9
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/nhl2k9/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Simple button-only control option will please retro hockey gamers.
 Challenging, if not particularly smart or realistic.
 Lag-free multiplayer with plenty of game options and frills.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very few advancements over last year's game.
 AI issues and some cheap scoring.
 Visuals are in need of a serious overhaul.
 Play-by-play commentary is repetitive and the soundtrack spectacularly grating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 16, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.1, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 149 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Developer: Visual Concepts
Genre: Ice Hockey Sim
Date: Sep 8, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
AI issues and the lack of any significant new features have NHL 2K9 skating backward this year. 
 

  Time travel just became possible, at least for hockey fans. Toss NHL 2K9 into an Xbox 360 or a 
 PlayStation 3 and you'll immediately feel transported back to 2006, which seems to have been the 
 last year that any significant improvements were made to this hockey series. This so-so look at 
 the Canadian national pastime actually turns away from realism to embrace a more old-time arcade 
 hockey feel with streamlined controls and single-minded AI. While the game still gives you a good 
 challenge, it seems like what remains of the realistic NHL 2K games of the past is being slowly 
 erased.  

           Close-quarters action makes games feel a little too uncomfortably like the old clutch-and-grab 
 era.      

  Modes of play are almost identical to those offered in 2007, with the addition of Zamboni races 
 between periods (you'll try this option once, then forget it exists) . Special games now include 
 being able to play three-on-three in a pint-size minirink, four-on-four pond hockey, and a solo 
 shootout. None of these options will be more than moderately diverting, however. The minirink is 
 so small that games are nonstop breakaways from one end to the other, while the pond is simply 
 a bland sheet of outdoor ice surrounded by snowbanks and invisible glass that still clangs every 
 time you shoot the puck high and wide. Ah, nothing says "outdoor hockey" like the synthetic bang 
 of Plexiglas.  

  Franchise and Season modes haven't really changed. Granted, these options were pretty deep last 
 year, particularly when it came to the implementation of the NHL's labyrinthine salary cap regulations 
 and tough contract negotiations. But there are no refinements or serious additions here, and they 
 are sorely needed given the continuing mess that is the interface. The game has taken on a minimalist 
 look with menus popping up only on demand, and while this looks clean, there are no permanent onscreen 
 icons indicating which button you have to hit to pull up which menu. Even when you do come to grips 
 with menu navigation, too much of the information you need is buried. The biggest problem is the 
 lack of a central hub screen where you can get a quick look at all the big news from across the 
 league. You shouldn't have to go looking for vital information like who's been dumped to waivers, 
 who's been traded, and who's gone to the injured reserve list.  

  At least multiplayer has been significantly overhauled. You can now play full six-on-six games 
 with up to 11 other human players online on both the 360 and the PS3 in Team-Up mode, and take 
 part in online leagues and tournaments. All of the online options seem to run smoothly. Lag is 
 completely nonexistent on both the 360 and PS3, and getting into matches is trouble-free provided 
 you can find an opponent.  

           The Zamboni races are new, but they're hardly a compelling reason to upgrade from last 
 year's game.      

  Controls have been revised somewhat successfully. Visual Concepts has reversed last year's changes 
 in this department, revamping the fiddly control system introduced in NHL 2K8 that shifted passing 
 and shooting to the 360 gamepad's bumpers and the PS3's R1 and L1 buttons. You can now choose among 
 three control options -- basic, pro-stick evolution, and hybrid. The focus is on hybrid, as the new 
 game emphasizes "bringing the fun back" to hockey gaming through simplified control schemes. What 
 this really amounts to is a merging of button controls with the pro-stick so that you can switch 
 between the two on the fly. This actually works extremely well, as there are moments when you'll 
 want to snap shots off quickly with the buttons, and other times when you'll want to stickhandle 
 and deke with the right stick.  

  All the control customization in the world can't help NHL 2K9 on the ice, though. Awkward speeds 
 are the biggest issue, with an odd disconnect between the timing of player reactions and sheer 
 skating ability. Players seem sluggish when winding up for a slapshot, throwing a wrister on net, 
 or simply navigating around a defenseman, but their feet are always moving at a fast clip. This 
 results in disjointed play where even the most nimble NHL stars like Sidney Crosby and Henrik Zetterberg 
 seem fleet-footed yet downright klutzy. As a result, there are a lot of broken plays, particularly 
 involving train-wreck collisions that cause unnecessary offsides, and a general clutch-and-grab 
 feel that breaks up the flow so crucial to any hockey game. The new fighting system is the only 
 place where players are as dexterous as real pro athletes, yet it's a waste here because there 
 isn't any weight to your punches (making it hard to tell when you actually connect) , and the balance 
 mechanic is too gimmicky and erratic to properly simulate a hockey fight.     

  Poor hockey sense is another problem. Everything is too forthright and simple-minded for games 
 to feel much like real hockey. Both offense and defense are tight enough to offer you a challenge, 
 but neither are the slightest bit realistic. AI offense is all about going to the net. While there's 
 nothing wrong with hard-nosed hockey, computer players almost always forgo making passes for making 
 a beeline to the slot. So you can generally shut the opposition down by simply gooning the puck 
 carrier and forcing a turnover. Defense is just as mindless. Computer defenders constantly hit 
 you with heavy pressure, smothering you so effectively that you always have somebody hanging off 
 your shoulder pads. To avoid turnovers, you'll have to get off a lot of quick passes, which gives 
 games a pinball feel and results in numerous odd-man breaks since it can be easy to catch the pressuring 
 defenders out of position. Such tough defense also makes all of the teams in the game play in the 
 same style. You go into Montreal for a game with the high-flying, no-D Habs and they're playing 
 the exact same traplike system as the defense first, last, and always Minnesota Wild.  

           Pond hockey plays a lot like regular hockey, except there are less people and the Plexiglas 
 is invisible.      

  Goalie wonkiness is another problem. Meltdowns between the pipes aren't uncommon in the real NHL, 
 but the number of flaky performances by top-flight goalies here is simply too high to believe. 
 In the franchise games we played, even first-rate goalies like Carey Price and Vesa Toskala crashed 
 and burned every few starts. They would go through stretches where they couldn't stop beach balls 
 and surrender goals on wristers from the hash marks and wide-open slappers from the point. Whenever 
 one of these softies went in, you had to get out the hook, too, as you could just about bet the 
 house that the back of the net would soon fill up with rubber. Odd-man rushes appear to contribute 
 to the cheap goal issues. Whenever the computer goes down the ice on a two-on-one or three-on-one, 
 it seems as though the chance to score artificially increases. So even if the computer doesn't 
 get off a half-decent shot, or you get back and break up the rush, you can bet the farm on your 
 netminder letting one trickle through the wickets or whiffing at a floater heading for the top 
 corner.  

  With all that said, there is still something about NHL 2K9 that rings true. On-ice action can feel 
 close to that of the actual NHL at times. Do some serious tweaking of the game-setting sliders 
 and you can hack the game into something approximating real hockey. And players can perform like 
 their real-life counterparts in astonishing ways. Curtis Joseph may be just a backup at his advanced 
 age, but he still pulls off his trademark windmill glove saves every now and then. Brendan Shanahan 
 fires his killer snap shot coming down the wing. And Sidney Crosby flops and draws cheap penalties. 

  You sure won't mistake the appearance of NHL 2K9 players for those in an actual NHL broadcast, 
 though. Graphics have barely been touched over the past couple of years, so the look of the game 
 is way behind the curve on both the 360 and PS3 (more so on the latter, due to a lack of antialiasing 
 that leaves a lot of jaggies) . Player faces are roughly hewn Cro-Magnon takes on real people; bodies 
 are so angular and blocky that they seem like Frankensteins stuffed into too-tight equipment; names 
 and numbers on jerseys are far too small and stretched out. The lone new touch is players growing 
 beards during the playoffs, which, admittedly, is pretty cool. Animations are realistic, too. Someone's 
 done a great job of motion-capturing movements for skating, shooting, passing, hitting, and even 
 falling down.  

           Blocky player models make NHL 2K9 even more of a blast from the past than its retro controls. 

  You can't say the same about the audio work. Someone really dropped the ball here. Crowd noise 
 is a mumbling mash so jumbled up at times that you can't make out chants like "Go Leafs, go!" Play-by-play 
 commentary is beyond annoying.  Hockey Night in Canada  legends Bob Cole and Harry Neale have been 
 dropped for the San Jose Sharks' local team of Randy Hahn and Drew Remenda, who do nothing but 
 repeat generic phrases that tell you very little about what's going on. The duo recycle lines, 
 rarely mention players by name, and use a lot of weird affectations such as a faux-French pronunciation 
 of "Canadiens" and forever calling some teams only by nicknames (it's "Blues," not "Bluenotes"!) . 
 Soundtrack tunes are even more aggravating; the developer seems to think that all hockey fans are 
 extreme sports dudes who listen to nothing but the likes of The Offspring, Bad Religion, and Mastodon. 
 Also, "Bad Boys" (the  Cops  theme) plays during fights and almost every time somebody heads to 
 the sin bin.  

  It's hard to categorize NHL 2K9 as anything but a disappointment. Even though it will give you 
 a tough game on the ice, the gameplay isn't very realistic and is monotonously simple-minded in 
 its approach to both offense and defense. Only the superb multiplayer makes it worth a look, so 
 if you're not interested in online leagues and tournaments, you can sit this one out and see what 
 next year brings.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ViewtifulLos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 9:12 am PT
Review:  now first off, lemme say this: i dont play hockey, dont really watch hockey and dont necessarily 
 like the game except for the hits n goals. however, this game is crack. i cannot stop playing this 
 game. i see a lot of ppl complaining because u cant change the camera... WHY WOULD U??? Then there's 
 others saying the menu is too complicated and other lil gripes one may have with the game which 
 dont really affect the game itself. if ur more arcade friendly when it comes to games, turn the 
 game speed up, the fights up, and the penalties off n have urself a ball. if ur more sim friendly, 
 play in the robust ( yes i sed robust lol ) franchise or season mode. and if u want some serious, 
 and i mean serious online competition, my gamertag is C Lo eLoRiginal
  
  Scott Gomez sez come get some!!! and so do some other guys ive never really herd of lol... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedgreen2-1-5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  the back of the case says "the FUN is back"
  
  First off its buggy the graphics to the older versions are far better, faces are poorly done, look 
 at danny brieres face in the game, he looks like Kwazi Moto from the hunchback of notre dame. The 
 gameplay isnt very effective and goalies are just plain retarded giving up slapshots from the blue 
 line at least once a game. You get to drive a  desperate for 
 a gimmick? theres not much depth to the franchise. You cant poke check much because you will get 
 a tripping call at least %80 of the time. The commentary is fine though, and the unique loading 
 video projected on the ice is cool looking, even the flyers video says Vengeance on it.
  
  somewhere along the line 2k wanted to make these games arcade style, but it comes up way short 
 of the bar EA set with NHL09
  
  I bought my 2k9 for $40 because the walmart i was at didnt have 09 but if you have the choice pay 
 the extra $20 and have some real fun.
  
  fact is i had the game for 2 days and i hate it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worsley7
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 1:06 am PT
Review:  Adequate stats, particularly on power play, penalty kill. Good statistical, compact print format. 
 EA has ridiculous winning percentage and spread out statistics regarding NHL standings. 2K9 is 
 more statistically friendly to the genuine hockey fan.2K9 could improve minor league, add Elite, 
 German Leagues, Russian League, Finnish League, etc.
  Individual scoring leaders have team names next to player's individual names. Can review boxscores 
 on 2K9. EA has put out a massive advertising campaign, but, does not provide a genuine hockey playing 
 experience. It appears that 2K9 is grossly underrated. With EA, we spend an entire season editing, 
 changing, creating, both players and game play. EA desperately needs to introduce SLIDERS that 
 are detailed and work. My advice would be to rent both games, and play hockey ! Again, with EA, 
 we will spend an entire season correcting EA's player ratings, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smojphace303
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Yeah its not perfect but spend some time playing online and its wicked. some of the strongest points 
 come from on-line play in my opinion, as the GS review said there is no lag (unlike 2k8 for me) , 
 or not as much ;) . though, offline it does the job of being a good addictive hockey game. with 
 some tweaks of the sliders it can be a fast paced arcade game or a pretty good sim. The downfall 
 appears in the franchise mode, with nearly everything good about 2k's franchise modes has disappeared. 
 so if you want to get serious in depth with a hockey game 2k9 isnt for you. though if you just 
 want a all guns blazing with a no-frills season/franchise or tight online play, in a minimalistic 
 way, then go get 2k9.
  
  although the gameplay can be a bit choppy in places it dosnt really matter to me, for the price 
 i paid for this game it gives me a very fun hockey game, albeit with some minor flaws. just alone 
 you should get this game just for the immense puck dynamics and 'little things' which havnt appeared 
 in anyother hockey game that i've ever played. from the french annoucer at candian games to retired 
 numbers on the walls and immculate stadium details. 
  
  if the graphics where as good as NHL 09 this game would be a winner. though i can live with the 
 graphics being as they are and still come out as a fairly happy 2ksports customer.
  
  one can only hope they unleash the beast on 2k10!
  
  EZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumptruck123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  First I would like to say that this is not a terrible game, it just is not the kind of improvement 
 or lack of improvement I have learned to expect from 2k. How long now has 2k had the custom arena 
 music feature and they still can't get it right. That is something I would expect from EA with 
 games like Madden (I won't even get started about that steaming pile) . 
  
  Customized music in 2k09 has many problems. First of all and probably the most annoying is that 
 during most stoppages the music won't play. It only plays if the net comes off or the puck is shot 
 out of play, both of these things happen maybe once a game. So if you are playing a tight game 
 and your goalie has to freeze a lot of pucks, you just sit there in dead silence. 
  
  This is easily  to 1/3 of your gaming experience spent listening to nothing. I even turned off 
 my music selection for stoppages just hoping for some kind of noise from the 2k soundtrack and 
 still nothing. Another problem with the custom music is that it doesn't play at the appropriate 
 times that you have set for it. At times it plays your music randomly. 
  
  Another problem with this game is the hitting. A lot of fools out there believe the hitting should 
 be toned down to make it more realistic with today's NHL. What about the rest of us who hate the 
 new offense oriented NHL and want to bring back the old days of goons and grinders. Regardless 
 of my opinion or anyone else's, the style of play on the ice should dictate the outcome of events. 
 
  
  Say you're like me and charging down ice looking to line someone up for a hit, a lot of times I 
 just miss badly and get caught out of position. But if I make contact the two players shouldn't 
 stumble back from each other like they bumped into each other walking down the street. I lined 
 up Petr Sykora with Bobby Holik from line to line and just "bump", so we just looked at each other 
 and continued to play bumper cars around the rink the whole game.
  
  The rest of the game is an alright experience but these flaws hurt the overall product. Maybe I 
 and others are being too picky but over the years 2K Sports has been the anti-EA. They usually 
 have cared about there products and tried to improve them each year and not just add gimmicks to 
 a game and call it new (Zamboni rides-come on) .
  
  Defiantly rent this game first before buying, as it will not be for everybody this year. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ML66
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  2K9 is great, but so is 09 just in different ways. The difference is the gameplay, yes I believe 
 the gameplay of 2K9 to be superior all the way down to fighting. In '09 you throw 1 maybe 2 punches 
 and the fight is over, where as 2K9 it's a much deeper fighting experience.
  
  The deepness of 2K9 doesn't start and end with fighting. The game is a SIM and the sliders actually 
 really do affect the game, so you can tweak it to be exactly as you like and unlike EA's sliders, 
 these sliders work great!
  
  This game may have a few graphic flaws, and naturally EA wins BIG in that department but the detail 
 they have put into the arenas and the arena sounds are so much better than the competition. In 
 fact even the game and puck physics are more real in 2K9.
  
  I prefer Hockey SIM and most people like me know 2K has always been SIM. EA is more like the Hockey 
 game for those who like to be spoon fed, you know like people who listen to Top 40 radio stations 
 and think that bands like "Nickelback" or "Maroon 5" are the greatest thing in the world, even 
 though they're terrible.
  
  2K9 is for people who like to GO DEEPER, I can see why there are a lot of people who would bash 
 2K9 because they just don't get it, it's not a game you just pick up and start playing, unlike 
 EA.
  
  I have BOTH games and I can see good and bad in both, I'm not a 2K fanboy, but I can tell you I've 
 played 2K9 more than I have 09 and that's because I find it more realistic gameplay.
  
  Finally, if you have the cash go BUY BOTH 2K9 and 09 because each one offers something you can't 
 find in the other. 
  
  OK... back to 2K9! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DantheMan9856
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  It's simple. NHL 2k9 is not for the casual fan. It's hard, in depth and I have never switched over 
 from the point I played NHL 2K2.
  
  While EA plays better out of the box, there is so much in 2k9 everyone is missing. The difference 
 between 2k and 09 is EA feeds you like a baby. 2k on the other hand ultimately leaves it up to 
 you to make or break the game via sliders. I understand 09 has sliders but honestly when I move 
 most of them they do not seem to effect the game in a noticeable way. Think of EA as the Microsoft 
 of hockey, where as 2k is the linux or hockey, a source by which you have to create your game and 
 how you want to play it.
  
  I have been hearing NHL 09 is getting repetitive so if you want to play a hockey that is different 
 every time check out http://www.2khockey. net/forums/index. php? showtopic=19347 and play with these 
 sliders. Rent it, play it, then own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Never seen such hype for a hockey game like NHL09. Don't get me wrong NHL09 is just as equally 
 great as this year's NHL2k9, but the masses rule over the underrated. Enter 2k9 with simplified 
 controls and realistic gameplay. Whoever says 2k9 plays fast and arcadish has not played this game 
 the way it's meant. On normal speed setting it's the same as NHL09 maybe a little slower. The hits, 
 dekes, superstar moves and overall presentation is much more sim than NHL09 as long as you adjust 
 the sliders to repicate authenticity. The flow is spot on and not fast as people say unless they 
 have the setting on fast speed. Like I mentioned, the controls have been tweaked to appeal to newcomers, 
 but you still have the advance Pro Stick setting where you can shoot, deke, and defend with the 
 right analog stick. Don't judge the game based on a couple of games you've played on the demo, 
 you need to spend quality time and adjust to the gameplay and its mechanics. My only gripe is the 
 menu text are small and looks a little antiquated. The player models are much better than last 
 year and more detailed, unlike NHL09's pretty but unrealistically bulky player models. Animations 
 is slick and smooth with tons of new animations. I kid you not, but in one play a left wing hard 
 checked onto the goalie and both crashed against the net knocking it several feet away from its 
 post, the referee manually adjust the net back in place. Details like this make this the most authentic 
 hockey game I've ever played. Even the side camera view is finally a true to life broadcast view 
 as it swings, zooms and iso moves back and forth like a real broadcast view, amazing. In summary, 
 even if the masses prefer NHL09 which I personally think is too flashy and perfect in a sense that 
 all teams play almost the same with perfect passes, and defenders being less aggressive fighting 
 for the puck, ect. 2k9 plays and looks like a real hockey game. If NHL09 gets a average score of 
 9's from just about everybody, then why not 2k9 which is equally as great or better IMO. I'll be 
 getting NHL09 when the price drops, cause the only big thing they added is the Be a Pro mode, but 
 2k9 is my preferred choice this year. You can give me all the thumbs down you want, but real hockey 
 fans know what they play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladerunner666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Most people will dismiss this game as more arcadish as compared to NHL 09 but 2K continues to make 
 up for EAs lack of presentation. By default the game speed is a little to fast and the arenas scale 
 regarding the players seems to be a tad small making more crowded than I think it should be.
  
  The overall game quality matches EA. Smooth animations and frame rate. Solid sound. And terrific 
 detail keeps this game interesting. Frame rate is fantastic.
  
  Summary
  Cons:
  *Player models are dated. EA did a fantastic job with their game at a cost in frame rate for certain 
 parts of the game.
  
  *Announcers are average at best. (EA hockey has the best announcer team for any sports game period. 
 I think its a combination of talent and voice tech) .
  
  *No minor hockey leagues. I will assume a licensing issue here.
  
  *Hockey puck physics are 
 a touch off from EAs more realistic version. Still very believable though.
  
  
  Pros:
  *Outstanding Arena detail.
  Awesome team logo animations for the game intros (better than EA) .
 
  
  *Fantastic crowd detail both graphics and sound. (2K sports rules this category)
  
  *Terrific animations. The best checking I have seen to date. 
  The player skating actually has 
 better detail than EAs game. You have to go to practice to see what I mean. The skaters don't float 
 as bad as EA's game does. Very smooth stuff here.
  Skaters glide down the ice when idle like they should whereas NHl09 they just slow to a stop quickly.
 
  
  *Fantastic details in general:
  All 3 refs are in the arena with the players. EA couldn't pull this off. Add to this the fact that 
 the refs actually dodge pucks and move around realistically. Goal nets come loose, players pin 
 other players against the walls. Didn't see this in my copy of EAs game.
  
  What sold me on this game was the fact that the 2K devs swallowed their pride and copied the EA 
 dual stick control scheme from last year. Had they not done this then I would have passed on this 
 game. Very smart move of 2K.
  
  Those open-minded hockey fans that can afford it should buy this game in addition to EAs. It makes 
 up for a lot of EAs shortcomings. 
  
  Just imagine where the Madden series would be if EA had competition like they do with Hockey. Support 
 2K if you want to see high quality hockey games come out period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hvypetals
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  The competition to put out a game every year has clearly led to cutting some corners.
  
  This results in sub par facial likenesses, poor transitions from animation sequences, wooden characters 
 while not in-play and a not so finely tuned control schemes. Menu's are menu's - who cares. They 
 also cut some of the extra features from last year. You cant scratch players for instance on the 
 rosters? Even tho some are listed as being sratched by default (rushed) .
  
  That said the game has superior "in-play" animations than its competition. Players move more physcially 
 correct and will catch knees, move with momentum, checking is more realistic and players will fall 
 out of and back into being in balance very nicely. Players will fall and guys will trip over them 
 very realistically. Plus fighting is probably the best ive seen it since EA's nhl96 "blood on the 
 ice." (Still cant figure out why theres no blood in hockey games)
  
  The AI is a step up from last year. The computer doesnt seem to cheat nearly as much and proper 
 hockey strategy seems better implemented. The stick work is also better and you can strip guys 
 of the puck more easily and pop the puck against the boards around opponents if youve got a little 
 touch.
  
  So if your into the actual gameplay then the title is solid. Its not going to blow your socks off 
 with its spit and polish though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildoxmoan
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  I don't know what to do now. I don't like skill stick but I always liked the sliders in 2K. Made 
 the opponent as tough as you wanted and created the most realistic experience for me. So I stuck 
 with 2K 07. No skill stick, realistic game. I was happy to hear that 2K was offering a simplified 
 version for simpletons like myself but holy cow what happened?! Can't change view of game play? 
 Seriously? Player animations after goals are silly and robotic. Players sort of look like they're 
 supposed to represent... sort of. The whole experience feels like a game from about six years ago, 
 with really deep stats. There's no help menu from screen to screen, instead hints cycle down at 
 the bottom of the screen and you have to wait for the item you're looking for and if you miss it, 
 you have to wait for it to cycle again. I used to swear by EA but the lack of difficulty pushed 
 me to 2K. Now the game play has dropped so much I may have to figure out a way to make EA tougher! 
 I'm going to try NHL 09 and if the AI is as notoriously simple as its always been I'm getting back 
 my 2K 07! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeyBrash
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Still a broken hockey game.. many flaws in the graphics and gameplay, its just feels awkward and 
 clunky.. the skateing looks beyond awfull its flat out pathedic, CPU still can't come out of their 
 own zone without problems, hitting is better but still feels awkward, I don't really like the puck 
 physics at all and I don't like the goalie animations and their reactions to the shots and the 
 play around them its terrible, some of the sound effects are good but some are stupid, the fighting 
 is nothing short of perfect and is exactley what a hockey game should have in it.. EA can definately 
 learn a thing or two from this or at least steal it like 2K stole their skill stick it starts out 
 perfectly, fights perfectly from the time the gloves come off untill the 2 linesman come in and 
 break it up.. its perfect, if you liked the controls last year forget it their are classic and hybrid 
 controls which is basically a rip off of EA's skill stick its basically the same control. Its a 
 shame but its nothing more than an average hockey game to play when NHL 09 starts to get boring 
 nothing more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miles13
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 9, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  So yea I played this today for the 360 and I have to say, the demo was better than the game... at 
 least for game play. The controls are pretty bad, response time for skaters and actions is slow. 
 Graphics are pretty poor as far as players go, the players look like boxes and only a few players 
 faces actually look like them. There are some little additions that are kind of cool, but for the 
 most part they're pretty gimmicky.. such as the Zamboni ride. The one cool thing i think is the 
 playoff beards and how in depth some of the dynasty features are, Also sound seems to be off a 
 little off.. hit a few posts and there was no metal sound. But overall I would say this game isn't 
 really worth a look on an Xbox... you probably are getting the same graphics on a wii, but you have 
 the use of the wiimote. I'm yet to play it on the wii but i can imagine its better than the 360 
 version. 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
