-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ninety-Nine Nights
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/ninetyninenights/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Puts a lot of enemies onscreen.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Basic attacks work better than the flashier combos.
 lame English voice acting with no apparent alternative soundtrack.
 combat is very repetitive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 11, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 6.3, 80 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 3,229 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Q Entertainment
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Aug 15, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ninety-Nine Nights puts a lot of enemies onscreen but doesn't give you many interesting ways to 
 dispose of them. 

  Ninety-Nine Nights attempts to mine the same ground that games like Koei's Dynasty Warriors and 
 Phantagram's Kingdom Under Fire have covered in the past, but it does so with only a bare minimum 
 of strategy. While you still have limited control over other troops, this game is all about running 
 into a crowd of hundreds of enemies and slamming on the two attack buttons until everyone is dead. 
 While those attack buttons produce some flashy combos, Ninety-Nine Nights is a very shallow game 
 that gets old fast.  

          The combo system lets you pull off some flashy stuff, but the basic attacks are more effective. 
     

  Ninety-Nine Nights tells the tale of a war between humans and foul creatures, such as goblins and 
 frogmen. But it doesn't necessarily tell its story as one epic event. Instead, you're given the 
 same story from multiple perspectives. You start out with only one character available, the 17-year-old 
 Inphyy. Her story is one of vengeance, as she sets out with her army to destroy the goblins responsible 
 for killing her father. You'll also play as Inphyy's older brother, Aspharr, and a mercenary named 
 Myifee, as well as a few others. Each of the game's seven characters offers varying takes on events 
 from both sides of the conflict, but a handful of missions flow through the same basic areas. So 
 by playing through with every character, you'll notice a fair amount of repetition. Also, the campaigns 
 of Inphyy and Aspharr are definitely the cornerstones of the game. Many of the other characters' 
 stories are significantly shorter, though even the longer ones are only around six missions. Regardless, 
 none of the characters have particularly compelling stories to tell, and the game's annoying English 
 voice acting doesn't do a good job of conveying what little story there is.  

  Though a couple of the unlockable characters play differently, the bulk of the action in the game 
 is painfully straightforward. You have two attack buttons, a dash maneuver, and the ability to 
 jump or block. Hammering on the X and Y buttons will bust out combos that send the swarming hordes 
 of enemies flying, and clearing a space around your character is usually easy, keeping you relatively 
 safe from most damage. The characters gain experience and level up as you play, and each level 
 brings longer, flashier combos. But the longer combos are usually a bit more canned, which can 
 often leave your back open to attack. As a result, the shorter, four-hit combos take priority. 
 Kills earn you red orbs that charge up a super-attack meter. Enemies killed while you're in your 
 super-attack mode give up blue orbs, which charge up another meter that can be used for a devastating 
 screen-clearing attack. Each character has different combos, timing, weapons, and super attacks, 
 but the process of picking a short, simple combo and doing it over and over again doesn't change 
 much.  

  In addition to leveling up your character, you'll find items around the battlefield that can be 
 equipped. You'll find new, more powerful weapons, but they're just stronger versions of your existing 
 weapon. They'll look a bit different in your character's hands, but they don't grant new combo 
 attacks or change the gameplay in any way. You'll also find items that can boost your hit points, 
 attack range, and defensive ability, among other attributes.  

  Though you're the most effective fighter on the battlefield, you'll also be given control of two 
 groups of soldiers in most missions. Prior to entering a level, you can choose which soldiers you'd 
 like to bring, like swordsman, archers, and so on. Your control over these soldiers is pretty limited, 
 but it does what it needs to do. You can tell them to attack or hold back, as well as dismiss them 
 altogether, causing them to stand back while you do the fighting. Your troops often seem completely 
 useless and rarely seem to kill enemies. But they're usually good at engaging the enemy, which 
 frees you up to run around behind enemies and take them out. Either way, their presence seems designed 
 to make the battles look and feel larger, which works.  

  Graphically, the game is built around putting tons of characters onscreen at one time. You'll see 
 hordes of goblins come swarming over a hill in your direction, and it's initially impressive, but 
 when the hordes grow too large, the game does slow down quite a bit. While it gets sheer numbers 
 right, the game uses an ugly blur effect on far-away enemies that looks less like a distance blur 
 and more like you're seeing double. Plus, as you might expect, the hordes of enemies all look alike. 
 You'll encounter a handful of different enemies as you play, but there isn't enough variety. The 
 boss characters you encounter do, at least, look a little different and use different, more interesting-looking 
 attacks.  

          The first couple of characters you play have the lengthiest campaigns. The rest feel sort 
 of tacked on.     

  Individual campaigns won't take much time to finish, and if you run into trouble with any one mission, 
 you can always go back to the previous one and kill more enemies until you gain a level and become 
 more powerful, making everything a bit easier. The game does become time consuming, however, if 
 you want to get all of its achievement points. You'll earn points for completing each character's 
 storyline, and there are additional points to be had for getting all the characters up to level 
 nine and finishing all of the missions with at least an A ranking.  

  On paper, the multiple characters and item collection might make Ninety-Nine Nights sound like 
 a reasonably deep action game. Unfortunately, the action starts out completely mindless and wears 
 even thinner as time goes on. Whether you're a fan of the  
 genre or not, this one's probably not worth your time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (243 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Masian123
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2009 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Many people who review this game give it so many bad reviews just because its another Dynasty Warriors 
 like game........ well give the game a break, I dont like being the girl character in the beggining 
 of the game but I think its another good game. The thing about the game is that its somewhat like 
 KOEI's games they're fun and cool. Many reviewers give the game bad reviews just cause the graphics......... well 
 who gives, its a game and the only thing that matters is the gameplay. The thing that does annoy 
 me about this game is that the girl character (I don't remember her name) ..... well she has a really 
 high pitched, annoying voice. But, other than that I think the game is really fun. The gameplay 
 to me can get boring but if you like playing a KOEI like game then this is the game for you!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 5, 2009 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Ninety-Nine Nights is extremely repetitive hack and slasher. It doesn't offer anything new or exciting. 
 I hated the art style, I hated the cutscenes and how interruption they were. The storyline bored 
 me, the characters were forgettable. The difficulty was inconsistent. Your characters walked way 
 to slow on the massive battlefields. There is no checkpoint in the stages, so you if accidentally 
 die then you have to start over at the beginning, losing all experience or items you gained. I 
 honestly didn't think I would hate this game as much as I did, but it bugged me to no end. 
  
  The only thing I liked about Ninety-Nine Nights was the loot drops, and the ability to backtrack.
 
  
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Ninety-Nine Nights is a basic Dynasty Warriors inspired hack and slasher. You play between 7 playable 
 characters, each with their own strengths and weaknesses, but still play nearly identical. Before 
 battle, they sometimes give you an option to bring 2 full Battalions with you into battle. This 
 means, you get to bring back up with you in battle. You get to choose between four different styles 
 of battalions. You can bring light infantry (swords) , heavy infantry (broadswords and armor) , pikman 
 (axes) and archers. Each have their strengths and weaknesses towards the enemies they fight. You 
 only have one control over the AI of these characters though. You can tell them to stay or follow.. 
 that's it.
  
  Once you pick a character and stage, you're off fighting a war. Your AI battalion characters are 
 weak and have trouble fighting even one goblin or knight. So it's really up to you to kill everything 
 in sight, and there's alot of things to kill. The basic enemies you fight don't put up much threat 
 at all. One slice can kill up to 20 characters at once if you're lucky. The only true difficulty 
 this game offers is boss fights. This isn't a good thing though because you can waste up to 45 
 minutes battling 2,000 weak enemies that pose no threat, and then fight a boss character that kills 
 you in two hits. This happened to me a couple times and it was frustrating. Boss fights are all 
 the same though, so there isn't a huge variety in this game.
  
  The frustrating things about boss fights is their block feature. You can't damage them at ALL if 
 they block and they block 90% of the battle. The only chances you can get a swipe at them is if 
 one of your stupid AI members distracts them, or if they attack and you can get a quick hit before 
 they get their balance back. All boss battles are about taking two small hits, then running for 
 safety because boss characters HIT HARD. 
  There aren't very many maps in the game, and you revisit the same old maps over and over again 
 but in different areas. This is alot like Soul Calibur Legends in way, but luckily, this game is 
 much shorter and more forgiving. The objectives are linearly thrown at you and forced upon you 
 in battle. 
  
  Like in most RPGs, you gain experience for every monster you kill. When you gain enough experience, 
 you gain a level. This boosts your maximum HP, Power, Defense and other stats. You also gain a 
 new skill after each level. Also, the higher your level is, the more accessories you can equip 
 and they're pretty important. You can equip 1 weapon and up to 5 accessories in this game. You 
 get new weapons and accessories from the treasures hidden within the stages, or from loot drops 
 by enemies. The most fun I had in this game was equipping the random accessories and weapons, honestly.
 
  
  When you kill monsters, you absorb red Orbs. This goes into a power meter, and when it's full, 
 you can unleash a powerful attack. When you attack with this Orb power, and you kill enemies with 
 it, they out blue orbs. When you get enough Blue Orbs, you can perform the ULTIMATE attack in the 
 game, which can kill up to 2,000 characters at once. It's cool when you can pull that move off.
 
  
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  Uh... I honestly have no idea what the deal is with the story. There IS a story, but I honestly 
 can't remember a thing that happens within it. There is no singular main character in this game 
 though. It kinda reminds me of Saga Frontier or Unlimited Saga in a way. Basically you play as 
 7 different characters, and each character has their own story. All the characters have intertwining 
 story lines. So character A will fight with or fight character B. Character B will fight Character 
 C, and so on. 
  
  You mostly get new stories with these characters though. You're not exactly getting different perspectives 
 within the same single storyline. Depending on what character you are playing as, then the outcome 
 of this war will change.
  
  I like the idea of this storyline. It was just poorly executed. The main problem is the really 
 really boring cutscenes, and bland characters. I honestly can't name you a single character in 
 this game, and I just beat it 5 minutes ago (as of this writing) . It sounds like they put the character's 
 names through a random name generator. Here, I'll make up a few names right now. Astaragarr. Xyslithy. 
 Stagitisis. Prephetis. Memstyr. I could go on. 
  
  The absolute worst thing about this game was the constant cutscenes. This game has no flow to it. 
 You can fight for 2 seconds, then a cutscene will appear, then slash two more things before another 
 cutscene. It was frustrating. 
  
  The worst part about the cutscenes was killing a boss or reaching a treasure chest a millisecond 
 before a cutscene appears and you lose loot or health potion or whatever. The pacing destroys this 
 game.
  
  
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  The graphics are ok.. on a technical level. I mean, it's pretty impressive that they have 200 characters 
 on screen at once, but they sacrificed that for stupid AI and poor animations. I did go through 
 a few slow-downs, but that was mostly towards the end of the game where your attacks were greater, 
 and the number of enemies was massive.
  
  On an aesthetic level, the game looks generic as hell. The landscapes are boring, the character 
 models are forgettable. There is nothing about this games look that I will remember within the 
 next few days. 
  
  My biggest grief overall with the graphics was how bland the character and enemies looked on screen. 
 While enemies usually group up and are easy to kill. Once you kill off the majority of the enemies, 
 they blend in with your battalion, and you can't find them within the mess. 
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  I was not a fan of the voice acting at all. They just sounded like 
 ametuar voice actors. Despite that, they only have voice acting during the cutscenes. I wish they 
 had voice acting withing the battle sequences. You might be battling 100 goblins at once, but they 
 pop up a stupid text box, expecting you to read it. It would have been much better if they just 
 voiced that stuff out. 
  
  The music is weird. There's alot of operatic chanting and heavy orchestral strings. It gets a bit 
 cheesy though. The music reminds me of those De Beers Jewelry commercials.
  
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  The map is a typical menu map. The game flows pretty linearly. 
 You beat one stage, and another one unlocks. There is one exception where you get to pick between 
 2 stages, but that is with one character only. You can replay any previous levels at any point 
 in the game though. 
  
  They only start you off with one playable character, but once you beat her story, then they unlock 
 two new characters. Then you have to beat both of their stories before you can unlock two more 
 characters. Once again, you have to then beat their stories before you can play as the "Secret" 
 final character. 
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ----------
  Possibly 12 hours.
  
  There are 7 playable characters, and each one has atleast 2 to 6 stages. Stages take between 10 
 minutes to 45 minutes to complete, but you can backtrack and go through previous stages at any 
 moment in the game if you want to level grind or get a better score. So there is plenty of game 
 into this. When you complete each character's story, then you'll get a "Game over" credit sequence. 
 So I technically beat this game 7 times over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:05 am PT
Review:  N3 was one of those titles which did great in the aspect that is showed what the xBox 360 was capable 
 of when it just got released. The Graphics are Crisp, colorful and vivid. But what it makes up 
 for in graphics, it kind of lacks in the story and gameplay department.
  
  You play as one of 7 characters, unlocking one as you finish another. The stories are kind of linked 
 together, but with different outcomes to suit the character you are playing. 
  
  What I didn't like about the story is that it makes very little sense. And thanks to the crummy 
 Japanese script, you find youself even more confused. Some conversations actually go like this: 
  know! Sounds porno if you ask me. 
  
  There really isn't much in terms of game play. You find yourself just doing random button smashing. 
 It can get annoying... trust me.
  
  The one thing about this game which was a total and utter minus point is the fact that there are 
 no Checkpoints anywhere on any of the stages. You find yourself playing for like 45min and then 
 you die only to start the whole thing again from the start!!! And so you waste like hours of your 
 time.
  
  Anyway. Okay game. Could be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hikaru_Isamu
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 30, 2009 5:54 pm PT
Review:  My situation with this game is a perfect throwback to childhood; Friday afternoon, I'm bored, looking 
 for a game to rent. The one I was aiming to purchase wasn't in stock, so I settle for this one; 
 I had been wanting to play it for a while, anyways, so I figured I would have fun with it.
  
  If only I were right.
  
  The game was enjoyable for the first few missions, until you catch 
 on to the formula: Start a mission, locate a mob, eliminate the mob, repeat. Replace "mob" with 
 "boss" occasionally and you have the equation for the entire game. Of what I managed to play, at 
 least. If the game suddenly transforms from a boring, repetitive button masher into an enjoyable 
 game, let me know, and I'll be happy to edit my review.
  
  The first problem with the game is the actual gameplay; all you do is press X and Y until the mob 
 you are currently fighting dies, then you run into the next and kill it. It's fun at first, because 
 you collect energy for two special moves; by killing regular enemies, you gain red orbs, which 
 lets you go into a special mode, giving you two strong attacks. While in this mode, killing enemies 
 gives you blue orbs, which, when collected in full, allows you to unleash an attack which "kills 
 the hell out of everything." However, you can only do this so many times before it bores you.
 
  
  The second problem is the cutscenes. The character animations seem to stutter sometimes, and the 
 voice acting for any given character is atrocious. That combined with the cheesy dialogue combines 
 for a laughably bad video sequence at best.
  
  Now, I was willing to put up with this, just for some easy achievements. This was just a rental, 
 after all, and games like this usually give easy achievements. However, you have to beat an entire 
 character's story before you get even one achievement; a task easier said than done.
  
  Unless you're desperate for a Dynasty Warrior-esque game, I beg you to pass this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarkatanWarrior
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:36 pm PT
Review:  When I bought 99 nights I picked it up for two reasons. One - It was 4.99$, Two - I liked the cover. 
 I wasn't expecting the greatest game for the price. When I started playing it I loved the cutscenes, 
 and a few of the characters seemed pretty sweet. I kept asking myself why would the game be so 
 cheap, it's a pretty good looking game.
  
  Then the cutscenes stopped.
  
  99 nights reminds me a lot of a flashier, more deep Soul Calibur legends. It's still a bad game, 
 it just looks nicer, and it has one of the same HUGE faults that SCL had. When you lose a level, 
 you go right back to the beginning. That wouldn't be so bad if the level was fun, and filled with 
 memorable, replay-worthy fights. Instead you hack your way through several thousand goblins (or 
 other enemies that fight the exact same way) and fight one irritating boss. This results in levels 
 that can last up to half an hour, and when a game is as repetitive as 99 nights, you don't want 
 to spend more than 10 minutes playing it.
  
  Another glaring issue with the game is that it's 100% a button masher. There are two attack, buttons, 
 both of which do some pretty weak combos, an "orb attack" which is pretty much the only good attack 
 in the game, and a super orb attack that clears out most of the enemies on screen. Wouldn't be 
 a bad combination if there weren't about 50 levels in the game. Nine characters that play the exact 
 same, in levels that are the exact same? UGH!
  
  I gave up on this game after I realized that the game expects you to be good at button mashing 
 somehow. Button mashing isn't a skill, it's a cop-out, but apparently you have to hone your button 
 mashing skills to get anywhere in this game. Too many times I found myself at the end of the level, 
 with no health items in sight (because you have to find them in a STUPID TREASURE CHEST IN THE 
 MIDDLE OF NO WHERE) Only to get killed by a stray goblin wizard, or stupid weak enemy that gets 
 a cheap shot in.
  
  Your troops are essentially useless, and a few times I've left my troops to guard an area to search 
 for secret items, only to return and find that a single goblin has killed them all.
  
  Hopefully the sequel is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joel131293
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  It is very good game that left me impressed. The devastation from your attacks is felt even more 
 when in the middle of a battle because you battle with a large crowd simultaneously.
  
  The game has good graphics and a good storyline with eight playable characters: 
  Klarrann is 
 the first character to appear in the game. He uses a club to fight which I think renders him slower 
 due to its size.
  Inphyy, a seventeen year old knight with a quick and powerful fighting style.
  Myifee, a male 
 fighter with a double-bladed sword and a powerful fighting style.
  Aspharr, Inphyy's stepbrother who fights with a lance. his fighting style is slower than his sister's 
 but have a greater distance.
  Tyurru, a young sorceress and aa good water manipulator. Her attacks combine water with sorcery 
 which proves to be devastating.
  Dwingvatt, a goblin using two short bladed weapons with a very fast fighting style
  Vigk Vagk, 
 a troll which must be unlocked. He is very kind and has a slow fighting style caused by his large 
 size.
  
  On the otherhand the thing I hated about this game was that you did not have saving check points, 
 therefore if you get past a difficult part and you die you must have to re-do it again.
  
  In my opinion this game is underestimated and should be appreciated more for its good graphics, 
 fantastic storyline and its original gameplay that will surely please fantasy Beat-'Em-Up lovers 
 and other gamers.
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wtfisurprob
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  Beast this game seems pretty good kinda of hard i played on it for 4 hours and i liked it just 
 a little too hard but i still love hove you get different characters and everything.
  clearly you should just buy this game just to try it out.
  It Reminds me of dead rising except 
 not in a mall.
  That pretty much what i think.
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
 
  LO LOLL ROLL L LULL { 
  LO LOLL troll L LULL { 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueeyedtasha87
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Ninety Nine Nights is a great hack em/slash em games. It can be compared perfectly as a cross between 
 Dynasty Warriors, Dynasty Warriors Empire and Samurai Warriors. The music is amazing and if you 
 want to you can have your own music playing in the background. I haven't yet taken it on-line as 
 I don't have an active Live account. Although I am not to sure if its on-line. It is great to play 
 after a hard days work if your annoyed or stressed to relieve the tension and stressed. Its the 
 type of game that's hard to put down, it is really addictive. 
  
  There is a few bad points. The first is that it is only one player, so theres no co-op at all. 
 So theres no inviting friends round to play against you. That is one of the best things about fighting 
 games, the 2 + player co-op. But even with that missing it still deserves 10 out of 10. I have 
 only played the first few levels and even so there is so much I have already done, so many things 
 I have already fought against. The combo's are easy to work and there are so many, theres at least 
 2 new ones with each level and then theres the specials. Which consists of 2 and theres different 
 ways to fill the bars. I dont want to give too much away as you really need to play N3 to experience 
 everything N3. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunloved
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  To be blunt, Ninety-Nine Nights is the type of game you either love... or hate. Like many types 
 of games before it, you'll take control of a number of different characters, ranging from a moody 
 revenge seeking female, a whiny complaining warm hearted male to a water sorceress 12 year old. 
 The game offers you seven types of vastly different characters to play from, many are lightning 
 quick and others feel as if your pushing a bus through water. 
  
  As stated, you'll fight on numerous battlefields against hundreds of foes using various moves to 
 kill as many as possible to move on. Though combat does quickly fall to the hack and slash button 
 mashing, many of the final attacks are a thrill to pull off as you can kill hundreds in one blow. 
 
  
  The game is painfully short and sometimes can be very frustrating as attacks on enemies sometimes 
 fail to even damage them, or on some occasions, enemies will block for minutes on hand. 
  
  Graphics: Rather simple for a 360 game, you'll find out quickly that the fog of war that prevails 
 in so many other games of this type has returned. 
  
  Sound: The music itself is very well done, with a rather haunting melody. Though the battle sounds 
 itself tend to repeat over and over.
  
  Control: Rather simple in design. Jump, power attack, weak attack, etc. are all assigned to a button.
 
  
  Fun Factor: While its fun to destroy vast hordes of enemies across areas ranging from canyon desserts 
 to snowy castles, it does feel the same as each character usually plays through the same area. 
 
  
  Final Word: For those who enjoyed Dynasty Warriors, etc. I would recommend this game for a try, 
 though only the die hard hack and slash fans should buy it. Rent it, and play it for its quick 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 10, 2008 5:34 am PT
Review:  Ninety Nine Nights puts you in the shoes of multiple different characters on a warpath, with plenty 
 of vengeance, violence and betrayal in store.
  The game "Borrows" many different elements from games such as Dynasty Warriors and Kingdom underfire, 
 and at some points can be mistaken as one of the two. I am usually quite a sucker for these kind 
 of games and tend to find myself playing them on the occasion since they are usually simple and 
 fun. 
  
  N3 combines beat-em ups with general warfare, where your goal throughout the missions is to defeat 
 enemy leaders, capture strongholds or whatever but after a while becomes quite a bore. By the end 
 of the game once you have leveled up and become twice as powerful as you were already in the first 
 place, battles become something of a button mash, though whilst button mashing you pull off fairly 
 spectacular moves. 
  
  The graphics are the games strongest point, and visual elements do make a game more playable, but 
 a game with weak gameplay, all other elements are destroyed leaving you angry with the money you 
 just spent on a game not worth getting. Most games seem to be big on the idea of multiple achievements 
 that you unlock, yet this game has only 10-11 achievments to unlock which involve just generally 
 beating the game as one of the main characters.
  
  The game has as always a typical japanese element to it, which you always notice by the scarily 
 young girl called Inphyy who you play as who is only seventeen years old, with massive breasts 
 and a rear which is only just covered up by the cloak on her back. These are a few things that 
 sometimes make you want to stay away from these games in case you become framed as someone who 
 loves hentai *Cough* DOAX Volleyball *Cough* but i gaurantee anyone who loves dynasty warriors 
 wont be much dissapointed of this "Clone". 
  
  A good game with some good elements... just tireing repetative gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 29, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  --------
  
  -Hack n' slash style similar to that of Koei's Dynasty Warriors and Samurai Warriors series.
 
  
  -Easy and comprehensive controls allow you to create some truly devastating combos.
  
  -Flashy special abilities give you plenty of "Did I just do that!?" moments.
  
  -Character 
 customization, however limited, allows you to equip weapons and gear on the fly, letting you adapt 
 to a changing battle.
  
  -On par graphics with a 360 title
  
  -Unique characters provide different personalities and diverse play styles.
  
  The Bad
  -------
 
  
  -Low replay value due to the fact that there are so few missions.
  
  -An epic tale of good vs. evil is overshadowed by underwhelming storytelling.
  
  -Soldiers 
 that you control spend more time cheering you on than actually helping you.
  
  The Ugly
  --------
  
  -Boss fights quickly become a chore, as the blocking system renders the character 
 invulnerable.
  
  -Bad timing in a fight with a boss can prove devastating to the player, as many bosses have several 
 extremely powerful attacks.
  
  The Achievements
  ----------------
  
  Through a single play through of every character, and without going out of my way to earn extra 
 or secret achievements 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martbigz
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I saw the first video of Ninety-Nine Nights (from now on abbreviated N3) , I had really 
 high hopes for it. It had a ton of enemies on-screen at most times, wild combos, quite good visuals, 
 and in general looked like an entertaining game.
  
  I downloaded the demo when it was released via Xbox Live back in the day, and what I tried then 
 was somewhat OK, but I still felt like it lacked a lot. Although I was obviously wrong, I blamed 
 it on the fact that the demo must've been limited.
  
  Now, quite a while later, I bought this game to see if I had been wrong, or if this game just wasn't 
 worth it. Trust me, it's not worth it.
  
  The first thing that really annoys me about N3, is the voice acting, which sounds like it was done 
 with a complete lack of enthusiasm and interest. The voices sound completely fake, some too high-pitched, 
 and none of the actors even sound remotely interested in trying to do a good job. This ruins a 
 lot for me, since bad voice acting is even worse than dated graphics.
  
  The gameplay in itself is OK. You see a lot of badguys, you get to kill a lot of badguys, and on 
 top of that, you can execute awesome combos.
  A problem here, is that the normal basic attacks will get you just as far, if not further, than 
 the big flashy combos and special moves. You don't need the specials to even complete the game, 
 in many ways it will only halt your progress.
  
  The visuals were good for the time when it was released, but now it feels dated and not very detailed 
 or good. I won't comment a lot on this now since I obviously can't compare them to the games released 
 today, but I at least find them kind of boring. Any form of graphical violence is stripped, you 
 hear moderate "thud" sounds when you hit your opponents, and they just fall over with no visual 
 damage.
  Now, I'm not a big fan of unnecessary violence, but if you're supposed to slaughter thousands of 
 thousands of enemies for 10 hours, you might aswell try to make that look and sound a bit better 
 to be honest.
  
  The sound effects are fair, with the exception of most combat effects (which is kind of what the 
 whole game is about) . The music never really gets boring but neither does it stand out. It's more 
 neutral and just there.
  
  To sum up, if you find this game for 20$ or less, I guess it would be worth the money if you desperately 
 need a hack and slash game to vent out your frustration. But check out the demo first, before you 
 go on buying it. You might find it not worth your time, just like I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holy_terr0r
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 14, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok to start this off, this is one of the most frustrating, annoying games I've encountered. I was 
 really looking forward to this game prior to its' release, but when i got it 2nd day day after 
 release, OH MY GOSH. I was sooo frustrated with this game, I haven't touched it since. Not only 
 is this game EXTREMELY difficult on the last mission of each character, it's just boring and repetitive. 
 I usually dont write reviews on games I just dont like, but this game crossed the line. Sure, the 
 graphics are pretty, but the AI is the worst ive ever seen. Not only do your stupid soldiers not 
 do a single bit of damage, they can die easily. I played through inphyy's storyline, and again, 
 ohmygosh, it was soo annoying! Not only is her voice the squeakiest, highest voice ive heard, her 
 last mission is impossible due to the boss who can kill you in about 4 hits, and blocks most of 
 your shots. It's bloody impossible to beat the campaign, and I was looking forward to getting the 
 achievements for this game, guess that wont be happening.
  Next, When you're in battles, you wont be able to tell between your guys and the orc dudes. Luckily 
 you cant kill friendlies, but you're swinging blindly thru each fight with this issue. I DONT reccommend 
 this game, unless you really like the genre. Even then rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Princess_Jill
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  N3, as much the presentation and the graphics are cute, the gameplay is a total let down, don't 
 get me wrong, the controls are sharp and everything, but once you learn all the combinations for 
 a certain character, the gamplay wears thin, as you don't have as much fun anymore like you did 
 in Dynasty Warrior games.
  
  The story is fantasy, Inphyy, whom you start the game with, is a 17 years old girl who seeks revenge 
 for her father's death, and goblins will be your enemies, after you beat her levels, you unlock 
 her brother till you have completed all 7 characters, and whith each one having a different storyline, 
 It can get the game a bit less boring. There are, however, some repetition in some of stories.
 
  
  I must give this game credit for the outstanding sound track, it's indeed beautiful, and makes 
 you want to play this game.
  
  You'll like some characters, you might not like others, but still, I hate Inphyy but I played with 
 her after all hehe.
  
  Finally, you can check this game, but you have to rent it first, so many people were disappointed 
 after purchasing it immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ciedakilla
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best ive played for fighting through massive armys. The game has 7 characters 
 each with their own unique storyline. Its a fun game to play over and over ( for sumtime ) smashing 
 you way through big armys on every level. Fight through big hords of orcs , goblins and other creatures, 
 to fighting dragons, trolls and enemy generals, to even te king of night ( i think thats what hes 
 called ) . The enemy is just the right difficulty but the bosses will have to be fought by the more 
 experienced players, especially the final boss which took me quite some time to kill. In the game 
 you will find treasure chests which can contain health or power potions or even weapons or enchancements 
 to customize your character. I gave this game a 7.5 because its got big armies to fight you way 
 through, but its a let-down because the story is too short and it feels more of an arcade game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  listen this game is wonderful. by far one of my favorites and actually better then most of the 
 dynasty warriors. this game offers a limited amount of characters but dont confuse quantity with 
 quality as all these characters are awsome, and unique in each individual way. i bought this game 
 when it first came out and still play it from time to time. it took about two and half days to 
 beat and unlock everything but it is so worth it. when it came out it was only 50 and is now much 
 cheaper. i would have honestly been proud to pay the 60 big ones for this. the story line captivates 
 you and makes you in for one hell of a good time. this is a must have for any xbox360 collection 
 and we can only hope that they make more because one is not enough. especially all of the secret 
 content this game offers including secret endings and fighting secret bosses that are extremely 
 challenging making this a highly replayable addicting game. it was a pleasure to review this one 
 for you all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephallim
Rating: 4
Date: May 2, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  N3, as it wants to be called, is one of those truly lame offerings that should be considered ample 
 justification for beating the snot out of the people responsible for making it. In this case, the 
 people responsible are Microsoft Game Studios, Q Entertainment, and Phantagram. Now, Microsoft 
 Game Studios has their name on the full spectrum of games from great to crap, and probably just 
 rubber stamp their name on things they give money too without actually investing work in. Q Entertainment 
 is a honey wagon of a outfit with N3 probably being the best thing that I see to their credit... 
 which is really, really sad. But Phantagram are the people behind the Kingdom Under Fire series, 
 which are all supposed to be very good if not great games. If already know how to do the over-the-top, 
 one-hero-vs-armies game, how could they mess this up SO horribly?
  
  That is the question, to be sure.
  
  For starters, let's look at the parts....
  
  The graphics 
 are lacking, from the character design to the environment to the effects. Specifically, the blurring-at-distance 
 effect is terribly implemented with no blending at all... you just see harsh steps between really 
 blurry, kinda blurry, and clear. The most basic attacks that you make are grossly over-decorated 
 with excessive color trails and these effects just get more and more obnoxious the larger the combo 
 you string together, making it impossible to see what it is going on. And if you use the special 
 orb powers, the devastation is as much to your view as to the enemy on screen. Flashy moves are 
 good to accentuate a particular attack or power, but N3 is just over-saturated with glaring effects 
 that serve more to get in your way than impress. And since it is fairly difficult to tell friend 
 from foe in most of the battles anyway, the extra distraction of your attacks just compounds that 
 problem as well. The character models themselves range from interesting to ridiculous. I rather 
 like the main character's armor designs, if outlandish, and most of the rank-and-file troops are 
 acceptable but the weaponry is just... stupid looking. Inphyy's swords are flat cut-outs that sometimes 
 look like sharpened musical notes more than blades, for example while Aspharr's assorted lances 
 are ugly as sin and Myifee's dual swords are so bulky and thick as to eliminate any belief that 
 they should be effective.
  
  The sound quality is crisp, with well-selected music and effects. The voices make up for the quality 
 being good by being some of the most poorly chosen I have ever encountered. Inphyy has this cutesy, 
 flirty girl teenage girl voice with its high, lilty features... while being a ruthless, vengeance 
 obsessed falling angel well on her way to becoming a cruel tyrant. She sounds bubbly, even when 
 she is breathing hard and supposedly full of bloodlust. It just doesn't fit. Aspharr is similarly 
 always sounding happily excited, even whenever he is supposed to be worried about Inphyy or otherwise 
 upset. There are numerous cutscenes where characters, mostly the females, are supposed to be breathing 
 hard from excursion but just end up soundly like they are about to take a money shot in a bad adult 
 movie.
  
  A step from the voices is the dialogue itself. It's worthless. It sounds like an amateur short 
 story written in high school and I have only the most thin understanding of what the hell is supposed 
 to be going on with the characters... and most of that is from the blurbs at character creation. 
 There are characters, they each have quirks, and stuff has happened to them. That's about the depth 
 you get with about the same level of satisfaction from it.
  
  The missions themselves don't help much, being featureless and uninteresting. And most of them 
 are long without any checkpoints. That's right, you can spend an hour or more wading through enemies 
 only to have a bad turn of luck at the end... and have to start the entire thing over from the 
 beginning without any gain for your troubles. They really feel like the sacrifice that the game 
 requires of you in order to see the potentially interesting storyline lurking beneath this mountain 
 of flaws. But the labor is frustratingly unrewarding.
  
  Gameplay can be easily summarized: Push left thumbstick towards enemies while using the right to 
 keep the camera view unobstructed and mash X or Y (or a combination thereof) until the enemies 
 are gone. Look for the next red dot on your minimap and go to it. Rinse and repeat. That's all 
 there is to it. Killing enemies collects red orbs to fill a meter that, when full, lets you unleash 
 a powerful attack of some magnitude but this attack does next to nothing to any enemy that isn't 
 a rank-and-file trooper... and since those enemy troops stand very little chance of harming you, 
 wasting your time blazing across the screen to mow them down is unnecessary. While using that power 
 attack, the orbs you collect turn blue, filling a second meter. When it is full, the power attack 
 becomes a nuke that wipes a wide radius of foes from the screen in an instant... still without 
 touching opposing characters at all. While not expressly difficult of their own merit, the boss-like 
 enemy characters are a complete pain in the ass. No matter how many items you pick up to boost 
 your stats, you still don't seem to dish out much damage against them while the slightest touch 
 from them sends you reeling. They aren't complicated to fight, but they can take a while to whittle 
 down and if you are on your own... it's just a mindless headache. This is made even worse by faulty 
 hit/collision detection. Sometimes you can be delivering a lengthy combo only to have hit detection 
 fail and cause you to deal no damage, though collision detection is in full effect as you push 
 the enemy across the screen. Or hit detection is working fine but collision detection fails and 
 your carefully lined-up attack goes south whenever you pass through and are stuck moving through 
 part of the chain before you get to turn around.
  
  Ninety-Nine Nights is just a comedy of errors and flaws. It's playable but annoying and there is 
 nothing about it that takes any steps towards redeeming its value. Unless you are truly bored, 
 ignore this one even if you find it in a bargain bin. Anything more than $5 is asking too much 
 and you should even be wary of someone just giving it to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razraider
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  The characters were explained thoroughly and made you like them. The game was highly addictive 
 and fun. The final level was a pivotal point in my high score because it was difficult and fun, 
 the graphics in game were amazing even though there were 200 people on the screen. The animation 
 of the water for one of the characters was beautiful and well done. The combos and item system 
 made it feel like a RPG but it played like a hack and slash. I will play this game for a long time, 
 just so I can perfect my skill. I salute the makers of the game for making one of my favorites. 
 I left all my priorities at the door when I came home to play ninety-nine nights. The levels were 
 a clever thing because the level started off on medium but went down one notch every time you died 
 three times in a row. And when you beat that level you can go back to it and play on hard or even 
 very hard. The weapons of the characters were sometimes hard to get but they were worth it. I was 
 a huge fan of SW and DW so maybe that explains my deep love for this game. I gave up SSBB just 
 to play ninety-nine nights even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conway666
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 22, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  The game tried to take everything that series greats like dynasty warriors and samarai warriors 
 did and take them to a new level. N3 did indeed suceed in some aspects. For one they definitely 
 beefed up the graphics to make it look like it was built for next-gen consoles. They also made 
 the battles huge while fighting hundreds of enemies at a time. Unfortunately the drawbacks outweight 
 the good. During the massive battles their is no targeting system so finding enemies which is alot 
 worse than it sounds. Combos are reundant. Story is terrible. and gameplay is short. All in all 
 it fails to produce the experience it tried for. If you are really looking for a great experince 
 just get anyone of the dynasty warriors games. They are all great have a huge cast of charachters 
 and a good nice long gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davideko
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  This game is good; repetitive, but fun to play... It's very long, with a huge world, and thousends 
 of enemies on screen. The AI (bouth of your alies and enemies) is very bad, but it's fun to kill. 
 There are many characters and it's awsome to play. But there are no saves beatween a mission, that 
 sucks because sometimes you need to spend 2 hrs. playing a level and the when you die almost at 
 the end you'll loose all your progress, I hate that because there are some levels where are magicians 
 and they kill you (it's almost at the end of a current level) and then you need to play for another 
 2hrs. to reach them again... that and the AI SUCKS. the rest is ok!! There are no side quests, 
 you're next objective is very easy to find, you have a map but it's very easy to find your objectives 
 even without the map. There are some awsome combos, too.
  I highly recomend this game to anyone who likes huge battles, but it's a hack'n'slash tipe of game; 
 the graphics are bad, but the world is huge...
  You should pick it up at your store though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  99 nights is a refreshing awakening from the ever repetitive Dyanasty Warriors, at least thats 
 what you think the first 20 minutes into the game. After you get half way through playing with 
 the first character you feel as if you have taken in all the game has to offer. The Story takes 
 place in some sort of medevial realm that includes elves, goblins, and orcs. The storyline is that 
 of a cheesy sci-fi movie in that it gives characters a type of sterotypcial attitude and doesn't 
 get real deep with the plot. The graphics are not that great to look at. Most of what they do doesn't 
 seem like they would be to outta place with last gen consoles except for maybe the lighting, which 
 is way to exagerated. The sounds are all generic and the music is easily forgettable. The voice 
 acting is also lacking. The game feels sluggish and the characters don't handle well. Upgrades 
 are random and you have to get a few good ones just to make it through some of the levels because 
 of their difficulty. A game this simplistic is quite hard to play as the AI seems sluggish, but 
 invincible. There are view acheivements and most of them could be gotten by completing the game 
 with the multiple characters, but otherwise just stay away from this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  N3 Ninety-Nine Nights, presents a story of a war between humans and goblin type creatures. You 
 play six different characters to complete the "epic" adventure. You start out with the 17-year-old 
 Inphyy who is out for justice because of the killing of her father. You'll also play as Aspharr, 
 Myifee, Tyurru, Klarrann, and Dwinvatt as well as a couple of unlockable characters. Each of the 
 game's six characters offers a different view of the tale and how their part of the tale completes 
 the whole story. 
  
  Ninety-Nine Nights has some stunning graphics with beautiful colors. The battle scenes are large 
 with hordes of enemies. Each of the different characters offers different attributes and skills. 
 The game has some very strong positives, but also some weaknesses, such as poor voice acting, weak 
 character control, and a hard to follow storyline. It's definitely a fun game to play and one that 
 every gamer should at least play once.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kegeto
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 4, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  well i have not that much to say on this game either though i rent it first it was alright nothing 
 that was intresting. though it was good in japan it wasnt that great in the U. S though i couldnt 
 stand the acting. music was alright but it lacks of great protenal. i loved this game with un going 
 enemys but with not many new combos to know and the game play thus with diffrent storylines it 
 hard to come by. i say you guys should rent it before buying. for me i am not buying this game. 
 any way what else well the game need to do a touch up. if they do make a 2nd one which i know that 
 wont happen they should re do game play and all. if your an roleplaying fan this might be a good 
 high score for them but the gamers who like to see alot of blood and action it wont be that great. 
 and thus the game does have great envoirment though but if you like to use unslaught of combos 
 and realese hell to your enemy and stuff than you can have fun with this game. i gave this game 
 7.0 out of 10. heh i am so going to get yelled at 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  N3 puts in the role of 7 characters whos stories all add up but in different points of views. the 
 combat gets very repetitve but that is the basic point of these beat em up games. the main character 
 stories have at least 4 to 5 missions the least imortant have 2 to 4 missions. the combat system 
 is very basic, you only X and Y for attacks. each character has his/her own different combos and 
 special attacks. you are also allowed to level up your characters to max level of 9. the voice 
 acting is horrible most of the time aspharr in his story all he does is moan and inphyy her voice 
 sound like a train trying to come to a complete stop. there is nothing else to it but just tapping 
 X and Y and the game features no multiplayer options. the seven characters to choose from are Myifee, 
 Klarrann, Dwingvatt, Tryuu, Aspharr, Inphyy and Vigk Vagk. (notice how every charcters name fineshes 
 in a double of the same letter except fpr Vigk Vagk) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdwolf260
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Ninety-Nine Nights throws thousands of enemies at you by the hundreds at one time. I wish there 
 was a funner way to dispose of them besides mashing on pretty much one button though. There are 
 some RPG elements but they're not that fleshed out and very basic. You can upgrade your character's 
 weapons and add additional items to increase your power or life as you level up. Weapon and item 
 upgrades are very few though so don't expect anything deep. There are eight characters to play 
 through the game with and each one handles a bit differently despite the fact that you'll still 
 be mashing on the same button regardless of which one you play. The plot is boring and incomplete. 
 Even after finishing the game it felt like there should have been more to the story. Graphics are 
 decent and the number of enemies that appear on screen at once is astounding. However, the only 
 reason why you would want to replay this game over and over again after completing it is to earn 
 all the achievements. Be careful on saving though, I accidently overwrote the save file of one 
 character with another one, if you do that you have to start that particular character from scratch, 
 what a pain!
  
  In short, this game is not bad, just a tad boring due to the sheer repetitiveness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Melenat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  I can't be more thrilled about this game. It is extremely similar to Dynasty Warriors, but with 
 a strong RPG influence. If you love Dynasty Warriors, then you will love this game. I have read 
 mixed reviews; more bad than good. But in my experience, every unforgettable game has taken me 
 time to get used to. And I think every bad review written about this game, was from players who 
 never got used to the game. If you love to master games, unlock characters, and score points, then 
 the challenge never ends. New combos are unlocked every time you level up. And the only way to 
 continue growing stronger, is to master those moves. Otherwise, it will take a long time to keep 
 moving up the experience ladder. For anyone who doesn't like the attack system, give it a chance 
 - it requires allot of skill and memory to tap in the correct button sequence to get these combos 
 unleashed. Incredible graphics. Especially when hacking down archer towers, or slashing through 
 obstacles. Very impressive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teka522001
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  This game's main probalem is that you can get bored of hittting the same buttons over and over 
 again. The difficulty is completely off. For example, imphy's last level is extremely difficult 
 compared to all of her others. You can play through her carrer and feel that you are playing it 
 at a solid difficulty until you reach this level and you get completely bored of the sorroundings 
 and confusing maps. There is no checkpointing so you are simply left to repeat the level many many 
 boring times. This random difficulty change appears again on the final level of the game. This 
 level is impossible unless you find a certain item which only appears by chance. Yes you must be 
 lucky to complete the game *sigh*.
  Despite this the game is pretty solid. There is some good characters and the story line isn't that 
 bad and i quite enjoyed the voice acting other than sometimes it becomes to quiet to hear but the 
 actual accents are quite entertaining. The actual gameplay is good too with the standard control 
 scheme you come to expect from this type of game
  All in all not a bad game but dont go into playing it with that high expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anim8ed
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that gives you achievable achievements. This game is fun and it's always a good 
 challenge to see if you cannot rack up 2000+ hit combos as the screen is literally FLOODED with 
 foes. N3 gives Dynasty Warriors a solid update into the current-gen of consoles and has pretty 
 cool flashy maneuvers. Also, the biggest moves of the game are the Orb Spark attacks. These attacks 
 take a while (usually a good 1/3 of the way into a mission) to obtain but when they are available, 
 the sequence is always entertaining no matter how many times you see them.
  
  Yes, this game will get tedious after a while, but the fact that there are less than a dozen achievements 
 in the game and it's worth 1000 gamer score points, it's almost impossible to put the game down 
 without getting them all. If you are hesitant to make the purchase, I strongly suggest renting 
 it from Blockbuster, Hollywood Video, or even Gamefly to try it out and make a quick 1000 extra 
 points to your gamer score. A worthy investment if the money is there and a more than applicable 
 candidate for a quick rental. I'm still addicted to N3 now just trying to get all the final achievements, 
 this game is good and worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAVEZero
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 11:45 pm PT
Review:  God-Forbidden voice-acting, stupid infantry AI and poor squad-commading.... this game is one of 
 the most annoying I've played. Better than Dynasty Warriors, but then again that's not saying much.
 
  
  Good: Interesting combos and attacks, art style behind each is impressive; Massive amounts of enemies 
 onscreen, Graphics are decent, Custom Soundtracks; the ability to leave your squad behind and go 
 solo (intentionally)
  
  Bad: Stupid A. I. (why does it take 200 squad members so long to kill a single goblin?) ; Horrible 
 Squad-Commands, Repetitive fighting, even after level-ups.
  
  Abysmal: Voice Acting, character names (Inphyy?? Aspharr?? What the **** man?)
  
  Do not, under 
 any circumstances, play this game. Even if you're dying for a hack and slash, this won't even save 
 you. I don't care how many enemies are on screen, it's worth nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the trailor for N3 i got really excited because i knew that would be a game i 
 bought and then i found out it was similar to Dynasty Warriors which excited me a little more than 
 before, however i wouldnt have minded if it was a RPG either cause there are just as fun. Well 
 the downfall to this game is that it is jsut to repetitive and if you want to play as every character 
 you need to complete the game with a character to unlock another one, so it gets really boring 
 really fast. Another thing was that it didnt live up to what i thought it would be, the story is 
 extremely dull, which isnt really fun, i mean if you like to kill people then this is the game 
 for you, but if you dont then dont play because you might not be entertained. The graphics were 
 ok, but not great. But i guess it'll do... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 31, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Ninety-Nine Nights (or N3) has some very good looking graphics, art style and especially music, 
 but its gameplay is just way too repetitive and the storytelling is not so great.
  
  Story is told through multiple perspectives and the only way to know whats really going on is 
 to read the manual before starting the game itself. A green Orb Stone created the world and at 
 the same time an ancient demon woke up. The guardian of the Orb managed to defeat the demon after 
 a hundred days of its awakening, so it is now called the demon of 99 nights. But now goblins have 
 gathered their troops and started a war against humans. This is how a great war between light and 
 dark begins. Story is not very clear, because you play the same story in many different perspectives 
 or angles so its pretty much impossible to know what exactly happened in the end.
  
  Graphics are detailed and colorful with literally hundreds of characters on screen at once. Unfortunately 
 the frame rate takes a hit occasionally, but nothing you cant get over with. Also since theres 
 so much action on screen the environments are almost exclusively narrow pipes keeping you pushing 
 forward. Sound is done well and the orchestral music is by far the best part of N3.
  
  Gameplay is typical hackn slash with multiple characters to play with and youll get new items 
 and combo moves along the way to improve your performance. Unfortunately thats it: Ninety-Nine 
 Nights tries to expand one single idea into a whole game lasting for 15 to 20 hours. Still it must 
 be said that you can feel yourself as a god when hacking down 10 to 30 enemies with a single sword 
 slash and it is awesome.
  
  In your command theres an army of soldiers, but since the AI is stupid you will end up doing all 
 the work by yourself. It would have been a much better choice to be able to play with a friend 
 either on a split-screen or through Xbox Live, but thats not the case: N3 is for one player only.
 
  
  Save system is absolutely terrible. You can save your progress only between missions and they last 
 anywhere between 5 to 50 minutes. If you die after fighting for 45 minutes youll have start all 
 over again.
  
  Ninety-Nine Nights has an enormous potential in it, but its simplistic gameplay and a terrible 
 save system drags the experience down substantially. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  N3 is fun game that can't be described as the best in its type of genre but can deliver nonetheless. 
 The graphics first off are good but could have been more detailed and well done. The game's story 
 starts pretty much in the middle of a war against several non-human races that are trying to take 
 over the land. There are seven characters to play as in seven different campaign modes. The campaign 
 modes each will run you at least several hours. But pretty much after you beat them all, there's 
 no real replay value at all. The game also offers stuff like in-game items you can pick up and 
 equip along with another weapon as well to. The story's are somewhat fleshed out but aren't told 
 very well with kind of bad voice acting and very minimal talking as well. N3 I consider a game 
 that only hack-&-slash fans will like but for those that don't, consider a rent first or don't 
 even try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bossmannslim
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are very good and the combos that you will be performing do look amazing. 
 Ninety Nine Nights is a very simple game and almost every character has about the same story. Out 
 of all of the characters that you can use in this game you will only find enjoyment out of 3 of 
 them. The rest do not have many combos and the moves are quite simple. The game is not worth it 
 at the normal asking price of $59.99 but at around $29.99 it would be worth it. If you wanted to 
 save even less money then you could just rent it. Because after you beat the entire game there 
 isn't much replay value. There is no kind of Co-op or multiplayer aspects to the game. If you are 
 not into beat 'em up games at all then I wouldn't recommend this game to you. I looked at it as 
 a quick way to get my gamerscore up 500 points with you only really needing about 7 hours to beat 
 the whole game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleperez75
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Thanks God I rented it instead of buying a used copy, and I was tempted to buy it. The case art 
 and everything is very appealing. When I rented it I thought that I was going to have a good time 
 with this game. I inserted in my Xbox and as soon as I started to play it I got bored. There was 
 nothing interesting, in my opinion about the game. Just learn to do a couple of combos and you'll 
 see flashy movements but that's it. Keep pressing buttons and killing a bunch of foes. Unnecessary 
 is to say that I could only stand the game for 15 minutes. I was so absolutely boring that I never 
 touch it again and brought it to the rental place the very next day.
  
  This is so no my type of game so I don't recommend it. I'm sure that some people will like it but 
 make your self a favor, rent it first and if you like it, buy it used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha_and-Omega
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Ninety Nine Nights is a game that continues with the Dynasty Warriors style gameplay of puting 
 alot of enemies on screen and lets you defeat all of them.
  
  Alot of people dont really like this game due to how repetitve it can get, i agree that it can 
 get repetitve but i think that is a really awesome game. You have got lots of combos to unleash 
 on your opponents and a special orb attack.
  
  You may have to kill 1000+ enemies on 1 single level how can that not be fun?. Some levels can 
 go for around 45mins and longer.
  
  there are around about 5 or 6 playable characters and 1 extra that you play as and you can choose 
 the style of infanrty that you take into battle and when you want to use them.
  
  This game can frustrate you at some points but then you just level back up and play the level again.
 
  
  The only real downside to this game is that there is no checkpoints during the levels, so if you 
 die you must go back and start the level from the beginning again.
  
  I think this game is pure excellent but alot of people dont really see it, i spent alot of time 
 playing this game and i had alot of fun learning all the moves and the storyline.
  
  This games is fairly cheap (i have seen it for $50 and its good) so if ya see it i highly recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prettygoodatit
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  OK, the graphics are pretty good. 
  
  That's about it. I can't say that I can remember the music, which means it was utterly unimpressive. 
 The game play is nothing but repetitive button mashing. You basically run around hacking and slashing 
 at your enemies. There are tons of enemies to take on at a time, which was fun at first, but once 
 you spend about a half hour hacking away using the same two button combo's, it gets more than a 
 little bit old. There is no way to save your game between missions, so you have to be able to devote 
 an hour or two at a time to this game. Which is not easy to do. 
  
  But the graphics are ok. 
  
  I wish that I had rented the game instead of purchasing it new. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArturiusMaxwell
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 6, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  This is possibly one of the strangest games I have played. The characters make no sense even though 
 they are supposed to be they story and the game play is liek the first dynasty worriors. 
  
  I am not certain what they were aiming for but they missed, its a good game for casualy putting 
 on while waiting for something to happen like sleep to set in or possibly just to wittle away an 
 hour of your life you didn't want any way but on the whole it is a poor game.
  
  I can't say that I would recomend buying it but renting it would do, if your on one of those deals 
 where you get it posted to you and you can keep it for a week before posting it back I would encurage 
 you to get this game that way.
  
  The one good point in it really is that the attacks though repetative are combo linked so you can 
 use a range of moves for each character and the enemies just keep coming.
  
  I give it a 2. 1 point for the attack combos and 1 for the numerical challenge when killing the 
 hapless enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sqareenixfan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't bad. But I wouldn't say it's great either.
  
  Gameplay: Hack and slash. If you don't like Dynasty Warriors then this game is not for you. The 
 combos consist of alternate presses of the X and Y buttons. It is pretty cool when you're slashing 
 through hundreds of enemies at once, though. You also get two squads of soldiers that follow you 
 around, but they basically don't do anything. oh sure, they'll attack enemies, but they don't really 
 do any damage. They're more of a distraction than anything.
  
  Graphics: The graphics look very good. It's certainly not the best looking game on the 360, but 
 it's far from being the worse.
  
  Sound: The war music in the game can really get you ready to fight.
  
  Difficulty: Wow. This 
 is the reason I gave this game a 7.5. Otherwise it would've gotten an 8.5. For the first character, 
 the first 5 levels aren't really that hard. However, at level 6 the difficulty ramps up immensely. 
 It certainly doesn't help that when you die, you restart the whole mission. I'm stuck at level 
 7 because I keep dying and I got really frustrated at the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Midget98
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Nintey-Nine Nights is a good game with few downsides. Basically you play though missions and desimate 
 lots of enemies in any way possible. After you beat enough you can use a special move and kill 
 more faster. I'm a fan of games like this mainly because you can just pick up and play, no complicated 
 combos, no werid control scemes its just get up and go. Also something that surprised me, i found 
 the story fairly deep or at least deeper then i anticipated and it was also easy to follow unlike 
 dynasty warriors which i gave up on trying to make sense of and just accepted that i had to kill 
 things. The 7 charecters you can play as are all very different and have their own unique way of 
 beating up enemies. The only downsides in my oppinion are that its not two player which was something 
 i really enjoyed about dynasty warriors, it doesnt have a create a charecter option and there are 
 only 7 charecters, but when it comes down to it this is still a fun game and itll occupy you for 
 a long while with its long levels and since its not super expensive anymore id recomend buying 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Released: August 15, 2006
  Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
  Developers: Q Entertainment, Phantagram
  Game Genre: Beat 'Em Up
  ESRB Rating: M for Mature
 
  
  Opening Thoughts:
  The M rating on this game is ridiculous, as is the hype leading up to its release. The big deal 
 about the game: thousands of enemies on screen at one time.
  
  Story (6/10)
  I read the booklet before playing the game and thought, "Holy crap, this is gonna be amazing" for 
 two reasons. 
  
  1.) I love the Dynasty/Samurai Warriors series and the gameplay is very similar.
  2.) Konami's 
 Dynasty/Samurai Warriors series is based on ancient China and Japan, respectively. N3 is a fantasy 
 game based in a war between humans and goblins with elves, trolls, orcs, dark elves, pwucks (frog-like 
 creatures with tridents) and gewgs (wolf-like creatures with axes) .
  
  Q Entertainment tried to mix the storyline of 7 characters into one storyline. The idea was to 
 play through certain characters' stories to unlock new characters, and as you progressed, more 
 about the story would be revealed. Here are the problems with that:
  
  1.) First of all, the first two characters you control are Inphyy and Aspharr, leaders of the Temple 
 Knights. Very little is known about the storyline at this time. These two characters have the longest, 
 hardest and most boring storylines of the entire game.
  2.) Each character has a 'different viewpoint', as Q Entertainment put it, but they take that too 
 literally. In Inphyy's storyline, she kills King Dwykfarrio. In Aspharr's, he lets Dwykfarrio live. 
 In Dwingvatt's, he kills Inphyy. In VigkVagk's, he kills Inphyy, Aspharr, and Dwykfarrio. See my 
 point? How is more about the storyline revealed when the same characters are both winning and losing 
 the same battles?
  
  Anyway, here are the basics. The humans have the Orb of Light and the goblins have the Orb of Darkness. 
 If these two Orbs are combined, the King of 99 Nights will be released and everybody, more or less, 
 will die. The bad part is, the King of 99 Nights is influencing the goblin king Dwykfarrio, who 
 starts a war with the humans to attempt to reunite these orbs.
  
  Gameplay (7/10)
  N3 throws thousands of enemies at you at a time. The good part; it's cool to see thousands of enemies 
 come after you. The bad parts; you are too strong for them, so you don't even need to depend on 
 allies, you just rush through, kill them, rush to the next group and kill them. This is balanced 
 by extremely hard bosses, which sucks. If you die you have to restart the level, each of which 
 takes from 20-45 minutes to complete.
  
  The final boss is RIDICULOUSLY IMPOSSIBLE. Inphyy's highest level is 9. I had the highest level, 
 the best items and the best weapon going into the final boss battle. I used my Orb Spark attack, 
 which is the most powerful attack, and it took down his health by (and this is probably generous) 
 a sixteenth. After thatwith the best weapon and highest strength availableI attackedand did 
 ZERO damage to him. He then opened a portal, which sucked me in and damaged me over and over again. 
 I could not get out. And I died. Multiple times. And I gave up.
  
  Graphics (9/10)
  The cinematics are amazing, and the in-game graphics are great, but there is a lot of lag and the 
 in-game cinematics look like they are dubbed. The voices are terribly off.
  
  Durability (4/10)
  A short storyline and no online play. Very frustrating.
  
  Overall Score 
 (6.5/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  This one's not even worth renting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allan0204
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:41 am PT
Review:  This game was bought evan though the critic score was low. I was suprised to find out that the 
 game is great fun and i have played it for hours. Ther graphisc are great in hi-def and justify 
 my purchase of a hi-def tv!!!!
  The boss battles are pretty challenging and it is great to sit with friends and work out the best 
 way to defeat them. I also have kingdom under fire which is a similar type of game but this is 
 a far better game in terms of game play and graphics. Go out and buy it, I got it under 20 pre-owned.... 
 good value! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  The game is like Dinasty Warriors or Samurai Warriors, but more europeen (I prefer this) .
  
  You can play seven Characters and all of those characters have a specific weapon, orb and fighting 
 technique, but they only have 9 lv... It's dissapointing -- .Many items to collect, secret set, potion 
 of health, mana, Support skills for you're troops (You have 4 kind of  
 and Archer) . The game promise 2 to 7 mission by characters. After finish a mission you have a rank 
 letter (S to C) and that give you more items or weapons and a little about of points for unlock 
 Fanart and Wallpaper. All missionare intractive and you have many boss to kill to save the world. The 
 game have no Xbox live and no multiplayer mode. The gma is soso ,Many bug but the graphic isn't 
 so bad ^^.
  
  I recommend this game for people who love Beat-em up game, This game is very impressive (I kill 
 more than 1000 ennemies at all mission with all characters o. o ) . Try it before buy it. The game 
 isn't bad but isn't original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhouyunrocks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  great game ! this game was the first xbox game i ever played i like the story lines the characters 
 the weapons the moves i likie everythink but the map is rilly hard to work and to understand b 
 ut apart from that this game is brilliant the only thing that could make it better is if it had 
 a online multiplayer mode but apart from that its great its almost like dynasty warriors whatn 
 is perfect so this is nearly there for 1st impressions the xbox is great the makers should be proud 
 . i give this 99 out of a hundred ...
  
  because it was on xbox i thought it would be crap but it turnt out to be rilly good :) :P my bad 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guard12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I recently bought this game just to boost my achievement score and found out that this game isnt 
 as bad as many people say..
  
  First the graphics are actually decent and the character models at least for the main characters 
 are well done.. The enviornents could have been done a little better considering the capabilities 
 of the 360. The CGI scenes were also well done.
  
  Next the playabilities.. Basically its a big beatem up game.. Lots of button mashing going on in 
 this game.. Like the Gamespot review says the basic attacks are more effective than the flashier 
 attacks.. So you can button mash your way into victory after victory. Not that its a bad thing. 
 It just doesnt make sense to have long combos not as effective as the basic attacks.
  
  Theres alot of replay value in this game. The fact that there are unlockable characters with seperate 
 stories make this game good. Also there are RPG things thrown in so you can upgrade your characters. 
 Overall, this is a good game that is overlooked. Now you can buy this game in a bargain bin at 
 walmart if you want like I did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShogoHiryu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 2:39 am PT
Review:  Ninety Nine Nights follows the classic medieval story of good versus evil. In this case Humans 
 vs. Orcs, Trolls..... etc. with the even more powerful bad guy interested in the whole shebang. 
 Not so classic is way the story is delivered. Instead of playing straight through as either a good 
 or evil character, you get to play up seven different characters. Each one of these characters 
 has a unique story line, but all seem to fit together in the overall story. So here's how it works. 
 You start as the first character Imphyy. She's the sword (really big sword) wielding captain of 
 the temple Nights. After you finish her story, you are then able to play as her brother Aspharr. 
 After you finish Aspharr, you can then play another character or 2 and move onto the next character 
 until you've unlocked all seven different characters. What adds a nice touch is that you usually 
 meet up or come across these other characters while playing through each other character. If youre 
 playing on the side of good, they'll usually fight with you, and if not.... you usually have to 
 take em out. So after you've played all seven characters you can go back and play a hidden part 
 of Inphyy's story which I guess pretty much ties everything up. Or does it? In fact its in the 
 overall story element that this game takes a real nose dive. A lot of time I had no idea what the 
 heck was going on story wise. I dont know if its because the game was ported and shoe horned 
 into English, or the developers just didnt have time, but it was terrible. Often times I would 
 finish a characters story and the game would shoot out to the credits, leaving me with a befuddled 
 look on my face, asking myself Thats it? What about? At other times, characters would appear 
 during the story and not really be explained at all, other than perhaps in the instructions. The 
 real nail in the coffin for this one was that after finishing all seven characters the story still 
 doesnt make a lot sense and nothing is really resolved. Its not until you discover and complete 
 Impyys hidden mission that you get SOME closure with the game, but it still didnt really make 
 any sense. Overall the story seemed somewhat confusing and not very well developed at all. The 
 game plays pretty much like a 1 vs. a bajillion hack and slash. I've only played a limited amount 
 of dynasty warriors (Gundam style) , but it seems like a close match. Anyway you will often find 
 yourself on a battlefield surrounded by hundreds of enemies at a time. You do have allies with 
 you, and its great thing you can't normally hit them, because you'd really screw them up. Everyone 
 is mashed up on the battlefield and it's sometimes hard to distinguish friend from foe. So you 
 pretty much start swinging your sword, double sword, staff.... whatever you're using depending on 
 the character, and watch your enemies go flying. You can perform an extensive list of different 
 combos, but I found it pretty effective just to either mash one of the two different attack buttons, 
 or find one really effective combo and pretty much use that over and over again. Aside from straight 
 hack and slash, there are some role playing elements such as character leveling and the option 
 to equip different items. In the end you pick a mission off the world map, beat the stuffing out 
 of a ton of enemies, occasionally fight a boss, and then move on the next mission. You are rated 
 on how well you complete each mission, and may receive items or weapons for better performance. 
 You are able to repeat missions multiple times after completion, which helps when you need to level 
 up a bit, or find an item you want. This feature, along with some unlockables such as artwork, 
 forms the only real allure of replay value. Needless to say I felt contented to just move on through 
 no matter what the rating. Another feature or lack thereof that hurts the game is multiplayer. 
 Without multi player, one would hope that a well-developed story might step up to carry the game. 
 Unfortunately, as I already stated, this is not the case, and combined with this missing online 
 component Ninety Nine Nights plunges further into the depths of mediocracy. To go along with some 
 interesting story telling and battle tested game play are some pretty decent graphics. The art 
 style is of that oversized weapons, scantily clad women, medieval sort of thing weve kind of become 
 used to. It works pretty well, when the camera is not in a position where its tough to see anything. 
 Luckily you do have some camera controls and can usually adjust it as best you can. This game came 
 out Aug 15th 2006, so I've played it basically a year after it was released and I think it still 
 looks good. Nothing too fancy however, but a lot of other titles have come out since, so its a 
 little tough to judge. The music and sound effects are alright, not including the bad voice acting. 
 Not really anything that blew me away though. Thats pretty much it. Aside from terrible storytelling 
 and horrible voice acting, the game looks good and sounds alright. The game play is ok, repetitive 
 at times but ok. Its always fun, however, to use a super attack and watch as entire hordes of 
 enemies either go flying or just drop. I recommend playing this game if youre looking for something 
 quick to play though between games or something, since the complete game shouldnt take too long. 
 Definitely do not buy this game for full price, maybe even just rent it if you can. So yeah, interesting 
 visuals, alright game play and terrible storytelling combine to form an alright game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I was a fan of phantagrams other games Kingdom Under Fire and Kingdom Under Fire Heroes so I found 
 99 nights quite enjoyable and similar gameplay wise in a good way. Basically you start off with 
 1 hero playable and need to finish their quests, generally about 4-6 missions each before you can 
 unlock the next character and there are 7 in total. You'll find though that you have to replay 
 some of the missions to get your rank up to the maximum level 9. But the good thing is you'll actually 
 want to replay the missions because they are so fun. Repeating missions finds new items and getting 
 ranked makes you want to go back and improve it. The story was good enough I thought, the usual 
 good vs evil.
  
  There are some mini rpg elements thrown in like you'll find new weapons to wield and you can equip 
 different items for different enhancements. The controls are very fluid as it's more than just 
 2 button mashing. You need to learn the combo's to be proficient as well as learning when to block/slide 
 and use jump attacks. The combo's all look really impressive when you pull them off.
  
  99 knights is good at putting ALOT of enemies on screen at once, many hundreds of enemies and you 
 have orb attacks that fill up that you can unleash in devestating moves.
  
  The graphics are nice to look at considering the amount of things on screen, good use of colour 
 and textures. And I had no complaints either with the sound or music which was aptly fitting.
 
  
  The biggest complaint I have though is you'll end up playing the exact same mission over the course 
 of the game sometimes 2-3 times but just with different characters. There is also issues with the 
 mission ending too soon before you can pick up the drops once you've completed the objective. The 
 story is also a bit sloppy as you'll notice with some of the characters you kill them only to have 
 them appear later on alive since they are important to the plot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I wasnt sure about getting this game after seeing the reviews, but im a huge dynasty warriors fan 
 so I thought is try it. This game is not as bad as people say. Sure it does have its minor flaws 
 like not being able to save during battle so if you die at the end, you have to start over. But 
 theres a few fun characters which each really cool and unique weapons. The graphics in this game 
 are pretty good too. I like the graphics during the cutscenes, those were really good. This game 
 isnt too short, it took me about 3-4 hours to beat the first persons (inphyy) story mode. theres 
 7 characters, so thats not that short. Also , it does get hard sometimes, thats why I think its 
 different from dynasty warriors. you usually cant just run into a huge group of enemies alone and 
 expect to not take a scratch like dynasty warriors, even if you have a strong character. I like 
 that fact that its a little more challenging that way. It does get repetitive, but thats what most 
 people have come to know about hack and slash games. Overall though, its got good gameplay, great 
 graphics, and good sound, so if you like hack and slash, you should at least give it a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leverpastej
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  when i first saw N3 i thought of it as a cool game and definitely one of the games that could make 
 me buy a 360, which i did, and of course bought N3 too. I was right. this game is one of my absolutely 
 favourite games and i've spent several hours with it. I love the story, the characters, the gameplay, everything! 
 the one and only minus in this game is the voices... which is kinda crappy but something you get 
 used to. What i don't get is why so many says it's a mediocre game, sure it's pretty hard, but 
 hey, it's one hell of a feeling you get when like 1000 enemies run toward you! Not even Gears of 
 War is better than this, and i don't think much more games will impress me like this one.
  
  If you like the Dynasty Warriors series but want a lot more enemies on screen, more stylish 
 attacks, intresting characters and a good story, buy this.
  
  It's the best game for the Xbox 360.
  But, of course, this is only my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Gigabyteofram
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Ninety nights is in my opinion your average Japanese-style (not themed) hack-and-slash game. The 
 only difference is that this game can put more than 1000 enemies on screen (and your character, 
 and your army, and your allied armies and friends) . Although the graphics are of lower quality 
 than many other games (Let's say, Gears of War, The darkness) , the game pushes the console to the 
 limit (let's review: 1000+ moving things on screen, foliage, objects and obstacles, the crappiest 
 blur you've ever seen ,and in other levels fog and dust) .
  
  The game creators could have created easier to remember... wait, easier to PRONOUNCE names. I am 
 SO gonna name my son Klarrann (clara-ann? but it's a frickin guy!) and take him on a picnic to 
 the yua-ue-uar woods (believe me, i had to turn on my console just to check up on that name... 
 and how the hell do you pronounce yua-ue-war... maybe Microsoft Sam can tell me? Whoa, it sounds 
 like it's having a seizure or something) .
  
  To pass the game, you must follow this very complicated battle scheme: kill some enemies with the 
 regular attack, and fill up your orb gauge. Then, rape all your enemies with the orb attack and 
 fill up your OTHER gauge, and repeat this until the other gauge is filled up, and now you can rape 
 almost every enemy on screen. Sounds too easy, right? WRONG: there are actually parts where you 
 can die. And that's at the very end of every level, where there is most certainly a boss waiting 
 to take you home and call you candy, just because all your soldiers are already dead so you can't 
 use them as bait to take the attacks for you. Then you die and you have to start the level from 
 the beginning.
  Yes, that's damn right: there are no mid-level checkpoints on this game. Maybe the game creators 
 were trying to make a game more frustrating than ninja gaiden (xbox) , but even so, ninja gaiden 
 had mid-level checkpoints AND save points. If there were mid-level checkpoints, then the game would 
 be much easier to complete.
  
  Oh, i almost forgot: this game features an RPG element. That's right, you can level up your characters 
 in this game (maximum level 9) to make your un-adventures (no typo here) with the bosses easier: 
 you level up and win some HP that will be very useful and your attacking and defensive abilities 
 will increase. Then, if you search the levels to places where you aren't really supposed to go 
 or notice, you will find stronger weapons. If you like the kind of games that require absolutely 
 no skill to complete, than this is the obvious choice for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyhunter
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Ever wanted to kill thousands of lousy goblins and orcs?
  How about kill thousands of humans and femenine looking male elves?
  Want a game with variety 
 and masses of replay value?
  Well then Ninety nine nights is the game for you if yes was your answer you thems four questions.
 
  
  Ninety nine nights is by far the best game of its type, and maybe the best game ever released for 
 the XBOX 360 to date.
  
  Graphics 10
  
  The fact that they were able to get so many well detailed character models on the battlefield at 
 a time with as good of a framerate as it has is pretty much amazing. As a launch title I wouldn't 
 expect it to perform so well with so much detail. That just shows microsoft knows what they're 
 doing. Unlike SONY with launch titles such as GUNDAM CROSSFIRE which did not perform so well even 
 with little to no detail.
  
  The environments go for a foggy warcraft 2 look where you cant see very far. This sets an appropriate 
 mood for a game about war, where fog is quite common. Either that or they are battling in the early 
 morning and its just a sweet wheather effect. Sound 10
  
  From the expertly voice acted characters, to the battle drums of war, this game seems to have put 
 sound first. The first time I heard Tyurru cry on her final mission, I couldn't help but join in. 
 That's just how good the voice acting was.
  
  They all speak loudly and clearly so I can understand them. They're all very to-the-point and don't 
 sidestep things or confuse things. This is great as I don't like trying to figure out what people 
 are talking about.
  
  The music sets the mood appropriatly as well as the fog does. On the plains of battle you'll hear 
 the booming of drums, and some sweet guitar riffs. While in the mazelike forest where there is 
 considerably less battle going on and more forest and getting lost it changes to something a forest 
 would have as music.
  
  Gameplay 10
  
  Sure you can kill thousands of people. But can you do it in a million different ways? Hells yes! 
 You'll be swording, clubbing, throwing, lazering, stabbing, exploding, and dropping oceans on fools, 
 and thats just the beginning! You'll be setting up traps in the form of boulders, flying around 
 and shooting magic, and all sorts of crazy bananas things. It never gets old because of all the 
 variety.
  
  At first you might think hey, doesn't killing thousands of people get old fast? The answer is no. 
 But right when you think you're tired of killing stuff, the game turns into a platformer and has 
 you navigating over SPIKE PITS.
  It's like TWO games in one!!!
  
  It doesn't stop there either. You'll start off as the reletively fast Inphyy, and by the time you're 
 tired of her you can pick any one of the 7 Characters. Which all handle very differently.
  Aspharr is the medium speed main character type guy, while myifee is slow and powerful.
  Then 
 there's the ultra fast Dwingvatt, and the sorceress who uses a completely different ranged combat 
 style and can fly. And right when you think the game couldn't throw any more awesome your way, 
 it lets you rampage around as a troll! And since all 7 of these characters are at the same battles 
 throughout the game and frequently bump into each other, it's like you get to play the game 7 times! 
 I know I like the sound of that! Your character will level up and collect items that are very important 
 for the finishing of the game, since the boss battles are very challenging, and the lack of mid 
 level saving or check points makes it very difficult, you'll find you need to strategize and remember 
 where the boxes with potions are so you can go back to them later. Also saving up your orb spark 
 for just the right moment is very important. YOu'll only want to use it on the biggest most massive 
 forces to increase your rank, and make killing whatever boss they're protecting easier. The gameplay 
 can be summed up in one word. Perfect 
  
  Value 10
  
  Replayability was the first thing they had on their mind when this game was concieved.
  
  YOu 
 will literally get to play through the game almost 26 times in order to get 100% completion, such 
 as A ranks, and leveling up characters to max. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanos3600
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  this is a very nice game. i realy enjoyed playing it. its dificult thow. you need to be very careful 
 in order to beat a stage. its realy anoying that there arent any checkpoints in the stages. why there 
 isnt any reasonwhy they did not put checkpoints.... because they where bord. the graphics are good 
 but there are some flaws the sound could be better it makes u sleep while playing. the game story 
 doesnt bond its very annoying actualy. you should spend a lot time to pass the game because its 
 dificult. this game deserved more bt the creators stood back thy realy could have make a very good 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballroompirate
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 11, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  N3 is a beat-em-up game like Dynasty warriors and some say N3 is just another wannabe beat-em-up 
 or a Dynasty Warrior rip off, which I say wrong!, N3 takes place not in some far off Asian empire, 
 but instead in a fantasy world with orcs, goblins, elves and dark elves which theres not really a 
 good vs evil its more like a dark vs light since majority of the game your part of the templer 
 knights who worship the light (basically a sign of faith/religion) and your at war with the dark 
 which are the orcs, dark elves, goblins and orges who are pillaging and destroying everything in 
 their path.
  
  The game at first really doesnt look like a 360 game since I wanna say the graphics kinda look 
 almost last gen, but the special move/abilities are well done with full of different motions and 
 color between the 7 playable characters, which btw you eventually have to beat the game with all 
 7 characters to get the full story about N3 and whats really happening between the light and the 
 dark. I have to say some of the NPCs are well done in terms of how each NPC looks different with 
 unusual armor which look pretty amazing, to bad the majority of the playable characters look like 
 clowns .But hey hopefully if theres a sequel they put in more playable characters like in Dynasty 
 Warriors which btw this is one of those games I really wanted to play a character that wasnt playable 
 which made me sad but oh well.
  
  Im gonna say that the voice acting for most of the playable characters are horrible and it looks 
 like the devs tried to rush the voice actors/actresses to a spot where they sound terrible and 
 dont really portray their characters. Another below avg feature is the save system, if you die almost 
 at the end of the battle/map which can take 10-20 min to clear and if you die at the end you have 
 to redo everything from the start of the battle/map which can be very tedious at times.
  
  N3 with its few flaws still manages to keep you into the game since well who doesnt like seeing 
 1985 kills in the bottom right of your screen, so if you like beat-em-ups or like playing the Dynasty 
 Warrior/Samurai Warrior games then N3 is your cup of tea, if you dont like ether of those then most 
 likely your just gonna bash N3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxmax1234
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  Good? Nice combo's, special attacs ar all diffrent, nice different Theme's (like earth, water, fire) .
 
  Bad? Sometimes special bonus or items fall out of the field, so you cant get them, some people 
 just dont work the way the say they do. It isnt really fun for a long time,
  
  The characters, you unlock a character by complpeting one, in total there 7 characters, there all 
 different elements and they all have different combo's and ussually they work pretty good. The 
 missions ar very variable and some times huge nd other times really small. Most of the missions 
 are the same missions but only out a other characters. SO you know what to do sometimes wich can 
 be a bad thing but also a good thing if you want to come prepared to all missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kezarooney
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  Well Ninety-Nine Nights is a fairly good game levels are longish but the characters missions have 
 only like 4 or 5 missions. The weapons are quite hard to find but lots of enemys are good to learn 
 new moves and test known moves and killing combos. The game overall is perfect for me because the 
 graphics are good and i like games like Ninety-Nine Nights but if you want to kill the enemys on 
 yourself to gain higher levels on your current character you can not because you have your army 
 and a person who helps you and he has his own army which is very annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unrealevil
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Ninety-Nine Knights is like an epic hack-and-slash game that plays similarly to a mix between Kingdom 
 Under Fire and Dynasty Warriors. As in KUF, you choose armies that will follow you into battle 
 and take orders, and as in the DW series, you are allowed to constantly walk freely around the 
 map. Except it's not as good as either of them, which is expected when you try to combine games. 
 It seems to steal elements from both and quite literally steal when menus and loading screens look 
 awfully familiar to anyone who has played either of these games or the lesser known Otogi: Myth 
 of Demons. But more importantly, while stealing gameplay elements of these games, they pick and 
 choose. Picking the bad parts and choosing to leave out the good. Gameplay is not the only problem. 
 The voice acting is horrible, the plot is essentially meaningless, combat is repetitive, and environments 
 are limited.
  
  However (and it could just be me liking this genre) , I do not feel that this game is as bad as 
 game critics have almost universally described it.
  
  I tend to like games where I have a nice looking sword and moves that take out rows of my enemies 
 in one swing. The combo moves are neat and I do not understand where people get off saying that 
 the normal attack is better than combos. Then, you have a rage orb that you fill allowing you to 
 go into a damage enhanced mode where the combos are difficult to figure out since it does not last 
 long. But who cares when just the normal attack buttons do flashy, devastating moves that wipe 
 out entire enemy ranks, quite literally.
  
  If it sounds over-powered, this is probably because it is. Taking out these armies easily gets 
 repetitive because to them, you are a super weapon. They do not stand a chance against you because 
 even if they can hurt you a lot (and they can) , they never have the chance to get to you. Even 
 if they do have that chance, 5% of your health is gone but before they know it, they and their 
 allies are dead and you have probably already regained your health (enemies will drop that randomly) . 
 If by some odd chance you get down to low health, you turn on your previously mentioned damage 
 enhanced mode and any enemy in a 200 foot radius will be dead in seconds. Your enemy's commanders 
 have the same powers yet don't seem to kill your troops like you do theirs. In spite of a good 
 chunk of the game being overly easy (which may not be a bad thing to some people) , there are parts 
 of it that made the game for me. The difficulty in those scenes is to a point that you cannot simply 
 wipe out your enemies in a few swings by dashing across the battlefield. Instead, using some planning 
 with your environment-swiping attacks is crucial.
  
  The other parts of the game are really undeniably bad. Commanding your troops is basic and they 
 really do not help out (not that they need to considering your advantage) , similar to other army-commanding 
 games. The voices are annoying and loud. They usually have nothing spacial to say and even if they 
 do say something that has to do with the plotline, I do not want to hear their awful voices. It's 
 something that I turn the voice volume down to the lowest setting for so that people are not bothered 
 by it.
  
  Then there's the annoying maps. Consider the environments in a game like Fable. You cannot go outside 
 of the path nor even jump onto rocks. This is not specific to this game, but that does not stop 
 it from being annoying. And finally, the graphics, while not bad, do not resemble next-gen gaming... 
 a tad bit glitchy though still as good Kingdom Under Fire or Dynasty Warriors.
  
  So this game is decent if you like the genre but may not even be worth a rent if you don't. I did 
 mention a lot of bad points of the game, but truthfully they can be looked over for the giant battle 
 scenes where it is actually somewhat difficult... or the giant battle scenes where it's just you, 
 your big sword, and 10,000 helpless goblins standing in line to die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGOmen
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  The one phrase I have in regards to this game is:
  What the heck just happened? That phrase is something, I'm sure, just about everyone who has beaten 
 at least Iphyy's story is going (or has) to say. All Anti-Climatic endings aside, and a long story 
 short, the game is a great bargain for what it is being sold for now; it has unbelievable amounts 
 of enemies on screen at once on many different stages, and the different amount of characters that 
 are playable helps keep it from being too repetitive (despite the fact your main attacks are still 
 using only two buttons) .
  
  People are, however, overexaggerating how pressing the X and Y button is all you have to do to 
 attack; while it's true you could beat the game by doing that, if you wanted to completely master 
 the combat system you'd have to employ the L2 or R2 buttons for a swift stride-attack combo using 
 the beforementioned buttons, or the A button to initiate and air manuver (And let us not forget 
 the B button the initial the special combo) .
  
  The game itself is incredibly easy to beat, though it may get a little annoying with more advanced 
 characters if you're not careful, as just rushing into to beat up on monsters will be increasingly 
 risky as the game progresses. In addition, from what I hear, there are no checkpoints in the middle 
 of missions (I don't know since I beat them all without dying ^_^;) which could be quite stressful 
 for those who just want to mindlessly hack and slash, or those who do not have previous experience 
 with this genre.
  
  The one thing that I really liked about this game is the fact that you were able to go back and 
 play any level you wanted to level up or acquire anything that you had missed previously due to 
 just worrying about finishing without dying. This feature was sorely missed on such games as Kingdom 
 Underfire on the regular Xbox and is always a welcome addition to any game of this genre in my 
 humble opinion.
  
  All in all, this game seemed like it was just testing out the power of the next generation console 
 instead of actually trying to deliver an in depth game that doesn't have open-endings, gigantic 
 plot holes, and a very limited amount of missions to be played even if you added all the characters 
 up. Sure, you may have had a few better explanations or stories with one character more so than 
 another (or trying to explain what happened in the other) , but those were also figuritively based 
 explainations (without going into depth, they were an alternate reality of what happened when someone 
 else was under command) which is more confusing that plot-filling. Seriously, which one is real 
 and what that heck just happened?
  
  Moving on... The combat moves look pretty well made, and rarely did I ever find myself feeling 
 like I'm doing the same repetitive task over and over again (which I knew I was, but it's nice 
 not to feel like it) , and each character has many, many different types of combat moves. In fact, 
 it has so many that I get the feeling most people just randomly smashed two buttons and watched 
 just a few combos appears instead of mastering each (which in itself is a feat, as you'd have to 
 memorize all of them and then have perfect timing to employ them) ; also, some of the combos were 
 so much better than the others that it would make sense just to use them over and over again just 
 to make it easier for yourself.
  
  There is one thing that I will give them credit for on this game...
  
  Most of the levels were 
 unique in their own way despite it being a hack and slash grinding game; there were large plains 
 of battlefields where all you did is just hack and slash, then there were missions where you had 
 to do specific tasks, in addition to there being others that just seemed like you were in a giant 
 maze. There really was only one mission that I didn't like that much, and that is avoidable after 
 the first time you beat it with any character it applies towards; which is a really good thing.
 
  
  All in all, the game just barely borders on being good . It has a lot of short comings... But it 
 is also one of the firsts of its kind on the next generation system, and it was a moderately decent 
 try that was entertaining enough for me to play through each of the character's Storylines in the 
 very short epic war within the game. If there was one thing that I would change about the game 
 I would put in the same system that Kingdom Underfire has in controlling your troops instead of 
 the glitched system it has now; the map, select, and click system on Kingdom Underfire was just 
 great.
  
  Last Minute Pros:
  -Unprecedented amount of enemies on screen; you could actually see hordes in the background rushing 
 towards you while fighting the few hundred you have engaging you already.
  
  - At least it has SOME story.
  
  - Large-scaled battles that momentarily satiates your blood 
 lust and wastes a good 15-20 minutes of your time (Well, that's 20 minutes where you won't be thinking 
 about the next big game you're looking forward to) .
  
  - Nice looking attacks and combos for added entertainment
  
  - Able to repeat any stage to 
 level up or get missed items.
  
  - Multiple characters delivers some different fighting styles to help limit the feeling of repetition.
 
  
  Cons:
  
  - Game some times slows down when a massive amount of monsters appear on the field in addition 
 to you using your intensive combos.
  
  - Items sometimes get stuck in unreachable places and sometimes the level ends without giving you 
 a chance to get them.
  
  - Cut scenes interrupt the combo process and may cause you to waste your charged up combos due 
 to poor planning on the developer's part.
  
  - Lack of checkpoints may cause players to repeat the entire level over and over again until their 
 xbox 360 is burnt out (theoretically speaking) .
  
  - The story is too flawed, without any real history, and incredibly anti-climatic at specific times.
 
  
  - Glitched control of your soldiers makes for their survival rate to be quite horrible at times; 
 they never stay when you tell them to and sometimes the whole system gets jacked up all together 
 in a mission.
  
  - Sometimes, while you're in a cutscene, you may still be attacked by monsters and/or being unable 
 to respond quick enough once the cutscene is over to blcok who is trying to pound on you (in addition 
 to the beforementioned poorly planed cutscenes the game has) .
  
  Wishful Thinking:
  
  If it gets a sequel I'd like to see a army control system similar to that within Kingdom Underfire 
 (with the select, map, point, and click to issue orders) .
  
  An actually real item shop where you can buy armor on your troops and your characters, and actually 
 see the armor equiped on them individually when they are either bought or equiped.
  
  Also, the cutscenes really need to be planned better so that they do not actually interfer with 
 the game play in the negative way it does now.
  
  It might be a fun idea to also add a little RTS to this just to keep it from being a rip-off of 
 another game. Like start at a home base each level where you just have tents in your camp and then 
 start building buildings (have an rts overview for build/command army mode, and then the actually 
 hero battle mode like it is now) . Then you could just build and command your army and fight like 
 you have been doing - in addition to gathering resources and defending workers and such in the 
 process (would this not also make for a good online game play as well?) .
  
  - Tutorial: The tutorial in this game was pretty bad and it seems like it was just put in last-minute. 
 There are no voice overs and the text is hard to read with the background scenery that it was place 
 with. Lastly, some longer storylines for each character and more history for the world in general... 
 Not just an epic war between the light we know nothing about and the darkness that was vaguely 
 mentioned all in just 5 stages. Things to note: Music Though it wasn't quite obvious when I was 
 just playing the game, it does have some very nice music that blends nicely with the pace of the 
 game; it wasn't detremental to the experience at all for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etherealsyn
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 7, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Ok, This is basically a button masher in the vein of Dynasty Warriors. You have a god like character 
 who wades through swarms of enemies and just lays waste to the field. You kill thousands of enemies 
 by yourself. The Good:
  
  The graphics are out of this world. You can actually see wrinkles in your hero's clothing in cut 
 scenes and the in game sequences are nothing short of amazing!
  
  Length. To complete this game will take more than a few hours. there is not much overall replayability 
 though as once you get all your characters to level 9, an S rating on all stages, there is not 
 much go back and play. But what a treat the first time through!
  
  System: Overall simple to learn and effective. The sheer bliss of cleaving through massive amounts 
 of enemies and the simple nature of the controls makes this one easy to learn.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Camera: Many times I found myself staring at a rock as my character eas hacking 
 away.
  
  Cut Scenes: More than once I found my glorious combo streak or special move being interupted and 
 therefore lost due to an in game cut scene (annoying)
  
  Stupid AI: Bot h the enemey and your allies. Lets face it who hates it when a pack of goblins stand 
 back and watch as you hack their friends up without moving in to flank you. Or much more annoying 
 is when your allies (soldiers) stand around chearing while a group of goblins are hacking into 
 their buddies 20 feet to the south. Teamwork is not apparent most of the time.
  
  Lack of Items: There are not much in the way of items to flesh this out as an RPG. Most of the 
 items repeat and are downright confusing as why one would want them in their posession. There is 
 no selling of items, buying of new items, upgrading items, etc. You simply have them in your inventory 
 and for the most part never use half the items you find.
  
  The worst offence though this game offers is that the story between characters do NOT line up. 
 Since we are playing through the same scenarios it would have been nice if the story was simply 
 the other sides take. For example **SPOILER** in Inpanyy's story she becomes the leader of the 
 temple knights with Aspharr being the second in command. In his story He is the leader of the temple 
 knights and she is second in command. It begs the question as to why is there a continuity problem 
 with the story. I hope this is all explained later on (as I am not finished playing through all 
 the story lines and have at this point not beaten the special stage)
  
  Overall this is a good game that will keep you busy for a few hours and offers up 1000 achievable 
 achivements. Unlike many games out now where getting a perfect 1000 is all but impossible (without 
 playing an online component or spending the better part of a year playing through the game over 
 and over and over and over until you think you would be better off tossing your controller in the 
 garbage. This game is a delight to play and I would recommend it to anyone who likes a hack and 
 slash. If your looking for an in depth RPG, look somewhere else. This game has dropped in price 
 recently and is a steal as a bargin bin game. If you find this one cheap pick it up you will not 
 be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swazonek
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  The Hack and Slash genre is one that hasn't evolved much. Ninety-Nine Nights certainly doesn't 
 evolve the genre but it still stands as a fun game in it's own right that fans of the genre should 
 check out.
  
  The game starts you off as Imphyy, a Templar Knight tasked with saving the kingdom. After finishing 
 her short storyline, more and more chacters are unlocked, each with their own storylines. Between 
 all the characters, Ninety-Nine Nights is easily a 15 hour game. Best of all, the game makes you 
 feel that your far from done after finishing Imphyy's story. Also, all 7 characters each play very 
 differently from each other.
  
  The game is broken up into missions where each mission basically has you getting from Point A to 
 Point B killing large groups of enemies in between. While you only control the main character, 
 you can choose to have a group of soldiers help fight the battles. Oddly enough, the soldiers seemingly 
 attack the enemies but dont do any damage to them thus rendering the soldiers completely useless- 
 A glaring flaw. Like in the Dynasty Warrior games, your character can take on hundreds of enemies 
 at a time without breaking a sweat.
  
  Killing enemies nets you red orbs which fill up a red bar. Once this red bar is full, you can press 
 the Y button to unleash a powerful attack capable of killing many enemies at once. Enemies killed 
 this way net you blue orbs which in turn fill up your blue bar. Once your blue bar is filled you 
 can unleash an attack so devastating that it can take out hundreds of enemies at once. This is 
 a fun system of killing enemies when combined with trying to get a high combo of hitting enemies. 
 Ninety-Nine Nights adds some RPG elements such as equippable items and leveling up to get more 
 powerful. Each character can reach a maximum level of 9 and has 6 slots to equip items. As your 
 character grows in level, he or she gets more item slots. Items can have such effects as increasing 
 defense, attack, and health. You can also get new weapons to equip your character which is always 
 nice. The RPG elements make the game much more enjoyable than it would be without them.
  
  The gameplay is great for the most part but there are still some big issues. One being the lack 
 of a checkpoint system. The missions in the game are huge and can sometimes take upwards of an 
 hour to complete. Imagine playing a mission for an hour and getting to the final boss only to die 
 and start all over back from the beginning of the mission- It sucks. A checkpoint system is something 
 that this game should have and there is no excuse not to have one in here. Another gameplay flaw 
 is of course the whole repetitive nature of the game which makes playing more than 3 missions at 
 a time extremely tedious. One last little diddy is that the only way you can heal health is by 
 picking up health potions on the battlefield. These potions turn up randomly and when you need 
 them, they never seem to show up. Health potions being useable items would have easily fixed this 
 problem.
  
  Ninety-Nine Nights sports good if not impressive graphics. The character models are all nicely 
 detailed but the environments are very bland with not much color going on. The cinemas of the game 
 look good but the problem with them is that they happen to pop up any time in the middle of a mission 
 which most of the time interupts any combo you might of had and disposes of it. The sound design 
 of the game is also average with sound effects that are just there and embarrasingly bad voice 
 acting. However, the music is very well done with nicely designed epic tunes that match the gameplay 
 perfectly.
  
  Ultimately, It has some easily identifiable flaws but Ninety-Nine Nights is still an enjoyable 
 entry in the Hack and Slash genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladeshock
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  A game which had high hopes and failed miserably. NN9 is a game in the same mould as Dynasty Warriors, 
 which obviously surpasses this game in every single aspect and leaves a lot to be desired. A game 
 which supposedly would deliver intense action and high-string combos delivering neither and left 
 players able to two-button spam their way through the main game. A storyline which fails to draw 
 players into the conflict which surrounds the characters you're controlling leaves a bitter taste 
 and ultimately makes you unable to care if they succeed or fail. Overall it was a nice concept 
 on paper which didn't produce anything it promised to. A rental is only advised at best if you're 
 looking to spend a weekend to mindlessly playing boring and unattractive games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaySplasher
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  If you played Devil Kings, Dynasty Warriors, or Samurai Warriors, then this title won't be anything 
 new. 99 Nights is a fun title for those who like hack and slashers. You can play as different people 
 as you progress with the story and different abilities, skills, weapons, and accessories will be 
 available to you as you play through the game. It isn't a bad title as it may get a little bit 
 repetitive. But, it is a fun title and you might like it. Try it first before you buy it. The graphics 
 are great, the gameplay is very straightforward, sound is pretty decent, and overall, a good game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoogleDragoon
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  Though this game came out about a year I picked it up when I first got my X360 because of the price 
 point. After picking it up I nearly regretted spending money on it based on the low scores that 
 it received. However, lucky enough for me I have quite enjoyed the game.
  
  The graphics in the game are great, especially since the game has hundreds of enemies on the screen 
 and any given time. Playing games like Dynasty warriors back on the Ps2 where characters would 
 pop out at you out of nowhere it's refreshing to play a game like this and not have that happen. 
 The characters themselves are good looking, smooth design; good opening FMV will pump you up wanting 
 to jump into the huge fights straight off the bat.
  
  The game starts you off simple, teaching you the mechanics of the game and gives you a feel on 
 how you should attack each objective. However around this point is where the game falls down. The 
 characters are very well designed as I said earlier but with such interesting characters it's sad 
 that they have no real back story or a story during the whole game. Each character has little bits 
 and pieces thrown out at the end of each level, but nothing that well get you to know more about 
 your character. The overall story itself isn't very interesting either. I would type it out right 
 now but I feel I would probably reveal the whole story in a few sentences. The game isn't overly 
 hard; you start off pretty weak with some low combo's after killing enemies you eventually level 
 up with the maximum of level 9 as your cap. So progressing through the game isn't that hard as 
 there seems to be a very significant damage output per level, you can feel yourself getting stronger. 
 The downfall is there isn't much to it, smashing X and Y through the whole game does seem to get 
 old quick. I personally had to put the game down and come back to it at a later date just so I 
 wouldn't burn myself out. The music isn't very engaging either, though it does fit the style of 
 game I feel that if you have a game where you literally have to kill 1k or more enemies they could 
 hit you with music that would pump you up more.
  
  I enjoyed the game and I'm glad I played through it a few times, it's just lacking some finer things. 
 If you are fan of hack n slash like the Dynasty warrior games you should enjoy this game to an 
 extent. I personally liked it more then I do the DW series only for the fact that it's a fantasy 
 based setting. But they are pretty much identical games, though NNN does look prettier.
  
  With the price point being so low at this point give it a rent or purchase but I would recommend 
 keeping it in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesus_knight
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  THE BEST
  - Some of the soundtrack songs are epic and awesome
  
  THE GOOD
  - nice dvd cover and presentation overall
  - hundreds of enemies on screen and the game rarely 
 slows down
  - main characters are very detailed, you can even see their tongues in some of the real time cinemas
 
  - you can go back to previous levels to improve your character in a rpg-like way, making later 
 levels easier to finish.
  - sometimes you get the being in an epic-battle feel the game is trying to achieve.
  
  THE 
 BAD
  - One of the worst voice acting you'll ever heard in a videogame, without any doubt, the main girl 
 character (imphyy) voice is the worst of all plus it sounds very childish for a so grown-up girl
 
  - 2 different troops from 4 classes you can choose to accompany you in every mission, yet you 
 will never feel any difference between them.
  - Your soldiers are extremely dumb, sometimes you will see 10 or 15 soldiers trying to kill one 
 single normal enemy and at the end you will end up helping them.
  - places you'll fight in feel very plain, they lack vegetation
  - short campaings (5 or 6 missions) , 
 each mission is aobut 20 to 30 minutes long
  -in order to make any progress in later missions, you need to replay previous mission to level 
 up your character.
  - being a 2 meters tall guy full of muscles (and a mercenary btw) fighting a 17 years old skinny 
 and unexperienced guy who can barely use a sword and screams like a girl, and while fighting this 
 guy you realise he is so powerful and extremely difficult to beat is ridiculous.
  - you can spend 20 minutes in a mission and then be beaten by 4 hits of one boss at the end of 
 a it
  - bosses are a rare breed, sometimes your weapon will hit them, sometimes it won't even if they're 
 not in the blocking position. Fighting bosses gives you an strange feel......
  - sometimes the game feels like a technical demo which wants to show you how many enemies the xbox 
 360 can manage on screen
  -combat is extremely repetitive
  
  THE WORST
  - there's a horrible bug in this game that you will hate, believe me, you can spend a lot of time 
 collecting orbs in order to unleash a powerful attack that WILL BE interrupted when a real time 
 video sequence is activated, it is very annoying because your super attack is canceled and you 
 could end up dead in some tight situations where you life depends on this kind of powerful attacks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scat-mgduffs
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  this game is great but its downfull is its difficulty its just 2 dam hard iv had it now for just 
 over a week and i hate it. its to short and to hard i love the amount of enemys you can fight but 
 its a little bit boring if you cant kill them i would recomend this game for however hard it may 
 be but rent it first! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 19, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  YAYS
  Easy controls; lots of enemies to kill; nice sense of scale and battle
  
  NAYS
  Everything else
  
  Given that this is the first 7th generation game I play, I have to I had 
 too high of an expectations, but unfortunately it was completely my fault that the first next gen 
 game I play is in fact broken objectively more than subjectively.
  
  N3 tells a standard tale of several individuals all battling the same battle for different causes. 
 Although unoriginal, it serves a purpose as an attempt to give the game more value. Unfortunately, 
 games of this nature seldom require a story to begin with, and those with a story, have to be over 
 the top and really good to justify all the killings. N3 fails in that, because there is no emotional 
 attachment to any of the characters and their motives are stereotypical and cliched. You would 
 be better off skipping the story elements - and although you would miss out some some good graphics 
 (remember this is my first next gen game) you would however be relieving yourself from the pain 
 of hearing horrible voice acting. It doesn't help either than the subtitles are white against typically 
 light backgrounds, and, given that there are so many sentences to read (the subtitles can stretch 
 on 5 or 6 lines) , reading the text is cumbersome (and you have to be fast) . This is more problematic 
 if you have a standard TV since the text seems to require a high res TV to view properly.
  
  That aside, you spend most of your time battling hordes of enemies in sequence until you finish 
 a given mission. All missions require you to more or less get to point B and clear everything in 
 the way and/or kill someone specific. Before each mission, you are required to select the type 
 of soldiers you want to accompany you, and you can select up to two different types. The soldiers 
 you take with you serve the purpose of giving a very good sense of battle scale - as you rush forward 
 with an army behind you - and they also provide a good distraction to the enemy fleet as they engage 
 and you can go attack any group you want. But that is about it. The soldiers rarely kill anyone, 
 and you can even have two or three enemies remaining, just stand there to watch your archers and 
 soldiers kill those two enemies, and it would take them well over a minute. You do all of the killing, 
 and even then, it isn't as satisfying.
  
  This is because all combos are allocated to two buttons only, and you can only pull of so much 
 with two buttons (and no directional keypad intervention) . Although you have a decent list of combos, 
 you will find that you can pull of most of them by just randomly punching in the two buttons to 
 pull off the combo. You'd soon find out that longer combos are ineffective for two reasons: the 
 first is that the longer combos are not concentrated to your immediate perimeter, and secondly, 
 they often end with a time consuming special attack that is not only usually off-mark, but also 
 leaves you prone to enemy attacks that will interrupt it. There is no enemy variety, and they all 
 look similar of course to give the sense of scale. Unfortunately you will end up confused since 
 you won't be able to see where the enemy is in between your own army, so you would just wildly 
 hack and slash and hope you would hit someone.
  
  With all this killing, of course, you level up, giving you more health, combos, and the ability 
 to equip high level weapons and armor. It is a good addition, but the execution is flawed since 
 going to the screen and equipping your character takes a surprising amount of time and you can 
 hear your Xbox trying valiantly to read from the disc.
  
  To its credit, the graphics are at least decent, and the main characters look interesting and have 
 a reasonably high polygon count and detail. Everything else however appears to be of a lower resolution 
 and polygon count, and it gives the game an uneven, stiff look. But it does its job well and it 
 is overall not annoying to look at. The music is hit or miss and entirely forgettable. The best 
 pieces of music could be found in one or two missions and in the save screen.
  
  N3 starts off with a couple or so interesting missions, but as soon as you familiarize yourself 
 with those early missions you will succumb to a random hack and slash button mashing. With several 
 characters to play, it adds a little variety, but they all ultimately become highly repetitive 
 and significantly reduce the replay value of the game.
  
  If you have absolutely nothing to do over the weekend, this game makes a decent rental at best. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 18, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Just went through about twenty hours of playing Ninety Nine Nights, beat the game with all characters 
 and even finished the secret level. N3 is a game with Dynasty Warriors like gameplay brought to 
 the next generation systems, however only the graphics make the leap forward, the gameplay is stuck 
 back in the last gen era.
  
  Ill start with the least of all the areas and that is gameplay. Ninety Nine Nights takes the same 
 formula that Dynasty Warriors has beaten to death and throws a 400 hit combo on it, beating it 
 to death further. Sure N3 is more fantasy orientated and is able to toss in goblins, dragons, elves 
 and trolls, fantastic combos and magic, but when it all comes down to the end, youre just slaying 
 the same looking enemies and generals over and over again. Playing through a level, youll be told 
 where to go and what your objective is and it is your job to kill everything in the way. There 
 is one escort mission and a few missions where you protect something but most of the time killing 
 anything that doesnt look like you is what wins the day. Each level you beat is rated depending 
 on certain criteria such as; kills, combos time and special moves and youre given a rank that 
 not only nets you points to unlock pictures and galleries but the higher ratings also give you 
 useful items to use in your other quests. The inclusion of multiple character and intertwining 
 story lines is a nice touch but the storylines arent that fleshed out. From the way the game plays 
 out, youd have to assume that Imphyys storyline is one of the few that are actually true and 
 all the others are false just because of the twists and turns in them would make the main characters 
 storyline impossible. So some characters stories are more like an alternate reality rather than 
 a true ending.
  
  The way the main characters are designed is easily the best portion of the game. The characters 
 are original looking and move smoothly also the CGI looks pretty good. Too bad the same care didnt 
 go into designing the creatures youll fight so often in the game. Hordes of the same looking goblins 
 and soldiers will flood the screen. Its also at these points when you throw in a little magic, 
 when the frames drop and the game chugs along. Its nice to have clearer views of the environment 
 and more enemies on the screen at once, but they do pay the price when it comes to frame rate.
 
  Seeing as most of the characters youll be playing as wouldnt be able to order a drink in the 
 U. S., I guess its fitting that their voices sound high pitched, whiney and annoying, generally 
 speaking. The older character voices are good but the younger voices are done in the typical, hammy 
 fashion. The dialogue, while not being on the same level as Symphony of the Night overdramatic, 
 it is still pretty painful at points. Luckily the music actually makes up for it by cheering along 
 the battles and framing the cut scenes quite well. It seems every category in the game besides 
 gameplay has its ups and downs.
  
  While not a terrible game by any means, Ninety Nine Nights does itself an injustice by playing 
 everything much too safe. Nothing in this game says next gen except for the graphics, and that 
 barely accomplishes that task. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: byzzz
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 14, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  A very long Demo. Incredible. I think that N3 is only a Demo Workbench of the house for try Kingdom 
 Under Fire Series for Xbox 360.
  Thanks Q Entertaiment Phantagram. Why game house every time put this pseudo-games in the shops? 
 i want my money back.
  I hope that new Kingdom Under Fire for xbox 360 it's same or better of Heros.
  End, i don't have 
 other..... 100 word are very much.
  
  Sorry for my elementar english.
  
  N3 Demo N3 Demo N3 Demo N3 Demo N3 Demo N3 Demo N3 Demo N3 Demo N3 Demo N3 Demo N3 Demo N3 Demo 
 N3 Demo N3 Demo N3 Demo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 3, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Before this console generation, I had never played one of these button-mashing games before. Yes, 
 I somehow avoided playing any of the Dynasty Warriors games over the years. After playing that 
 game recently and now this game (Ninety Nine Nights) , I now know why these games are receiving 
 very bad reviews. The problem is that there isn't much variety in terms of gameplay. Ninety Nine 
 Nights is a fun game to play for awhile, but it gets very old....... very quickly.
  
  The gameplay here is as simple as it gets. You run around with your characters, slam on the 'X' 
 or 'Y' buttons, &amp; kill enemies. For each enemy you defeat, you get little red orbs. Once your 
 red orb meter is full, you press the 'B' button to unleash a pretty cool attack. For every enemy 
 you kill while doing that attack, you earn little blue orbs. Then once you fill up your blue orb 
 meter, you can then unleash a area-sweeping mega attack. That's about it. Every so often you will 
 have to jump or block, but that button-mashing is about it.
  
  It goes without saying (but I will anyways) , this type of game has the tendency to get boring quite 
 quickly. The only thing that is keeping you playing is the story (which is o. k.) , the different 
 characters (some are fun &amp; a couple are terrible) , leveling up your chatacter (very basic, 
 though) , and finding items. Other than that, there isn't much reason to play this game unless you 
 are after the very time-consuming achievements.
  
  My main problem with the game, other than the boring button-mashing combat, is the fact you can't 
 save the game mid-mission at all. This is EXTREMELY frustrating while using some of the later characters. 
 Some missions can take quite a while to play through and then you get to some end-boss that kills 
 you with some cheap (and unblockable) combo in just a few seconds. That means you are starting 
 that mission from the beginning. This is, EASILY, my biggest pet-peeve in gaming. I hate developers 
 who are either too stupid or want to superficially extend their lame game by making you re-play 
 levels over and over just because they don't put in adequate save points. Ridiculous.
  
  At least most of the characters play differently. There aren't a ton of missions for each character, 
 but I thought that was a good thing. The game gets repetitive enough with the combat, so it's nice 
 to use a new character sooner rather than later. The terrible voice acting that comes out of these 
 characters mouths, however, is enough to make you want to play this game with the mute button on.
 
  
  The music in the game is great, but the voice acting really takes you out of the experience many 
 times. A couple of the characters aren't too bad, but most are terrible and some of the lines they 
 say are even worse. If it wasn't for the musical score, I would have given the sound a '5' or '6' 
 in the rankings.
  
  Ninety Nine Nights does look a lot better than the Dynasty Warriors games. Of course, this isn't 
 saying much. The cinematics in the game look outstanding. And I love how they got so many enemies 
 on-screen at the same time. The problem is that there is some slowdown and the in-game engine visuals 
 don't exactly scream next-gen .
  
  Overall, I think Ninety Nine Nights would be an o. k. rental..... at best. It really is fun for awhile 
 and if you really dig the combat, you might get into it longer than I was able to. I just lost 
 my patience with the lack of checkpoints, idiotic A. I. of your fellow soldiers (I won't even get 
 started on that.....) , and the constant button-mashing combat. It's too bad Phantagram didn't try 
 to take this genre to another level here. Instead we are left with a better looking Dynasty Warriors 
 clone that serves better as a rental than any sort of purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: restlessdragon
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 31, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  This game falls in line with the Dynasty and Samurai Warrior button mashing hack and slash genre 
 ... but does not do as nearly as good a job in gameplay as those series ... save issues (don't 
 die when fighting a boss or you'll be repeating the whole level ) ... bosses that you can't hit 
 except when they want you to ... a whole new level of frustration there.
  
  The hacking and slashing is fun and the graphics are top notch but the game play just is not on 
 par with others in the genre ... for those of you that are into the achievement system they are 
 sparse here ... you only unlock them after finishing the whole game with a character which consists 
 of 5 long (and unsavable unless they are completed) levels.
  
  There are not all that may characters to play with as compared to the dynasty or samurai warriors 
 games. For my money I'd rather have spent it on something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrclean2988
Rating: 3.2
Date: May 29, 2007 12:19 am PT
Review:  This was one of the worst games of its genre i've ever played. It was like playing a prototype 
 of Dynasty Warriors on a next-gen system. I mean, it's bad enough they're literally ripping off 
 DW, but when the game looks worse a game from the PS2, well, that; s just pathetic. Not to mention 
 the atrocious voice-acting, which seems to walk hand-in-hand with hastilly assembled Japanese knock-offs. 
 I got through the first mission before I couldn't stand the screech of the main character's voice, 
 and the horrible animations. This was a game that either needed way more time in development, or 
 a complete rewrite. Do not even think of trying this game; you'll regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wordflow
Rating: 5
Date: May 27, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  Picture this scenario; you're an Xbox 360 owner that has beaten your favorite game on the system. 
 You've played some other games but now you're starting to get bored so you walk into the store 
 to see if you can find a cheap game to buy that seems pretty good. We've all been in this situation 
 but to be honest with you, this is not that game you want to pick up. Don't be fooled by the box 
 with the semi-sexy chick holding the sword with the wings. Don't get taken in by the title that 
 sounds like something epic. And whatever you do, don't let the back of the box suck you in like 
 the back page summary of a 24.99 fantasy novel. You will be frustrated. You know what the real 
 problem is though, this game doesn't even suck. No, seriously it doesnt, however there are just 
 so many flaws that need to be fixed. The graphics aren't serious business and the voice acting 
 is some of the worse I've ever heard. And thats not to mention the story that provides no true 
 insight to whats going on along with uninteresting characters with some of them still looking 
 like they belong in daycare. However, where this game truly shines is the stylish action. Now mind 
 you there are only two attack buttons with different variations on combos, but the style is so 
 smooth and so crazy that you'll play just to see how many asses you can kick with the new combo 
 you just learned. Honestly if you want to kill hundreds of dudes and have a fun time pick up Dynasty 
 Warriors for 360 instead. Rent this one, you may like it at first but you won't after 10 minutes. 
 Its still not worth the used 25.00 price tag at Gamestop. Hopefully theyll make another one thats 
 actually gives you something else besides fancy swordplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mythoras
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 22, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok, some reviewers start their review with bad stuff, i'll begin with the good points of this game, 
 the game has nice cinematics, sound and music that fits within the game and a nice chick as start 
 character. But now the things that screwed up for me.
  
  First of all, does the developer of this game know what saving is? Didn't think so, the missions 
 are very large in scale and when you screw up even at the final fight after a long, hard run through 
 the level .... yeah you will have to start over, these are the moments when u get really pissed 
 off, Microsoft probably published this game to boost the sale of controllers, because i threw mine 
 on the ground very hard through the whole game.
  
  Second, the combo's in the game are ok, but get bored pretty fast, you just have to do the same 
 combo's who hardly get upgraded every level over and over again.
  
  The storyline in this game is good, but it could have been told better, and it's really sad to 
 see a game with allot of potential goe to waste due to bad decisions of the developers.
  
  If you are thinking about buying this game, think twice or get ready to be frustrated 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaliz71
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 13, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  I hated D. Warriors but i really like N3 and it is a great buy for the price. this game is 29 dollars 
 this game is nothing like D. warriors the Graphics are leaps and bounds better the bosses are harder 
 so are the enemies troops this game controls better and has more combos also you can't just hit 
 buttons and beat this one and your army is actually of so use also no character has the same moves 
 or is even has similar in skills it feels like your playing a new game each time and did i mention 
 it is only 30 bucks but unlocking all of this characters can be a little hard and may get on your 
 nerves alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WPxPaladin
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 11, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is not nearly as good, nor as bad as it has been reviewed. It's not the best game in 
 the world, but it's not bad either.
  
  Gameplay
  Not to bad. It's fairly basic and can leave you with a sour taste if you are expecting to much. 
 It is however fun and engaging to some extent if you go in expecting Dynasty Warrior-esk gameplay. 
 There are a fantastic amounts of bad guys on the screen most of the time, giving you a great feeling 
 of warring chaos, it can also be difficult some times - making it a little more enjoyable. Unfortunately 
 though the combat is fairly stale, it is not anything special and requires about 2 minutes to get 
 used to.
  
  Graphics
  Not Xbox 360 standards, but they are sitll not bad. Many special effects are quite nice, but the 
 models and the world textures seem washed out.
  
  Sound
  Bad. Don't even bother trying to listen to any thing this game has to offer.
  
  Value
  Worth 
 renting, maybe buying if you truely enjoy massive battles with the basis of beating the life out 
 of giant hordes of baddies.
  
  Tilt
  I enjoy it. It's not fantastic, but it's not bad either. Has it's pros and cons, I found the pros 
 enough to purchase it and I do not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nurbachsch
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 9, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  Somebody's fighting somebody else. Their fight is righteous and grand, the others are mindless 
 brutes and inhuman monsters.
  
  There we go, that was all the story there is to NINETY-NINE NIGHTS (short: N3) . No, let me rephrase 
 that: that is the main story of the game in all its details and your character's motivation to 
 go on a massive hack &amp; slash spree through a fantasy kingdom. Seems a bit boring? It is and 
 it even sounds better in writing then it is in the game.
  
  So you are a young warrior, daughter to a mighty king of sorts, and hellbent on defending your 
 father#s heritage from a horde of goblins and their partners in crime. From here on N3 does this: 
 it throws gazillion enemies at you, which you will make short work of by bashing in your controller's 
 buttons. Although the game offers various combos and attack combinations, you will find over time 
 that most of them are just for show and not very efficient at all. Sticking to some basic attack 
 patterns yields best enemy-destroying results. It is a good idea, nevertheless, to memorize some 
 of the combos, especially those that you will learn on the higher levels, as they grant some variety 
 to the dull, repetitious hacking and slaying of the game. Your opponents will not mind much. They 
 are easily overcome by anything you throw at them and since they seem to come out of a cloning 
 factory will also not mind being devastated by the same attacks over and over again. Actually it 
 is quite impressive (negatively) how little diversification there is in the overall spectrum of 
 enemies.
  
  The choice of player characters is also rather limited. Starting off with one main character, playing 
 through the game will reward you with other characters to replay the game with, each giving the 
 events their own slant, as you experience the game from their viewpoint and will thus see new missions 
 and areas. But not many, as most characters' paths are strongly intertwined. Unique the characters 
 might be, but the basic principle of bashing the buttons remains, no adaption to different weapons 
 or fighting styles necessary. There will be new button combination, with slightly different timing 
 to memorize, but nothing drastic.
  
  Even the graphics of the game are unspectacular. Gorges and valleys, cliffs and townships all are 
 nicely rendered, but fail to add to the gaming experience. There are no truly grand vistas or impressive 
 details to be marveled at, nor are there exceptionally creative ideas woven into the visual presentation. 
 The closest the game comes to any wow-effect will be the few times when you can use your special 
 attacks. Eliminating enemies leaves red orbs, which can be collected to fill up a meter which, 
 once filled, can be activated to send the character into 'massive destruction mode'. Blurring and 
 lightning effects make this look rather nice, plus getting rid of your opponents in this manner 
 will leave with blue orbs, filling up a second meter with which an instant kill move can be activated, 
 this one also nicely animated and accompanied by colors and blurring and lightning. Yet, the novelty 
 of these only lasts for about two or three uses after which they become just part of the button 
 mashing.
  
  The sound of slapping the controller - yes, you can complain about sexual innuendo in the forums 
 right after reading through the rest of this review - will become your best friend while playing 
 N3, as the in-game soundtrack does not have anything more interesting to offer. Ambient and fighting 
 sounds are on point but not special and definitely not very varied.
  
  The only true broad selection can be found in the game's various items, weapons and gadgets that 
 characters will find during their various missions. From stronger version of your current weapon 
 to cloaks, boots, power-ups and much more can be found. These will be the only things to keep those 
 players that have a penchant for collecting and/or finishing games with a 100% quote glued to the 
 screen. Getting them all (pun intended) can become a rather arduous task.
  
  That said, casual gamers or those that want their attention to be held by the game of their choice 
 will not find much reward in N3. This is for the most die-hard fans of the genre only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MorkkiTH
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 9, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  There is few good things to say about this game. First one is the graphics. They aren't bad. In 
 fact graphics are pretty good. Characters are very good looking and some parts of the environments 
 are pretty ok too. Game play is pretty good and learning curve is very low. So everyone can get 
 on the game very fast. And then we go after the bad... I played the demo of this game and it included 
 the japan voice actors (and english) And I liked the japan voice actors. But full game includes 
 only english voice actors. And english voice actors are so bad! Camera is also very bad... Firstly 
 it is too close and you always have to rotate camera on it's proper place.
  
  Difficulty is pretty easy... only boss battles are little bit difficult. You can play this game 
 pretty fast at the end (this if you have the mentally strong!) Story of the game is pretty interesting, 
 but pretty soon it gets very boring. I only recommend this game if you find this at the bargain 
 bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PawCabZ
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 21, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  The trouble with Ninety-nine Nights isn't that it's rubbish, it's not. It's actually really good 
 but that it's a bit stupid. Now dumb games I can handle, they're often mindless fun, but stupid? 
 They just annoy me. And Ninety-Nine Nights makes a few mistakes.
  Ninety-Nine Nights is like a big-sceren adaptation of Dynasty Warriors, it's prettier, has a huge 
 draw distance, features some beautiful combat combos and stuffs the screen with more bodies than 
 a regulation-breaking nightclub. And, when the action's at its hottest, it's incredibly satisfying 
 to play, as you send legions of orcs scattering like someone opening a family-sized bucket of Maltesers 
 with a rocket launcher. That bit of Ninety-Nights will never get old. Where it does grate though, 
 is in terms of difficulty. Firstly, there are no mid-level save points, meaning you could easily 
 invest the best part of an hour carving your way across the battlefield, only to be diced up by 
 a boss character, in which case you're going right back to the beginning. It's a big problem on 
 later levels, because some enemies can murder your energy bar in minimal time, and the game's just 
 too chaotic for you to do very much about it. Long-standing Dynasty Warriors fans will probably 
 hate this game, just because it has so few stages and characters comapred to Koei's series. But 
 Ninety-Nine Nights is the more impressive game, and much more colorful with it too, just be prepared 
 to pop some head veins when you fail to complete a level. Still, with both this and Dynasty Warriors 
 5 arriving on the Xbox 360, it's not like you don't have a choice.
  
  Graphics 89%
  A blurry horizon, but tons of bodies and some terrific special attacks
  
  Gameplay:68%
  You'll 
 waver between immense satisfaction and extreme anger
  
  Lifespan:70%
  Even when you a character's story is over, you can replay stages to level them up
  
  Sound:65%
 
  Falls short below the likes of a final fantasy soundtrack
  
  Gore Factor:78%
  You dispatch a massive amount of damage to enemies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelsana
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 20, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  If you are into killing things non stop, then this is a game for you. If you are looking for a 
 game with a little complexity and something besides mindless killing, I would probably look for 
 a better game. I found it to be mildly entertaining to begin with, and the visuals are pretty good 
 but it didn't get much more exciting than that. Once you beat the first level or two, you can expect 
 the same thing over and over. I was also disappointed that it didn't have a multi-player feature 
 like some of the other mindless hack and slash games out there today. At the end of the day I would 
 not recommend this game to anyone unless you are on a very tight budget and this is the only Xbox360 
 game that you can afford, but even then I would recommend just saving your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 17, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  When i first saw trailers for this game and the massive battles and then saw that it was from the 
 developers of the kingdom under fire series i was excited. Then when i finally played the game 
 i was showered by disappointment. This game had potential to be one of the greatest real-time strategy 
 games of all time, especially on consoles and apparently it didn't achieve that.
  
  Graphics look pretty good, there can literally thousand of enemies on screen and just watching 
 that in a game makes your jaws drop, you will actually feel like your in an actual epic battle. 
 All the models look great but i think they could have been better.
  
  Sound: the voice acting is not done very well and the sound effects sometimes seem to be unimpressive 
 when compared to many other sword combat games available. The music is alright but again, it could 
 have been better. But in the end they are passable sound effects.
  
  Gameplay is actually a little fun but like i said before it could have been so much better. The 
 campaigns are all entangled but i don't know why they made you repeat the exact same level with 
 different characters. Whether it was laziness or time constraints, we may never know. There are 
 combos and such but you will find yourself using tons of button mashing and this can be considered 
 a hack n' slash type game. The different characters all have their own moves and spells and their 
 most powerful spells can look incredible and they can wipe out the entire army with one Super Move 
 alone. They can take up the entire screen and are pretty impressive to watch. But the sad part 
 is to get their you will have to hack your way through countless enemies and collecting enough 
 orbs to do them. This can get really repetitive. Boss fights contain a-lot of timing based shots 
 and all you really have to do is keep hitting them until they die. There is no real strategy behind 
 it except for some well placed combos at the right time. You have groups to come with you like 
 archers, pikeman, cavalry, ect, but they are pretty much useless and don't add much strategy to 
 the game, not to mention the fact that you are so powerful that you don't even need them. There 
 are also hidden items in the game and that is a good reason to explore the map but it's usually 
 a long walk and it's pretty tedious.
  
  When i bought this game i was expecting awesome multiplayer battles online but there are none to 
 speak of. Overall this game will be good to people who like button mashing or hack and slashers. 
 But i recommend you give it a rent and don't put your expectations too high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anime-Beast
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 13, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  The good: Nice graphics cool gameplay lots of enimys at once game play is very simmalur to dynasty 
 wariors
  
  The bad: Frame rate can drop preaty bad during large battles, Boss fights suck, Crapy voice acting, 
 The combat is very simmaulr to dynasty wariors
  
  Ninety-Nine Nights is a case of Dynasty Wariors meets D and D. Ninety-Nine Nights was developed 
 by Q? and Phantagram and is reminesint of games such as Dynasty Wariors and Kinddom under fire. 
 But unlike those games Ninety-Nine Nights guts the Stragy partsbut ads a much flashyer combat engin 
 filled whith leveling up speshal movesand crazy combos. In Ninety-Nine Nights you play as many 
 charactors over the cource of the game but you only start out whith the 17 yeas old Inphyy the 
 you unlock her older brother Aspharr ( Aspharr and Inphyy have the same story but from there perspective 
 .) Insted of telling one story and swich charactors every now and then it tells the same story 
 as diffrent people.
  
  Gameplay: Preaty Fun but kind of button mashy and you need to level up a bit before it bets really 
 fun.
  
  Graphics: Really good The models of all the charactors loock great and the game puts tones of bad 
 guys on scren at once. The only problem is that the frame rate can drop a bit in longer battles. 
 Sound: some of the voice acting sucks preaty bad but otherwise good sound.
  
  Value: Not the longest game in the world but maxing out you cahractors levels ( the level limit 
 is 9 ) will keep you comming back.
  
  Story; I will not spoil anything but i will tell you that it is a goblen VS. Humans thing and it 
 is okay.
  
  Diffaculty: Hard. Enimys do a ton of damage to you good thing they have preaty bad Ai. And health 
 items are rare 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorpal
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Most people would say when they look at this game: Wow oh my god!
  
  To tell the absolute truth there looking at all the enemies and allies clashing.
  
  But I found 
 that after the effects of the scales of the fights wear off they say to there friends as they watch: 
 I reckon it would get boring after a while 
  
  Guess what I say to that? BULLS&amp;#*T!
  
  This is a great game, the combos are endless, the magic orb attacks are completely devastating, 
 with a captivating story and the most immersive battles ever wages on screen.
  
  I you loved the movie 300 or other movies with huge battles in them like Kingdom of Heaven, LOTR 
 you WILL love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayersdeath200
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  there are good and bad points to this game with lots of enemys on the screen showing you that the 
 360 can handle lots of characters in game which is cool but the game lacks in some of the characters 
 levels which some do seem the same. the gameplay can get tedeious through some of the characters. 
 the sound of the game is cool with the opera style theme. the weapons of the game are great especially 
 with Myifee with the two sided blade which u can change for the same style of weapon but dose more 
 damage. this game is grat if you are bored or have some stress which you want to get rid of as 
 long as you are good at this type of game if you have played it you know what i mean if you die 
 at the boss fight and have to start from the beginning very aggravating 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VenDaler
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 30, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Pretty fun with tons of enemies on screen, looks pretty satisfying. If you play enough you can 
 get the magic user girl and the secret character. Both of these are really unique compared to the 
 hack and slash characters which are like characters in Dynasty Warriors. These characters break 
 Ninety Nine Nights away from that, but it still has some traditional hack and slash characters 
 as well.
  
  The combat is pretty satisfying and the graphics are pretty good overall. The thing is they have 
 a lot of enemies on screen, which is exciting, because you can plow through them, but then, the 
 game seems like it might be kind of blurry, especially the snow levels. Makes my eyes feel a little 
 messed up after playing for a while. The gamer points are actually possible to get in this game, 
 which gives it more reason to play. The thing I have with gamerpoints, is that a game may not be 
 good enough for me to spend time playing, but I might play it anyway just to get points... This 
 might be good for Microsoft, but might cause me to waste more time playing a game that I might 
 not even enjoy as much as another. Anyway, this game allows you to find weapons and level up your 
 characters to make them stronger. If it is too difficult and you keep dying, you can retry so many 
 times, and then the difficulty level will be adjusted to make it easier. This isn't much of an 
 issue, as the game is not very difficult, mostly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 29, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  yup, essentially this is a really shiny dynasty warriors on the 360. it even has less variety in 
 attacks and a tiny cast of characters to play. the stories overlap so by and large there's very 
 little replay value. the voice acting is better than d. w. but cmon- how hard is that? i mean it's 
 still grating.
  
  now that said, if you are a dynasty/samurai warriors koei disciple (like me unfortunately) you 
 are going to run head first into these enemies giggling with glee. and why, when you've done it 
 all before?
  
  because it's fun to single handedly wipe out an army. just accept it. it doesn't make you less 
 of a gamer.
  
  now the good news... the enemies are everywhere, and almost cinematic in the way they are presented. 
 i wish there were more weapons items and characters, but at least what they did put in the game 
 they did well.
  
  the attacks and uber attacks are flashy and pretty to watch the shiny lights as your enemies go 
 flying. control and camera are solid, and the physics are pretty tight too. now the story is trite 
 and shallow, and really that's a commentary on the game as a whole. if you're looking for depth 
 yer going to want to look elsewhere.
  
  if yer fine with a little mindless action, then N3 is definitely worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kizzle28
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 28, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I first rented this game with the idea that it would involve an epic storyline, great combat, and 
 a massive amount of enemies to kill at once. There was no great storyline, no fun combat, only 
 alot of enemies on screen at once. Once you get over that, there isn't much in N3 for the average 
 gamer.
  
  Some may of bought this because they really enjoy Japanese styled games. This one isn't much different. 
 A light vs. dark cliche' battle. You have the ability to play up to 9 characters in N3, going through 
 each person's story and seeing the conflict through their eyes. A great concept, but ultimately 
 flawed in its execution. You first start off as Ashpharr, a brash 19 year old warrior, a sworn 
 protector of the light. As you go through his version of the conflict (which is hard to follow 
 given the convoluted way the story is told) , you come to realize that no everything is as it seems 
 and that corruption is on both sides. Unfortunately, there is no option for you to make a choice 
 for good or evil. It is a linear and predictable story.
  
  Gameplay
  Hack n' slash gameplay with no shred of innovation at all. What are you doing Q/ Phantagram?
 
  
  Graphics
  Some pretty character models and effects, but aren't that impressive up close. Some nice slight 
 variations on enemies and the ability to see hundreds of enemies on screen is cool at first.
  
  Sound
  A pretty good orchestrated score, but the voice overs are terrible!
  
  Value
 
  Not much in this game. A 1 player affair. Only the hardcore will try and get all the annoying 
 achievements.
  
  Tilt
  My tilt is a 6. It had some good things about it. The Sound in the game is definitely its strong 
 suit, but it still is just a hollow experience that tries to be greater than it actually is. It 
 tries to be the epic story, but the story isn't told well and it's generic and predictable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halomassacre
Rating: 1.9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  The game has tons of enemies to kill and it is just fun to sit and fight but there aren't many 
 ways to kill them besides with large boulders. or killing tjwm with your weapon or magic moves. 
 The graphics when lpaying are okay but the endings for the characters and the opening scene has 
 really good graphics. The best part of the game is the massive environment to explore in each level 
 making them last as much as 30-40 minutes each and with 6 levels for Asphaar and 7 for Imphy and 
 about 4 for most other characters besides Vigvagk. (He only has about 2.) The fact that you have 
 to lpay as a retarded troll to get your achievements is really irratating since he has hardly any 
 good moves and a crappy energy move, and plus he is ultra slow. Imphy or Asphar are the collest 
 characters because they are relatively fast and have some decent moves. Overall this is an okay 
 game worth playing only for the achievements and once you get them you will probably forget about 
 the game. (Don't do the Reachest Highest Level achievement because you rtime will be wasted because 
 it doesn't give you the 200 gamerpoints.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  The Good: You can see all of your enemies on screen, good animation in cut scenes, environment 
 detail is good as well
  
  The Bad: You only start with one available character, voice acting is not the greatest, storyline 
 is pretty solid, not a whole lot of ways to destroy your enemies
  
  When you pop in the game you will be watching a short little movie flick that will impress you 
 with its graphics and detail. But when you get to the point where you want to play the game... 
 you will have a feeling it wont be as good as you though when you saw it on T. V. N3 is a pretty 
 solid game with an OK story to it but will have you sitting back in your lazyboy chair thinking 
 to yourself... they could have done WAY more. You start the game with 2 options... go to the tutorial 
 or go right into the action by selecting your character sad thing is you can only play as one at 
 the moment... and its a chick who's voice gets annoying. As you play along you will agree that 
 the cut scenes are great and the in game graphics are great as well.
  As for the way to kill your enemies... not so great. You have two thats right TWO easy buttons 
 to mash up to kill those enemies of yours, though it gets old after awhile... thank god for special 
 attacks. When you use the X and the Y to kill those in your path you get orbs red and blue. The 
 red orbs you get after killing and the blue orbs you get after pressing the B when your red orb 
 bar is full this will engage powerful attacks. By pressing the X and Y you will kill your enemies 
 in one blow. When you do so you will see you are collecting blue orbs pretty little blue orbs :) 
 and these blue orbs do a very... VERY... powerful attack but you have to play the game to see what 
 that does.
  
  basically that pretty well covers the attacking and you can also command your troops... either 
 archers and infantry or pikemen and heavy infantry but trust me they do jack **** only thing they 
 are good at is distracting the enemy or bosses (bosses can get very annoying at times) but all 
 bosses have been like this and i got my taste of boss fighting frustration in metal gear solid... 
 aside from the hacking and slashing and combo mashing this is a pretty standard game with great 
 cut scenes (for the forth time) and in game graphics... voice acting could have been done much 
 better and the music in the game might want to turn it down just a tiny bit (i just put on amon 
 amarth and i am happy) as you can tell i have not yet beat the game with all the characters and 
 why you ask? because i was smart and rented it for a few days :) do yourself a big favor rent the 
 game first and if you can get threw the frustration of boss battles and the rare dropping of the 
 frame rate then you will enjoy this game like i did... for the 5 days i had it
  
  difficulty is just right/hard ... its hard at times with the ability to not save during in game 
 and when you die ull find yourself at the beginning again... that part reminds be of dynasty warriors 
 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrono357
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  i played for a few days and got all the game score and returned it is not a game i would keep but 
 a game i would borrow i liked the story line and the graphics when the water mage used her attacks 
 on the enemy the orb collectiong and using a special is too simaler to dynasty warriors. Its like 
 dynasty warriors and samurai warriors had a baby that was stolen by microsoft and microsoft converted 
 him/her to copy the other games but give a hint of difference. fav character was the laid back 
 mercanary but he had the worst weapon it took to long to pefore most of his moves cause you could 
 not move until you get it back 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 17, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  For about a hour or so this was a fun game mashing buttons and kicking whole armies' butts. Very 
 nice graphics and the string of fighting combo's that you mashed away at look fantastic. But it 
 got old after awhile and I can't tell you how frustrating it is to play a level for a half a hour 
 and slip up a bit on the boss and die. Only to have to redo the whole level. If it had a save you 
 could do anytime I would have been a little less frustrated with this... Rent if you are bored 
 but don't buy this one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaedeDiablo
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 17, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  
  Is fantastic but only the face and the body of the heroes, the others foe are very simple and in 
 other case there are plenty frames errors. The enviroment is well-designed but lacks of details 
 and also is boring with the time.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Is extremly boring and the basic attack deals more damange than the special attacks. The mechanic 
 is disastrous, you can`t jump over some plataform and also lacks of accurancity.
  
  Sound
  
  The music is fantastic like a concert of opera, very very incredible
  
  You would 
 be enjoy this game only, is you want to explore a different kind of game, is nothing like you ever 
 play again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  First off, this game is a must RENT! The graphics are very nice and the combos are pretty cool 
 and fun to watch as you demolish every enemy in sight with a few button smashing combos. However, 
 this game does get a bit repetitive after a bit and I can see where the complaint of been there 
 done that sets in. The other big complaint that I have is the save system. It gets very frustrating, 
 getting all the way to the end of a level only to turn around and do it all over agian if you die. 
 It would have been nice to have a checkpoint save system rather than an all or nothing save. Nevertheless, 
 this game is very fun to play. There is something about taking out 400-1000 guys in a single fight 
 that just has the ring bad ass to it. I would recommend this game, however dont make the mistake 
 and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cybertronhero
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  This is my first video game review so i hope you all enjoy:
  
  First off im enjoying this game. i heard from many people that this game wasn't worth the time. 
 so i rented the game to try it try it out i was happy i did. the game was a very decent game. This 
 game is your typical button masher. The combo system is a very simple system nothing tricky at 
 all to it. the camrea angles can be a pain at some points but not all the time and you can rotate 
 the camrea. my biggest complaint about the game play would be the units. at the start of each level 
 you have the option to chose units that you would like to aid you in battle (they do not aid at 
 all) they become more of a hassle than anything else . at some points when in a massive battle 
 it is hard to tell who you are fighting. it is best at some points to leave the units behind this 
 way you can enjoy the massive battle all for your self.
  
  The Graphics for this game were amazing, the Music would just make you want to chrage to meet 1000 
 orks head on. the voice acting needs work but it's not god awful. if you love massive battles or 
 want a little some thing to hold you over till your next huge game comes out try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 22, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This game so sucks I can't even believe I bought this. Do not purchase this game for any reason. 
 Or rent it. It is highly imbalanced and boring. I got to the end credits within three hours of 
 playing this game. You will see the end credits roll about 40 times before you get through this 
 game for all your achievements, which you won't get anyways, because it's bugged. One achievement 
 says get all characters up to lvl 9 and so I did, and nothing happened. I wasted like 20 hours 
 lvling up to 9 each character for nothing! I've never hated a game so much in my entire life. The 
 loot is weak and boring. They make you play characters that are slow as molasses and then let you 
 play characters that glide on ice. The gameplay, the characters, everything is imbalanced, like 
 some Japanese gamers made this in their basement. I feel sorry for the person who actually made 
 a walkthrough for this game because the game is absolutely worthless. I am never buying a Phantagram 
 / Q game ever again. Why give me loot that only gives me negative stats while the other half of 
 the loot is limited to lvls 1,2,3. That's it. If you want serious disappointment, try playing this 
 game and doing what it tells you only to not get your 200 point acheivement. I can't flip this 
 game off enough. Please, if you read this, do not buy this game at all, even if it is FREE! I cleared 
 every mission, the end boss too, and nothing! WTF do I have to do for my lvl up every character 
 to 9 200 point acheivement award? Seriously, I would give this game a 0 if I could. If any one 
 can help understand why I didn't get my acheivement, please help me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick4141109
Rating: 3.1
Date: Feb 5, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  N3 does not feature any checkpoints in the game which makes it a huge turn off to me. Not only 
 that it is also the horrible dialogue the sound is terrible and I believe the people who did the 
 voices could have attempted to get into character. The Cut scenes are useless and you can't skip 
 through them and there's no good story behind it. The way you kill enemies is also very boring 
 and there is not enough life in the game. So when your injured you have to find one of those chest 
 and hope life is in there. Sorry everyone but this game is such a waste. It has better use as a 
 coaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CO47
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Placing swarms of enemies against you is what this game loves doing, and killing them all is what 
 you'll love doing if that kind of thing interests you.
  The game is developed by Q Entertainment and Phantagram, which explains why this game feels like 
 Kingdom Under Fire minus the hardcore metal music. Similar to KUF, combos are simple to execute 
 allowing you to take out multiple enemies with a few swipes by just pressing one button repeatedly 
 or be stylish and mix up your attacks. Unlike KUF, commands for your friendly units are limited 
 to just Attack and Defend and Holding Position by deselecting them. Ordering your men to Attack 
 will cause them to engage a mob of enemies with an arrow over them, using the Defend command will 
 have your men running to your current position, and Holding Position... is just stupid.
  The Missions your character battle in can take up to a good half hour and are rewarding, that is 
 if you don't die. If your character does fall in combat you'll have to start all the way to the 
 beginning of the mission no matter how far in it you are. Completed missions can be replayed allowing 
 you to battle that certain fight again or explore the map a bit and see if there's a powerful item 
 to obtain, though you'll have to complete the mission again if you got what you're after in order 
 to save.
  Ninety-Nine Nights is at least something different to try on the Xbox 360 among the mass of shooter 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BuryU
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  I found this game very similar to Dynasty Warriors in the fact that you have massive troops in 
 battle that you can command; I rarely found that I needed to use the command option! The characters 
 seemed to be pretty basic heroes and villians at the same time still creative. I love the fact 
 that there are different stories per character some intervene some are completely different outcomes, 
 I think this makes replay value extremely high. I really liked the attacks after you build up your 
 orbs, nothing like wiping out 300 goblins in one swoop! Some faults are no Checkpoints and you 
 have to save each individual character with their own save file to access them to build up you 
 level and Stage Grades, kind of messed up! The troop command was basically useless maybe could 
 have made it a little more effective. I think the story was a bit cliche but good in the aspect 
 that each character really affects the outcome, you have to look at it like this, there are multiple 
 endings in this game bottom line! The game itself is short but fun. Overall I really liked this 
 game and look forward to another addition in the series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mad_Hatter
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 28, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  ok, to begin with, the promos were amazing, the story is really good, but the game is all wrong, 
 is a bad a really bad copy of Kingdom Under Fire, the graphics are not next gen, the control is 
 too simple, combos are lame, the voice is terrible, really, is nightmare stuff.
  
  i haven't finish the first campaign, but one mission took me almost an hour of killing minions, 
 i almost fall sleep while slashing pathetic goblins.
  
  the game should go back to drawing board, more bugged, fresh combos and powers, better voices, 
 new graphics, is a broken game, is a rental, played for one hour, while you rest for gears of war 
 or call of duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemur543
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 27, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Announced around launch of the X-Box 360, N3 seemed like a great idea. Huge epic battles that make 
 you a god among mortals but does it hold up as a good game? Will your hopes be dashed into millions 
 of pieces? Will this game contrast from a lame Dynasty Warriors rip-off? Read on...
  
  The game is a pretty basic setup; You play one of several characters in the story, each with a 
 What if method. While this is supposed to be a key element to N3, it's pretty lack-luster, and 
 its not as impressive as you might want it to be. If that wasn't bad enough, the gameplay isn't 
 that stunning either. The game is compiled of a mindless button mashing fest, with sometimes unresponsive 
 controls, and an overall under-whelming gameplay experience. Since there are hundreds of enemies 
 surrounding you, defense probably won't be used, even though it's there. Enemies catch you off 
 guard, as its almost impossible to keep track of all them. Even the smallest of enemies will take 
 away a staggering amount of health, and stun you for a lengthy time, leaving your back open to 
 even MORE enemies.
  There is a compelling RPG element though... eh... who am I kidding? As you kill hordes of enemies, 
 you collect 'soul orbs' which are the equivalent of Experience-Points. As you go through levels, 
 you get more and more complex combos, you become stronger, and your health bar increases, but you'll 
 soon find yourself retreating back to the basic low-level combos, since they seem to eliminate 
 crowds more often. Had enough? I barely scratched the surface, for, you see... progression is also 
 horrible. A mind-boggling save system is used in the game, in which you must save a file for each 
 and every character. To make matters even worse, there are no in-game saves, not even a checkpoint 
 system! Sooner or later, you'll be compelled to go on mindless grinds on previous, easier and shorter 
 missions, so you can go through the current level relitively easily. Moving on, I'm going to touch 
 on the production values of N3.
  
  The obvious emphesis of N3 is the amazing amount of characters on screen, but up close, its not 
 such as pretty picture. Absolutely horrid lip-synching is one of the main problems. The charcter's 
 mouths flap around blatantly, and don't even fit with the voice acting at all. Speaking of voice 
 acting, its not so good. An obvious lack of talent potrude from the game, with cheesy dialouge, 
 and make the characters even less compelling than they were before. As you massacre the platoons 
 of enemies, you'll notice that there is a serious frame-rate issue, that occurs even when there 
 are minimum characters on screen. This detracts from the gameplay experince, and will make you 
 impatiently drum your fingers.
  
  So, in conclusion, the creators of N3 didn't have alot of knowledge in this genre. Think its time 
 to make puzzles again, guys? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightvamp5
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 18, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, Ninety-nine nights is one of the most enjoyable games I have played, despite its lack 
 of depth. This game was not made to be an in-depth RPG. This game was not made to have a dynamic 
 plot. This game was meant for one thing: a half-hour to hour quick gaming rush. Ninety-nine nights 
 is all flash and high action thrills. That is it. The graphics and art of the game are creative, 
 innovative and well done. The music sets the tone for an epic battle. These put together fully 
 envelope you and pull you into the world of ninety-nine nights and get you in the mood for a medieval 
 slaughter fest.
  However, this game is very simple and missing some basic, necessary things, like multiplayer. It 
 wouldn't have been hard to make this game coop, considering how many levels you replay from a different 
 characters perspective.
  Plus, the game does tend to get tedious if you play it for more than the previously said half-hour-hour 
 sitting b/c of how easy the game is. It is far too easy to wade through EVERY opponent, including 
 the bosses, and your own troops are as useless as your enemies.
  At one point, I stood there and watched my whole army attack a single goblin for two minutes, and 
 they couldn't even kill him!
  Overall, I would definitely recommend this title; just don't expect a unique story or momentous 
 game play. This game is all flash, but oh man does it make flash look good :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redlightningxvx
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  I was expecting this game to be great because of the commercials, but my freind got the game before 
 me and brought to my house. I was shocked to see it was one ONE PLAYER! how can you play a game 
 like that without someone.. thats boring. the Ai in this game is stupid as always in the games and 
 if you get hit about 2 times a fight it means your doing bad. anyway. the game is short and easy 
 and has no skill required what so ever.. most of the levels look the same and same thing goes for 
 the enemies. There are some good things i guess... The graphics are great and it sounds nice.. Thats 
 the end of the good. The gameplay is fun for 3 minutes thens its VERY repetitive and boring. I 
 rather play Dynasty warriors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: choicemaker
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 14, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  i have no clue y people hate this game. This happens with a hackn slah games. U pretty much have 
 to be a fan to like this game, if u hate hack games then y the hell review it?. this game delevers 
 great action, this tied in with the epic battles just makes this game one of the most unique and 
 entertaining hack n slah games of all time, sorry koei, the bad crap about it is that the missions 
 r short, and the completed in 1 day. campain 4 all charecters can be done in 1 day, but what this 
 game delivers makes up for all the bad crap and shuld keep the hackn slash gamer busy for weeks 
 to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick1191
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  The game had some high points wtih the major battles and all. It could fit hundreds of enemies 
 onto the screen and one time, but thats where the good stops happening. Also the difficulty on 
 the game could use a little adjustment. the game comes set with not many achievements but all of 
 which are 50-200 points. When the many armies that you would fight came to fight you at many times 
 if you would get even a little bit of a combo the game would slow way down and sometimes come to 
 a halt. Also on top of this, this game has absolutely no online features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodspeed1989
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 11, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  when i first heard about i thought it was about 'ninety nine ''knights'' ' as in knights in shining 
 amour, but then in the first scene on the gameplay i was corrected, and it was days, like a count 
 down. (great, NOT!!) the gameplay was soo bad it gave me cramp in my thumb !!! it was justing pushing 
 the X button and pointing in the right direction. The levels themselves didnt pack much punch either, 
 either too long and pointlessly hard or so easy that u didnt get time to do anything, and u would 
 have thought that big warriors like these would be able to withstand a bit punishment, but no one 
 poke from a **** frog and uv lost half ur goddam health and as health was never there to find it 
 was a bloody nightmare just trying to complete a level.
  The bosses were not in the right game, they had an amazing amount of health and defense, compared 
 to that of u, with no defense and hardly any life. i am a great fan of the old 'hack and slash' 
 gameplay but this was just a sack of **** !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katsuro
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 9, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  It had the potential to be great, but fell short in a few areas. The graphics are pretty good, 
 and the amount of characters able to be present on screen is the most I have ever seen in a fighting 
 game like this. I Really wish they developed the story better as well as making the missions more 
 unique for each character. Once you finish the game with one character it really does start feeling 
 repetitive. The game will provide you with maybe 10-15hrs of fun, but once you beat it I really 
 doubt you will come back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staryoshi87
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 12, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Fans of the Dynasty Warrior franchise have had little in the way of support on 360, aside form 
 the DW5 port, which I'll probably pick up soon ;) . Ninety-Nine Nights is a reasonably good game, 
 and probably won't disappoint Hn'S fans. The gameplay is extremely repetitive, but kind of in a 
 good way. I mean, when you're slashing through hundreds of enemies at a time, and looking good 
 doing it, that's just fun :) The combos are pretty but often times uneffective, save a few.
  I like the music, it's got a neat orchestral/vocal theme that emphasizes the mood that you're supposed 
 to be feeling. The only downside is the crummy voice acting, but I can deal with it.
  Graphically, I'd say it's somewhere in between a PS2 and 360 game, and aside from the distance 
 blur (their version of fog of war) I think it looks pretty good.
  As for replayability, going through each character's campaigns are similar, but different enough 
 to make it worthwhile. While the underlying attacks are similar, the storyline is a little different 
 and the weapons mean new attacks. I was not bored on my 2nd, 3rd, etc, go arounds :)
  Would I have bought this game for 60 bucks? probably not, but when it's used for 24.99, less a 
 10% eb games discount and another 25% off special, it's quite a steal at $17.54. As far as value 
 goes you definitely get a lot of bang for your buck.
  I'm quite happy I bought this game, as I was looking for something similar to Dynasty Warriors, 
 and I found it in N3. Hack n' Slash fans won't be disappointed, but non-slashers most likely will 
 be. Good buy overall, and one of my fav 360 games at the moment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jericoY2J
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  well yeah I like it. I'd say its a 7.5/10 in my book. great cutscenes and gameplay is pretty like 
 dem girls in Hawaii (where I live) . also people who hate probably didin't know u could find power 
 ups on the field also healing potions and u can up-grade or customize ur character with stuff. skill 
 boosters and such. Z Z Z Z Z
  Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z ZZ Z Z
  Z Z Z Z 
 Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z ZZ Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxgamer07
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 2, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  this game is so bad that i just wanted to take it out of my x box and break it. i ended up just 
 trading it in. this game stinks! all you do is press the X button. and the game at times can be 
 so hard. in one mission you first have to go thought waves of cheap enemy's, then you have to fight 
 three very stupid and cheap bosses. and there's no health around. there's other characters you 
 can play as but they all suck! this game is really bad. i hate it so so so much. this is not even 
 worthy of being in the bargain bin. and who ever buys this game i feel sorry for them! even though 
 the game is only thirty dollars but it does not help the fact that it sucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy8_882000
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  An Updated And Improved Dynasty Warriors! It has a descent story on the cutscenes and Great Charecter 
 Backgrounds. Plenty of Charecters to choose from, Giving lots of different missions, stories, and combo 
 moves to learn. Hate having to start over on long levels after dying, and It needs a bit more to 
 it then mindless battle, like a little bit of kingdom under fire should be put into it. The graphics 
 could have been better and the Computer AI as well, They made this game almost to easy. They should 
 have stretched the story a bit more too. But all in all if you like dynasty warriors then this is 
 the way to go for those with the 360. I have fun with some of the huge battles and that can sometimes 
 overwhelm the rest 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ch3rub
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 17, 2007 2:01 am PT
Review:  It does have really nice graphics, good sound and interesting game mechanics. Unfortunate save 
 game system is really poor!! Some of the bosses are really hard and you need to make it just perfect 
 to beat them... this is OK but the real problem is that if you fail you have to repeat the whole 
 level again !!!! Imagine playing for an hour and then beeing defeated by final boss. You have to 
 go all the way back and play for another hour just to have another chance for killing the boss.... 
 if you fail you have to play another hour for your next chance ! You can not save your game manualy 
 and the word checkpoint does not exist for the creators.
  
  The whole thing is change by the fact you can play any previuos mission again and gain more experience 
 / level-up before going to your current mission again. Suprisingly the first character you can 
 play is the mose dufficult you get (at least od the thirs three) . Keeping that in mind the game 
 looks much better. Gameplay is really fun and make it worth a while.
  
  If you are looking for fast pasted button masher go for it - it's nothing deep but just solid action 
 advanture game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terren82
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Phantagram has a tendency to make bigger claims than they follows through on. The preivews for 
 this game made it sound like you would be fighting an epic war against a mysterious enemy, vying 
 for control of the world. However, the game itself is VERY limited in scope. The final conflict 
 can be missed if you stop paying attention.
  
  Game play is amazing but only when in combat. Moving from encounter to encounter is very hard because 
 the characters move very slowly over large empty areas of group. Enemies are completely mindless 
 and appear in huge numbers (expect between 1000 and 2000 kills per level) with unbalanced fights 
 with Officers. The officers aren't any smarter really, they just seem impossible to hurt most of 
 the time. And the player receives massive damage from almost ever attack, making it possible to 
 be killed in only a few seconds by even basic enemies if you are unlucky.
  
  Every character feels underdone, like the creators had grand plans that they forgot to actually 
 put into the game and the storyline suffers for it. How, why, and what the hell will be popping 
 into you're head constantly while you play Ninety-Nine Nights.
  
  As much as I like Phantagram's story ideas and games, this is a vasty subpar game that suffers 
 in EVERY field except for graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popov89
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  Is story really important? When playing a game like KOTOR or Dead Rising, I thought so, the story 
 is rather important. Although some games glide along with a thin story and no one cares, that means 
 Gears of War. Now 99 nights tries so hard to have a grand old story but the abysmal voice 'acting' 
 and apparently assumed background stories, really doesn't help the matter. The basic background 
 is goblins want to take something from the humans and the humans don't want that, there's something 
 in there about apocalypse and two moons or two suns, I'm not all that sure. So in essence just 
 forget the story for now. The star of the game is the game play or rather lack there of depending 
 on personal preference. 99 nights is a button mashing game, there are a lot of combos but hitting 
 the X and Y buttons in any way will almost always guarantee a combo. The game is hard, button mashing 
 or no. With an utter lack of mid mission saves and how a single hit from an enemy, any enemy, will 
 drain most health, this game is hard. Doesn't help your army does nothing aside from look pretty. 
 The game does want to have an epic scale and it does, that is why you have an army. For the sheer 
 number of troops on screen at once. With so many troops one may wonder what the AI is like. Run 
 and try and kill whatever it swings at. That's it, no joke. Not tactics are employed.... ever. Although 
 the graphics do give you something pretty to look at. This a 360 game so the graphics are assumed 
 to be good and the game delivers without a single slowdown in frame rate... so long as nothing is 
 happening. The game has a serious problem with computing physics or something to that nature as 
 whenever something blows up or gets toppled the game slows down tremendously. Aside from that, 
 the game is attractive.
  
  Now on to sound, overall not bad. The main menu song is pretty cool, least in my tastes, but the 
 voiceovers are just awful. Not cheesy accents, just bad in all ways. The lips don't match up to 
 the voices at all, never once. It's like watching a bad translated kung fu movie, no joke. Aside 
 from one character, and you'll know which if you play the game, the voiceovers are all abysmal. 
 Doesn't help that the writing is just plain bad. If I may quote, Darn, a war really has begun. 
 Now, which side should I join? I think I'll join this side'. There's more but I just can't bring 
 myself to do it. On to something positive, the sound effects for the combat aren't bad just nothing 
 special. So why an 8.3? Why such a high score on a game with so much wrong with it? It's grown 
 on me; I just can't help but play the game and just slaughter the enemy. It's addicting to just 
 lay waste to an enemy army. Before I forget, drop all belief in this world before playing, the 
 game is rather... outlandish in both concept and beleivibity. Just take it at that, a simple game 
 to just have fun with and turn the voices all the way down and put on your own soundtrack and just 
 read the subtitles. The voices in your head will be better the voices used in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbshaffer
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  It's not very often I just grab a game off the shelf without researching it first but the concept 
 and description on the back of the box caught my attention with N3. You get thrown right into the 
 action without much description of what is going on. After your first battle the story line is 
 revealed to you and it is very straight to the point. If you like action without in-depth cinematics 
 or story line then you won't mind the games focus on moving along between battles as fast as possible. 
 The game fell flat for me when I realized that I had the ability to command my flanks on the battlefield 
 but there was not much I could do with them. I think I would be singing a totally different tune 
 if I had been able to command more units and have more control of the master strategy plan for 
 each battle. The heroes that fight along side of you don't seem to use any strategy with their 
 flanks and just run them straight into a massacre. Noobs. I will give the game credit on making 
 each battle feel real and over whelming. Sometimes the frame rate is compromised due to the fact 
 that there is just so many baddies on the field swarming you. I'm not sure who I could recommend 
 this game to so I will just say if any of the issues I mentioned don't bother you at all then you 
 should definitely try it out. You may love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_XX
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 16, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  With a total of 7 characters Inphyy, Aspharr, Myifee, Dingbat, Tyurru, Vik Vak, and Klarran. Basically 
 this game is just like another Dynasty Warriors except more mystical with orcs and goblins. Thousands 
 of enemies to kill hordes of orcs and goblins to slaughter, with tons of cool combos for each character. 
 The characters raise levels which is cool and you can equip specific items and weapons that you 
 find to them. Storyline is pretty good and gameplay is constant, graphics are good and all the 
 rest is just a good game. The only bad part about this game is it can get boring and once you beat 
 the games with all characters at their higest levels and completing all stage with an rank of A 
 or S, the game just isnt worth playing anymore. So if you want easy achievments and a good game 
 to beat and thats it then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballforeva
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:12 am PT
Review:  This is a fantasy and action game produced by Q entertainment and Phantagram. It's a fairly typical 
 hack and slash game, push your way through useless trash, and aim for the finish line, which is 
 usually just completeing the stage's objectives. This is Dynasty Warriors again? No, I think N3 
 does a whole lot better, the game certainly does live up to the powerful graphic engines of the 
 360. No more distant fog, no more lagging when hordes and hordes of enemies arrive, and definitely 
 smoother moves. One of the highlights of the game is that you have the ability to crush hundreds 
 of enemies at once, even thousands. It's one of those last resort things or  
 types, when you are completely swarmed by the abominable freaks of nature, unleash the power and 
 be amazed as you watch them fall all at the same time. Use this wisely, in order to obtain this 
 power, you must first obtain red spirit orbs from enemies by killing them, when you have enough 
 red orbs, you can use a super attack , while you use this attack and kill enemies, blue orbs will 
 appear instead of red, when you collect enough of those, you can then unleash the power. This may 
 sound complicated, and seems like a lot of work, but with great power, comes great responsibility. 
 The diversity of the characters is also a pro in the game, unlike Dynasty Warriors, each character 
 you use is significantly different in speed, attack style, appearance, and stature. After you have 
 succesfully completed all the characters main stories, you will unlock another stage, to fight 
 against the King of Ninety Nine Nights, if you read the FAQs, it does not take more than 5 minutes 
 to make him fall, I'm not gonna say how, because this is one of those games where it doesn't make 
 you scream in fury because the big monster keeps on crushing you, instead you get the joyful opportunity 
 of showing the big guy what it's like to get burned. All in all, fighting and killing massive amounts 
 of enemies is really entertaining, but after a while, you will feel that it is quite monotonous. 
 Besides, the achievements are not a challenge at all, not much use in playing the game too much. 
 Although, if you are looking for something more unique and different from Dynasty Warriors, N3, 
 is a very good choice, despite the fact that it has a lot of room for improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystoval
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Its truth tahts the graphics are like kingdom under fire on xbox and dont explode the real power 
 of the 360 consolebut also is truth thats is a good game because the new gaplay that propose ninety 
 nine nights is so innovative and original is the middel of an action game and strategy game so 
 like Oblivion is a n a middle of a RGP game and FPS game is this for another kind Kindom under 
 fire is so hard and complicate to play and understand the gameplay and the controls so Ninety nine 
 nights quit the complex details of this kind of game and the very complex controls to transform 
 the game to a strategy action third person game very easy to ma&acute; nipulate wioth easy controls 
 to strategy, example it have not coordenates or arrows to piontsome place to colocate your troops 
 in place of that you only choose with a button if you troops go to left or right and if you follow 
 you or protect some place, in kingdom under fire to do this you have to do a lot of movements and 
 a lot of manipulate controls so this game team simplify all this in very simple commands the othr 
 part is the action part that have combos power atacks magic ataccks that are so massive you can 
 kill 500 enemies with one move and thas is amazing and fantastic,, the sound and graphics are not 
 espectacular in fact are regular but the new kind of gameplay and type of game are that this game 
 is worth playing or only for critic and be aware the new wave of games that in the future will 
 come,,,, I recommend to explore new types of games if you are bore prove this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shasam712
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 1, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  *DISCLAIMER! This game has been reviewed in Standard Definition. Any graphical issues suffered 
 during the game apply to SD only, and will not necessarily occur when playing the game in HD.*
 
  
  Ninety-Nine Nights is a slashnhack, action, RPG, button mashing extravaganza from Q Entertainment 
 and Phantagram, two companies that you would not necessarily put together to make this type of 
 game. Ninety-Nine Nights definitely has an attempt at creating a decent story, combining that with 
 a Dynasty Warriors style of game play, but overall the game shoots itself in the foot by choosing 
 the style of game play that it does.
  
  There are two reasons why Dynasty Warriors is so successful. One, the button mashing game play 
 is combined with a decent enough level of strategy to keep your mind from thinking about the repetitive 
 nature, and two, the source material is of excellent quality. Nintey-Nine Nights has neither of 
 these going for it, as the game is stripped of any strategy and the story has been done and done 
 better a thousand times before.
  
  The game pitches you in the middle of a war between Humans and Goblins. Although Goblins are the 
 main enemy, you also encounter Orcs, some frog type creatures and a dragon commanding race called 
 the Arphan. The main character is Inphyy, a young women who, in her story at least, gains command 
 of an army to fight off the Goblins. This is pretty much as far as the story goes. Apart from some 
 last minute revelations and a pretty significant boss fight, the story lacks a lot of the punch 
 that we see in other games. With the level of quality out there being so good, games like this 
 cannot afford to have a weak storyline, especially when they are relying upon it.
  
  Perhaps the reason the story fails is down to the fact that it is splintered up into 7 different 
 stories for each of the 7 different characters. These stories are not parallels either, they are 
 separate dimensions of this one world. For example, Inphyy is the commander of the Temple Knights 
 in her storyline, but when you play as her brother Aspharr, he is the Temple Knights commander, 
 which means their stories are different and cannot draw on the information from each respective 
 part for every character.
  
  Another aspect of this is that each character will have very similar mission. For example, every 
 character has a level that takes place on the Pholya Flatlands, you simple play from different 
 perspectives and fight different enemies. Overall, the amount of levels is only a handful, especially 
 when you consider that some characters only have a few missions. Compared to the overwhelming volume 
 of levels that Dynasty Warriors has, its a shock to the system to suddenly not have that.
  
  However, despite all of these flaws, the core combat is fairly decent. The moves you unlock 
 definitely look more impressive and have there uses, especially for boss fights, and the combo 
 system is definitely nice to have. The exaggerated attack range of your weapon, the amount of combos 
 you get and the sheer number of enemies on screen definitely all add up to make the actually game 
 play bearable. However, as a package, Ninety-Nine Nights isnt so hot.
  
  As with life, its the little things that count. The fact the lips have not been re-synced to match 
 the western dialogue is stunning, so much so that the game looks like a Chinese martial arts movie 
 from the 70s. The ambiguous method in which the game hands out rankings is odd, to say the least. 
 Many of the later characters only have a few levels, and some dont receive new combos past level 
 6 or so. The game simple seems rushed, perhaps that was down to partnering with Microsoft Games 
 Studios, who knows. What is obvious though, is that Ninety-Nine Nights is not worth the full retail 
 price.
  
  What you get for your buck here is about 15 hours of game play, if you want to get all the achievements 
 and such, and then nothing more. You can go back and replay missions if you really liked the game, 
 but there is nothing there to reward you for doing so. In this day and age, for a game to only 
 have one game mode is peculiar. Basically, Ninety-Nine Nights is the game that could have been. 
 If the hours had been put in and the work had been finished, then this game had potential. As it 
 is, you cant help but feel that Dynasty Warriors will come along somewhere down the line, and 
 simply do it better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mvd31
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  This game is fun to relieve stress that you have. This game easily should have gotten a higher 
 score. It has gone back to what action games were made. Fun attacks for every character and huge 
 maps with tons of enemies to fight and destroy. Amazing graphics and special attacks. Weapons and 
 Equipment are balanced for each character. If you played games when Action Games came out I suggest 
 you buy this game and play it for hours. If you were a fan of the old NES Teenage Mutant Ninja 
 Turtles arcade game then this game will seem familar and great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Anyone that says this game is just like Dynasty Warriors is out of their mind. Trust me... THIS 
 IS NOT LIKE DYNASTY WARRIORS!! I despised Dynasty Warriors.... to me it's one of the worst games 
 ever made. Ninety-Nine Nights is a highly enjoyable game. I love it! I've had alot of fun with 
 this game. You have quite a few different characters and you will play through the story from each 
 of their different perspectives one character at a time. You can finish one character and then 
 go to the next one or you can simultaneously play any character's story campaign as long as you've 
 unlocked that character. You will fight hordes and hordes of enemies. Some will be close range, 
 some will be archers. The magical abilities, spells, and combat techniques are all very enjoyable. 
 Superb graphics. There's some very unique spells and skills that I've never seen in any game before........ one 
 such is a water-type spell where you cast waves of water upon your opponents and that is very cool 
 to see a wave wash over your enemies. It is by no means just button mashing hack and slash. You 
 will have to use your skills, you will have to dodge, run, fly, and jump and block. Each character 
 has a learning curve because their skills and manuevers are so different and they have different 
 weapon types. Some are better up close in melee battle..... some do better with projectile weaponry. 
 There's no online play so that's one downside. I'm trying to think of some other negatives but 
 nothing really comes to mind. You get to build your skills and gain experience levels. There's 
 a multitude of different weapons and items you can equip to enhance your abilities and skills. 
 Ok, here's one negative that's kind of frustrating. You cannot save mid-level. If you die in the 
 middle of the level, it's all the way back to the beginning and that makes it very frustrating 
 at times. I know I yelled at my TV more than a few times playing this game. I don't know why in 
 this day and age anyone makes games where you can't save anywhere. It does make it more of a challenge 
 so even if (and I did alot) you have to go back and replay levels to build your skills, you need 
 to make sure your experience and skill level is high enough to beat the next level or you may get 
 to the very end and get killed and it's all the way back. All in all, a very fun game. If you like 
 fantasy, spells, elemental magic, and batlling armies of enemies all on screen at once then you'll 
 like this. Yes, it's quite amazing to run into a whole army of enemies, goblins and stuff and just 
 beat the crap out of them all in beautiful graphic form. Check it out for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 18, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  ==========
  IMPRESSIVE: Good looking protagonists // Stats really add freedom to the ========== gameplay // 
 Enthralling story // Puts alot of enemies on ========== screen // Impressive looking combo attacks
 
  ============
  NEEDS WORK: Level design and structure is all pretty much the same // ============ Clipping issues
 
  
  Up until now, Koei has been the only company to own the authentic hack-n-slash formula, with Dynasty 
 Warriors and Samurai Warriors, and now a whole new hack-n-slash has hit the markets. This time, 
 exclusive to the 360.
  
  Dynasty Warriors 5 Empires has already hit the Xbox 360 (and Dynasty Warriors 4 Special, only in 
 Japan) and it was seen as a straight port of the PS2 of the same name. And it was, but it was still 
 good (My Score: 7.8) and you could still find fun ammong the repetitive battles. N3 follows the 
 same formula except executes it even better than DW5E. N3 is set in a mythical world, apposed to 
 ancient China, and you participate in huge battles with many characters, from Inphyy (the leader 
 of the Temple Knights, with a troubled past, defeating the goblins will bring out her dark side) , 
 Aspharr (Inphyy's older brother) , Myifee (A skilled mercenary) and more. You will even unlock a 
 secret character, which will also gain you an achievement upon completing his missions.
  
  N3 fails to deliver surprises, although some cutscenes may hold plot-twists and special moments, 
 the gameplay is pretty much all the same, but with the lingering story to uncover, you just want 
 to play on (even if your doing it for the achievements) . Inphyy and Aspharr have the longest campaigns, 
 yet all the others have pretty short ones, which feel more like rehashes of previous missions.
 
  
  N3 manages to deliver better graphical potential than it's rival DW5E, but sadly lacks the lasting 
 potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcap8424
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Well... this game is not so good. I'm not sure if they just didn't finish the game or what. A few 
 additions to the game would have made it at least playable. Multiplayer would have been huge in 
 a game like this. Imagine playing co-op over live... the game seems much more bareable this way. 
 I would even settle for split-screen or something. Even with multi I don't think this is going 
 to be a great game. The level system seems almost pointless since you seldom use the more complex 
 combos since they leave you open for attack. Sure they look cool, but they're just not practical. 
 At least they're are a few different characters to play as. The story could be interesting if a 
 little more developed. There are too many gaps in the action. I don't like the boring runs in between 
 fights. This game gets repetitive real fast. If you like button-mashers then by all means buy this 
 game, but if you like games with substance then just stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  Ninety Nine Nights (aka N3) is what we should see from a Next Gen Dynasty Warriors (DW) on PS3 and 
 Xbox 360. However, lets hope the Omega Force does a better job on Hack and slashing then From Software 
 did:
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The highlight of the game is its graphics and enemies on-screen. The game looks absolutely gorgous. 
 Every character has something shiny about them and not only that, their are up to 1000+ enemies 
 on-screen almost all the time! However, There is a too many moments where the game slows down and 
 even freezes when certain orb combos are used. Still, its impressive....
  
  Gameplay: 5/10
  
  This is a mixed reaction. While 5 of the characters are a blast to play with, 
 two of them stand out as major thorns: Tyurru and the secret character. Their combos are horrible 
 and weak. Another complant would be how this game still has DW AI: it looks like action, but the 
 guys are still just doing the stand off stuff like in the DW series. If it weren't for those two 
 characters, I would have given this section a better score.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  Very good, but no variety. The music especially. Their is like 6 songs in this game that loop over 
 and over and over.... the sounds never really change either. again, few sounds, that loop over and 
 over. While I can live with the sounds, the music was too good, but too much. Value: 3/10
  
  its just not worth $50. $30 sounds more reasonable for this game. One reason for that is because 
 the games is about 10-15 hours. of course, if you want the achivements, its about 20-30 hours of 
 very boring achivements. I did get all of them, and even that hurst the game. the one achivement 
 Highest Level requires you to level up all your characters to 9 (about 4-5 hours each) , and then 
 requires you to play through the game AGAIN as each one of them. It wasn't worth it, but then again, 
 I do own the game so I decided Why not? 
  
  Tilt: 6/10
  
  The story of the game is awful. It never is clear whats going on, and the final battle seems very 
 out of place. I won't spoil anything, but I will say that dictation of what the story is about 
 is one of the worst I have seen in recent times. It sucks so bad that you won't even care by the 
 time your done with the game. However, I did like the characters of the game, but why did they 
 have to go and ruin them with such an awful story? *sigh*
  
  Overall: 5.9/10.0
  
  This game is better looking and playing than the Dynasty Warriors series, but that series is running 
 on a 5 year old engine from PS2's launch day. Definatly a dissappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrazyGuy1
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 12, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  In the world of hack and slash games, its never really based on strategy, more on action and pressing 
 buttons on a controller to kill bad guys. And it hasent changed from that a lot since it was created. 
 Ninety Nine Nights hopes to change that.
  
  N3, follows the standard hack and slash material from Dynasty Warriors and tries to make it more 
 interesting, For starters, there are a lot more enemies now, youll see thousands of enemies charging 
 at you and it really feels like youre in a battle
  
  But aside from that, N3 doesnt do a lot to change the series, and in a way, made it worse. Its 
 technaclly superior to any DW game, but feels really boring. Your allies are really weak, and hardly 
 help you at all, when enemies charge, there can be a slight slowdown, the environments and levels 
 seem really boring, gameplay can get very repeititive, and theres no multiplayer. None. Its not 
 even Xbox Live aware. By the time youve finished, youre fingers will be sore, trust me. It happened 
 to me
  
  N3 is an great game when it comes to graphics and sound (the music is great) but doesnt give u 
 anything else to look forward too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameDestroyer88
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Phantagram. A Korean developer now known for the hit game series Kingdom Under Fire. Ok you fast 
 forward a system or two, and now we have the Xbox 360. Now back at the 360's conception Phantagram 
 had openly announced that a new title would launch exclusively on the 360, only with a lil help 
 from famed developer Tetsuya Mizuguchi. Now fast forward to August to the games actual launch.... and 
 a sh^tload of bad reviews.... and this one is no different.
  
  Gameplay: Can you say, Dynasty Warriors?... you can.. oh ok good, good. Can you say Samurai Warriors? 
 yeah... that's good that's good. Well this game would have been better off developed by Koei.... why 
 you ask?... well.... BECAUSE IT'S THE SAME GAME AS THEM!!! Yes, that is correct. Phantagram who made 
 the innovative RTS/action game Kingdom under Fire, develops this, and dares to put their name on 
 it. Take note that you will only need 3... count 'em THREE buttons to effectively play this game. 
 X, Y, and an occaisonal B. While you pull off some sweet looking combos... it really candycoats 
 the game, brainwashing you into believing you're having fun. Yeah the game might be fun for the 
 first campaign... but once you unlock the 6 other characters... you're ready to sell this title to 
 Gamestop. Bad programming makes this game so infuriating that you wanna take a naildriver to your 
 grandmothers throat. In every stage you will be running, and running, and running, and running. 
 And slashing, and slashing, and slashing doing nothing challenging, or puzzling, or anything that 
 makes you go WOW, WHOO, or F**K YEAH! Often times you'll be figting a goblin army (whoopee) who 
 pose no threat whatsoever. However when it comes to the archers, you'll notice that their arrows 
 can penetrate just about any surface on Gods green Earth, often melting through rocks, and trees, 
 and at times walls to hit you. Also the bosses in the game are the most unfair enemy that can kill 
 you in less than 4 hits. Picture this: You're storming through enemy defenses, swinging your sword 
 at anything that gets in your path. You approach the final boss in the final mission. You attack 
 relentlessley not letting up. All of a sudden the Goblin King blatantly walks through your hits 
 without suffering any damage and proceeds to destroy with two slashes, and a fancy lightshow super 
 move. Once again this is the kind of thing that will make you walk next door into your neighbors 
 kitchen and punch him into the hot oil and chicken cutlets.
  
  Graphics: Nothing special.... this game could have been done on a Xbox easy. The enviroments will 
 start to look like one giant blur after your first playthrough. Character models do look quite 
 nice however. Audio: Ipod.... thats all I have to say about this. Actually... forget about your Ipod, 
 this game will actually make you crave to listen to the Spice Girls entire 3rd album. The voice 
 acting is so horrible that I would have rather listen to the entire script voiced by C. A. T. S ALL 
 YOUR BASE, YOUR BASE, ARE BELONG TO US And the music is so forgettable that you wont even notice 
 it's there. Ohh well, *Select Music, Anakin vs. Obiwan*
  
  Overall: If you're going to buy this game... please, please, PLEASE do it for the achievements. 
 The acheivement points are hefty. C'mon a hundred points for beating Asphars campaign. Other than 
 that.... this has to be one of the more worse games on the 360 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike3oOo
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 2, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  N3 Ninety Nine Nights, is one of the most underappreciated 360 games yet, however beneath its frustration, 
 and flaws theres a pretty decent game under it all.
  
  The Graphics are a mixed bag of great and horrible. The levels them selves are pretty straight 
 foward, nothing to exciting about them, however the charecters look good, and the amount of enemies 
 on screen is amazing. And it deff looks better than the DW games. But overall its just decent looking. 
 &gt; br /&gt;
  The Gameplay is basically what you have come to expect with these kinda games. However the tactical 
 side of DW games is not present here, and ur team is really quite stupid. But the fact of the matter 
 is its a button masher thats fun, engaging in the sence of beating the crap out of a ton of eniemes, 
 and the games lvling system works pretty good, with new weapons to find in lvls, as well as upgrading 
 your health, and power, it all helps to ajust you to the games more difficult and frustrating parts.
 
  
  The Story is fundementally pretty horrible. The fact of the matter is that these cinematics look 
 fantastic, but they explain absolutly nothing, and the story must of got lost in translation somewhere, 
 or the developers just really didnt care about the plot. But overall I mean the game has its quirks, 
 and its flaws, but deep down under its rough surface is a surprisngly somewhat fun little action 
 title that hopefully will get some attention it deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKKF
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 26, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst game I have played on the 360. I really hope Microsoft learned a lesson in Japanese 
 games. Do not make mediocre crap. I'm going to start with the good... I can't really remember any. 
 I guess, I'll start and end with the bad stuff. The voice actors were probably gathered from off 
 the streets of San Francisco, because no professional would ever go for this game deal. If it's 
 an epic story you want, don't you dare look here. The story makes no sense, maybe if they asked 
 2K to make the story, Ninety-Nine Nights might actually have a chance, considering 2K made Prey, 
 Oblivion and soon, BioShock. The gameplay, ain't so awesome. If you watch a trailer, you might 
 find it groundbreaking, but if you play it, you will want to crack the disc, throw it doun the 
 toilet and sing chant Na na na na, hey hey hey, goodbye! So, if you want a crappy game, you came 
 to the right place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arydholm04
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 25, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of hack n' slash games and when I saw the trailer for this game on tv I though it 
 was going to be great. I mean, I love the Dynasty Warriors Series as well as the Samurai Warriors 
 games, but this one just doesn't measure up at all.
  
  Let me say that there were some good things about it. One, there could be literally hundreds of 
 guys on the screen at once, but the downside to that is that the game would then lag and sometimes 
 it was almost as if you were in slow motion. Another cool thing about this game is the combos. 
 Every character has their own weapon and fighting style. You could literally rack up several thousand 
 combos in one set of swings. The sad thing is that regardless of the fact that you receive several 
 new button combos every time you level up, you won't use but maybe two or three of them the whole 
 time you play.
  
  Some of the worst things about this game besides slow down were things like sending a guy flying 
 in the air with a big swing and then have him land on a nearby slope and the game won't let you 
 jump up on the slope to get the dropped item. Or when you finish this great combo it takes your 
 character a second to move again and that is when you get stabbed from behind where you lose a 
 large portion of your health. At least in the Dynasty and Samurai warriors games you don't die 
 in as little as 4 hits. Overall this game was fun for the first hour and after that it just got 
 really irritating to play. Don't waste your money on this game. If you want to try a hack n' slash 
 game, go for one of the Dynasty Warriors games or if you like RPGs even the kingdom hearts games 
 give you a good time with the slashing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josh3735
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I read the review on gamespot and despite being reluctant i downloaded the demo off xbox marketplace. 
 I wasn't overly impressed with the game but i thought it wasn't bad and that gamespot had been 
 unfair for rating it 5.9. Anyway i thought nothing of it until i found it preowned cheap and i 
 had the money so i bought it and i didn't regret it for a second! The gameplay is great! There 
 are many combos that are really enjoyable to watch and there are many characters to choose from 
 aswell. Be a warrior type if thats for you or unlock a mage etc to expand the games potential but 
 what ever you do, Do not trade or sell this because of pressured reviews or other peoples opinions. 
 Play this all the way through and then decide if you like it. I personally am very pleased with 
 my desision and i think that if you dont have this game yet then you will be pleased with it too.
 
  
  In MY opinion this is one of the best 360 game out there!
  
  Buy now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_0f_Enigma
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 21, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game with the hopes of it being nice and challenging. I was wrong on one of those. 
 This game had potential, but it didn't strike the right match. The only thing good I can actually 
 say about this game was the easy to get achievement points, and thats it.
  
  Lets start with the story. N3 has a confusing and hard to understand, or so I thought. Its another 
 destroy this guy or the human race gets obliterated story, and since you play about 6 different 
 characters who change the story around, I really didn't understand it. Kudos to those who could.
 
  
  Onto Gameplay. One word, three syllables. Frustrating. As you recall, I said I was wrong about 
 one thing and right on another. I was right for it being challenging. Challenging me to play through 
 the game without turning it off. The controls are easy, just hit x and y, maybe b from time to 
 time, thats it. Just do that throughout the whole game and you'll be fine, not that you have to 
 worry since half the game is running around doing nothing. It's so repetitive that it makes me 
 sick. Not to mention the camera, it's just bad and thats all I am gonna say about that one.
  
  Next up, Graphics. Alright, I remember seeing these same graphics as I did in the first Onimusha 
 game that appeared on the PS2, and I'm serious on that. They aren't bad, but they aren't good either. 
 Not to mention the models of the characters. I couldn't tell if they were suppose to be white or 
 asian or both. All in all, I wish the developers would have spent more time on the graphics department, 
 not that it wouldn't have matter, since the gameplay sucked.
  
  Now sound. The voice acting in this game is horrendous. I could not take it. And thank God for 
 no voice during gameplay. During various stages of gameplay, small boxes appear at the bottom of 
 the screen with words, and its usually while your taking out the enemies, instead of roaming around 
 like you do half of the game. Only thing I liked was the music, and thats it.
  
  At the end of the day, I advise all of you to avoid this garbage and save your money, unless your 
 into repetitive, easy, frustrating games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 18, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  N 3 is an ok game. theres not much to it. You pick a character, you go into a huge battle and kill 
 hundreds of enemies. pretty bland just like the dynasty warriors series. The only difference is 
 that this game updates thier graphics unlike the dynasty warriors series. The visuals are not that 
 bad actually. The landscapes are big and vast and not repetative and they atually look great. The 
 characters are pretty detailed from head to two. The only other good thing about this game is the 
 achievments are pretty easy to obtain in time. The game could have gotten a better score if they 
 would hve made the gameplay more interesting and not so repetative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -mookie-
Rating: 4.7
Date: Oct 18, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  Let's see... beautiful graphics (check) , cool looking characters (check) , storyline and all the 
 basic elements to make a great hack 'n slash game (...) . Now normally I would give any hack 'n 
 slash game a try before I just bash it or toss my controller halfway across the room, but with 
 this game, you dont know how you feel about it. It takes the cake as far as let's see how many 
 enemies we can get on screen at once , as there is about 100+ enemies flying around all over the 
 place. But one must think, there's SO MANY enemies there must be a cool way to dispose of them 
 all... well, there is, if you want to take more than an hour on a level that can be completed in 
 15 minutes. The trouble with this game is that enemies are too strong and playable characters are 
 too weak for their own good. I mean look at it this way, if it takes 9 hits from a playable character 
 to kill a goblin, it takes that goblin 3 hits to drastically lower your health. The weird thing 
 is, Phantagram makes these spectacular looking combos to perform on your enemies, but they're just 
 for show. You're better off killing enemies with just normal attacks. While it takes unusually 
 long to level up, if you find a weapon, then you have successfully trekked the ends of the earth 
 in the game and there's not too much that improves from the last weapon you just had equipped. 
 Aside from 45 mins-1 hour missions and insanely strong tree frogs armed with pitchforks, this game 
 doesn't really have alot going for it. The storyline is in a whole different world than you while 
 you're playing. It's like you're supposed to get revenge on the goblin who killed your father who's 
 attacking some castle, while the prince is on some Aladdin BS, and you know who the king of N3 
 is but then you don't know WHO he is kind of thing. It's all just a big commodity of a terrible 
 game. I recommend you rent this before you get ahead of yourself; you're not missing anything... really. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 17, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  N3 (as the disc cover labels it) is a straight forward sprint to kill as many enemies as possible. 
 I spent the last day or so giving it a try, and honestly, aside from the graphics, I wasn't impressed. 
 The variety of characters looked nice, but they all really played the same, this one a little faster, 
 this one a little more powerful (of course all of them could clear a screen of enemies with a single 
 powerful swipe of *insert weapon of choice here*) .
  
  Gameplay - You jump, you swing your weapon and you cast an orb spell, you really only need to use 
 3-4 buttons. Pretty straight forward gameplay, nothing to hard, nothing to exceptional
  
  Graphics - The best part of this game, it is beautiful, but none of the bodies linger after you 
 kill them (If I am playing this type of game I want to see the piles of dead bodies!)
  
  Sound - The sound was ok, not exactly awe inspiring. The voice acting was similiar to what you 
 will find on most Japanese games converted to an American market.
  
  Value - I would wait till it hits the bargin bin, or maybe try it as a rental. The game looks nice, 
 but gets very repetative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MINIZTER
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  People, if you say Ninety-Nine Nights sucks because you get your arse beat by over a hundred goblins 
 and other enemies all at once. Please, don't cry like a baby and say this game sucks.
  
  Old_Gooseberry
  This is the Minizter, you may have read about me on the discussion of Demonik 
 and other game forums. Look, I'm not knocking you or anything cause I respect you as a gamer. Clearly, 
 if you can't beat up goblins and monsters, you suck. I own the game and I can tell you that it's 
 not the game that is weak or as you say it sucks , it's just you.
  
  Don't buy the game if it sucks. Do what a briefcase does and just close the case. Practice on the 
 game over and over with the demo from Xbox Live until you master not getting your arse kicked. 
 Go back to playing Final Fantasey on the Playstation 2 and be happy.
  
  NNN rocks just any other japanese game that was ever made and I say this game rocks a perfect 10.0 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 2.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 3:35 am PT
Review:  This game gets boring almost instantly. Theres no checkpoints after you get something done which 
 may of taken a long time, and if you die, you gotta restart the entire level. Kingdom Under Fire 
 on xbox had same problem with no checkpoints. Giving orders sometimes didn't help, your guys would 
 just stand around. Speaking of your army.... they do 0 damage to any of the enemies they fight, 
 its completely ridicules seeing only a few goblins left alive and seeing 20 of your troops 'pretending' 
 to hit them.
  
  And another similar thing between KUF and Ninety Nine Nights, is that all characters are clones. 
 It is impressive to see lots of enemies on screen, but they all move and look exactly the same 
 when your fighting them.
  
  Graphics didn't seem much better than kingdom under fire, this game isnt next gen like youd expect. 
 A terrible game should at least be able to show off nice graphics.
  
  It's definately a challenging game, but being frustrating by making you redo things makes everything 
 worse. Luckily I didn't buy it, as you shouldn't, just rent it and you will be happy you didnt 
 waste anything on it. If they could give checkpoints and make the game fun and maybe more people 
 will like it. They spent too much time thinking of a title name with 3 Ns in it so they could 
 could it N3, too bad it sucks. Next time they should make the game look good and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 999Nova999
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I think that N3 was unjustly rated. It puts many enemies on the screen and gives you MANY different 
 combos to use on them, and you keep gaining more as time goes on, aswell as new weapons and items 
 to equip. As for basic attacks working better... what a lie... certain combos can eliminate many 
 enemies at a time. Also, you are able to play as many different characters, each very different 
 from each other. Each character takes some time to beat, and even afterwards, you can go back and 
 play previous missions to gain more levels or items. This game is a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 10, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Codeveloped by South Korea's Phantagram and Japan's Q Entertainment, Ninety-Nine Nights ( N3 ) 
 follows seven warriors in an epic clash between light and dark forces. You can only control one 
 fighter at the start of the game -- Inphyy, a female member of the Temple Knights who brandishes 
 a huge crimson sword -- but over time will be able to play as the other warriors, each with their 
 own skills and motives.
  
  As in the enormous clashes on battlefields in the Lord of the Rings movie trilogy, the calling 
 card in N3 is the ability to render hundreds of on-screen soldiers at the same time. You will see 
 real-time results of your actions in the corner of the screen, such as the number of kills and 
 a combo score (the latter of which refers to the number of times you hit enemies without a break 
 in the flow) .
  
  Many battles can be won by simply button mashing the X and Y buttons in a frantic fashion, and 
 the occasional A button to jump.
  
  N3 also suffers from terrible voice acting. Another beef: You can't save the game during a mission, 
 which can be quite lengthy; instead, you can only bookmark your progress between missions.
  
  N3 is quite a looker, but there's not much under the surface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BillytheDeviant
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 9, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  Are you a fan of Dynasty Warriors? Have you played Kingdom Under Fire? What would you think if 
 they took aspects from both of those games, and added them together in an attempt to make an A+ 
 title?
  
  Hold that thought and continue reading because I'm about to tell you about Ninety-Nine Nights. 
 A game that is as much a button masher as it is a game that is simply about getting tons and tons 
 of kills, and I truely mean tons.
  
  So where did N3 come from? Seems that the games borrows heavily from the two titles I mentioned 
 in the first paragraph. It's takes the large maps, and tons of enemies on screen from Dynasty Warriors 
 and mixes them in with the more strategical and party based combat as seen in Kingdom Under Fire.
 
  
  Sounds like an excellant combination, right? I am actually going to say yes to that. The game is 
 pretty good, although it does seem to miss out on some things and leaves you really wondering 'What 
 is going on here?'
  
  The game follows the stories of 7 differant characters, but at the start only one is avaliable. 
 As soon as you start the campaign (the actual only mode the game has to offer) you run a quick 
 tutorial, and then the game throws you into some hard battles.
  
  And I really do mean hard. N3 is quite difficult. I found myself beating a level only to repeat 
 it and gain experiance so that I might have a chance in the next. I guess that also gave me time 
 to aquire new weapons and items which tend to drop quite randomly.
  
  The item finding is pretty good. As soon as you pick up a new item (say one that adds a bonsu to 
 life) you can immediatly equip it simply by pressing the back button. The same can also be done 
 with weapons. Each character has a pretty good selection of weapons, you just have to find them.
 
  
  So what about the graphics? Does the game look good? The answer to that is yes. I think the game 
 looks great. The surroundings are nice, and there is many differant areas to look at. One mission 
 you are in a desert where the next a frozen wasteland with a castle. The game can also throw hundreds 
 and hundreds of enemies on screen at once. NICE!
  
  I also wondered what it would be like to be able to take on 200 enemies at once in Dynasty Warriors 
 and kill them all with one musou attack. In N3 you can actualy do that seeing how you can get a 
 pretty good attack very similar to the musou. What's also cool is that you can get an even better 
 musou attack that pretty much clears the entire screen and then some. I'm talking like 500 kills 
 in 10 seconds!
  
  So what are the missions like? You are given tasks which is basically take out this army, then 
 take out the next. After that, take out another army. Atleast the game can throw multiple races 
 at you. You see goblins, and orcs, and even trolls (which are powerful adversaries!) .
  
  To really get the full story, although it leaves out quite a lot, you have to play through as every 
 character. One thing I did notice is that some events from one story are changed with the next, 
 so things can be quite confusing. There are short cinematics at the start and no endings to speak 
 of. A little bit of a downer there.
  
  So lets see some things that would make someone want to try out N3.
  - Similar to Dynasty Warriors. 
 - Great graphics. - Tons of enemies on screen and tons of kills at once. - Seven characters, each 
 of which have differant attacks and specials. If any of those sound appealing to you then atleast 
 give N3 a rent. It is a much better game then what many people are saying. It's just a little repetitive, 
 but what game isn't these days? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedsTheNewBlack
Rating: 3.3
Date: Oct 7, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  When I first downloaded this game from the xbox marketplace, I expected it to have more than the 
 demo itself. Unfortunatly, I was mistaken. This game is nothing special, and IS the same game as 
 Dynasty Warriors and Kingdom Under Fire. The voice acting is as bad as picking random people on 
 the street. It is just terrible. The insanely AWESOME combos are one of the few things that the 
 game nailed. This game's save system is really bad, and the creators seem to think that we are 
 able to beat each level with little trouble. Yet, some of the levels are quite easy, as for others, 
 they are very difficult. This game got incredibly stale after no more than an hour, and people 
 should be able to get the most of the game in about a week or two (depending how much you play 
 it) . The graphics are no where near next-gen, and I have seen xbox games with better graphics than 
 this. The creators did a very poor job on the backgrounds. The sound is good, but has a terrible 
 cast for voice acting which just kills it all together. I couldn't believe how little the game 
 had to offer, but it didn't seem to disappoint some people. But, every game has its following. 
 You shouldn't even think about buying this game, unless you have rented it first. BUYER BEWARE 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niko_sama
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  The Japanese are trying to sabotage the growing Korean video game industry. Though unable to visually 
 tell the difference between Asian ethnicities, I've got some idea between names ... but just Korean 
 and Japanese. Which is very important, if not the foundation, of this accusation.
  
  Though I agree with the poor ratings upon further play, no one from some kind of reputable game 
 source could back it up properly. Everyone just says it's repetitive, but calling hack-and-slash 
 repetitive is redundant. Like saying an object is within close proximity. No kidding. Yes the guards 
 are useless, and yes it's hard to discern them from the enemy, but it seems that they all left 
 a huge flaw out of their review (all except IGN, but they barely addressed the issue) ... which 
 I will divulge to you.
  
  Did no one care to mention the frikkin' cutscene problem?! So you get a special attack once you 
 absorb enough reb orbs (or souls as I like to call them) , and when you kill enemies during the 
 special you'll collect blue orbs (souls, too) which release a super special that wipes nearly everyone 
 on the screen. Of course, it's best to unleash these at the very end to single out the boss, but 
 chances are a cutscene will interrupt in the midst of attack and when it's over, so is the gleam 
 in your eyes when you realized you just frikkin' wasted it. The orb gauge isn't completely spent, 
 but that's hardly any consolation when the developers could've just let you resume your melee or 
 wait for it to be over. And another thing is the gawd damn terrain and trolls. Sometimes items 
 will drop out of your reach because you can't venture there or because a troll is so gargantuan 
 that you can't get the Bonus XP since it falls directly on top of it. GAAAH!!!
  
  While I do feel that game reviewers omitted these OBVIOUS details, the OBVIOUS fault lies somewhere 
 in the development that I will direct towards the testers because it works with my theory. Originally, 
 Mikey and I were seriously under the impression there were no testers because of the OBVIOUS problems 
 that were let slide, but we stuck around for the credits (we've only beaten Inphyy's campaign so 
 far) and saw around 20-30 people listed for testing. It only took 2 of us to encounter those problems 
 in a half hour and another half hour for the tolerance to wear thin. We didn't understand how they 
 could not report these issues, but then I realized something. The development team all had Korean 
 names. The testers all had Japanese names.
  
  But even with all that, I do reap fun from taking my aggression out on waves of hundreds of enemies. 
 It's some crazy kinda symbiotic relationship. Maybe it's not so symbiotic, but that's why it's 
 kinda crazy.
  
  http://niko-sama.1up. com/do/blogEntry? bId=7408556&amp; publicUserId=5645138 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nytebane
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 1, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the Dynasty Warriors legacy but this game has more to offer than the Hack'N'Slash 
 Dynasty Warriors. I love the rich storyline that comes with the game. There are more combos than 
 what dynasty warriors have to offer. There is much more bloodshed than dynasty warriors... you 
 will be left with waaaaay more body counts at the end of the mission. Not only do you have more 
 combos attacks but they are alot more flashier than dynasty warriors. I gave this game a 9.... 
 Gamespot and some other people expected something else from this from this game that which I don't 
 know. It's a Hack'N'Slash people..... with a bit more detailed storyline and alot more flashy combos 
 and fighting. I would definitely consider purchasing this if you don't have the time to rent it 
 and beat it. Also, You won't complain about the graphics they were great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigD6997
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 1, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Game is swweeeettt, but i wouldnt have bought it... great game to rent for a few days and just 
 kill loads of fools!!! The game is definatly fun to play, large weapons with tons and tons of people 
 to kill.... its like the others for the xbox, but with better grafx. If you want something that 
 will last you a few weeks, dont get this game. if you want something that will last you a few days 
 of pure enjoyment, RENT IT!!!! It needs multiplayer tho, im very sad that that is not in the game 
 like the old ones. it needs it, if it had it it would be awsome!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ff7nation
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 1, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Rich here again with yet another review to write. This time I take a look at the game Ninety-Nine-Nights 
 for the xbox 360. There is not much to this game, so dont be surprised if myiew is wrapped up somewhat 
 fast. The first thing that any player will notice when they pop this game in, is the graphics are 
 quite astounding. The rendering and textures of everything flow very well together, including the 
 hundreds upon hundreds of characters on the screen. To anyone that says that the 360 doesnt have 
 next-gen graphical capabilities, load up Tyurru's campaign and atch the opening CG. If you can 
 honestly tell me you can tell that the walls and water are not real then you my friend, have some 
 good vision. This game is not about graphics however, it is about heart pounding action and massive 
 combos. There are seven primary characters of which this game offers. You start off with the single 
 campaign of Inphy, a lone warrior women bent of revenge and hate for all goblins. After beating 
 a few of her levels you begin to unlock the other characters that you come across in the game. 
 Most of thier levels however will get boring quickly since the player will be revisiting the same 
 levels over and over.... and over again. The other problem that I had while playing tis game, was 
 the lack of equal character value. Now I said there are seven characters, but only two of them 
 are a different faction. Dwingvat and Vign Vagk are the only goblin, or evil, playable characters, 
 everyone else is on the good side. Are you telling me that Microsoft couldnt dish out the extra 
 few days to make it eight characters and have it split 4/4. Other then these small things the game 
 runs pretty smooth, even while the screen is literally covered with bodies. The overall combat 
 in N3 is pretty cool in the beggining, but becomes tiresome after your about third time through 
 the same level. There are a few different button combonations that you will use and that is about 
 it, unless you enjoy being hit every few seconds. Each characters can also equip a certain number 
 of items that they may find along the way to increase thier abilities. These items range from boosting 
 HP to upping the drop rate of other items, but in most cases they do not effect very much. Besides 
 the apperance of different weapons for each character, this game could have used a bit more. Now 
 for the story, an orb was shattered in two pieces thousands of years go and the humans and goblins 
 each have a piece and fight to recliam the others piece... thats it. That is the main story behind 
 every single character you can play as. This fact known makes it pretty useless to play as any 
 of them, unless of course you want achievment points, or to just do different attacks. So all in 
 all if you like hack-n-slash games such as Dynasty Warriors, you should probly pick this up, if 
 not dont even try it. Only people that specifically enjoy this genre will even make it past the 
 first characters campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJay25
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 8, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  My previous review of this game went on about how it was actually enjoyable to play and had a certain 
 degree of playability. I even went as far as saying the Gamespot review had this time got it wrong. 
 Oh dear, how wrong was I. So for those of you who had read my review, forget everything i said 
 about this game being fun, it's not, and i'm sorry to those of you who went out and brought it, 
 i've let you down and i'm sorry. After i posted my review i went back and played this game for 
 a further 3 hours and nearly cut the disc in half, only thing that stopped me was the fact i could 
 take it back for a full refund. You want mass enemies on screen at the same time? Want mass mindless 
 killing? Get Dead Rising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cybdm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  Its typical for these kind of games to inherently receive a lower score, although we all know hack 
 &amp; slash games are a specific genre not necessary liked by the big audience. Must it therefore 
 be charged with low reviews I wonder? People say its repetitive, sure it is, but Pac-Man is also 
 repetitive and yet is one of the greatest games.
  
  I too was kind of let off by the bad reviews, I said to myself: I better not touch this game . 
 But I had a lot of interest in it and I said WTH lets go for it and I totally loved it. I'm not 
 going to mention the obvious stuff read in other player reviews (gorgeous gfx, massive battles) 
 I simply wrote this review for the people that are in doubt due to the bad press it gets.
  
  This game is typically one that can be played lightly, relaxed or even when your stressed out 
 and one smash away without putting a whole lot of thought in it. Just hack &amp; slash away, perfect 
 after a bad day on the job. THIS was the fundamental aspect of gaming years and years ago, today 
 if a game does not offer a complex simulation of earthly event its repetitive of shallow and hence 
 failed: I do NOT agree.
  
  Try this game, its something else for a change! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 26, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  A word of warning to those interested in Ninety-Nine Nights. The game is pure hack-and-slash. If 
 you frowned at the last sentence, I'd suggest clicking the back button and going on your merry 
 way. There's nothing I can say in this review, good or bad, that is going to change the fact that 
 almost all of this game is spent fighting wave after wave of enemy.
  
  Now that we've got that behind us, let us talk about Ninety-Nine Nights. N3 is a game that does 
 a lot of things right, but, more often then not, held back by certain things done wrong. It's a 
 game that has flashes of greatness, where the potential of this game really and truly shines, but 
 too soon sinks into just average hacking and slashing elements.
  
  The basic premise, tells a tale of two civilizations, the Humans and the Goblins, at war. Each 
 believe the other is responsible for breaking an ancient relic of great power, and the Humans have 
 consigned the goblins to the outlands while they themselves prosper. When the game begins, the 
 goblins are starting an uprising in hopes of reclaiming their dues. This is told from the perspective 
 of seven relatively shallow characters, and each have a different set of missions to choose from. 
 Similar to the end of Dynasty Warriors musou modes, only throughout the entire game. These rarely 
 differ from winning a battle you would have otherwise lost, however. Each character fights for 
 their own reasons, and have their fair share of the character development. Though not very deep, 
 the characters are defined well enough to understand their intentions and personalities. Inphyy (the 
 female lead) wants to kill the goblin leader to avenge her father's death, whilst Dwingvatt (the 
 white goblin) wants to kill Inphyy to avenge big brother. Aspharr's your typical male hero in shining 
 armor fighting for justice. Seemingly carefree Myifee joins the mercenaries to catch the eye of 
 an attractive lady within the mercenaries. Klarrann is a criminal turned priest, and seeks the 
 truth behind the war. Bubbly twelve year old sorceress Tyurru just wants to test her skills and 
 prove herself but later realises the tragedies of war.
  
  There are two attacks, normal and strong. You mix them together to string together combos. As you 
 kill enemies, you collect red orbs that level you up, as well as build a red power bar. Once the 
 power bar is full you can unleash a massive attack that kills most enemies in a single hit until 
 the red bar drains. For every enemy you kill in this state, you get blue orbs that fill up a blue 
 power bar. Once that is full, you can execute a screen clearing super move that are actually undeniably 
 impressive to watch. Every time you level up from orb collection, you gain more combos which were 
 substantially cooler and more effective than the previous level's combos, as well as more life 
 and the ability to equip more items.
  
  Inphyy, Aspharr and Myifee have bodyguards that accompany you on each level. At the start of each 
 mission, you are allowed to select the type of guards that cover your flanks. The selection is 
 Archers, Infantry, Heavy Infantry, and Pikemen. The LB and RB buttons govern your left and right 
 flank respectively, ordering your guards to follow or stay. The D-pad's up button orders them to 
 be in attacking stance, while down orders them to be in defending stance. Visually, the game is 
 stunning. Seeing thousands of enemies pour onto the screen is pretty epic. The game has been granted 
 with extremely fine details. Blades of grass, fine dust and dirt, bits and pieces being slashed 
 off foes, helmets falling, armor chipping, weapons flying. The details of the models in the games 
 go right down to facial complexions.
  
  Framerate stays pretty solid for the most part. There is slow down however, though rare. They come 
 very noticeably when you're doing orb attacks or orb sparks.
  
  Just like war, not everything goes as planned in N3. Apparently, arrows are so strong that they 
 can pierce through mountains. To have a glitch such as that is incredibly annoying. Both allied 
 and enemy AI also seem to suffer from a bout of psychosis as they quickly lose touch with reality 
 by running in circles like insane asylum patients.
  Cutscenes constantly interupt the orb attacks and Orb sparks, making you lose that built up power. 
 To add to the insult, the scene is normally just a character running. It's just too bad we have 
 no idea where. For some reason, Phantagram felt it was important to include cut scenes where characters 
 seem to be in desperate need of a satellite navigation system. The save system is, in a word, terrible. 
 Separate save slots for each of the seven characters create a great opportunity to accidentally 
 save over a lot of work. As well, when you die in a mission, you lose all experience and items 
 you gained, and must start over from the beginning of the level. I don't mind the lack of checkpoints, 
 since the missions are generally short (10 minutes when you are good at them, 30 minutes tops) , 
 but I would have at least liked to keep the experience I got.
  
  The game is also obviously rushed. I can't prove it, but the game just feels like it was halfway 
 done, when someone made the decision to slap together the disparate parts of the game which they 
 did have complete and release them. It feels like they did the best they could to meld these parts 
 together, but the end result is mildly confusing to say the least.
  
  All things considered, this game will last you a while. With 6 characters with 2-6 half-hour missions 
 each, just the main quest will last, but getting all of the achievement points requires you to 
 play for many a marathon session. There's a secret level to beat in which you actually face the 
 King of Ninety-Nine Nights, the challenge of raising every character to level 9 (which takes much 
 longer than it seems) , and earning an A-S ranking in all missions. But with so little variety, 
 would you want to?
  
  Ninety-nine Nights is very short, but good for what it is. Epic battles with enough variety to 
 keep the fights entertaining, and characters who get more and more enjoyable depending on how late 
 they're unlocked. It's odd for a game of such minute length to require patience, but it does. Still, 
 the patient are rewarded quite well for what's left of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twinsnakes007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This game in the main sense has one purpose.... put as many enemies on the screen as possible. 
 From the start of the game to the end, each level promises at least 2000 enemies. The crazy war 
 levels have much more then that, that's the minimum amount. The characters are pretty interesting, 
 although it kind of sucks that the coolest character is the one you start off with. Every time 
 you beat a character's campaign, a new character is unlocked (with a few exceptions) . Also, after 
 beating the game with every character, you unlock a secret final mission for the starting character. 
 The campaign's don't really have much variety. They are generally the same story and levels played 
 from different perspectives. The combat system will be loved by anyone who loves dynasty warriors 
 and hated by everyone else. It takes dynasty warriors to a whole new level. Red orb attacks and 
 blue orb attacks are very cool. The blue orb attacks are often large enough to kill 1000+ enemies 
 at once! The characters find various items and earn items after missions to use during the game. 
 Items vary from attack/defense/speed/special boosters to larger life, larger orb gauges, and of 
 course, new weapons. There are some bosses thrown into the game, most are easy, but some, especially 
 the final boss in the secret mission, can be extremely annoying. The voice casting in the game 
 truly sucks, and I wish that they kept the japanese voice casting. The names of the characters 
 also suck. What the hell is Ppakk the Third and the Gewgs??? Aside from characters and the secret 
 mission, the unlockables aren't that great. You earn points everytime you beat a mission, and you 
 use those points to buy pictures, art galleries, and character profiles. It's definately a game 
 that once you beat it once, you'll probably never touch again. It doesn't have any replay value 
 unless your trying to get every achievement (One of the last achievements is to beat every mission 
 with an A rank or higher, which seems easy but can actually be very hard, especially with the harder 
 missions such as the secret mission) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud0830
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 25, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  The graphics for this game where pretty jaw dropping and the character selection was great once 
 you beat it again you unlocked another character so on so forth and the gameplay was great just 
 imagine one man (or woman) running into a battle infested area of like 150 guys and you just level 
 all of them with beautiful swirls from your weapon, the story line seems to change with every new 
 character but in the end seems to tie together and there are some unlockables like character profiles 
 and art work, but i truly love games like this ( and dynasty warriors) i think it would be fun 
 to run into a group of people i dont like and level them with a bow staff, awesome overall this 
 game i believe is a great edition to the xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 19, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Ninety-Nine Nights was one of those hyped games that turned out to be a thumper when it hit the 
 floor for most people. didn't help it much since other hit games came out and during the football 
 season too. but lets get this over with shall we.
  
  story- you follow 7 characters (8 if you count the secret player) in a war between nights and goblin 
 and frog people. thats about it. you don't get much from a story line here. the longest scene 
 i remember is about 2 minutes and it was boring.
  
  gameplay - hack n slash. you and your choice of infantry to archers vs. a couple hundred to a couple 
 thousands goblins. all you do is hack..... n slash. after you boost you get a special attack that 
 takes out those enemies near you. but its no biggie in my opinion.
  
  graphics - its a 360. i can say more. there no bad. the camera angle sometimes sucks when a mountain 
 line is too high or low that you can't see.
  
  overall - its a rent if you got some time. thats about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kai_Ozu
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 19, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I played though the full version of the game and the end result in being not very satisfying, at 
 all. The Story is horrible and the action is never all that great. But it dose show off the system 
 and what it can do.
  
  Youre going to see thousands of enemies on screen at the same time. So if your into that and beating 
 the he hell out of trolls and wizards nonstop for 40 hours than this might be your game. It needed 
 more to do other then just hitting the damn x button because I really like the characters, a lot. 
 They may be a bit genetic, but I still find them cool. I hope they make 1 more N3 and make it totally 
 different then this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigruffjm
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 18, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  A beautiful game that could have so been much better. The lack of depth is apparent throughout 
 game play. Level up aspect adds moderate replay value though. Also when a new achievement and player 
 is unlocked you can't help but play through again in hope of some texture, but it is just the same 
 stage with a different character fight the same thousand foes, that all look alike for the most 
 part and can easily camouflage themselves behind, beside or right in front your useless army. Don't 
 get me wrong this is a solid game for those who like the hack-in-slash with no purpose and there 
 are good points just not enough to remedy the frustrating ones. Yet I continue to play it just 
 to see what else i can unlock and to level all of my characters up for that is the true attraction. 
 Hopefully there will be a sequel that has learned from the mistakes of its predecessor and produce 
 the beautiful masterpiece that it was intended to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawooten
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 17, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  A little synopsis of N3 immerses you in action packed battles, surrounded by hundreds of enemies, 
 while struggling between the good and evil sides of the battlefield. gameplay:
  
  most people are going to compare this game to dynasty warriors. well, so am i. N3, however, surpassed 
 dynasty warriors in the gameplay through the richer depth of changing items and weapons in the 
 middle of battle. but still, it is still a hack and slasher, but without the slow-down!
  
  graphics:
  
  the visuals are unparalleled to those of dynasty warriors. N3 is polished, but 
 it still has its flaws. the true visual is in the middle of a combo.
  
  sound:
  
  the sounds needs improvement. thats it. same old music, same old sounds.
  
  value: the value 
 of replay is for the people wanting the achievement points. there is no multiplayer! controlling 
 the troops in no fun either. they just die.
  
  overall:
  
  + solid game
  + graphics + nice combo system
  - background music is horrible
  - troop command is lackluster
 
  - where is hell is the multiplayer?!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  I've had my eye on Ninety-Nine Nights since I downloaded and watched the trailer on our Xbox 360. 
 What really caught my attention were the two female characters, but especially the mage girl with 
 the water bubbles. I don't know, for some reason that hit me as one of the most spectacular spell 
 effects ever.
  
  Then the demo came, and I was surprised at how beautiful it looked, how easy it played and how 
 there were no slowdowns with a ton of stuff on the screen at the same time. This was another game 
 I just had to have, and lucky me, the nice people at Microsoft let me have a copy.
  
  Ninety-Nine Nights (N3) is a fantasy action title that tells a story of a struggle between good 
 versus evil, in the form of human versus creature fights. The story is presented through the eyes 
 of seven different characters, each of them joining the fight for different reasons and with a 
 specific purpose. Each character has his or her own series of missions to go through, during which 
 the emotional story will unfold, and you get to see the perspective from both sides of the enemy 
 lines.
  
  The core of the game could be summed in Dynasty Warriors without the strategic component. What 
 remains is a pure hack'n'slack game with some interesting RPG elements.
  
  The gameplay is simple: attack, attack, attack. No matter what character you choose, you have the 
 same options: two attacks (X and Y) , block and dash. Attack combos are performed by pressing X 
 and Y in a certain order, and you gain more powerful moves as you level up. The loading screens 
 actually tell you some of the combos you can use and at what level. Combos look and feel different 
 from character to character, so you have to adjust to each type of gameplay.
  
  Keep in mind that long combos sometimes aren't the best option, since they leave you open to enemy 
 attacks.
  
  You also get friendly generals to fight at your side as well as two groups of troops to command. 
 You can pick from Infantry, Heavy Infantry, Pikemen and Archers to accompany you, one group for 
 each flank. Although you aren't told which type of soldier works best again certain foes, so it's 
 up to you to figure out what works best for each mission.
  
  Troop commands are simple. You can order them to attack or assume a defense formation, or you can 
 even dismiss them and call them back latter. Unfortunately, the troops aren't all that brilliant, 
 since they scatter too much or run past you when told to defend (what part of Stand behind me don't 
 you understand?) and they certainly cant understand the surround the enemy concept and all try 
 to attack from the same side. As you kill enemies, you gather red orbs. These orbs will slowly 
 fill up the red meter, and once it flashes, you can unleash a more powerful attack that lasts for 
 as long as the meter depletes. Killing enemies with the Orb Attack grants you blue orbs. Once the 
 blue orb meter is full, you can use another massive attack (Orb Spark) upon your foes that pretty 
 much destroys everything in the screen. The use of orb attacks is best left for those situations 
 when you're surrounded by an ocean of enemies, resulting in some really high combo results (I think 
 my highest is around 1700 hits) . Basically, think of orbs as your magic attacks.
  
  Every now and again, enemies will also drop items: healing potions, orb potions, defense or attack 
 boosts, bonus experience, and even weapons and equipment. As your character levels up, he/she will 
 be able to equip more pieces of equipment and accessories. It's up to you to play with which items 
 you have and what kind of boosts you prefer. Do you want more HP? More defense and attack for your 
 army? Faster orb gathering? Longer orb attack duration? Better item drop rate? There are lots of 
 items to be found, either from enemy drops or from treasure chests placed all over the mission 
 maps.
  
  Missions are very straightforward. You go from point A to point B, killing whatever in between. 
 Sometimes you have a choice of which stage to head to next. When reaching certain key spots, you 
 will receive a new task that you must complete in order to proceed (for example, in Fort Wyandek, 
 you have to kill all the archers so the next gate opens) . At the end of each mission, you get a 
 rank score which is based on the number of kills, time spent to reach the end, survival of the 
 troops, orb power use and more. You also gain points, which are used to unlock bonus content in 
 the Library (there is some amazing artwork in there) .
  
  N3 is visually stunning, and not just in the cutscenes. There is a very high level of detail even 
 in the middle of battle. Hundreds of enemy soldiers plus your soldiers, tons of movement in the 
 same screen, add an orb attack, and you still get no slowdowns. It's amazing to see hordes of orcs 
 and goblins come at you, dragons flying over your head breathing fire upon your troops and enemy 
 generals that are as vicious as intelligent.
  
  The only time I experienced some lag was when destroying some buildings while in the middle of 
 a heated battle. The particles from the broken building (little broken pieces and smoke) caused 
 the image to chop until they settled. A few cutscenes shown from a top camera view would also lag 
 once the camera started zooming out and spinning. Other than these two situations, everything ran 
 nice and smooth.
  
  The music is great, I thoroughly enjoyed all the tunes I heard (there was even some Vivaldi) , and 
 you can even pop in a custom soundtrack if you want. The sound effects aren't so bad either, though 
 they tend to sound a bit repetitive with so much killing and dashing. The voice acting isn't bad, 
 but it's not spectacular, and there are a few instances where the lips are still moving but there's 
 no voice to be heard.
  
  A few glitches here and there could have used some work. For example, the way cutscenes interrupt 
 your orb attack, how items can fall behind invisible walls and how you can't pick up certain items 
 that fall from bosses because cinematics get in the way most of the time. I admit it, There are 
 two other characters I would have liked to play as, and I would have loved a co-op mode, since 
 the game only offers single-player gameplay, but it's not like I'm complaining! On the contrary.
 
  
  N3 has kept me going since I got it. I've beaten five different storylines, and keep going back 
 to those two missions I still don't have an A or S with. I am now playing as the bubble girl Tyurru 
 that impressed me so much (it's the most difficult to play as) , with one more character to unlock. 
 I'm really savoring every moment of this game, every single kill, and so far, Myifee and Dwingvatt's 
 are my favorite storylines to go through. I just love the castle siege missions, the music, the 
 catapults, the crumbling walls. Even Klarran's castle siege is interesting to play, since you get 
 to save villagers.
  
  If you're in it just for the achievements, forget it, you won't get much out of this game. Besides, 
 some of them require you to get rank A in every mission or have every character on level 9, which 
 means going through the stages again and again. The thing about N3 is that you MUST truly enjoy 
 this type of game, otherwise you end up complaining about how repetitive it is after a couple of 
 missions. And I truly enjoy Ninety-Nine Nights.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screens at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=99nights 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 15, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Ninety-Nine Nights is a mindless hack and slash/action adventure game. It has aa good amount of 
 characters to play as with their own side of the main stroy, about a war between orcs, goblins, 
 and whatever they plagerized from Tolkien.
  
  The best part about N3 is the graphics. The graphics are very good and aren't like DW5: Empires. 
 The environments look good as well as the characters and creatures.
  
  During the campaign, you will play as ach character taht has their own side of the story. Once 
 your done playing as Imphy, you will go to her brother's side, wich will show what he would've 
 done better in the stroy. THe same goes as all characters and the stroy may have familiar elements, 
 but its original and good.
  
  There's sadly no multiplayer options, either split screen or Xbox Live suppoort. Thats kidof dissapointing 
 to players who have subscribed because they can't play possible co-operatively with a friend or 
 anything like that.
  
  The voice acting is so awful at times. Imphy is sooooooooo annoying and her brother can be too. 
 I haven't heard most of the voice work but its not that great, like DW wasn't either. SOund isn't 
 that great either.
  
  The combat in N3 is pretty repetative, but the new combos in it are very fun to play around with. 
 Soon you can maybe kill up to like 20 enemies at once possibly or more than that.
  
  The best part about N3 is that they put tons of enemies on the field. You can get up to maybe 2,000 
 kills in one level. ONE! That is truely insane and its fun to slaughter them with you combos you 
 master.
  
  N3's value has been cut a little short because it has no multiplayer. But if you liked DW or SW 
 or anything like that, you will enjoy N3. Even if you aren't, maybe rent it and see how you like 
 it.
  
  Over all, N3 is a fun hack and slash game that packs in tons of content and fun to the gameplay.
 
  
  a 7.8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llc012
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 14, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I have beaten this game with every character and am now ready to give my view on this game.
  
  Gameplay: Repetitive fun. x button really does pretty much rule all in this game. A couple 
 of the characters you must hit another button before x to get a special move going but overall 
 if you're in a jam just mashing x will do. That being said, the game is fun, slashing hundreds 
 of enemies on screen at one time with no slowdown is great. The few times I did have slowdown really 
 only occurred when a special power was unleashed, and even then it wasn't bad. The boss fights 
 needed to be more strategic however, that's why only an 8 for gameplay.
  
  Graphics:
  Good to exceptional. The in-game graphics are very good. Watching combos being unleashed on enemies 
 is an impressive sight. In-game cut scenes are pretty good too, however there can be some jerkiness 
 to the on screen display during this time. The cinematic sequences are simply superb. I have hdtv 
 and they look extremely vibrant and well made.
  
  Sound:
  Okay. The sound effects sound just fine and the sounds of your special moves are just fine too. 
 The music is good, fits pretty well with this sort of game and the on screen action. Voice acting 
 is okay but the voices do not match with the the characters lips. I also get some static from the 
 sound effects which is why I give this game a 7 for sound. This is the only xbox 360 game I have 
 this happen with.
  
  Value:
  I don't know exactly how long it took me to beat all levels but it feels like 20+ hours. I have 
 all achievements but 2, beat all missions with A's and take all characters up to level 9. Depending 
 on how well you like these kinds of games will determine whether or not to buy it. For me this 
 is a very strong rental.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  The save system on this game sucks. I have played a mission for basically 30 minutes, get to the 
 end and die which means you must replay the entire mission as there is no in-game save option (very 
 fustrating) . You can replay older missions to level up before taking on new missions but that is 
 pretty boring (doing same level over and over) . This game gets funner as it goes along. Asphar 
 and Inphy were the most boring characters to play for me. Each time you beat all missions with 
 a character another character is unlocked and the game naturally gets funner because those characters 
 are funner to play. This game is underappreciated for what it is made fun, killing tons of enemies 
 on screen at one time and have fun doing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  N3 shows that the hack n slash genre is becoming more accessible and downright alot better. N3 
 is far better than the Dynasty Warriors series, and puts a new benchmark on what to expect from 
 this genre. With 6 main characters, and one secret character, all of which are playable after defeating 
 the game with other characters, they all offer you a different perspective on each view of the 
 war. You will see theres one who is fighting to conquer and extinct, while another is fighting 
 for freedom and vengeance. Each are fairly unique and interesting, and each character has their 
 own fighting styles. For one, the female knight Imphyy (who is the first playable character and 
 one of the best) is quick and agile and has the ability the leap outta battle by jumping on everyone's 
 heads, while Myifee is slower, yet, he wields the power of fire and proves to be alot more powerful. 
 The visuals in this game is well detailed when referring to the armies and character models. The 
 environments however, are semi dull. The models all are detailed with great lighting and of course 
 the obvious, which is an extreme amount of enemies onscreen. How can you not feel udder satisfaction 
 when you see thousands of enemies swarm down the hill and you rush head on and slice through the 
 majority of them. And this game deserves so much more because while fighting you don't only press 
 one button. This game focuses on pulling off combos to dispose of your enemy quicker and more stylish. 
 I mean c'mon, the loading screen itself shows you combos while you wait. A 5.9 score is ridiculous. 
 This is definately the best the genre has to offer, and is just damn fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hakubrokenangel
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 12, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  this is a hack and slash style game with actual techneq and skill. It starts of with amazing grafics 
 and awsome charectors with an ok story that dosent really help the game (aka its not an rpg) but 
 dosent take away from it ether, it then gose into a great experiance with the actual gameplay.
 
  
  well let me tell you the dood things:
  -the grafix are amaZing
  -the controles are easy
  -is hase a great leveling system that will keep you playing even after 
 you beat it
  -it has ok to good sound depending on preference
  -it can get lots of guys on screen and it wont slow down
  -you will descover more when you play
 
  
  Now the bad (yes their is bad cuz i am honest)
  -the saving system just sux cuz you will spend 45 minutes and get to the end just to die and restart 
 or lose any speacal items or exp and it will be wasted cuz no ingame saveing
  -crist the american voiceover sux really bad (their lips are all of ) and you cant change it -it 
 will eventually get old, so its not a god like perfect dark, zelda ect but a lot of games are like 
 that so sorry if that was unnesisary
  -it MAY freez cuz its a 360 game (only hapen 1 time for my though)
  -not enuf charectors to play 
 as but me being me i always want like1000000000 hehe :)
  -their might be more based on your preference P. S. this is the best of the genra so... ya check 
 it out or at lest rent it cuz it ROX!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexy_hinoki
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 12, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Ya, it may be a hack-and-slash, but man is it a good one. Ninety-Nine Nights is very different 
 then the usual hack-and-slash like dynasty warriors, were all you do is fight some random war and 
 there is no story line. Ninety-Nine Nights has you play around 8 different people, and you get 
 to see all of their view on the war, and get this, the story is actually interesting. There are 
 a lot more combos in this game the others, and they look a lot cooler. The game is long if you 
 play as all the characters. The cut-scene look like next-gen game should look like. I do have to 
 say though, that some time it looks like the people were swimming in skin oil and are a little 
 too shiny. The other thing I dont like is the music because some times it doesnt fit the moment, 
 but it sounds great. So all and all this game is the best hack-and-slash so far, with good graphics 
 and game-play and it is easy to get into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 11, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  This was just a fun game in my opinion. Its a good game for buttonmashing, or if you get good enough 
 doing the combos which can look really really cool. The game is rather long, and can take many 
 hours to complete with every character. The achievements basically require you to beat the game 
 with every person so if you in it for those then it will take some work. The game doesnt look that 
 impressive graffics wise, and looks like most japanese action games. There are some stupid things 
 like not being able to jump over rocks and some little glitches here and there but nothing bad. 
 The games music really isnt too good, and the attacks all sound the same. The english voice acting 
 is horrid though. This isnt for someone looking for a next gen expirience , but just a good time. 
 Since there is no multiplayer youll have to be pretty set with the single player which can take 
 a long time. Overall this game is fun but can get worn down if you play it too much and can get 
 annoying with no save points in the levels but is still fun none the less 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 10, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  Back at the start of May 2005, you may remember a shoddy MTV show that was supposedly all about 
 Microsofts new next generation console, the Xbox 360. The show seemed to be more focus on celebrities 
 rather than supplying the watcher with information about the 360. There was however a short video 
 of some of the 360s new games. One of the games shown was a title by the name of Ninety-Nine Nights. 
 Like a lot of the other 360 games shown at the time, the game seemed to be all about pushing the 
 boundaries of how many characters could be presented on screen at any one time. So after more than 
 a year of its unveiling has Ninety-Nine Nights brought anything to call next-generation in gaming 
 to the hack and slash genre? The answer is plain and simple, it hasnt much.
  
  Ninety-Nine Nights is a hack and slash action game. Its actually brought to you by Phantagram, 
 the development studio who worked on the Kingdom Under fire series for the Xbox, which is also 
 another hack and slash game, although it contained a little more strategic involvement from the 
 player. Phantagram wasnt alone while working on their first 360 instalment. Tetsuya Mizuguchi 
 (Who is best known for his work on Rez, Lumines and Meteos) , is also one of the producers on Ninety-Nine 
 Nights. Mizuguchi and his team at Q Entertainment collaborated throughout the development of the 
 game.
  
  For the past few years the  genre has 
 been brought to players through games like Dynasty Warriors and Kingdom Under fire. N3 (As Ninety-Nine 
 Nights will be called from now on) borrows heavily from these two games. Already having that genre 
 under their belt, you would have thought the people at Phantagram would have made N3 play a little 
 like their past hack and slash game, but the truth is it feels more inspired by Dynasty Warriors. 
 To stop itself from being a total imitation, the game is set in a fantasy environment where magic 
 exists and creatures such as Ogres, Orcs and Goblins live.
  
  The story in N3 is an epic clash between the armies of Light and Dark. What it really means is 
 that its essentially a war between humans and creatures. They used to live happily with each other, 
 co-existing in peace, but something catastrophic happened and the world was driven into chaos between 
 races. N3 allows you to control and view the perspective of the war with seven different characters. 
 Its not like Dynasty Warriors however, which contains a huge cast of characters and some of them 
 play reasonably alike. In N3 they all feel different and play uniquely. At the start of the game 
 you can only choose the angel in crimson armour Inphyy, a 17 year-old female warrior of the Temple 
 Knights. After finishing the story of Inphyy, you will unlock two more characters. Progressing 
 through like this will eventually unlock all seven characters that are in the game, so youll be 
 getting to play as a mage, priest and even a goblin. It seems that the actual main focus of the 
 story is on Inphyy and her brother Aspharr since the other characters have fewer missions.
  
  As you would expect from a game of this type, theres a lot of button pressing to cut down 
 the hordes of enemies. The two main attack buttons are the X and Y buttons. X supplies a normal 
 attack while the Y is the power attack. If you execute two or more attacks with the right timing, 
 you will be able to perform combos. You can mix both the X and Y attacks to perform them. The A 
 button allows you to jump; while R trigger makes you dash at speed and L trigger allows you to 
 block attacks from opposition.
  
  When you first start with a fresh character, you will have a minimal amount of combos to perform. 
 Each time you level up your character learns some new combo strings, each time getting flashier 
 and more diverse. Most of the combos are useful but as you get near the higher level ones they 
 seem to be a bit worthless to use. They would be better for attacking one large enemy rather than 
 a mass group of murderess little Orcs. And since you rarely versus an opponent one-one-one (unless 
 of course youve slain every last beast on the battlefield) , you wont be using those higher level 
 combos.
  
  Now slaying hundreds of evildoers doesnt come without its reward. Killing enemies will grant you 
 red orbs that spawn out of their corpse. They fly into your body and such collecting enough of 
 these will fill up your orb attack bar. Once full of orbs you can release a devastating orb attack 
 by hitting the B button. Orb attacks are powerful attacks that are executed by the normal attack 
 buttons. Slaying enemies in this mode will grant you blue orbs; which in turn fill up your Orb 
 Spark metre (Yes this game has an unhealthy obsession with orbs) . The Orb Spark is an extremely 
 powerful move that inflicts massive damage on anyone who stands in your way. They also look fantastic. 
 They vary from having souls sucked out to raining meteors on the battlefield. They can really help 
 you clear out the screen.
  
  The games missions are pretty simple. At the start of a mission you get to choose two squads of 
 troops to join you in battle. These are your typical things like archers and swordsmen. Once in 
 battle you can command them to attack or defend or you can be a selfish killer and leave them behind 
 to do nothing but weep as they miss out on the action. Its not like they actually do all that 
 much anyway. It seems that they were added just to give that effect of a big battle taking place. 
 Missions usually consist of travelling from point A to point B or destroying a certain object. 
 N3 allows you to also equip weapons and items you find throughout the stages. Theres a fair few 
 items to collect for each character, you cant however share items between them. The end of the 
 level usually consists of a boss that is noticeably tougher than the minions he commands. Dont 
 be surprised when you first meet one after the first stage and he lays the smack down on you. The 
 game relies heavily on replaying past missions to power up your character. This means you can go 
 back once levelled up and then pummel the boss that once thought it was fun to batter you in a 
 few hits. Achievement points are also built around replaying the game. You get points for beating 
 the game with each character, levelling them to level 9 and beating every stage with at least an 
 A rank. If you are a gamerscore whore you will be able to easily acquire the 1000 points available 
 to you if you put in the time.
  
  Having hundreds of enemies on screen is what N3 does best. The graphics are nice to look at, especially 
 the character models, but the backgrounds could have looked better. They seem to be a bit flat 
 and plain most of the time. Youll be impressed with the amount of characters they are managing 
 to push onscreen, especially when you see them attack from every angle and you are stuck in the 
 middle surrounded by what seems like a green wave of goblins. Occasionally the game does suffer 
 from slowdown. This happens most of the time when the screen is full of action, it doesnt seem 
 to like all these models on the screen mixed with the showy graphical effects of the combos. Most 
 of the time you experience the slowdown it wont be affecting the gameplay all that much, so it 
 isnt too much of a worry.
  
  One thing that N3 does significantly well is the orchestral soundtrack. The music sounds beautiful 
 and never seems to get repetitive while playing. Everything from the soothing title screen tune 
 to the battle cry of high tension music, it just all fits nicely. Its certainly at the top of 
 the spectrum when you look at it, although if you put it that way then right down at the bottom 
 would be the voice acting. Its very generic and easily forgettable and with some characters it 
 can make your ears bleed like hell. It also seems that they didnt voice over everything as sometimes 
 characters are moving their mouth but no text or subs appear on the screen. Its either that or 
 they suffer from the syndrome known as moving your mouth like you are a cow eating grass.
  
  N3 is really a simple case of the player liking or disliking the hack and slash genre. If you 
 like it and played the other games in the selection available to you then theres no doubt youve 
 already formed your idea of N3 and will play it regardless of its faults. If you dont then N3 
 isnt going to do anything to change your view on that. Its the same style of game that Koei has 
 been churning out over the PlayStation 2s lifespan aided with the power of the 360. Its also 
 very disappointing that the game doesnt come with multiplayer. A game of this type should always 
 have some sort of multiplayer aspect to it; its so built for that. If you can get past its problems, 
 you do find deep inside all that death is a game that is fun and you find it slowly grows on you 
 while also providing some simplistic entertainment, problem is you just might need some painkillers 
 for your fingers after all that pumping of buttons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geneslivka
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 9, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Looking at the demo and the previews the game looked promising but in the end it failed. If you 
 have spare time then this would be a goo game it has allot of hack and slash fun to it when you 
 think about it. Its missing allot of key ingredients that would have have made this game more funner 
 but I guess they left it all out in the end. Like the story line for instance it sucked so much 
 that I fell asleep while playing the game. The game really needed more spice to it because without 
 a good story line the whole game fell apart and ended up sucking even more than what I expected 
 it too! And if it was up to me I would have cranked up the story line and and put in better game 
 play. But like I said if you like killing time and hacking and slashing then this is the game for 
 you. Well thank you for reading my review I hope it helps and have fun of course bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7R457
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 8, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  Hi, I'm Trustpt from portugal and this is my first review.
  
  I think this game is a copy of "Dynasty Warriors" which is avaliable on the PS2 and PSP. It has 
 lot's of huge combos, but that is not enough... because this game had a great potential to have 
 some cool epic story and I think it was a BIG, BIG mystake to do not think better about it, or 
 they just don't have too much imagination and creativity. ;)
  
  Another point that it's important to underline is that after you've played a couple of hours (how 
 about 3 or 4 hours?) you get stucked, because it's too repetitive and you're looking for some inovation 
 around the map to get some fun and you just can't find it.
  
  In little words let me say that the game isn't thaaat bad... I just think that it needs some story 
 and some innovation.
  
  Sorry for the bad english. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spikrath
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 7, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I usually like to list the bad points first, but since there are so many, I'll do the good points 
 first.
  
  Absolute best part of the game: Dwingvatt. The little fifteen-year-old white goblin is a one man 
 army! most of the characters have the annoying habit of knocking down everyone around them but 
 not killing them, which leaves you waiting for them to get back up so you can do it again. Not 
 so with Dwingvatt. This little bastard-child cuts through entire armies like a scalpel from level 
 one, and only continues to get better from then on. The only person who comes close to Dwingvatt's 
 power would have to be Myifee, and even then, only if you have him at level 6+ and his attack at 
 250%. The only dissapointing thing about him is that his Orb Spark ability is so big that the game 
 slows down, or freezes in worst-case-scenarios, every time you use it. The second good part about 
 the game: FROG PUNTING! one of the last characters, Klarran, has a move that lets you punt people... 
 I dunno maybe it's just me, but I feel a great amount of satisfaction when I hear the sound of 
 my foot against an overgrown frogger wanna-be... Maybe it's just me. Klarran also has another satisfying 
 move where he turns his weapon into a gimongous green hammer and squishes people with it. Fun Fun...
 
  
  Well, that ends the good parts... now to the bad... yeesh.
  Gameplay: It's way too frickin' easy and too short. The hardest character to play with was Klarran... 
 and that's only because, despite the satisfaction gained from frog punting, he sucks... But anyway, 
 I beat the game with all the characters in two days... No game except for the classics should be 
 THAT short. (I mean, come on, would Dragon Spirit or Demon's Crest have been such great games if 
 they had been thirty-hour games?)
  Graphics: as I said, though the graphics themselves are very good, the game will slow down and/or 
 crash if you try a big combo on a hundred too many enemies.
  Sound: cheesy voice acting, even for a video game, and there are WAY too many awkward moments when 
 they do something stupid... You don't want to know...
  Replay Value: If you enjoy the whole "I AM GOD" feeling of obliterating armies, it's awesome, but 
 in my personal opinion it's just not worth all that for the same five or six stages over and over 
 again.
  
  Overall: They tried, but it just doesn't live up to the expectations of what a next-gen game should 
 be.
  
  Alternatives: You want to feel like God and still want a challenge? go play Otogi or Otogi 2 for 
 the X-box. They're old, they're cheap, no freezing, no cheese, and well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lee2099
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I don't want to beat a dead horse but... this game is a dynasty warriors rip off. Just like Samurai 
 Warriors, this game takes the mechanics from DW, but uses different character skins. Sure the new 
 special moves are bad ass... especially since many of them can wipe out 100's of enemies with one 
 strike, but that doesn't make up for the dull story line, somewhat crappy voice acting, and repetitious 
 gameplay. It's sad.... so much hype for this game, but it didn't deliver. OH! On a positive note... 
 I LOVE the idea of having 100's of thousands of enemies on one screen. Sure it gives the game a 
 little lag, but who cares! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princekenji
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 5, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  The characters look good and their attire is interesting. The story is ok if you like to be confused 
 at the fact that they never really show a real ending to all of the characters. If you just want 
 to hack and slash your way through the levels and not really care for a good game then it's the 
 right game for you. But I suggest that you rent it first. Everyone has a different opinion about 
 this game......... ha! If you're smart you will steer clear of this game and go rent Saint's Row 
 or something. I'll give it a 6.2 for graphics and its combo moves and its cool blue orb powers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P-Doggy
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 5, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  If you enjoy the simplistic button mashing of games like Dynasty Warriors then this game is for 
 you.
  
  What many games of this nature strive for is getting the highest amount of enemies on screen at 
 one time, and this game does that well. The graphics are pretty good considering all the action 
 that occurs on screen at times and there is very little slow down during intense action. However 
 the develupers of this game used some sort of bluring technique for characters that are off in 
 the distance, but they only managed to make those characters look like bushes that come to life.
 
  
  The gameplay is what you would expect from a Hack-n-Slash, you will typically use the X and Y buttons 
 to string together combos and sometimes use the B button for Orb attacks that devesate anything 
 on screen. There are about 7 character stories to play through. While you start with only one character 
 availible, completing her story will unlock another character and this pattern continues until 
 all characters are availible. Each character plays differently than the last with his or her own 
 story and strenghts and weaknesses. It is important to note that each story is not independent 
 of itself, you will often encounter other characters in the midst of battle and then play from 
 their perspectives later on. This is the type of game that you either love or hate. Rent it first 
 to establish wich camp you fall under 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isayama
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  The game does get addictive after a while -for those hack-n-slash fans- but when you think about 
 what you're doing in this game, you think on why you are even playing this. First of all, this 
 game is deffinatly a rental. Graphics are good, along with the sound of orcs and goblins screaming. 
 The story line is pretty damn short and vague, which is to stop the enemy -goblins, orcs, etc.- 
 and that's it. You can play from different perspectives but it's always going to be the same mission. 
 There's no midpoint save, so if you die you will have to start from the beginning of the mission. 
 Anyway, rent it and get Dynasty Warriors instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edele_Wilde
Rating: 3.4
Date: Sep 4, 2006 2:34 am PT
Review:  Well this sucks. Graphics are good, a lot of enemies on screen. Character models are fine, the 
 landscapes bland but easy on the eyes. Sound is terrible, you would expect that an army of orcs 
 charging downhill would make a lot of noise, well not in this game. Annoying arcade-noises when 
 enemies have been defeated, boring music. Gameplay, hack&slash, with sometimes a hint of promise. 
 What was this game intended to be? Something like Kingdom under Fire? Dynasty warriors, Devil may 
 cry? Everything in this game is half-baked, yes you can command troops, you won't have to though. 
 Attack/defend, why bother when you can let your main character rip everything to bits, their only 
 use is to give the enemy commander something to do while you are decimating his army. Terrible. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimboj
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 3, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a really fun game thats already starting to be under-rated but its immensely fun. Basically 
 - you lead an army! So already you have 50-75 of your own troops on screen and feel powerful, you 
 then lead them against battalions of enemies and the game becomes endlessly immersive. Initially, 
 the game may appear hack n slash (hence why people that only played the demo are running around 
 pretending that theyve played the whole game) but that fades after the first level when you start 
 to acquire powers that can whipe out whole battalions instantly. The named enemies have excellent 
 powers and you cant defeat them alone, this give the game a tactical difficulty that diverts from 
 any hack n slash feel. The graphics are flawless (even on SDTV) and the lore is short and sweet. 
 Best game Ive played in ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donya222
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 3, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I will save you the background of N3's story, for the only reason i could imagine you'd want to 
 read this is to learn some insight from someone who has played it, and thus judge for yourself 
 whether to pursue this game or not.
  
  On graphics: I would say this is where the game excels above all else; the scale of units on screen 
 is amazing, the environments are huge and beautiful to explore, especially with the grass and flowers 
 as your landscape. The crown jewel of this however is the Character Designs. Each with a unique 
 personality and strength you can feel just by looking at them! Spot on graphics, which is why i 
 cannot receive Gamespot's review, giving it a 7.
  
  Sound is the weakest link, but that only attributes to the voice acting-even that i do not think 
 it is hampered by the actual "acting", rather than just lip syncing with dialogue, and there lack 
 of dialogue-the game needed more lines, smoother transitions, etc... however this does not critically 
 hurt it at all. The music is a cornerstone in N3's setting as the theme music will surely tell 
 you. Battle music is epic and cannot get old when you incorporate that with the characters and 
 the "look" of the world; it fits perfectly.
  
  Gameplay is strong as ever-the Gamespot reviewer's comment on not having enough ways to fully dispatch 
 the enemies is very, very, far from the truth. The combinations of attacks and variety between 
 characters is almost endless when you play the multiple paths of the story. From sword to lance, 
 twin blades to daggers, and staff to water magic and even bar fist. The controls are easy, and 
 your A. I. does actually fight quite a bit up until there are few enemies left which they have trouble 
 swarming onto-this again is not a critical blow to the game. the camera is very loose, and has 
 a nice wide angle or close in to give you whatever view of fighting you desire on your hero.
  
  In the end, N3 is an epic not to forget-the visuals will impress even the most standardized 
 next gen onlookers, and if you find this game dull or boring, you must more into adventure games-this 
 is a hack and slash game, beautifully rendered, and enjoyable to experience, what more could you 
 ask from that? I believe the reviewer missed that connection with the genre and expectations of 
 a game like N3. If you ever had a hunch to buy the game, buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RivalBattousai
Rating: 5.7
Date: Sep 3, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  This games should of been better because they should of had online play to it. I think an online 
 co-op would be very good. The saves are horrible. If you die in the middle of a battle you have 
 to start all over. The characters in the game are decent. Tyurru is the worst character ever made. 
 I really like Dwingvatt, Klarrann and Inphyy. The achievements seem really easy if you have time 
 to play this game. this game is only average. There is terrible voice acting but the story is what 
 keeps it interesting. Good luck renting it at blockbuster because I doubt they will have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SMOKEMNHALO2001
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  A gem has been split into two, but how? Was it the humans or the orks? You'll have to play 99 NIGHTS 
 to find out, but after this you'll probally won't care. 99NIGHTS could have been a great game, 
 but the devolepers halfed this game. the main catch is the point of fighting hundreds of enemies 
 at once, but that's where 99 NIGHTS comes close to an end in greatness. You start off with only 
 INPHYY after beating her story you'll unlock two more fighters (this should give you an idea of 
 what'll happen after you beat their story.) Anyway. INPHYY has 5 or 6 levels in her story, yeah 
 that's it, and other charecters has less. But don't think you'll finish this game over the weekend, 
 because this game is hard! You'll be screaming at the game due to the point that this game cheats! 
 For the love of games, will somebody do something about the AI! Your followers are retarded! They'll 
 die and you will not even care. Before each level you can chose to bring archers, infatry, heavy 
 infatry, and/or pikemen to the fight. This is great for stratagy, but since you can take out a 
 whole army you'll stop careing after awhile. Each charecter has their own fighting style, this 
 saves the game from the repatative gameplay, lazy levels, linear paths, crappy enemies, and poor 
 voice-overs. there's little prerendered cut scenes and the ending for the charecters sucks! There's 
 no live support which means, no new levels, weapons, or enemies. This is sad, because with an ok 
 story nice looking combos and length of battles, was looking forward to this game so much I preordered 
 it, but got little bang for my buck. 99 NIGHTS could have been a great game but it stops at big 
 battles. Its worth a rent or you can buy a used copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paddles136
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 3, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X for about an hour.
  if you get bored
  Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Thats about it. The graphics are good, but there are too 
 many people on screen to even see your character. Also there is this strange blur effect for images 
 in the distance. There are no midpoint saves. If you get to the last guy and die then you have 
 to start the board all the way from the beginning. The combo's are flashy and look good, but they 
 are not as effective as just hitting X or Y over and over again. It fun for a few minutes but not 
 much replay value. Rent it and you will get your money worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 1, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  N3 is a fantasy version of Dynasty Warriors with tons of onscreen enermies, but the game could 
 have done better!.
  
  GOOD- Puts tons of bad guys on screen; Cool combos, great charater designs
  
  BAD- Story is 
 short and does'nt go no were; bad voice acting, gets boring and repetative fast;
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Think like DW with tons of onscreen charaters, it is your typical button-mashing game 
 that has dramatic gameplay, you get to pull of wicked combos that looks awesome and takes out 20-30 
 enermies out at a time, the gameplay is pretty fun but gets boring and repetative fast, after a 
 couple of levels it'll hit you.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics in the game is pretty good, its got great speicle effects and fair background visuals, 
 but it could have done better on a 360 consols, also the frame rate drops when you pull of a spark 
 move.
  
  SOUND:
  It has terrible voice acting but it has good music.
  
  WHY SHOULD I BUY THIS GAME?
  Its alot like the dw games but what saccrafices tatics and exsitment 
 makes up with light RPG and many onscreen enermies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bizi_Lee
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  I'm getting annoyed seeing comments like, "All you do is press x all the time, it's so boring!"
 
  The game focus' on combos, the attack buttons consist of x and y, much like ninja gaiden. You 
 need to choose the right combo for each situation, for example;
  If I'm surrond by hundreds of enemies, using small slash attacks will most likely get you killed. 
 There are combos which will clear large areas, normally resulting in a spinning or very powerful 
 attack. The combination is normally quite long eg. xxxxyyyy (not too hard is it?)
  Each character plays differently so learning each players strengths and combos is essential. The 
 ammount of combos is on par with any fighting game, there are lots.
  The gameplay is surprisingly tactical. The more enemies you defeat in a combo, the more red orbs 
 you will obtain. Thes orbs go towards your attack meter, once that meter is full you can do two 
 attacks, one clears the surrounding area, one is a directional attack. Killing enemies with these 
 attacks releases blue orbs, these go towards your blue attack meter. Once this meter is full you 
 can use a devestating attack which kills all on screen enemies. Choosing the right time to use 
 these attacks is essential to your survival.
  Commanding the troops is simple, you can command two squads on each mission. Select each squad 
 using the RB and LB and tell them to attack or defend using the D-pad, simple. Although the troops 
 don't do much damage, it's you thats playing the game after all, not them.
  The controls are brilliant and very responsive, allowing you to change direction in mid combo.
 
  The graphics are nice, considering the ammount of charcters on screen. The enemies do look the 
 same, but I thought goblins did anyway!?
  There are different types of enemies: Trolls, Goblin wizards, reptile thingys!?
  The missions 
 are quite long with no checkpoint system, which I think is better, it makes each mission a challenge.
 
  There are loads of items to pick up on the battlefield each with its own attributes. There are 
 banners which increase the stats of your troops. Orbs which extend your health bar, more powerful 
 weapons etc.
  The cutscens look amazing and the voice acting gets the job done. What you have to remember is 
 that it is a japanese game. I think the way the lips move slightly out of sync makes you remember 
 that!
  The story itself is nothing special, but its nice to play as each character and see their side 
 of the battle.
  There are seven characters, six of them you must unlock. There is also a gallery with bios, pictures 
 and other things to unlock, so the replay value is quite good.
  One thing that impressed me was when I tried to jump over my troops, my charchter began jumping 
 off their shoulders! Quite cool I thought.
  Overall: If you like fighting games with combos, (no button bashers, which is how the gmaespot 
 revewier obviously plays!) If you like fantasy games or just killing goblins in general, buy it. 
 I'm happy with the game, just dissapointed people don't know how to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shonen151
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  What first happens is that when you begin the game you might think its fishy. Later you get into 
 the game. When you get later into the gamers and you find out that this game is fun. You feel excited 
 when you see there are hundreds and hundreds of enemies coming at you. The level that will make 
 you happy fighting is Pholya Flatlands. You run out with your soldiers at the huge army. Be prepared 
 for a fun battle. There are so many combos that you can unleash on your enemies. There are some 
 problems to this game. The number one problem that got me angry but made me laugh at the same time. 
 The voice acting sucks. The people are talking and after thier done talking thier lips are still 
 moving. Although the graphics are very nice to see and the cutscenes are very nice. Altough there 
 are only 7 characters they all contribute to the story line. They all have different story lines 
 and depending on who you play as the story will be different. I hope you guys agree with this review 
 and thank you. Oh ya Vig Vak has the best story ever and is probably th saddest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Hobbit
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  What have the reviewers been drinking when they gave this game a miserable 5-6 / 10! To me this 
 game is one of the best things I have played to date on the 360. Its a true hack and slash fun 
 filled game, by far surpassing DW and KUF. The only bad points I shall say on the game is that 
 certain characters missions can be a little annoying and frustrating. But apart from that everything 
 else about this game is kick ass!! You will find yourself re-playing the levels not just for points 
 and XP but for the pure joy of hacking into heaps of goblins and orcs. A truly terrific game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mendigovirtual
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 30, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  the set for ninety-nine nights is probably one game surprise this present year for plataform xbox 
 360 , it does not say great thing , but , the massive battles you introducing more and more in 
 the world of ninety - nine - nights.
  
  the soundtrack is very good , corus orchestra , insturmentals , mixed whit voices ... goood!!
 
  
  The graphics to profuse in terrains extenses of big variety ( vegetables , deserts... very varied.. great 
 ) , gameplay progresive combos and level up of nivel , whitout sense complications!! is cool !!
 
  
  well in definetly is a great game that it finds the divertion!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dexrid
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 30, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  It feels like a polished dynasty warriors, its fun but repetitive and it's only 1 player. this 
 day in age we are supposed to be aiming for mutliplayer games and this is one of many that doesnt 
 get the job done. it really isnt that bad compared to alot of the other games out there right now 
 on the gamestop shelf collecting dust because no one will buy them .Maybe they will come up with 
 a sequel and will fix all of the problems this one has. Until then try to enjoy it to the fullest 
 if you bought it. it's nothing more than a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamanias
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 30, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  N3 does some things that other games have dared not to do. For example, this is a game where thousands 
 of enemies come on the screen at one time. The game's frame rate stays stable most of the time 
 and the graphics are incredible. Some bits do get repetitive and the gameplay is not all that wonderful, 
 but the story-lines and the characters make up for this. There are 7 campaigns to complete and 
 there is a level system with the characters. Some moves such as the red orb attack and the blue 
 orb attack look amazing. The music is composed and implemented very well, and if feels great to 
 hack away at thousands of enemies. Although this doesn't last too long, the enjoyment of getting 
 A ranks and all characters at level 9 proves to be satisfying. N3 is a great game, if you don't 
 like the dynasty warriors series, then this is a refreshing break! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orcassasin
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  After playing the game for 5 dyas straight i could not agree more with jeff on this one, after 
 playing the demo and seeing all the flashy moves i thought it had been a bit underscored however 
 after playing it alot 5.9 seems like the perfect score a chimpanzee could play this all it is is 
 hit X again and again. Ive heard the excuse of its a hack and slash what do you expect, that is 
 a poor excuse if i buy an fps does that mean that all i do is shoot non stop hold down the right 
 trugger? Of course not because that would be much like this game BORING. the person who started 
 this thread ( i cant remember the name) said that is was near perfect.... Lets break it down first 
 with the graphics, the main character model is pretty good but the rest of the models are very 
 low detailed and clones. The flashy attacks can look good the first couple of times you see them 
 however they get old fast. The super attacks would look good if they were viewable as the frame 
 rate drops to dingle digits during this, at one time it was so bad i thought my 360 had jammed. 
 The next part is sound the voice acting in this game is some of the worst ive ever seen it is also 
 verry apparent that the dev did not take time to redo the mouth sync for the english version as 
 its not even close. The music is neither rememberable nor is it entertaining. The gameplay is repetetive 
 (dont start your its a hack and slash again) not just because your doing the same thing again and 
 again but all you do is press x alot and if the combat had been batter then it wouldnt be so repetetive. 
 Then there is value id say to do all the characters missions takes about 8 hours at the most, thats 
 not to bad however content is only welcomed if it is good and as the gameplay is boring after about 
 an hour of play the next 7 are even worse. And finally is the game any fun? Not really not after 
 you get over the flashyness. So in short no i dont think 5.9 is harsh infact im going to post this 
 as a review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 6.4
Date: Sep 1, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Ninety-Nine Nights is a game that launched alongside the Japanese 360 and has finally arrived in 
 North American stores. Its got some things to offer owners of that system  primarily the gimmick 
 of having hundreds upon hundreds of enemies on-screen at once and a high-fantasy setting. However, 
 it gets repetitive in a hurry, and it fails to articulate either its gameplay or its boilerplate 
 storyline in any meaningful way. In short, Ninety-Nine Nights is a completely generic affair only 
 serious fantasy nuts should play.
  
  Nabbing a template from games like Dynasty Warriors, Ninety-Nine Nights explores a rather generic 
 humans-versus-goblins conflict from up to seven different perspectives. The main campaigns belong 
 to Inphyy and Aspharr, two siblings who belong to an elite fighting force known as the Temple Knights. 
 As you clear their missions, youll unlock a formerly enemy captain called Dwingvatt, a mercenary 
 in the middle of the conflict, and more.
  
  Its an interesting system that had a lot of potential, but sadly, none of these characters have 
 a story that feels particularly compelling or worth telling. Theres just not nearly enough context 
 or focus to result in anything coherent or moving.
  
  Unfortunately, the gameplay is too laser-focused, and all it seems interested in doing is giving 
 you large groups of enemies to run toward and slash down using the X and Y buttons or combinations 
 thereof. There are some superficial differences that help break things up  Inphyy uses a sword 
 while Aspharr uses a polearm, for example  but this is a straight-up hack and slash affair with 
 little to no thinking involved.
  
  Things appear to have a little depth with an RPG-light feature that has your characters leveling 
 up to level nine, learning new skills and gaining health along the way. The end result is a mixed 
 bag, though. Some new skills are great and do an admirable job of clearing the screen of enemies, 
 though many are drawn-out chains of attack that often lead your character right out of a combat 
 situation before it ends. Youll probably just end up sticking with repeating the three or four 
 hit combos endlessly, as it becomes easier to trigger things like blocking in the extremely rare 
 occasion you need them.
  
  Just about the only morsel of strategy  if they can so be called  are the orb attacks. Killing 
 enemies nets you red orbs that fill up a meter underneath your health. Once its full, you can 
 unleash a powerful string of attacks, though blue orbs drop during this time, which fill up a separate 
 meter. When that ones full, you can truly bring the pain in a spectacular screen-clearing attack. 
 Deciding where to use these orb attacks can turn the tide of a battle quite favorably, though its 
 not quite enough to make things consistently interesting.
  
  Graphically, Ninety-Nine Nights has a couple tricks up it sleeve but ultimately looks unpolished. 
 The main draw, of course, is the games ability to flood the screen with goblin flesh for the dicing. 
 There are a few moments in the game where youll inevitably be impressed with this gimmick, but 
 it wears off after a campaign or two. The main characters look good and crisp even on a standard 
 definition set, but the massed goblin hordes have a bland look to them. Objects in the distance 
 appear muddy, and this can be distracting at time. The game typically runs very smooth, although 
 it shows a moment of weakness in the seldom catastrophic bouts of slowdown. Audio-wise, the game 
 is solid but a touch unremarkable, with a serviceable score and good sound effects. The main caveat 
 is the voice acting, which sounds like its straight out of a bad anime.
  
  Overall, Ninety-Nine Nights is functional but feels far too routine to hold your interest for long. 
 Purchasing this game at full-price is not recommended, but for a short weekend rental to slice, 
 dice, and wring out some achievements (ten in all) , its all well and good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja-Vox
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 29, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Ninety-Nine Nights delivers the same hack 'n slash gameplay you'd normally associate with long 
 running franchises such as Dynasty Warriors, or the relatively new Kingdom Under Fire series, the 
 producer of which managed the development of this very game. Sadly one individual can rarely change 
 the eventual quality of a game; rather, the score a game will receive is very much in the hands 
 of those who plan and develop the game itself.
  
  N3, as it has come to be known, does get the basic hack 'n slash gameplay right, as fans of the 
 genre will notice from the get-go. Those same gamers will notice a distinct lack of strategy however, 
 which eventually contributes just one of many flaws which prevent N3 from shining. Instead, the 
 game is more about getting as many enemies on screen as you can before blasting away at them with 
 little more than the X and Y buttons. When it comes to depth, the game is probably on the same 
 level as Pac-Man in terms of gameplay variety.
  
  The storyline sees you starting the game as Inphyy, a 17-year old girl with a terrible thirst for 
 blood. Her brother, Aspharr, also has his own set of missions which move through the same areas, 
 giving you two different takes on the same storyline. These two characters hold the bulk of the 
 game's single-player mode, though there are several other characters with their own, shorter campaigns 
 which also end up moving through the same levels eventually. As you can imagine, it becomes horribly 
 repetitive to complete the game with one character, only to discover that you're basically required 
 to do the whole thing again, with every character in order to unlock the achievements, or beat 
 the game.
  
  This is an issue which could easily be fixed with a little variety; give some characters their 
 own campaigns, rather than force us to do the same cursed story mode over and over again. Perhaps 
 make one character a scout, allowing for shorter, faster missions. Sadly things like this are overlooked 
 in favour of repetition and tedium as you plough through the storyline over and over again as you 
 unlock more characters.
  
  The storyline itself holds very little water, and seems to be more of an excuse to drag you through 
 a series of enemy-infested locales. The war itself begins when a special crystal of some description 
 is broken.... however this isn't really tied up at the end of the game, which goes in a completely 
 different direction, forgetting how the storyline was set up to begin with. Regardless, the storyline 
 is so uncompelling, few people would like some closure to the story any way.
  
  N3 really falls down when it comes to the basic gameplay, which is exactly that; as basic as it 
 gets. From start to finish, the action is painfully linear - "Destroy the enemy!" "Destroy the 
 enemy general!" "Destroy the rest of the enemy!" The opening segments will wow you with the intense 
 number of enemies on screen and the epic feel to the combat. This wears thin very, very quickly 
 however as you reach the third or fourth level and find that nothing has changed. By the time you 
 realise you have to do the story again, with another character - and things STILL haven't changed 
 - you'll be about ready to call it a day and trade this one in.
  
  You're not the only warrior on the battlefield, however the troops that go into battle with you 
 are there for very little more than pure aesthetics. To be frank, they're completely useless. On 
 many occasions you'll see up to ten of your allies surrounding one, lone enemy - yet none of them 
 will take a swing. It's up to you to take out 99% of the enemies on the screen; and sometimes you'll 
 find yourself with a daunting number of bad guys to carve through, which feels much more like manual 
 labour than a challenging objective. Indeed, most people will eventually come to the same thought 
 i did - one of "why exactly am i even playing this?" The game moves on a downward slope, leading 
 to a point where you feel like you're doing a painfully dull chore, rather than enjoying a video 
 game. Very few people will have the stomach to go through the game with every character just for 
 achievement points; and even worse, one rediculous achievement states that you must get every character 
 to level 9, and then play through the entire game again, as a level 9. So if you're one for the 
 achievement points, it's worth noting that you'll have to go through this game at least three times 
 with every, single character to get your 200 points. This is a game of patience, to say the least. 
 Not one mission gives you an option to save mid-level, and at no time are there any checkpoints. 
 Should you die in battle, you're sent right back to the start again. And of course, plowing through 
 half an hour or so of a level, only to be defeated by a boss at it's end practically screams at 
 you to call it a day. Very few people will have the patience to stick with the game to even beat 
 it, which ultimately makes buying this a complete waste of time.
  
  Sure, N3 is the first of it's kind on the 360 - if you dont include the Dynasty Warriors ports. 
 Sadly, even if you're a huge fan of hack and slash gameplay, i'd still recommend you give this 
 one a miss. Ultimately, it left me feeling empty and indifferent - as if i'd just wasted a rediculos 
 amount of time on something which gave me very, very little enjoyment. N3 is worth neither your 
 money, nor your time. At best, i'd recommend a weekend rental and little else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni_Ookami
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Ninety Nine Nights is as much of a Dynasty Warriors clone as it gets, the game play consists of 
 you defeating mass hordes of enemies. The graphics are really bad, level designs are almost painfully 
 simple and all of this is made even worse when you think of how much better it could have been 
 (its on the 360 for gods sake) . The game play gets really old fast, the cut scenes interrupt your 
 special movies, boss battles are annoying, and the voice acting is really bad.
  
  All in all this game will give you about 7 full days of enjoyment (about how long it takes to get 
 all the achievements) then youll send this one screaming to the bargain bin from whence it came 
 and forget you ever played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kslay88
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 28, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I'll make it brief for you
  
  Pros: great graphics, lengthy combos, variations in the fighting style of the characters. Special 
 moves are very effective and kill so many enemies.
  
  Cons: Replay value is nothing compared to DW, only 6 characters to use, no midpoint save points, 
 block button is not responsive so be prepared to get even while pressing L trigger for block, flashy 
 combos suck for the most part because they don't even hit that many people. STORY IS BARELY EXPLAINED.
 
  Voice acting is horrible as usual (Why don't they just sub?)
  
  This game has potential, but falls flat. Rent this game, do not buy it. If you bought it, sell 
 it on ebay bc it sells like hotcakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampOrdinator
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  You can wine and moan about how repetative this game is but telling the truth its been awhile since 
 ive had this much fun button mashing. Ninety nine nights is game developed by Phantagram and Q 
 for the Xbox 360.
  
  Story: The story in N3 ( ninety nine nights ) is actually pretty generic. It has to do with a crystal 
 and the shattering of said crystal and the reuniting and all that good b rate fantasy mumbo. The 
 story in this game is pretty throw away, and it serves as a good break from action but nothing 
 more.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in N3 is really easy to pick up and play, you select your character and 
 your good to go. Unless your ancestors evolutionary cycle somehow forgot to include repeating a 
 simple task that is. The interfaces all work well and you shouldnt be confused at all with the 
 added rpg mechanics ( since once again there at a 3rd grade lv ) . You can gain lvs equip weapons 
 and lv to 9. As you level you unlock new combos and new weapons and with different reach, speed 
 etc. There are a total of 7 characters in the game, 6 Pcs and 1 secret character unlocked for beating 
 the game with the others. This game is very pick up and play and all added rpg elements are added 
 just to comliment the action and it does so well.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in n3 are really good, think of them as in between xbox and 360 graphics. 
 The game can display tons of characters on screen at once and incorperates a neat blur effect as 
 enemys charge you. Overall the game overall looks really good. Sufice to say the frame rate does 
 dip at times and there are a number of graphical glitches but i cant see this ruining anyones game.
 
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is really good, its not anything worth buying but manages to be better 
 than the competition in everyway. The voice acting on the other hand is rancid and you'll probally 
 be plugging your ears at points. Value: The game has alot of replay value, this is one of those 
 games you can just pick up and play time and time again and it feel just as fresh as when you just 
 played it. Other than that you have weapons to find, Art gallerys to unlock and profiles to view, 
 so overall this one should last you.
  
  Achievements: Theres achievements in the game for beating the game with all the characters, Lvling 
 all of them to 9, and getting an A rank on all the characters missions. Last Word: Overall N3 is 
 just a really satisfying hack and slash game. It manages to succed where others of the genre have 
 failed. Utterly making for a really fun experiance thats sure to last you.
  
  - Vamp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deovitalis
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Well I played the demo when it came out and the game seemed pretty crappy then. I thought that 
 it would get really boring really quick.
  
  Well the other day i rented it and boy was i right. The game starts off ok with some cool CG and 
 it seems fun hacking and slashing your way though hords of enemies. But what more does the game 
 offer... ... NOTHING
  
  You continue to hack and slash your way though the game. the little plot line in between the levels 
 is interesting but not enough to keep you entertained.
  
  I didn't even finish the first play through as the first charater you can pick. I just gave up. 
 It sucks I won't get the achievements for this game but playing it is worse.
  
  Don't buy this game!
  
  I feel like i was ripped off by renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasuke55
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  Ninety Nine Nights (N3) Is a graphicly beautiful game with the potential for a compelling story. 
 The basis is there are many tribes Humans, Goblins, Orcs, A race of frogs and a few others who use 
 to live in peace brought by an orb that peace was destroyed when the orb shattered and the Night 
 King Rose giving way to the 99 nights before light was restored. Right here I think is where they 
 went wrong. They give the gamers too much of the story in the Manuel. I think they should have 
 cut it off at the ORB shattering and give us all of the story and possibly split this up into two 
 games. Add to that the cut scences that keep the story moving are fairly short and don't provide 
 enough depth although your able to get the point.
  
  Gameplay: I think the game is good here not great because if you have played hack n slash greats 
 like Samuri Warriors or Dynasty Warriors its pretty much just like this but its still fun so I 
 would say it gets a good but not great. I think they could have added more depth by making the 
 new weapons you get come with different Powers or different Orb Attacks (which are your power attacks) 
 Some people gripe about the invisible wall thing but most of the maps are so big that it doesn't 
 matter to me I think it keeps you on track. I would say one of my biggest complaints is no Two 
 Player? Dynasty Warriors works great with that and I think this would be great with two player 
 also. In future installments it would be better if they had more playable characters and extended 
 some of the story lines there are characters with awesome orb powers like theres fire, water, air, 
 earth and several other some playable some not but it would be nice to see more playable. The only 
 other bad point is save checkpoints are spread very thin so play skillfully or prepare to start 
 over several times.
  
  Sound. Ehh nothing to tell here sound is just avereage I dont' even hear the music when I'm playing 
 its not noticable. Plus if you pop in some of your own tracks you good to go which is preferred 
 by most today any how.
  
  Overall: I think this game is a good start I give it an 8.5/10 because it does what most do in 
 this genere very well but lack the mulitplayer and weapon enhancements that would make this good 
 game great. That and spend more time telling this story and I think we have a hit. I don't think 
 this is a bad choice esp for $50 u. s. when most games this gen are $60 If you are a fan of Hack 
 N Slash I don't think you can go wrong here. Hope this helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drunkin_Monk
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 28, 2006 4:08 am PT
Review:  N3 has all the makings of a cult classic and as is the same with every game with that title you 
 will ether love or hate it. I have no doubt in my mind that N3 will find a cult fan base as it 
 is a solid game with the right flair to attract such an audience. The story alone is enough to 
 at least give the game a look. And with 7 playable characters who each has there own unique style 
 the game should keep you busy for quite awhile. Unfortunately the game can become very repetitive 
 for most people which is the main factor why N3 has no chance of becoming a best seller. Nonetheless 
 N3 is worth a rental for anyone who owns a 360 whether your interested or not you will find something 
 to like about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 3:07 am PT
Review:  Yes the game is short and yes the game is pretty much the same with all the characters you unlock 
 but it has a vary japanesy feel to it. The game is much like the japanese top down scrolling space 
 shooters, except youre on the ground, those with any sense will see what im saying. After watching 
 the video review you have to agree with what the guys saying but i believe there is a much bigger 
 plan going on here and the fact that the company have been brave to show the amount of enemys on 
 the screen at once with the consequence of slowdown is quite amazing.
  
  This game will keep you occupied for a couple of days and if youre like me you will want to nail 
 combos and get all S type licenses for the levels some are extremely hard so i can imagine they 
 will take a while to do. The biggest disapointment with this game is absolutly no online feature. 
 hopefully some content may be available in the future but who knows.
  
  My feeling tho is that they are setting up an identity within the gaming community and the next 
 game will be a fully fledged RPG of the FF type but with this look, i hope so because at the moment 
 this game has some of the best character models and fast fluent game play of any around. If your 
 an in the action immediatly gamer and remember what we are playing here is a game, then this is 
 for you. If you are a gamer where games are extensions of your life then maybe youll find this 
 game as the gs interviewer says "shallow". Its a fair comment but it depends what you expect from 
 the games you play. Now and again personally i like games like this because i know in 10 mind or 
 20 years noones gonna even care that you played any gamer ever at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nirvanapigg
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 27, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  The comparisons between Ninety-Nine Nights and Dynasty Warriors are obvious. Make no mistake this 
 is a hack-n-slash game. It has all of the flaws of a typical hack-n-slash especially the repetitive 
 game play. What it dose it dose well. It allows you to kill massive enemies at once, the controls/combos 
 are easy to understand, and it is very addictive. Think Dynasty Warriors, or Diablo. If you dont 
 like mindless hack-n-slash you wont like this game. It takes the same formula and runs with it. 
 In some places it even excels.
  
  I like the game a lot but there will be people who dont. If you dont like the hack-n-slash genre, 
 STAY AWAY. If killing hoards and hoards of baddies is your cup of tea, youll have a lot of fun. 
 It doesnt add much new to the genre but it successfully uses the formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaffeinekills
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 27, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  And that would be concept behind Ninety-Nine Nights is simple. Control a single character, follow 
 mission guidelines, tear your way through thousands of foes, and find items and weapons along the 
 way. Nighty-Nine Nights adds a feeling of something to be desired with its uninteresting story, 
 clipping problems that make bosses cheap, and undesirable voice acting. But have no fear, N3 makes 
 it all up with it's gorgeous graphics with outstanding attention to detail, fluent music and sound 
 , and the ability to show entire armies in a single screen and the power to wipe them out in mere 
 seconds with your arsenal of combos your unique character gets.
  
  Despite the flaws, this game was definitely an experience for me and I enjoyed it. If you are not 
 exactly keen or are having doubts about this title, you may want to rent it first. But if you're 
 the type who enjoys killing in the masses and don't think you'd mind the bugs, it'll be worth a 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jivekibbles
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  The main Aspect of N3 is to fit hundreds of enemies on screen at a time and i think it does very 
 well at that and it looks completly awesome seeing army charge at you like that.
  The fighting in N3 is very nice to see and it worth upgrading levels to see these combos. all look 
 very detailed but in the end they are pretty much the same move with a different start.
  7 characters in all to play as and 1 to start off with. what is annoying is the fact that there 
 is no free mode lik DW5. characters have to play their levels and their levels only. and to make 
 it worse some characters have very few different levels.
  another downfall is no interim save or checkpoints. as battles are pretty lenghty dieing especially 
 near the end of a mission is fustrating.
  
  The combat is alright though pretty repetitive and you will probably pick a favourite combo for 
 each character but if you mix combos and spark attacks the combat can be kept blazing.
  (and no this aint a joke at the flame orb dude )
  N3 review hoped you liked it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallze2004
Rating: 5.9
Date: Aug 27, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  As a fan of the Dynasty Warriors series I was really looking forward to this game, and after the 
 months of delays of the release when it finally came out I was so up for it, but my excitement 
 soon ended. Graphically the game is very impressive, but not amazing or jaw-dropping. The environments 
 are very nice to look at but can cause some very annoying camera angles, with some many buildings 
 and trees spotted about they tend to get in the way most of the time. The game play was all too 
 similar to the dynasty warriors games which basically made it feel like the same game which kills 
 off the excitement of the game, because it just feels old straight away. The one thing the game 
 has over Dyanasty Warriors is it actually has a point, where as Dynasty Warriors really didn't, 
 but the that said you still can't get involved in it because the introduction of the story can 
 lead to some short missions or some very long winded ones, which leads to the next point of that 
 there is no in-game save at all. Some of the missions are quite long and difficult and when you 
 get killed by the boss who only needed to be hit one more time and have to play that 30 min mission 
 all over again, its not the best feeling in the world, honestly it just makes you want to turn 
 off the game, place it in a fire and bomb proof box, put that it in a safe, chain it up, weld it 
 closed and drop it in the middle of the atlantic... but just think of the expense so its best not 
 to. Theres also not much really to do in game but kick the living crap out of things so it does 
 tend to get boring pretty fast, not that Dynasty Warriors didn't but that had more enjoyment in 
 it for me. There is also no markers on the people to tell you if they are good or evil so if the 
 miss one of the annoying little orcs all your troops stand there and think about hitting him, so 
 you have to track back and do it yourself. To be honest with dead rising coming soon I think this 
 game will be short lived and i can expect to see people trading this in for that little piece of 
 undead gold. So much hype, so much marketing and so much disappointment after months of waiting 
 this game is candidate for biggest let down of the year, real shame, just like an england world 
 cup squad, so much potential and so much anticipation but no depth and gets old fast... but the 
 upside is atleast you can trade this in :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theprays
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 26, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  N3 was a game i was hoping to like. The moment I began the game it was just boring looking. The 
 character models look great, but the enviroments just look dull. I didn't care for the fact that 
 you could kill 500 people in a couple of seconds either. I wasn't really into the characters in 
 this game. They were not appealing like the characters in Dynasty Warriors. The controls are average 
 and the command system they had going on, that was just a waste. They follow you regardless anyway. 
 Its not like you needed them anyway. This isn't a bad game, it just isn't a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoungerob01903
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 26, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting ages for a new game to play and boy was I happy to see this on the shelves.
 
  As soon as I put it in my disc tray I had a preconception that this game was going to be good 
 as I have been mashing it up on the demo for ages now, and I wasnt wrong, the graphics are awesome 
 there is no doubt about that and the learning curve is very short. It will only take a few mins 
 to learn the combo button moves and when you level up the moves get much better and impressive.
 
  If you have played DW5 on the 360 then this will remind you of that but there is a difference, 
 the enemy fights back and kills you too!!
  Generally the games difficulty is just right, but only if you take your time and block right.
 
  The one thing that does let it down just like every other Jap button masher is the fact that there 
 is no differentiation in the game. You need to play as every character to gain the achievements 
 but all the missions are generally the same so you will not go wrong or die very easily once you 
 have completed the first characters act.
  Give it a go you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dav_id83
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 25, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I watched my mate play this game as I refused to even pick up the pad from the moment I saw the 
 gameplay. I shouted Dynasty Warriors but with better graphics and less plot to the character your 
 playing as.
  
  The red female knight has 1 goal revenge her father oh please this was done in the PSone days of 
 story telling. At least in DW each character had some sort of connection with A. I players and more 
 than 1 may I add.
  
  She only seems to have her brother following her and vice versa as mentioned in the GS video review. 
 It's not worth 40 in my book I'd rather play DW any day least you got a better feel to the game 
 and there's plenty of characters to choose from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hidavi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 25, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Let's get down to the nitty gritty:
  
  Gameplay: AWESOME. Slashing and pounding through over a thousand enemies is done with dozens of 
 moves and seven unique characters. As you kill enemies, you absorb their souls and use them to 
 unleash a small special. After enough souls collected using the small specials, the bar for the 
 huge special fills up, anhiallating all enemies.
  
  Presentation. GREAT. The startup video is very nice. The menu system is bland and could use work, 
 but it doesn't affect the game's enjoyability. The story is very very good and has good cutscenes. 
 You can go through the POVs of 7 different characters involved in the story.
  
  Graphics: BREATHTAKING. Over 500 characters on-screen at once in full detail, just like your main 
 characters. Not only that, but it pulls it off without dropping a single frame. The worlds are 
 in amazing detail and there are plenty of visual effects to keep you ooohing and ahhhing.
  
  Sound: TOLERABLE. The English voice acting is not good and the Japanese one, which is actually 
 very good, is not available. The sound effects are good but you can't hear it when you are struck; 
 you find out via the rumble in the controller. There's not much to be said for the music but its 
 ok.
  
  Long-term Appeal: VERY HIGH. The game has 29 missions and you will be going back through them to 
 level up and find new items so the game is fairly long. Also, the replay-value is high because 
 the game is so fun and the story is so good.
  
  Overall: GREAT. This game is great for hack-n-slash fans. However, if you don't like this genre, 
 its probably not for you. For those who don't understand what a hack-n-slash is, think Dynasty 
 Warriors, Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King, and Samurai Warriors. Nintey-Nine Nights is 
 the best one yet and I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikichris20
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 25, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Microsoft Studios churns out their next big hyped game and again it turns out to be a dud. I do 
 want to state that I was very excited about this game and I am reviewing this game based on my 
 own personal opinion and not just simply to bash the game, so with that said...
  
  The game is set in where there is a conflict between Humans and Goblins. They are on the brink 
 of war over who should possess both the light and the dark orbs and reign supreme. You will play 
 through the game with 7 characters total and see the event through each one of their own eyes. 
 Unfortunately , the game has many gaps in the story and it leaves you with more questions than 
 answers even after finishing each characters session.
  
  Gameplay - Playing through the game ( especially wiht the first couple of characters ) is a very 
 fun time. Racking up a 1000+ combo is the norm for N3 and it really does feel good just slice the 
 hordes of goblins in one fatal swoop. You start at level 1 with every characters and can level 
 up to 9, with each level giving you extra life as well as new more damaging combo attacks. There 
 are plenty of moves and combos to execute and they all look very cool and interesting but as the 
 Gamespot review stated you will end up using the basic combo attacks about 95% of the time. There 
 are also weapon upgrades and items that can be picked up throughout the stages that do anything 
 from add health to extend the reach of your weapon all of which can be equipped on your character. 
 The battles themselves are simply massive , I have never seen so many on screen characters on screen 
 before and I never had any framerate problems at all. The AI is terribly dumb and really doesn't 
 make you feel very challenged but to balance things out your own soliders are dumb as a box a rocks 
 as well. One bad note about the combat is the hit detection ( especially on bosses ) is not terribly 
 great and someties you have to keep a close eye on the enemy's life bar to tell if you are hitting 
 them or not. You play between 2-5 missions depending on the character selected and will blast through 
 them all in a pretty fast pace, but you may play the missions over as many times as you like.
 
  
  Graphics - Both the player model and the flashy moves look great and very over the top with the 
 rest of the AI just kind of looking ugly and bland as a result. The level designs are very different 
 but they all still seem very bland and drab. You never really get the sense that you are in a real 
 fantasy world.
  
  Sound - Where the environments kind of fail the sound really does well. The music makes you feel 
 immersed in a epic battle where it truly is a war. The same songs will be played over quite a bit 
 but the music really does help the battle feel more real. The only real complaint I have about 
 the sound is the voice acting... oh boy it is really just not good at all.
  
  Value - This game has relpay value that feels forced. If you want to get all the achievements or 
 all of the characters you must play through the same levels repeatedly anyway. More than likley 
 once you have done that you won't want to touch the game for a while. Speaking of achievements, 
 I have good news and bad news, the good news is 500 points are unlocked just by beating the game 
 with all the characters the bad news is the remaining 500 is obtained through tons of leveling 
 up and playing the same stages many MANY times. I personally really wanted to try to get all 1000 
 points but I just got too aggravated and bored to do it.
  
  To sum it up the game is fun at first but it wears thin rather quickly, I just don't believe it 
 lived up to the hype behind it at all. I say rent it to see if you still enjoy it at the end of 
 the rental, just don't jump in and buy it right away like I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wbx31
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 25, 2006 3:50 am PT
Review:  Ninety Nine Nites tells you a story. Therefore the gameplay is adapted to that story. The story 
 itself is well told, a few loose ends here and there but that's expected with this kind of games.
 
  
  Sound: Beautiful soundtrack, lots of classical music in here. Think of Mozart, Beethoven. The sound 
 effects fits the action on screen pretty well, it is never annoying and that's a good thing. The 
 voices (translation from Japanese to English) are something else, the lip-sync is lost although 
 the voices are well done. It is a real shame they did not spend enough time for the lip-sync!
 
  
  Graphics: Play this game on 1080i (high definition screen that can boast a 1080i resolution) and 
 be astonished how all those hundreds of characters on screen look razor sharp and beautiful colored. 
 The only minus point is the kind of blur is used for the far background. This blur looks like a 
 motion blur for things that stand still, which is not that great to look at. The frame rate is 
 respectable high, it drops sometimes only when there is a battle on screen with hundreds of characters 
 and a variety of the sort.
  
  Playability: There is more to this game than meets the eye. For instance you are not alone, two 
 battalions escort you wherever you go. You can also choose the kind; archers, pike men, light or 
 heavy infantry. These troops you can command like "charge" and "hold ground". Since you do all 
 the action more commands are not even needed. The battalions itself do never take out enemies, 
 they are good for holding them while you can take the honor for killing them or mind yourself of 
 other things to take care of.
  There are a number of combo's that each playable character can pull of plus a magical attack that 
 wipes hundreds of you foes of at once but you will have to fill up a meter before you can actually 
 use it. The combo's there selfs all fits the action, this is a good thing because it makes the 
 action not that repetitive.
  
  Conclusion: A good hack 'n slash game with decent gameplay, graphics and sound! It puts Dynasty 
 Warriors (another hack 'n slash game) to shame! If you like this genre buy it! It is that good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raynor421
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 25, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  This is another hack-and-slash game, and those who revel in buttom-mashing games will get some 
 fun -- only at the initial stage, because the action soon gets repetitive and boring..
  You're thrown with hordes of monsters and yet the large number of enemies seem like paper target 
 in face of your flashy combos...
  The main characters are god-like warriors with out-of-the-world strength and health... not to mention 
 the screen-clearing super moves...
  So I guess this game doesn't really live up to the hype it enjoyed...
  If only the game designers 
 had put as much time and efforts on the gameplay and plot as on the graphics... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HickoryShinobi
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 24, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game is Ultra-Frustrating, Whether it be the massive hunt for an individual goblin/enemy,
 
  The very..... Strange save system,
  The Suicide run during most of the bosses to find the stupid treasure chests for health,
  Or 
 the very pointless items you pick up, honestly 45% of the items you pick up do not benifit you 
 in any way.
  
  Uhhh...
  Well the game looks pretty good, some of the physics in cutscenes (like hair going trough your 
 body) Are pretty lame, the short draw distance is pretty bad, but those two things arent that upsetting.
 
  
  very pretty Movement visuals, and when i say movement, i mean of course
  Hack and Slash
  Thats what this game is, The game consists of 2 main attack buttons X and Y... 
 you will be pressing those a lot. B special attacks There are 2. and A jump, There is voice acting... 
 Very nasty voice acting The main character who is supposed to sound japanese sounds a lot like 
 suzie from the rugrats. Rpg elements are there but only really with a weapon improvements here 
 or there and new combo attacks. the fighting is a little broken you will most likely be using the 
 same moves over and over depending on the 4 situations you will be in through out the game
  BOSS
  GOBLIN HORDES
  DRAGONS CATAPULTS
  but it does have some sort of addictive play type 
 and i can't figure out why.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewmgreendawg
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 24, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Wow... lets just jump right in here. The graphics are not that bad and are definatley up to xbox 
 360 standards. The rest of the game is crap. The leveling system is gimicky, the voice dubbing 
 is god awful, the slowdown is frustrating, the characters have crappy names, the cutscene animation 
 is bad, the fighting gets boring after 3 minutes, the story is nothing, everything is totally unorginal 
 about this game... it's not even a good dynasty warriors ripoff. I was excited about this games 
 release and now i realize why it got a 5.9. I'm being merciful though. this piece of crap gets 
 6.5 because i feel sorry for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenballer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay & story: This game has good stories for some characters and not so good for others. This 
 is a hack and slash to the fullest. If you dont like Dynasty Warriors or Samurai Warriors dont 
 pick up this game because its only a waste of time and money for you. You start off with only 1 
 player to choose from her name is inphyy. She is a spite warrior who is only concerned about killing 
 all goblins for a certain reason. She is mostly the reason for everybody else story in the game. As 
 for gameplay the combos your character is awarded after each level up are very fluid. Some of them 
 have elemental attacks at the end of them to make for more devastating attacks. In the levels the 
 regular enemies are quite dumb and wont attack much sometimes not at all unless your just standing 
 still. Then the bosses are insanely hard able to take half a life bar with one blow. Unique way 
 of balance the enemy A. I. balance.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good but the loses major points because in cut scenes you can see things 
 like a sword sheath sticking through the middle of a characters armor. This happens alot.
  
  Sound: In game sound match the characters it when the cut scenes come up you get mediocre voice 
 acting and lip movement to words. Replay value: Well if your like me and you want to play through 
 everyone story the you play this game at least 9 times through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chief9088
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  When first hering about this game and seing its reviews i was totaly disapointed but after playing 
 it myself i loved it. The game is really fast passed and intertaning. for the first few minuts 
 you really get blown away by its great charicter detail and how many enimies are on screen at once. 
 but once that feeling fades another enters. on how wrong the reviews are. Many saying this game 
 was a total letdown, and i strongly disagree. Though the game may only have 7 charicters , every 
 last one of them is memorable and has somthing about them that you will like. The game it self 
 will run you about maybe 20-30 hours to complete the campaigns for everyone if u take it slow , 
 level up pretty high, and die a few times on the long missions. Although the missions dont have 
 checkpoints making it annoying somtimes when u die after playing through almost the entire 30 minut 
 long level. The game has pretty good sound and its music is top noch for a hack n slash. the voice 
 over is pretty bad in some casses though but any one who has played a japanese game will look that 
 over with little to no care.
  
  all in all this game was allot better than what its reviews said it was and if u like Dynasty worriors 
 or samurai worriors u should deffinetly pick a copy up or give it atleast a rental because this 
 game wont dissapoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elise111R
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 22, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  A nice game for japanese gamers and american ones too. This game has action maybe too much action 
 lol but it has a tremendous mistake it doesnt have any checkpoints AT aLL it makes the game really 
 hard and sometimes it can become frustrating.
  
  The game itself has some great graphics if you compare it with some other killing spree games LOL 
 :p Characters are nice and balanced but only the storyline of inphyy and her brother asphar is 
 excelent because the other characters just doesnt fell quite complete.
  
  The game itself is good and adictive but frustrating because of the checkpoints but it has great 
 rewards and a nice retail price oo and nice archivements too It worth the buy really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhao_lei
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 22, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  To begin with this game has the most beautiful graphics i have seen in a game of this type. It 
 looks as though they took everything we wanted out of the Dynasty warriors series and then fixed 
 all the problems and threw in a new setting. Now you really get a feel like you are in a giant 
 battle rather than a small skirmish with 20 guys. Albeit the game does lack a plot of any kind.... 
 well thats not really to say one doesnt exist but it might as well not since in each cinematic 
 they only end up saying about 4 words a piece. That and when you meet others of what will become 
 player characters on the battlefield they go into no depth on who they are, all you hear is Innphy 
 say "you are protected by the light". Although if you look past the glorious lack of story this 
 game is highly entertaining and has already managed to sap a lot of my free time from all ym other 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halokotorgod
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  In Ninety Nine Nights (N3) you play with a possible 7 characters 2 with decently long campaigns 
 the other with reletively short one. While it isnt one of the longest game you do get to have alot 
 of fun learning cool combos and killign sweet enemies. Also the characters are the coolest i have 
 played yet on the 360. I hope you rent this game first because you may not agree with me or may 
 just not like this kind of kill them all game. Last I hope you dont watch anyone of the cut scenes 
 or ever look at there lips because it is absoluetly the worst voices and voice acting that i have 
 ever scene, i mean its worse than all of the DBZ games which is really hard to be that bad but 
 the rest is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amourkiss588
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  N3 should be a great game, but somehow suffer from few weak developed elements.
  Start from the graphic, N3 tried to give you this large scale battlefield fighting, and it did, 
 it did put a lot of enemies on the screen at once, and you could kill them with your combo slashings 
 or Orb attacks, which is pretty fun to do so, and yet very cool to look at it. But there are some 
 undetailed cutscenes, that didn't give you much of the information about the whole situation, and 
 the character animation while in cutscenes is kinda shallow.
  Voice acting is bad, they didn't acted like they are in that situation, there's no emotion and 
 passion.
  The music in this game is not bad, but I kinda don't like they'd stop the music when you are not 
 in action.
  
  Since this game is in the same genre with Dynasty Warriors, I'd just say for comparision, DW is 
 more deep, and you will spend more time on DW than N3.
  What is good about N3 is that it's the XBOX360-level game that gives you the next generation feel, 
 when compare to DW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drspotxxx
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 21, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Ninety-Nine Nights is one of those games where it is what you make it. What I mean is, if you keep 
 an open mind a actually play the game in the manner it was intended to be played, then it is a 
 very high quality title. However, i have noticed that many reviewers fail to grasp many of the 
 intricacies which make this a standout title. First and foremost, if you enjoy hack and slash style 
 gameplay at all, this game is for you. N3 has brought this genre of games to the next generation 
 of gaming in full force. it has every technical aspect of the combat nailed. it gives you a great 
 sensation of making contact with your enemies, has a very expansive combo system, excellent characters 
 that are all fun to play with yet all feel pretty different. the number of enemies and allies onscreen 
 at once is amazing. the battles truly feel epic, as the number of bodies onscreen at once can reach 
 numbers up to 500 at a time. the most amazing part about this is that the graphics are not sacrificed 
 in order to deliver this many people onscreen at once. the characters are all very detailed including 
 the characters you dont get to play as. many games only concentrate on making the main characters 
 look good, however, N3 goes above and beyond. it also adds some great RPG elements which include 
 an indepth stat modifying item inventory system, leveling up your character so that they can carry 
 more items and use more powerful moves and weapons that they find, as well as in depth stat tracking 
 for your performance. there are a large number of items to collect in the game, many are rare. 
 the most interesting thing about the game is that is has no apparent difficulty setting. it is 
 possible to carve your way through many parts of the game using only a few attacks. however, many 
 of the items can be worn to put you at a disadvantage, thus allowing you to custom taylor the games 
 difficulty to your own preferences. I really enjoyed the story in this game as well. instead of 
 making you sit through cutscene after cutscene between levels, N3 takes a much different approach 
 to story telling. not only does it integrate cutscenes seemlessly into the gameplay, but it also 
 tells a very non linear story. Each character gives you a different perspective of the same conflict 
 and often times the same battle you played with one character will end much differently with another. 
 the interesting thing about the story to me was that it showed you the positive and negative aspects 
 of each characters motivations and decisions by showing you the different ways the same situation 
 can be perceived. Ninety-Nine Nights is a stellar action title, with as much depth as you personally 
 are willing to look for. It gives you an incredible sensation of power, more so than any other 
 game. At very least rent this game, it is certainly worth a playthrough if not a few. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrebuiltKiller
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 21, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  What i like about this game is that the story is good and i think that the game is more real than 
 dynasty warriors and ninety nine nights is the only game that is like it and this game is more 
 real than the other game and also what i like about it is that it has better graphics for a game 
 like this. And what i think is cool that your army helps you alot and what is challenging about 
 the game is that you need to keep your army alive so they could help you in the last battle of 
 the levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 3.7
Date: Aug 21, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Ninety-Nine Nights was a game I saw a trailer for quite some time ago. I remember thinking that 
 it was one of the games I would be looking forward to until its release. I wasn't overly sure what 
 to think about this one heading into it, but with the summer drought, I couldn't resist picking 
 it up and taking it for a spin. So, would N3 (worst... abbreviation... ever) live up to my expectations? 
 Or would it fall flat as many games have done in the past. Well, here's my game breakdown on the 
 latest from Microsoft game studios.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful in the cutscenes, but what is the deal with the jumpy frame rate? At times, 
 things flow smoothly, but at others, you really can notice a pronounced framerate drop. Is there 
 something about the 360 that makes fixing this difficult? I ask because I experienced similar issues 
 with other games, i. e. Oblivion, GRAW, etc. I don't know. But at any rate, the visuals are very 
 nice. It does get hard to tell the bad guys from the good guys in battle though. Thankfully, you 
 can't harm your own troops. Which doesn't really matter in the scheme of things since they are 
 better off dead, but I'll get to that later. Graphics = good.
  
  Sound: I'm not going to say the voice acting is horrible, but you won't be writing home about it 
 any time soon either. It gets the job done, and that's about all you can really say about it. Sound 
 effects aren't horrible.. but are just the typical "psh.. psh.. psh" sound we have all come to expect 
 since these kind of games first came to be. 
  
  Control: Not so great. Once you start into a combo, it is very hard to direct it in any particular 
 direction. Not to mention at the end of it, you are usually susceptible to being attacked from 
 behind. The camera is a constant fight as well. My biggest issue, however, is in how slow your 
 player runs. It takes way too long to get anywhere on the map. That's more of a gameplay issue, 
 but I figured I'd mention it here. Oh... and don't even bother blocking. 
  
  Replay value: Next to none. Nobody wants to go through the frustrating mission design the first 
 time, much less multiple times after... unless you are just a glutton for punishment.
  
  Gameplay: Basically, its you against armies of orcs. Just keep mashing away on the X and Y buttons 
 and you will plow through them. However, later in the game when the trolls start to appear, things 
 get alot more difficult. For some reason, when you are slashing away on a troll, they don't even 
 have an animation that they go into. Basically, you have to make sure you are actually hitting 
 them, as they will be continuously attacking you while you are attacking them. The games BIGGEST 
 failure by FAR, however, is it's unbelievably bad system to saving. If you die in a mission, you 
 must do the entire thing over again. I'm docking this game 2 FULL POINTS for that reason alone, 
 as it only goes to show that Microsoft wanted this game to take gamers awhile to beat until their 
 big guns come out later in the year. I play this game until I die, and then it hits the shelf 9 
 times out of 10. Also, your troops are totally worthless. Get into a battle and watch them. They 
 just stand there as if they've never seen an orc before. Um... help me FIGHT.. idiots. Seriously, 
 the A. I. is some of the worst I've seen... well... ever. I wouldn't even say it exists honestly. 
 Your life bar starts off really short and one or two hits from a troll is enough to get it pretty 
 low. I absolutely hated having to spend half hour on a mission only to die at the very end. There's 
 just no fun to that. It's simply a very frustrating play.
  
  All in all, I was quite let down with Ninety-Nine Nights. I don't get the feeling that there was 
 alot of time or work put into the title, and I feel the end result really reflects that. I really 
 wanted to like this game, but in the end, an abysmal save system and poor, poor story line serve 
 to turn me off of it. As a rental, I could recommend since by now everyone is just looking for 
 a game they haven't played yet. However, as a purchase.. even at $49... I feel cheated. I'd pay $20.. maybe... and 
 at the very most. Unfortunately, N3 is little more than just another hack and slash game... and 
 not one of the best either. The visuals are nice... but everything else just fails to impress. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CassiusVII
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 21, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Some people say that there is a bad story line. Wrong its actually really intresting. Some people 
 say that there are no checkpoints so thats bad. Well the missions are short... If your that bad 
 that you cant get half way through a mission on this game then obviously it isnt for you.
  
  Gameplay- Good. Its fun, there are so many cool combos to pick from when destroying the enemy. 
 Having 6 or 7 ... however many main characters there are, by your side is awesome. It makes it 
 much easier when most of your infantry is already dead. It is hard though. Once you get advanced 
 into the final levels of the characters story line, you will find yourself starting over many missions 
 until you become satisfied with a C completion. Its acheivements arent the easiest either. The 
 game isn't as bad as some people say though. 
  
  Graphics - Superb! Next to Oblivions, they are the best graphics for the 360 so far. The cut scenes 
 are just amazingly good. The graphics put into the combos you do and the dead characters laying 
 around after you dominate them is awesome. 
  
  Sound - Mediocre. The sound is there and good, but in some of the voice acting you can really tell 
 that this game is Japenese. The person will say hi what is our next move... but their lips will 
 move for like a paragraph of words. The music is all right and the affects are fair. The sound 
 is def. the worst part of this game IMO.
  
  Value - Good. The game is very long and worth the buy. You also have the choice between 6 or 7 
 characters story lines so it makes the game even longer. Obviously there is no online play, but 
 the game is def. worth it.
  
  This game is underappreciated and should get some more attention. Its not a bad game, its not Abysmal... 
 the game is worth a buy, seeing how you cant finish it in the amount of money you spend on renting 
 it compared to if you bought it. 7.7 - 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer2407
Rating: 3.1
Date: Aug 21, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  this game needs alot of work the hype wasnt worth it. there arent any save points meaning you play 
 the level and die at the boss and you start all over again... lame. graphics, sound, gameplay all 
 lame. I mean come on guys you are working with next gen consoles now lets act like it. Its almost 
 like they just threw a game together and said now lets make some money out of this. If you looking 
 for an action rpg or something in this gaming catergory pick up dynasty warriors. At least its 
 a cheaper buy. Sum it the game blows chunks on my scale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donalbane
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  Ninety Nine Nights is an action game in the spirit of Dynasty Warriors and Kindom Under Fire which 
 tasks players with killing hundreds upon hundreds of enemy soldiers using powerful melee combos 
 and ancillary support from backup soldiers. The degree to which gamers enjoy repeatedly killing 
 large groups of enemies with increasingly stylistic and powerful moves will determine their enjoyment 
 of this title, as it offers little else in the way of gameplay alternatives. There are some mild 
 strategic elements with regard to selection and application of support troop types, but the strategy 
 definately takes a back burner to the more immediate focus on your character, and their ability 
 to kill with maximum efficiency and style. 
  
  Games of this sort are all about conveying a sense of power, and to it's credit, N3 conveys this 
 feeling of raw killing energy better than any other game in the genre has before. Initially your 
 characters will start off with a dozen or so tiny comination moves that are effective against only 
 small groups of enemies. As they progress by cutting swaths through wave after wave of soldiers, 
 characters level up, granting them new abilities or longer versions of existing combos. These longer 
 moves however come at a price and often make the character vulnerable for a moment, so one can't 
 just repeat the same uber-powerfull sequence of attacks repeatedly. The various combos all have 
 an appropriate context, and part of the thrill of N3 is reading the battlefield and pulling off 
 the appropriate combo.
  
  Items are scattered around the game space which either recover the player's health and orb energy 
 or alter their offensive and defensive statistics. There are some problems with the games handling 
 of item dispersement which I will discuss momentarily, but overall finding a new sword or piece 
 of armor is helpful and give the game an added layer of customization. Oddly there are items which 
 actually lower your stats and provide no bonuses whatsoever. An odd design choice, but one that 
 is easily ignored.
  
  Players choose between taking 2 units consisting of infantry, heavy infantry, pikemen, or archers 
 at the onset of each battle. However, these allies merely tie up your foes so that you can kill 
 them more slowly, and aren't really necessary from an offensive perspective. Rudimentary orders 
 can be given like "Stay Here," "Defend Me" and "Attack, but really this aspect of the game feels 
 like an afterthought, and no real strategy is required. True, certain troops will survive longer 
 against particular enemies than others will, but since it's impossible to predict what kind of 
 enemy forces you will encounter on the 1st playthrough of a level, it's basically a crap shoot 
 as to weather or not you chose the right men for the job. You can just leave the army in "Attack" 
 mode the entire game and forget about them. On the other hand, Kingdom Under Fire had a more robust 
 troop control scheme, but it was at times too much for players to contend with in the heat of battle. 
 Perhaps a balance between the 2 games approaches to troop controls would be the best way for future 
 games to go. 
  
  The majority of attacks are controlled with 2 face buttons, but there is a surprising amount of 
 depth to the combinations these 2 buttons afford, particularly at the higher levels. Gameplay almost 
 feels a lot like Soul Calibur, where one button controls vertical attacks and the other controls 
 horizontal swipes. Fallen foes drop red orb energy which build up in a meter. When filled, characters 
 can unleash their spark energy super moves which last a limited amount of time but absolutely devestate 
 opponents. Enemies who are killed during this release of spark energy drop blue orbs, which in 
 turn fill up yet another blue meter. By activating this blue spark energy, players can essentially 
 kill all enemies within a large area instantly. 
  
  Although games of this sort are often critisized for being repetetive button mashers, N3 sidesteps 
 this pitfall by providing players the incentive to level up and unlock new combination moves, thereby 
 making them more effective battlefield killing machines. Were it not for this ability to grow deadlier 
 with expeiene (not to mention the ability to do it with all 7 characters) , N3 would be monotonous 
 and unrewarding. However, the variety of combinations that a player can earn are more numerous 
 and spectacular than previous Dynasty Warriors-style games have ever presented, and it's the variety 
 that ultimately helps N3 rise above it's Dynasty Warriors roots.
  
  Controls are responsive and percise, but never frustrating. A player can easily vary their combos 
 in an intuitive fashion based on the ever-changing state of the battlefield. Eventually the player 
 gains so many moves that it would be daunting to memorize them all were they available from the 
 onset of the game. However, because the new moves are parsed out so gradually, there is a rewarding 
 sense of accomplishment and character growth as the players level up and learn the half dozen or 
 so more powerful combos they have just earned. 
  
  The number of possible attacks offered to players is a welcome change from the limited move-sets 
 of earlier military hack and slash games, and makes Ninety Nine Nights a more goal-oriented affair. 
 In addition, there are a total of 7 playable charachters, so there are plenty of combinations to 
 unlock in N3. All of the different players combos are variations along a common theme, though, 
 so once players grasp the basic philosophy of play with one character they will be able to easily 
 transfer that knowledge to the other player-characters.
  
  The story is told from numerous perspectives. For example, a single battle will be told from the 
 perspective of every main character involved on both sides of the war. It is somewhat interesting 
 to see so many different aspects of a single battle, but at the same time most players would have 
 appreciated some new battlefields to explore with the games numerous playable characters.
  
  The narrative elements are not the strong suit of N3, althought the story isn't terrible, it's 
 not the reason for playing the game. The cutscenes are generally very attractive, but lip-syncing 
 is quite poor, and localization efforts could have been much better regarding dialogue translations. 
 The quality of acting is serviceable, but not outstanding. A final gripe regarding N3's cutscenes: 
 there is an annoying design flaw in which the movies interrupt the players hard-won spark attacks 
 anytime they unlease their orbs just before an unpredictable triggered cutscene. Not a game-breaker, 
 but obnoxious nontheless.
  
  There are some other notable problems with the game, most of which center around how the game drops 
 special items. When the player defeats a tough boss character for example, the reward items like 
 bonus XP and more powerful weapons are only available for a few brief seconds, and if the player 
 can't pick them all up by the time the cutscene loads, the items are lost to the ages. 
  
  Compounding this frustration, the game will occasionally drop a powerful item outside of the boundries 
 of the playable area, making it impossible to pick up. Item drops are random, and all maps are 
 replayable, so it's not as though one can't go back through parts of the game in order to gain 
 better equipment, but the developers should have made sure players get their rewards after a single 
 playthrough of a given level. 
  
  Another popular complaint of the game is the lack of an in-mission save system, which the developers 
 claim was an intentional choice to promote a sense of tension. In practice the save system is not 
 actiually a significant impedament to the action, and the design choice actually seems to work 
 in Ninety Nine Nights' favor. When you are on the final boss fight of a given level, and you only 
 have a few pixels worth of health remaining, the ensuing drama is palpable as you alternate between 
 defending and attacking. 
  
  So although N3 is not a narrative powerhouse, it does offer up some of the most visceral action 
 available on the Xbox 360 to date. Although the pleasure to be had from mowing down army after 
 army may not be enough for everyone, fans of straight-up action who appreciate tight controls, 
 high production values, amazing graphics, and well paced character progression could do much worse 
 on Microsoft's new console. Fans of Kindgom Under Fire or Dynasty Warriors will be pleasantly surprised 
 at the improvements found in Ninety Nine Nights. As mentioned earlier though, newcomers to the 
 genre will like the game to the degree that they will enjoy the making their characters increasingly 
 more powerful over time. The battles are all the same, essentially... it's the player-character 
 that improves as the game progresses, and capitalizing on these improvements is at the core of 
 N3's fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grnrogue
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 21, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  I used to respect a reviewers opinion, not so much anymore. You give Dynasty Warriors a 7.1 & N3 
 a 5.9? come on people, I couldn't even play DW for more than 10 minutes. Yes I agree, N3 is not 
 perfect but it is a fun, beautiful game. Some game reviews are dead on but this one missed the 
 mark. I understand it is an opinion but how can you rate DW higher than N3? 
  Enough complaining. This game is a great value @ the $49.99 price mark. Some of the graphics are 
 the best I have seen & the controls are tight. The voice actors do need work & the music is okay 
 (I was to tuned into the gameplay to worry about music) . I dowish there was multiplayer support 
 but not all games are meant to be shared with others. Remember, these are all opinions, find one 
 that closely matches your own and decide from their. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meshymack
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is a simple and easy slashing game! All you need to do is go through the tutorial once 
 and your so ready to rock the game crazy!
  
  Graphics and sounds in the game are damn cool except for the massive of goblins (1000s of goblins) 
 that covers your screen, letting ya vision of your own character being hidden, can be abit irritating. 
 Then again, you can basically just slash ya way through the armies of goblins to be visible to 
 your eyes! Yeah! Sounds are not very fantastic so dont go with high expectation.
  
  The gameplay is simple, play with each characters with a different short story behind them, but 
 you have to unlock them by completing another character's story. You could gain levels and unlock 
 more slashing combos or you could collect items to pump up your stats and go hunt down the goblins 
 arse!
  
  This game rocks in a way like what you have been wanting to do. You going down the war field alone, 
 facing massive goblins, trolls, dragons, where you could use all ya mights to take them down with 
 what you have in ya hands! 
  
  Just imagine, LOTR where human and elves merge to face off the goblins and when you look at it, 
 you wish you could take them out by yourself... NOW! you are given a chance to do that by yourself 
 in this game! So.. you judge if its worth the play anot? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 20, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Well, let's see..... This game is the millionth hack n' slash endless game that we gamers have seen. 
 But that doesn't mean it's bad. The grahpics are great. The gameplay is too reppetitive. We've 
 played alot of these games, and every mission is almost the same. But, it lets you choose what 
 kinds of infantry you want and what area of the battlefield you want to put them in. Also, the 
 special moves ROCK. Seeing them upclose in slow motion is what we want. The characters are very 
 well-made too. Overall, if you haven't experienced non stop action war games, then buy it. But 
 if you just want to try it, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  N3's biggest fault was simply not upping the difficulty enough so that gamers were forced to take 
 more advantage of some of the more beautiful combos the game offers. While you can get by only 
 mashing the X or Y buttons, it's when you start using all the different combos and stringing them 
 together for a 1,000+ hit combo that the games starts to shine. 
  
  If N3 would have made using the more complex combo stringing a necessity to beat the levels I think 
 ppl would have gotten a lot more out of this game.
  
  That being said, the game does suffer from the occasional slow down when the screen is overflowing 
 w/ enemies and you start using your special moves at the same time. Although this almost makes 
 for a cool slow-mo cinema of all the destruction.... for me at least.
  
  Also, it must be said that most of today's gamers are not patient enough to start an hour long 
 mission over from the beggining after dying at the final boss and thus I think N3 should have had 
 at least one or two checkpoints per mission. Since they made the difficulty a little light for 
 the casuals why not give them check points as well? 
  
  Finally, I'll just say that many of the unlockable characters are fun to play around with and the 
 combos are really fun if you know how to take real advantage of them.
  
  Is the game good? That simply depends on whether or not you are wiling to take the time to learn 
 all the combos and learn how to use them wisely.
  
  I've had a pretty good time with N3 and while I only rented it, I could see it being worth $50 
 for any hack'n slash fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jking98
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 20, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is so much fun, I dont see nothing bad about the game. I been playing it so much 
 cause I just love going into the big battles and kills tons of emenys and with all the combos its 
 alot of fun. So far in the game I beat it with imphy and now on working on beating it with her 
 so called brother lol, but the music in the game is awsome. And the game never gets borning to 
 me always something going on to keep you entertained. I think alot of people out there are way 
 to picky when it comes to games and they always say a game is short well no game really ever seems 
 that short when I go through and beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juztin
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  At first glance you see Gamespot, IGN, EGM, ect. giving this game low scores, around the 5.5-6.5 
 area. This may be misleading. The problem with dedicated reviewers is that they look too far into 
 it. This game IS a hack and slash, therefor you can't take off points because there's only standard 
 and power attacks, this is expected. Anyway, to the review.
  
  Gameplay:
  N3 delivers. There are hundreds of characters on screen at once, you can destroy a few environments, 
 you get combos as you level, more items and weapons and it's fun and easy. The gameplay is simple; 
 you gain levels, you get more flashy combos, you destroy hundreds of enemies at once, it's a real 
 hoot. 
  
  The story is actually really good, BUT, the game doesn't tend to go along with the point of the 
 war, just the fact that it's going on. Everyone seems to have thier own little vendettas and such 
 which is kind of disheartening because I'd rather have seen the big picture conclude, not just 
 someone's revenge. That being said... the big picture does not conclude which leads me to believe 
 they're aiming for a sequel.
  
  There is also an orb system which is pretty much like the musou gauge in Dynasty Warriors. You 
 fill it up and then you're able to unleash a devistationg combo. Well it goes double in this game, 
 normally you aquire red orbs, but when you do this doing your "orb attack" you get blue ones that 
 fill a second guauge. When the second is full, you can unleash an amazing, what I like to call 
 "Genocide Attack" which destroys practically all enemies on screen, save the bosses, but it takes 
 a hefty chunk out of thier HP. 
  
  Speaking of bosses, though they are few, they are pretty tough. It is true they can bring you to 
 near death in one combo, but they're pretty simple to avoid. Some bosses you can basically just 
 be relentless in your assault and you'll take them out with out them even attacking you, simple. 
 
  
  Now to the guards. Yeah they're pretty useless save for being a distraction, but I mean... who 
 wants the guards killing everything anyway? I didn't buy the game to watch the cpu fight each other, 
 I bought it to kick some serious goblin butt. You can select from about 4 types of guards and in-game 
 you can sort-of control them. Just basically to guard you are attack whatever moves. You'll find 
 it out takes them forever and a day to kill 1 stray goblin as they pass. Just keep them on you, 
 or send them to thier doom so they don't block your view haha.
  
  Slowdown. It's not extremely often, but it happens. Usually it's when there's just an enourmous 
 amount of enemies and npc's and bosses and allies and such on screen. Sometimes it's when you're 
 doing one of those flashy orb attacks and destroying pieces of the environment while swiping through 
 hordes of enemies. Yeah it's disheartening, but it didn't KILL the gameplay for me, when you play 
 WoW w/ a 1.67 ghz proc. you understand that these things happen. That being said, it doesn't really 
 kill the gameplay, just kinda frustrates you.
  
  Graphics:
  At first look at the in-game cutscenes you may be disinclined to say the graphics are nice. Understandible. 
 But you have to think there are hundreds of characters on-screen at once, they can't all look perty. 
 This being said, they all do look better than playstation 2 graphics, but maybe less up to par 
 with the high profile 360 games.
  
  The combos and special attacks, however, look beautiful. Even if they aren't very effective or 
 what not, they still look pretty damn cool when you pull them off to impress your friends *wink*.
 
  
  Sound:
  I, for one, love the music. I think it's amazing :) . I enjoy the soundtrack. Also, something overlooked, 
 yet unimportant: The music pretty much stops or slows down when you're out of combat and starts 
 back when you get back in combat... I don't know, thought it was a pretty nice touch.
  
  The actual sound effects, however, do get a tad repetive and using Myefee's orb attack and such 
 don't much sound like explosions as they do just pulses of static when the radio is too high.
 
  
  Voice acting. Um yeah.. it doesn't SUCK, it's the syncing that sucks. But it's just like any dubbed 
 movie, either it REALLY bothers you, or you just don't care. Preference, and I for one, don't care.
 
  
  Value:
  This IS a nice value, the title is only $50. I mean... c'mon, in a world where very crappy 360 
 games are $60, you get a GOOD title for $50, gotta love it.
  
  Closing:
  In all, the game IS worth the $$$ if you don't mind its downfalls. True the game could have been 
 better with more playable characters, but it manages to deliver a good game with only 7. If you 
 like Dynasty Warriors or just mass action games in general, this is a good game to add to your 
 collection, and when in doubt, just rent. It's def. worth a rent and to most should be worth the 
 purchase. I hope you enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josephianpsf
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 20, 2006 2:17 am PT
Review:  Well, even though Gamespot gives it a low review, I think that this game in my honest opinion, 
 deserves at least a 7. 
  
  Sure, the gameplay is repetitive after awhile, just running around looking for things to kill, 
 and the save system (practically non-existent damnit!) as well as the annoying lack of health potions... 
 
  
  But that doesn't mean that this game deserves to be kicked into the gutter. N3 fulfils everybody's 
 fantasies of being a powerful warrior in a fantastical world with orcs and little toadmen to beat 
 up on. C'mon! Who hasn't had those daydreams...? 
  
  After a long day's work, I come back and switch on my 360. Tired, angry and stressed - all these 
 feelings are replaced with the sense of power and control I get as I slash my way through the multitude 
 hordes of annoying grunts. 
  
  While it may not be the 230403400413h epic adventure you might want, it certainly is worth a look 
 if you're a fan of dynasty warriors or enjoy feeling powerful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryke89
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 19, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  when I played the demo for this game I hated it. I love dynasty warriors and have owned 4, 4xl, 
 4 empires, and currently own 5 empires. The demo just felt like they added a lot of enemies and 
 forgot to make your character powerful enough to compensate. 
  The full version though is great. There are some noticeable flaws though. My main gripe was that 
 while the normal infantry types are easy shamans, wizards, and bosses can wipe you out in a few 
 hits and it's a bit hard to avoid the wizards and shamans attacks. For instances the armies of 
 night can take away a good chunk of health yet you need to fight a good 20+ at once. Some bosses 
 like tea tea in myifee's second mission or oddly amazingly gobsmackingly powerful and can stand 
 tons of punishment. also trying to hit some of these boss characters or trolls can be a bit hard.
 
  The story is well what you expect from mediocre anime and each character's story doesn't flow 
 with the others.
  The sound is good overall and I personally enjoyed some of the tracks. The vo's suck most of the 
 time but at least you get them.
  The graphics are pretty good and the fact that you can see 100+ enemies on screen is amazing.
 
  
  Now I'm done with the bad and average here is the good. The immersion is great battles like the 
 phoyla flatlands are astounding. The rpg features are well implemented and the way you gain new 
 attacks and extended combos adds a lot of depth although i felt that I was using the same button 
 combo with the first 3 characters because it was the best crowd clearer, but this is a huge step 
 for dynasty warriors combat system. The orb attacks are insane and very fun to use nothing like 
 summoning a meteor shower on your enemies.
  
  Overall I think you can't experience this game in the first mission or two and I recommend that 
 people give this game a serious try although much like dynasty warriors some will hate it and others 
 will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasc389
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 19, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I dont know what it is, but something about hacking and slashing millions of little goblins all 
 at one time can be one of the funnest things ever. When i first popped this game in i was alittle 
 suprised on the graphics and the gameplay.
  
  Graphics- suprisingly good for the type of game, look excellent on a hdtv.
  
  Gameplay- amazing, 
 i love the thought of hacking everyone on the screen, and some of the orb attacks are pretty sweet.
 
  
  Sound- well the sound when in battle is decent, but the voice over for the characters is horrible. 
 They should have tried something different to atleast change the way it looked when they talked.
 
  
  Learning curve- i put about up to 30 minutes, but there is so many attacks you gain level by level 
 therefore it could take hours or even days.
  
  Overall this game is suprisingly good and i think a definite buy for the xbox 360. If not that, 
 than a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halomaster1211
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Sure. You may have already read reviews that flames N3, but no one can fully enjoy or understand 
 how addicting N3: Ninety-Nine Nights can be until they fully play it.
  The game goes back to old-school hack-and-slash format, allowing older gamers to be at home with 
 the game. Basically, you can hack your way through countless opponents, decimating each and everyone 
 of those orcs. Also, N3 gives gamers the chance to literally decimate hundreds of opponents at 
 the same time and clocking up to over 1000-hit combos [my best is 1567!] . With it's fast pace gameplay, 
 you'll have to decimate the orcs faster than they can even hit you, making you sweat as you rapidly 
 mash all the buttons together. Chaining various buttons allow you to hit combos that look REALLY 
 impressive and cool, although they don't really do much difference than your character's normal 
 4 or 5 hit combo. But who cares? Looks cool enough for most gamers.
  The A. I doesn't really help very much though. Although they cover your butt most of the time, they 
 tend to get killed easily in major boss battles [I'm not a very good strategist] . Pressing the 
 D-pad would allow you to command them, and pressing the right command at the right time would allow 
 you to command them well. Apart from that, the gameplay isn't very much different from other games 
 of this genre, leaving you craving for something different and revolutionary
  The graphics are the best that I've seen so far for this genre. Every single thing is all done 
 nicely to the final detail. Add the latest HDTV LCD TV and the effect is stunning. The audio may 
 be forgettable, but it allows you to add in your own soundtrack, so you can decimate enemies to 
 the tune of Jay-Z or Green Day [at least for the NTSC/J version we have in Singapore] .
  I've been told that the story line is interesting, but the game fails to truly bring it out very 
 well. But who really cares when you are having fun killing off thousands of orcs with one swipe 
 of your blade? 
  My biggest complaint is that for an XBox game, it has NO XBox Live features. You can't show off 
 your elite Orc-slaying skills over Live, neither can you play co-op. It would be fun to slay Orcs 
 with a friend, but not even single player can do that.
  Despite what others say about the game, N3: Ninety-Nine Nights is worth the money you pay for it. 
 It's a pity that this game had so much potential, but falls very short of it's full potential 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeEveryGamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 18, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Now I'm not going to sit here and just say "It Rocks!!" or "It's trash!!" as a lot of others are 
 happy to do, so for your reading pleasure, here is an unbiased breakdown of how I scored the game.
 
  
  Game play: I've played Spartan: Total Warrior, Gauntlet Legends, Dynasty Warriors, and a slew of 
 other Hack and Slash Games. They all have extremely repetitive game play, being that the entire 
 point of the game is to kill wave after wave of enemies. If killing as many enemies as you can 
 is not something you would find interesting I have no idea why you would be looking into this genre.
 
  
  Pros: In N3 you get to cut away at thousands of baddies per level and look exceedingly cool while 
 you're at it. The controls for each character are easy enough to learn, the combos get more elaborate 
 and more powerful as you advance in level, and they are really not hard to pull off at all. If 
 you can't easily pull off more than beginner combos for the entire length of the game, then frankly 
 you are just bad at it. The boss battles are no different from boss battles in other games, you 
 dodge around a while, wait for them to expose themselves, and then mercilessly exploit their weak 
 point.
  
  You also have access to several equipable items and weapons that will aid you in your quest, raising 
 your defensive or offensive power, or just helping you in another way. Think of these as the accessories 
 you would be able to equip on a character in any RPG, because they are exactly the same.
  
  Cons: Ok, I love the game, but the story? Ugh. While the main characters are all quite likeable, 
 at first I was turned off immediately by horrible scripting. It was as if they looked at the finished 
 game, decided it was awesome, and then when they remembered that someone had to write English dialogue 
 they said "To hell with it." and let the Pizza delivery guy write it. Yes, in some places it is 
 frankly that bad. What makes it worse is that the story was original "enough" to be quite good, 
 but it's like the creators didn't care. If you're lucky, you'll be drawn into the story the way 
 I was. If you aren't, well there is still the great action and you can just skip the cut scenes.
 
  
  Who Cares: About the AI? Really, it's a Hack and Slash, you're supposed to be using your guards 
 as a distraction for bosses and a buffer between yourself and a thousand enemies that want to kill 
 you. As far as the enemies go they aren't the smartest in the genre (probably Spartan TW) , but 
 they aren't the dumbest either (Gauntlet Legends hands down) . All they really need to do is attack 
 you and not run around in small circles doing nothing. Saving? The levels are really not long or 
 difficult enough to warrant any sort of check point, which would make the game ridiculously easy. 
 I had a hard time using the female lead during a level where I had to fight two bosses and a slew 
 of enemies back to back, but I beat it the third time through with clever use of my accessories 
 and skills. How you attack and what you equip in certain situations is where the actual strategy 
 takes place.
  
  Scoring: 9, because, despite its failings in the story, the game lets you do exactly what you bought 
 it for, kick serious behind.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Pros: The playable characters just speak for themselves, you can see a demo on this sight, and 
 they are gorgeous. On that note, all the characters look very nice, including the enemies. The 
 special attacks are also top notch, you've got great visuals happening every few minutes.
  
  Cons: In the biggest fights, when you have literally hundreds on screen at once, you are almost 
 guaranteed to slow the game down a bit if you use a special move. The slow-down generally lasts 
 between 2 and 5 seconds, but it really doesn't take away from the game.
  
  What do you mean: Attack of the Clones? Have you ever played a Hack and Slash? If you have you 
 will know that there are a handful of enemy types and that everyone in that type is a carbon copy 
 of everyone else. Were some people expecting a thousand variations in each enemy type? Did they 
 buy the game expecting God to descend from the Heavens and say "Wow that game is sweet! I have 
 next"? I don't know what they expected, but I know they wouldn't find it in a H & S.
  
  And the backgrounds? They aren't anything to write home about, Picasso didn't paint any masterpieces 
 in this one, but they're still good. Not fantastic by any stretch, but not bad in any way.
  
  Score: 9, Lag is negligible as it is extremely infrequent, and this game is just so pretty.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  Pros: The music in N3 plays whenever you fight enemies, adjusting the volume automatically in direct 
 proportion to how much action is going on. The quality of the tracks is entirely based on your 
 opinion. Here you have epic sounding Orchestra pieces, which are think are amazing especially since 
 they match the "feel" of the level extremely well. But if you were expecting, I don't know, intense 
 Rock music instead, you're going to be horribly disappointed. But hey, you do have that custom 
 soundtrack.
  
  Cons: In the really big fights, when your every swing is hitting between 10 and 20 enemies, the 
 impact sounds for some of these enemies will be slightly off, a bit under a second it seems. Now 
 in the heat of battle, I don't personally care if the sound of me killing nameless enemy number 
 746 is minutely off from what it should be, but it is a flaw and I'm obligated to point it out.
 
  
  Score: 9, wonderful sound and music, minus one point for a minor flaw.
  
  Value:
  
  Definitely worth the money for any fan of the genre. The game caters exclusively to genre fans 
 though. So if H&S isn't your kind of thing rent this before you buy, so you don't wind up $50 poorer 
 with a game that you hate with the burning fire of a thousand suns.
  
  Plenty of replay value whether you want to relive your favorite levels with your favorite characters, 
 test your skills by shooting for S rankings across the board, or if you just want to show off by 
 attaining all the awards.
  
  As an aside: N3 stole its map directly from Tenchu. The entire way it is set up. They even have 
 a sharp object pointing out your destination (in Tenchu it was a Kunai, in N3 it is a sword) . If 
 you look very closely at the N3 map you can see where they crossed out the old names and just wrote 
 new ones.
  
  Score: 10, the game is hours stacked on hours of fun.
  
  Overall Score: 9.5, partly due to a reviewer tilt of 10, since I personally like the game a great 
 deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxslainxx
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Don't let people discourage you, this game isn't all that everyone thought it would be. However, 
 it is still a good fun hack and slash button masher with great graphics and a good (but hard to 
 get/understand) story. 
  
  Every playable character experiences,, and levels up, and learns new moves/combos. Which makes 
 it somewhat re-playable. There are not as many characters as you would hope for, nor is there a 
 custom/create character option (like it's counterpart Dynasty Warriors) . Every character is however 
 unique and different and fun to play with. The game basically varies by which character you choose, 
 and you see the war/story through that characters perspective, you can use an enemy character as 
 well, and view the war through the other side's perspective, which is unique.
  
  Every character's lvl (level) max is lvl 9, which can be reached pretty easy with all characters, 
 and every character has an average of around 5 stages (some go as low as 3 and the highest being 
 6)
  
  All in all this game is a short, but fun game. To me and most core gamers, we know a game is about 
 quality not quantity, and this game has great graphics, a good story, and great music (although 
 poor voice overs) .
  
  The point of me writing this review is to give gamers a second opinion, i feel that the gamespot 
 review, discourages gamers to turn there heads to N3, but it's definitely worth checking out.
 
  
  ENJOY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xjet039
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 18, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  UNLESS you dont like checkpoints and dont mind doing a level over after 30 minutes if you dont 
 beat a boss first time round and another thing the bosses are able to get cheap shots off you and 
 most off the time you arent even able to hit it i should have saved my money. YOU should rent this 
 game because its just not worth 50 bucks and im happy no one in japan bought this because its just 
 not worth it . When i played the demo it didnt seem hard but dont judge a book by its cover.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mainboard007
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 18, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  I need to point out a quick personal commentary before I dive into the review.
  
  I do not like Basketball games, NBA Street, or any other NBA game save for the first coin op, arcade 
 NBA Jam machine. Because of this I do not think NBA 2k7, EA NBA (whatever its called) , or any other 
 NBA game will convince me to give it a real chance. So I do not care if NBA (whichever) received 
 a 9.8 or a 4.1, neither affects me.
  
  I urge everyone to please be a mature gamer and try to learn the types of games you enjoy. If a 
 game gets a terrific or poor review, seriously look at the content and type of games you enjoy 
 before saying it is a must own title or one to avoid. Todays reviews and usually the reviewer, 
 do not reflect genuine interest in the subject matter or game. If you the reader do not like dramatic 
 movies, then you are not likely to watch them. The dramatic genre is not something you would ever 
 pick up or even sit through.
  
  The same approach needs to be made with video games. You will have much more satisfaction in your 
 gaming experience and its a safe bet you will never buy a horrible game again. This is not always 
 the rule, as there are exceptions to any situation. But learning this you will better able to see 
 these exceptions rather than doing the hit or miss buying policy most people have today.
  
  I am pointing this out because this is my personal philosophy on games. This will show in any and 
 all of my reviews that you might read, including this one. On to the review.
  
  Review
  
  I will keep it very simple. I loved Streets of Rage, Golden Axe, Robotron, Double Dragon, and 
 Final Fight. I also have enjoyed the Kingdom Under Fire series from Phantagram. If you have any 
 problem playing any of these older mentioned games but like KUF, you might like this game, rent 
 it and see.
  
  If you disliked any of the older games and did not like the visual style of the KUF series, pass 
 on this game, it is NOT your type of game. Please do not review N3, post comments on it, or waste 
 our time. This is a beat them up action game, which no ones seems to understand. It is not a strategy 
 title, I mention KUF because it looks visually similar. That and every Phantagram game I have played 
 I have really enjoyed.
  
  You will play as a hero for light or dark killing thousands of enemies every mission. You will 
 advance in level and gain items which you can equip. Also, you will learn combo moves, the higher 
 your level the more advanced and bigger the attack. These are not like combos like in DoA or Tekken. 
 These are attacks that will be more useful in some situations and less in others. They are called 
 combos because they requite a combination of button presses to complete the attack.
  
  There are also guards that you will have in the mission to aid you. These thankfully do not take 
 away from the action, as they are there for your defense. They basically act as a buffer against 
 enemy troops. Each type of unit it will be more effective versus another type (s) of unit. But their 
 main purpose is to delay the enemy long enough so you can take care of them. Archers are great 
 against enemy spellcasters for an example. They will not kill them, thats your job, but they do 
 distract them. This will keep them from targeting you or your other guards, which helps alot. Lastly, 
 you can have them attack or defend. This tells them to either advance on any enemy in range or 
 stay close to you and engage the enemy when they are close to you.
  
  There is a ton of button mashing, but thats why I love it. Final fight was nothing more than an 
 exercise in the furious tapping of buttons, N3 has the same quality. The save system allows you 
 to save after every mission, which I have no problem with. It only takes at most 20 mins to finish 
 a mission. It will take longer if you try and grab all of the chests on the map, but going straight 
 through its not long.
  
  I love the graphics, sound, and voice acting. I understand there are those who do not care for 
 the voice acting. I grew up watching badly dubbed anime in the early 80s, in comparison N3s is 
 great. The 5.1 is good and seeing thousands of enemies on the screen gives me goose bumps.
  
  If I had one complaint, there is not enough T&A.
  
  Here is my breakdown.
  
  Fun (How 
 much fun am I having) : I feel like I am back in the good old days of games. In other words, so 
 much fun its almost sinful.
  
  Graphics (As relates to how well they help or enhance the game) : Amazing stuff, kudos to Phantagram 
 and Q.
  
  Sound (How well does the sound help the game) : The Dolby 5.1 good. The music is powerful and very 
 fitting.
  
  Longevity (How long is it and will I play it more than once. Including Multi player) : A healthy 
 amount, though I am not sure how long after I 100% the achievements I will play it if at all. No 
 multiplayer is a bummer.
  
  BS Curve (How much bad hype, comments, and reviews have I heard of or read and agree with) : Its 
 way out there and I agree with none of it. People need to learn what game they are getting into 
 before making speculation and comments.
  
  Gamer Target (Who this game is best suited for) : Double Dragon & Streets of Rage fans who love 
 fantasy. Anyone looking to slaughter thousands with impunity. Old school beat em up fans.
  
  Similar games: Golden Axe. Kingdom Under Fire/Dynasty Warriors but minus the strategy. Robotron.
 
  
  Final Grade: A wonderful action game with polish and gloss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benjy117
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 17, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first of its kind on the 360. I was stunned to see how many characters that were 
 on the screen at once. I didn't see any of the slow paced gameplay at all, even with a couple of 
 hundred on the screen at once. I wil admit I thought the game would have better graphics but it 
 was managed very well (what did you expect oblivion?) . The english in the game was not acted out 
 very well. The game was sold out at my local game store. I will be buying it very soon.
  
  If you haven't allready downloaded the demo, do so. I promise you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bert7
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 17, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played this game I was like thats pretty cool. I mean yeah thie game is no Ninja 
 Gaiden, but its just plain fun. The difficulty is not that bad, pretty easy if you have played 
 Dynansty Warriors or Samurai Warriors. The learning curve was very fast, just push buttons. The 
 AI is okay, I have seen better. The thing that will blow you away is how many eniemies on screen. 
 Oh and its also pretty cool to know that you're special can iradicate 2000 goblins all at once. 
 As far as the story goes, its like a million times better than DW one, boy the DW's story is always 
 the same, or so. I would recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of hack n slash. I think its 
 fun, I will be buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinty69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 17, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  This game was everything I thought it would be. A beautiful hack n slash with lots of people on 
 screen and awesome graphics! I don't understand all these other people dogging on this game! Im 
 a very casual gamer and I knew what I was getting into. The price is 10 dollars cheaper than most 
 360 games so thats a big plus in my book. Im not one who cares about story lines in games, so I 
 could care less about this one. I play games for fun and I had a great time with this game. I heard 
 complaints about slow down in the game and I have seen Zero slow down during game play. I like 
 the Rpg elements in the game, it helps the pace if learning the combos. I also like how each character 
 is very different in appearance and abilities. If I had to complain about 1 thing, I agree that 
 the saving system is outdated, but I can get over that because it makes the game a little bit harder 
 and I like a little challenge. Overall I was very impressed with this game and I highly recommend 
 this game to anyone who likes hack n slash games with hundreds of people on screen and multiple 
 characters that have their own story line (like I said, I don't care about the story line, and what 
 I as a gamer recognize is that the stages are different than other character stages) and missions. 
 Go buy and support this game because I would like to see a follow up to this game and many more 
 ports from Japan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSTi5
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Basically, critics hate hack and slash games. Some people love them, some people hate them, but 
 most critics, unfortunately, hate them. This is definately one of the most fun hack and slash games 
 I've ever played, and if you actually like this genre, then you should try it. But if you're not 
 a fan of it, you should try it anyway. With amazing combos, and lots of cool upgrades, it puts 
 some variety in to keep you from getting bored. And don't forget the screen slearing specials, 
 oooh do they taste good with pie, YUM! *ahem* Anyway, the graphics are also really awesome. It 
 has a great, kinda foreboding style that feels warlike, and they complained too much about the 
 distance blur. Just a wonderful game, its of of those games that just make you giggle (and occasionally 
 crack up and pee your pants with glee) when you wipe out an entire screen full of enemies in one 
 big blast of light, or fire, or water, or whatever. The problems that I see with it are that you 
 get nothing with most characters for gaining the last two levels, and that there are no checkpoints 
 in the middle of stages, and some of them can get really long. It's a still very fun game though 
 despite these flaws, and you should give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blkgto
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 17, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Many people are saying N3 sucks, its not worth it, yadda yadda yadda. Truth is, if you are into 
 old school hack n' slash of any type, are a fan of dynasty warriors, or a fan of kingdom under 
 fire then there is no question about it: this is your title. 
  
  N3 is exactly what I expected it to be. Yes, it is a simplistic button mashing beat em up, and 
 yes it does remind me of dynasty warriors but thats a good thing. There are however some slight 
 problems but there is also a lot of positive things that make this game a worthwhile addition to 
 anybody's collection. 
  
  Graphically N3 takes hack and slash to the next level. The weapons and armor glint in the sun, 
 and the motions are extremely fluid. As I was playing Inphyy's campaign (the first in the game) 
 it was exactly like she was dancing through waves of enemies with her sword. She spun and twisted, 
 annihilating basically anything within a 10 foot radius around her. The special moves are very 
 cool as well as they fill your screen with colorful special effects and dazzling light displays. 
 My only qualm with the graphics other then every goblin looking the same (even a little variety 
 would have been nice) the wonderful "pea soup" that plagued oblivions draw distances is back, only 
 in N3 its a little worse. However since you are in combat most of the time you tend to forget about 
 it. It is a really short draw distance though. 
  
  As far as the sound goes, its what you would expect from an asian title. The voice acting blows. 
 Yes it is downright horrible. Yet so was Dynasty Warriors, and pretty much anyone who plays any 
 japanese / korean made game will not be fazed. 
  
  Control wise, the game handles much like you would expect. X and Y handle your basic attacks, and 
 they can be handled in any order to pull off quite a large number of combo's. The B button handles 
 your orb attack, which causes your character to move and attack quickly across a large area, decimating 
 hundreds of enemies in a matter of seconds. 
  
  Overall, this is definitely a worthwhile game to add to your collection, and if you are looking 
 for fairly easy achievements, this is the title for you. In addition to that, for the 50.00 price 
 tag, you can't pass it up. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Machiko_Mech
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I've waited for this game. I wasn't waiting for something revolutionary, nor was I looking for 
 anything that would change the definition of how I look at games. What I was waiting for was a 
 much improved cousing to Dynasty Warriors, vastly superior graphically and somewhat superior from 
 the standpoint of gameplay. I got exactly was I was expecting.
  
  Graphically it more than satisfies, especially given how many enemies are present at any given 
 time. One of the criticisms I have heard is a lack of variation in enemies. Considering that they 
 are generally in gigantic clusters, I find it to be a pointless perfectionist's criticism. Their 
 numbers would hide any variation among them. Added to the fact that you can take them down so quickly, 
 additional variation among the appearances of the foes would be both unnoteicable and entirely 
 unnecessary.
  
  The gameplay, while not particularly deep is a definite step up from Dynasty warriors, with a larger 
 number of executable attacks, though little else. Slowdown is not generally apparent, though when 
 you get much larger numbers of enemies onscreen it can become noticable.
  
  The only truly valid criticisms I have run across are as follows: the voice acting is almost universally 
 atrocious, so much so at times that I think that the gaming world would be a little better off 
 if the person or person (s) who cast the voice actors so-called should probably be out of a job. 
 The second criticism is, unfortunately the hole-ridden, unexplained, very cookie cutter-esque story. 
 Both in that you don't get a larger sense of the world's history, and that you learn very little 
 about what exactly is supposed to be motivating the characters involved. I don't mind having a 
 couple things left to the imagination, but should I have to make the story up for myself as I go 
 along?
  
  All things considered, if you enjoy the Dynasty Warrior series, chances are, you will enjoy Ninety-Nine 
 Nights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Formepheus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 17, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great pick-up-and-play game. Not too deep, it accomplishes what it was set out to 
 do. Put a lot of enemies on the screen and let you kill all of them. Good for a relaxation game. 
 Basically if you like Dead Rising with the endless and pointless killing and smashing then you'll 
 love the game, but if you looking for something deep and interesting, I suggest that you read a 
 book. If Gamespot thinks it's too shallow, why do they give sport games high ratings. There is 
 nothing more shallow than a football video game, but also a good pick-up-and-play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAMFactor
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 17, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  This game proves it's possible to have "too much of a good thing". Killing hundreds of enemies 
 is a total adrenaline rush and tremendous fun. Having to repeat levels over and over, no much needed 
 checkpoints or continues, ruins an otherwise fantastic experience.
  
  It's nice for a change to have a game that doesn't require you to memorize complex combos. However, 
 that doesn't mean the game is easy. It is completely unforgiving and demands a lot of patience 
 from the gamer as, unless you're a gaming god, will require you to repeat levels, and with each 
 repeat your fingers feel greater discomfort and it doesn't get easier.
  
  Your guards really aren't helpful. If you have other main characters with you on your mission, 
 however, they are very helpful.
  
  That being said I don't regret picking up this game. If only they had put checkpoints and continues, 
 or allow you to save mid-mission, I would have rated this game "great!" because the graphics are 
 terrific, sound is excellent, story is interesting, and clearing out huge hoards of enemies with 
 massive attacks is FUN.... until you need to repeat that same group or same boss multiple times.
 
  
  This game is good in small doses. When you need a rush, it's good to do one mission, save, and 
 then go play something else. But if you are looking for one game to commit to this would not be 
 a good choice. Playing in short bursts this game is fun. Trying to play through a whole character 
 in one shot, or a whole acheivement in one shot, is too much.
  
  I should note that the game is a great value at $50 instead of $60.
  
  I think some of the 
 formal reviews on gaming websites are a tad harsh. I think some of the reviewers have a kind of 
 elite attitude where they want a game to be complicated and require a lot of thinking and/or memorization. 
 The average person, however, like myself, wants a break from that occasionally. Sometimes I'm not 
 in the mood for that, at which time a game like this fits the bill. But only a little at a time.
 
  
  This game is a good purchase for someone who buys a lot of games and needs an occasional distraction 
 from their other, possibly more complex, games. Something they can play for a half hour or forty 
 five minutes and then turn off and play something else. In that context it's fun. But I doubt anyone 
 will be pulling any "all nighters" with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonicstriker
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  This is one of the coolest hack and slash games I have had the chance to play. I am a big fan of 
 the Dynasty Warriors series so of course I'm going to be a fan of this game. It is a lot like the 
 DW series but like a bud said its DW on crack heh. I thought it would have gotten a much better 
 review. The one this I wish this game had was the character creation ability I like to make my 
 own heroes. But the game play and the characters they give you to use are sweet and the attack 
 combos are so crazy they make up for a lot of the stuff the game is missing. I hope others like 
 it as much as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanefelix
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 16, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Well i have just purchased this game, and as of now, i am pretty satisfied with what i am getting 
 here. Obviously i would agree that there are flaws in this game, and to many people it may be big 
 flaws that prevent them from buying this. But for some people, it doesnt bother them at all, so 
 read on to see if it does, or doesn't.
  
  Gameplay: If you ever played the Dynasty Warriors series, you would know what you are getting yourself 
 into. Basically this is Dynasty Warriors with way better graphics, hotter characters and a more 
 fantasy based world. Playing this was just like playing Dynasty Warriors for the first time, but 
 with way more people. But if you have NOT play any of the Dynasty Warriors, i believe this is a 
 must-try for you. 
  
  Graphics: Amazing, i just think the style of graphics they used is very different from other games. 
 Just take a look at the screenshots. 
  
  Sound: The basic background music is always orchestral, which is very suitable for a game like 
 this where you kill thousands of enemies. So for sound, i would say that it is very good, unless 
 you don't like orchestral music, then this is where you would stay away from.
  
  Overall: So basically, theres only one thing that seperates you from buying or not buying. Personal 
 interest. So my suggestion... try the demo, if not, rent it first, unless you are a serious hack 
 n'slash fan like me, then take my previous advices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skipy0620
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2006 11:18 pm PT
Review:  This game does what it is made to do, a fantasy mass battle with non-stopping hack and slash actions. 
 Although with much repetition and a strange way of unfolding the storyline, it still packs in some 
 flashy combos, good looking characters, beautiful environments and remarkable soundtracks. In order 
 to get a clear direction of the story and its ending, you need to finish with all the characters 
 and then unlock the final stage (and yes, it is the battle with the dark lord that you see during 
 the trailer) . Clearing all stages of each character is not difficult, as you can always level up 
 by playing a stage over and over before you go into more challenging stages. There are a few surprises 
 in the game, including the last playable character. So sit back and enjoy, since you have already 
 pay the money, it is worth the patience to finish the game and tie all those loose ends back together.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icy-X
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Yeah pretty much from repeating every thing in the Gamespot review, well really my opinion, even 
 the score I give the game is exactly the same as theirs this time. Usually I rate a game a little 
 lower or little higher than Gamespot does, and some times disagree with a thing or two about what 
 they say in their review. About N3 though, they nailed it head on!
  
  Graphics are decent. Nothing really great for next gen.
  
  Gameplay, well it is a button masher 
 that is short, easy for me atleast, and has no real replay value. Atleast no replay value that 
 is any good.
  
  The voice overs suck! Audio overall just not that great.
  
  The story really generic and goes no where really. 
  
  If you just love playing these kind 
 of games, then you probably will enjoy N3. If all you like to do is mash on a couple buttons mindlessly, 
 then well what ever floats your boat. Perhaps games where you use more than two buttons are just 
 too complicated for people like yall. And that... well that is sad. If you just love the genre 
 for some reason then, then whatever. This game still sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake0457
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  BEFORE READING: This is a hack and slash game, if the concept of this genre seems boring to you, 
 don't read this, don't buy the game, don't rent the game. This game is simple and easy. Understand 
 what this game is and is trying to be before you pass any judgement. This was never meant to be 
 anything more than a 'kill everything' game.
  
  Obviously, this is the most criticized release on 360 so far. But those critics are usually 'professionals' 
 or 'hardcore' gamers who think they know everything. First off, lets start with the graphics. They 
 are nowhere near as bad as anyone says, they're actually really good. Reviewers are too caught 
 up with the fact that every enemy type looks the same, or that the textures in the environment 
 are ugly. This is somewhat true, but when you stop for a second (if you can get a second) you will 
 see how good the graphics truly are. Every one of the thousand goblins has little details, like 
 paint on their faces, symbols on the clothing, tassles on the swords etc. And the main character 
 models are extremely well done. Imphyy's semi-revealing costume has details like the shiny wings 
 and armor, and the same level of detail applies to every main character in the game. The cinematics 
 are done well also. Sound in the game is very very basic. All the weapons make the same sound when 
 they hit, and it isn't a very satisfying sound either. The voice acting is average for a game like 
 this, it isn't anywhere near as bad as Dynasty Warriors, and some of the voices actually border 
 on 'decent.' The music is all from the standard Japanese 'killstuff' collection, with rock and 
 orchestra mixes. The music fits the game well. To the gameplay, this is a hack and slash game. 
 That is it. The point of the game is to kill everything, there are no complicated puzzles to solve, 
 no complex item creation systems, no huge worlds to explore. But what N3 lacks in variety, it makes 
 up for in sheer action. The game does not stop for anything, it will keep throwing enemies at you 
 until you defeat them or run away. And to help you will get a 'squad' of soldiers at each side. 
 You can choose between different unit types, but in the end it won't make much difference which 
 you pick. That is dissapointing, because it is one of the few strategyish elements that could have 
 added some depth to the game. The game is set up through story missions, and there are several 
 characters to unlock. Each mission is basically the same, run from A to B, kill everything, repeat. 
 This is the simplicity of N3, and it is what turns many people off. That simplicity is somewhat 
 offset by the fairly large combo system and leveling system. But you can easily complete the game 
 with only basic combos. The environments you do your slaughtering in are very open, and its quite 
 an epic scene to see a thousand goblins rush down a hill at you. This game really did deserve better 
 than the ratings gave it, it's a nice change from the ugly, bland DW series. It's not difficult 
 to complete, the game really has little challenge to it, but any fans of the DW series core gameplay 
 will enjoy this game. It's a simple, easy, fun, kill-fest that just wasn't complex enough for the 
 'hardcore' crowd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyek_1230
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I picked up my copy of Ninety Nine Nights just a few hours ago and I haven't put down the controller 
 yet (except to write this review) :P
  
  All the reviews gave crap about this game and that the only good thing was the tons of enemies 
 on screen, but this game deserves better than that. Ninety Nine Nights takes you through battlefields 
 where you pretty much hack-the-poop- outta soldiers and monsters. It gives the feel you experienced 
 while playing rather Dynasty or Samurai Warriors, but Ninety Nine Nights is more intense and interesting. 
 
  
  You only start with 1 out of the 7 playable characters in the game. By reaching certain conditions, 
 you will unlock the other 5 characters, plus a special character when you beat all of the other 
 6 character's Story mode. Confused? :P
  
  Just like the Musou Mode of the Warrior's game, each character has his/her own Story, with on average 
 around 4-6 battles. Some of the battles are short, some are tremendously long, but either way there's 
 always action and always something to kill or reach. The "War with No Name" is the war that Ninety 
 Nine Nights takes place in, and each of the characters plays their own part in it. Each character's 
 Story mode is interesting and will of course revolve around them, but will also intertwine with 
 the other characters as well. That is the deepness of this game.
  
  When the battles start, you rather have to reach a certain goal, or just start obliterating everything 
 you see. Sometimes you can do both, but this is what makes the battles so long. There are hundreds 
 and even thousands of enemies to be slain in each battle, and you have the power to do so. In a 
 majority of the battles you will see the same enemies over and over, but a boss or two is thrown 
 in rather in the middle or end of a stage, which kind of makes up for it. There are certain objectives 
 you must complete in the battles, example "Destroy the archers!" or "Meet character at rally point" 
 or "Destroy all the wizards", stuff like that. When you complete each mission, a new one is made 
 and sometimes there's several missions that must be done at once. That is whatever what makes the 
 battles fun. If there were no objectives, the fighting would get so boring and old fast. 
  
  The combat system is very basic. You run around slaying countless thing at the hands of only 
 2 buttons. The X and Y button are the attack buttons, and you can do several different combos. 
 More combos are unlocked as you reach higher levels for that certain character. Each character 
 has a unique fighting style.
  
  The graphics in this game could have been better with the case that it's Xbox 360 but they look 
 good. The background can get blurry along with the enemies if they are too far away. And even though 
 you may have thought that this game would never lag, guess again. If there are too many enemies 
 on screen, it lags tremendously!
  
  The soundtrack in this game will get annoying fast, in my opinion anyway. Good thing is you can 
 turn it on or off via the Options menu.
  
  Overall, Ninety Nine Nights is a better game then what all the reviews have been saying. The fact 
 that hundreds of enemies can be onscreen at once isn't it's only accomplishment. If you are a fan 
 of hack-n-slash or the Dynasty/Samurai Warriors series, this game is a definite buy. Even if you're 
 not a fan, try it, rent it, whatever. Atleast experience this beauty before saying "No". 
  
  I'd sure like to know what Gamespot was doing when they gave this game a 5.9......
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyromaster14
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 16, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I was anxious for this game to come out ever scince last July, but I was dissapointed with what 
 I got. Ninety-Nine Nights is by far the least entertaining Xbox 360 I've played and I would not 
 recommend it to the most hardcore gamers. It's definitely not worth $60, or $8 if you're renting 
 it,
  I could'nt pay attention to the story because the names of the characters are so absert. Here's 
 all I know, It starts off with a young woman named Inphyy, who battles thousands of creatures I 
 think was ripped off from the Lord of the Rings, she finds his half brother Aspharr, and the rest 
 I did'nt even bother.
  Though the gameplay sounded and looked good, They just couldn't pull it off.
  If you don't take 
 advice from my review I don't care, let me just say this, You've been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Surllio
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 20, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Ninety-Nine Nights or N3 as its tagged, is a game that looks great, sounds great. However, the 
 developers of the game seem to forget that pretty graphics and great sound doesn't make a game 
 a great game. When you break down N3 to its very core, the game is a Dynasty Warriors game that 
 isn't nearly as much fun, and seems even more watered down.
  
  There is no real story to N3. The background is there is this huge war between humans and this 
 goblin army, with a few other things mixed in as well. The storyline, if you could call it that, 
 is broken up so that you see the thing from several different perspectives. This means lots of 
 different view points on the same missions. However, the different perspectives of the story still 
 doesn't make it all that interesting. Each character seems to have more of a personal motive and 
 less of a greater sense to be fighting in this war, which, while it has a reason for happening, 
 just seems like a hashed excuse to give us an action game.
  
  Graphically, N3 looks beautiful. The character models are great, articulate, and the designs for 
 them has a lot of visual flair. The enemies look just as good, as well as the just individuals 
 that you wouldn't expect to be so highly detailed. The game runs fairly smooth, dispite the insane 
 number of enemies that are one screen at any given time. 
  
  Another great note for the game is its epic soundtrack. The soundtrack really does a wonderful 
 job of building up these huge battles and missions that you will be "thinking" your under taking. 
 Even the sound effects are wonderful, and though you will be hearing most of the sounds more frequently 
 than you would really want to, the game still sounds great from start to finish. The voice acting 
 is decent, given the value of the rest of the sound, and feels sort of rushed and tacked on to 
 give it more depth.
  
  In terms of game-play, there really isn't much to say. N3 is very combo based. That said, most 
 of the combos are not useful. Just hitting the attack button is more effective than using your 
 specials and earned combos. The idea is to take out and kill as many enemies as you can at any 
 given point. Of course, the game has no shortage of enemies, and you will see your combo and kill 
 counts frequently fly into the thousands. While at first this might be good, the hoards and hoards 
 of enemies that keep coming at you tend to get tiresome, as they never pose much of a problem or 
 challenge. There is no real strategy, you just run into the throng of enemies, and hit the attack 
 button, occasionally releasing out a magical/special attack.
  
  The missions are not anything special, and generally can be done relatively quickly. If you find 
 yourself stuck, you can backtrack to the previous mission, or just keep killing until you find 
 what your suppose to do. The missions are surprisingly short, despite the insane numbers your against. 
 The length of the missions is actually more gratifying than anything, mainly because the repetitive 
 mashing of the X button does get boring and tiresome.
  
  The game forces you to play through it, giving you only one character at the beginning of the game. 
 As you complete her mission, another character is unlocked, repeat the process for the new character, 
 and get the same reward. The early missions of the game are generally nice, with a decent feel 
 for the characters, but the later ones just feel hashed up and added on to fill content. Also, 
 by the time you get to the last of the handful of characters, the game-play has really gotten boring 
 and repetitive, causing you to often times just trudge through it to get to the end.
  
  Ninety-Nine Nights is a game that tries really hard, but mostly just expects the graphics and sound 
 to override the tedious game-play and hosh-posh story that comes along with it. In most areas, 
 the game generally fails, and unless your a huge fan of lots of enemies on the screen and a huge 
 kill count, I don't recommend this game. Even those who love Koei's Warriors games will find this 
 one mostly lack-luster. The game truly is all flash, no substance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaelishida
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 21, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  Sure. You may have already read reviews that flames N3, but no one can fully enjoy or understand 
 how addicting N3: Ninety-Nine Nights can be until they fully play it.
  The game goes back to old-school hack-and-slash format, allowing older gamers to be at home with 
 the game. Basically, you can hack your way through countless opponents, decimating each and everyone 
 of those orcs. Also, N3 gives gamers the chance to literally decimate hundreds of opponents at 
 the same time and clocking up to over 1000-hit combos [my best is 1567!] . With it's fast pace gameplay, 
 you'll have to decimate the orcs faster than they can even hit you, making you sweat as you rapidly 
 mash all the buttons together. Chaining various buttons allow you to hit combos that look REALLY 
 impressive and cool, although they don't really do much difference than your character's normal 
 4 or 5 hit combo. But who cares? Looks cool enough for most gamers.
  The A. I doesn't really help very much though. Although they cover your butt most of the time, they 
 tend to get killed easily in major boss battles [I'm not a very good strategist] . Pressing the 
 D-pad would allow you to command them, and pressing the right command at the right time would allow 
 you to command them well. Apart from that, the gameplay isn't very much different from other games 
 of this genre, leaving you craving for something different and revolutionary
  The graphics are the best that I've seen so far for this genre. Every single thing is all done 
 nicely to the final detail. Add the latest HDTV LCD TV and the effect is stunning. The audio may 
 be forgettable, but it allows you to add in your own soundtrack, so you can decimate enemies to 
 the tune of Jay-Z or Green Day [at least for the NTSC/J version we have in Singapore] .
  I've been told that the story line is interesting, but the game fails to truly bring it out very 
 well. But who really cares when you are having fun killing off thousands of orcs with one swipe 
 of your blade? 
  My biggest complaint is that for an XBox game, it has NO XBox Live features. You can't show off 
 your elite Orc-slaying skills over Live, neither can you play co-op. It would be fun to slay Orcs 
 with a friend, but not even single player can do that.
  Despite what others say about the game, N3: Ninety-Nine Nights is worth the money you pay for it. 
 It's a pity that this game had so much potential, but falls very short of it's full potential 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
