-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ninja Gaiden II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/ninjagaidenii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Slick, gruesome action is flashy and intense.
 Finishing moves are fun to perform and awesome to behold.
 Some great new weapons.
 Excellent, dramatic cutscenes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Inconsistent level of difficulty sometimes crosses the line into cheap territory.
 Infuriating camera.
 Environments don't look that good.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  3, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.2, 67 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 4,182 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Team Ninja
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Jun 3, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This action-packed sequel isn't quite up to the standards of its precursors, but it's still a brutal 
 blast. 

  Ninja Gaiden II is a great game and a maddening one. In some respects, it improves upon the core 
 Ninja Gaiden gameplay to exhilarating effect. It's flashier and it's bloodier, and when those enhancements 
 are in full force, the game offers the best action available on the platform. You de-limb werewolves 
 and slice up legions of rival ninjas and demons, and pulling off these moves produces a gory, showy 
 explosion of particles and body parts. And, as any fan of its Xbox and PlayStation 3 predecessors 
 should expect, it's incredibly difficult, which makes a successful confrontation still one of the 
 most rewarding moments in all of action gaming.  

           Hold still -- this might pinch a little.      

  Team Ninja also went back and fixed 
 a few of the frustrating issues from the previous entry. For example, should you lose a boss battle 
 (and you'll do it frequently) , you can restart most of them at the beginning of the encounter, 
 rather than having to revisit 10 minutes of lead-in gameplay. There are more save points, which 
 also replenish your health, and your health will replenish on its own after action sequences. But 
 for every step forward, the game takes an infuriating step back. It isn't as slickly paced as its 
 precursors, and it isn't the visual leap forward that Ninja Gaiden was. Most noticeably, the camera 
 has taken a turn for the worse, seemingly more interested in flaunting the game's flamboyant flurries 
 of steel and black spandex than in being functional. Ninja Gaiden was hard, but it was rarely cheap; 
 when you died, you knew it was because you needed to perform better. In Ninja Gaiden II, the badly 
 implemented camera and other factors (more on this later) can lead to trial-and-error repetition 
 that relies more on dumb luck than on your controller-wielding prowess. Sure, this sequel is a 
 fantastic game, but it isn't as good as the game that reintroduced the franchise.  

  The core action is both familiar and remarkably intense. As returning hero Ryu Hyabusa, you hack, 
 slash, and decapitate your way through hordes of nasty-looking foes, many of which are returning 
 enemies from the Xbox original. What makes it so satisfying is how fast and fierce these encounters 
 are. Using just two attack buttons and a jump button, and pulling a trigger to block, you can execute 
 a flurry of slashes, ground-pounds, and high-flying feats with ease. And it looks fantastic in 
 motion. The particle-heavy, blood-spattering special effects and silky animations will make your 
 jaw drop, thanks to the exciting spectacle they create. Each battle keeps you focused and engaged, 
 and the speedier your thumb waggles, the more satisfying and explosive the resulting acrobatics 
 are.  

  In fact, the standard combat is even better than before, thanks to a few violent touches that take 
 the series to new levels of adrenaline-pumping ferocity. Humanoid combatants routinely lose limbs 
 at the mercy of your steely weapons, but rather than collapsing in a pool of spurting blood, they 
 just get angrier. Amazingly, a werewolf with one arm is more dangerous than one with both limbs 
 intact, but this fact is nicely offset by the possibility of a finishing move. If you get close 
 to a de-limbed demon and hit Y, the camera will move in close and showcase a fantastically over-the-top 
 fatality, complete with flying viscera and the ghastly sounds of spurting blood and squashed tissue. 

  Bosses are more frequent now and vary in terms of quality and challenge. Some of them are maddeningly 
 difficult, such as dual armadillos that spew fiery rocks toward you. Others, like a blood-dripping, 
 sword-yielding she-fiend, hit all the right notes. And one of them, a giant worm that speeds through 
 subterranean caverns, will get stuck in walls due to a glitch and is easily defeated by slashing 
 at its head while it tries to extricate itself. You can slash and bash using some of the old weapons, 
 including the dragon sword and the lunar staff, but you may want to go into these battles with 
 some of the newer additions such as the blade tonfas, which deliver some excellent combo moves 
 and are fun to wield.  

           The action looks spectacular...      

  Make no mistake: All of this is really hard, and the second half of the game in particular is certainly 
 just as hard as the original game. You'll face a number of enemies at a time, but they aren't content 
 to lounge around like Dynasty Warriors refugees. They jump around quickly, may tackle you and execute 
 an overpowering assault, and are often remarkably in tune to the actions you're trying to pull 
 off, ready to counter with their own violent reply. The insane level of difficulty may not seem 
 apparent in the first few chapters, which franchise fans may notice are hard but not as hard as 
 Ninja Gaiden's. However, the challenge ramps up considerably as the game progresses, and you'll 
 eventually be repeating certain sequences multiple times until you find a way to dispose of the 
 brawny baddies. Much of the time, death brings with it the realization that you simply need to 
 be a better ninja. When Ninja Gaiden II relies on its formula, it's not unfair; it's tough, certainly, 
 but not punishing.  

  Unfortunately, the game strays all too often from its roots and meanders into the abyss of cheapness 
 that Ninja Gaiden only rarely peered into. There are some hints of this early on, but the first 
 third of the game and the final third are incredibly satisfying. Nevertheless, the center portion 
 relies on tricks that simply don't cut it. Ninjas who you can't see pummel you with unblockable 
 rockets over and over again, a defeated boss explodes and takes you down with it, and under- and 
 over-water sequences feel more like work than fun. These sections are where the camera is at its 
 most annoying. Apparently designed to focus on Ryu's exciting swordplay, the camera has been pulled 
 in closer and moved a bit downward, which isn't ideal, but at least it isn't a hassle in wider 
 levels, like one in a postmodern New York City. However, for the majority of the time you're in 
 confined spaces and narrow corridors, where the camera gets stuck in corners, moves into uncomfortable 
 positions, and requires more resets than before.  

  Then, after the infuriating middle section comes to a close, Ninja Gaiden II jumps an impressive 
 hurdle. During its final third, everything clicks into place, and brilliantly so. The enemies become 
 more interesting, unfair difficulty is replaced by breathless challenges that reward your skill, 
 and the level designs take advantage of the platform's visual strengths. In the best of these levels, 
 you fend off flying fiends while fighting ground foes across bridges and on ledges, as lava cascades 
 down the cliffsides. Other quality levels throughout the game include a nail-biting trek through 
 a hulking airship and a tour of duty in a sprawling castle, where you slice up dining-room chairs 
 in addition to growling lycanthropes.  

  It's disappointing that the same amount of attention wasn't given to other levels, or to environmental 
 design in general. Devil May Cry 4, Ninja Gaiden II's closest competitor, showcases sumptuous backgrounds 
 that stand in beautiful relief to its furious action. By contrast, Ninja Gaiden II's environments 
 are generally bland and utilitarian, such as the ugly and repetitive green caves that one of the 
 previously mentioned bosses calls home. Some trips back to Hyabusa Village provide some needed 
 narrative connections to the previous game, but it looks barely better than it did before. As far 
 as its environments are concerned, Ninja Gaiden II does not feature the technical prowess you would 
 expect from a game in 2008. It also suffers from some occasional hits to its normally smooth frame 
 rate, which was simply never an issue in the past. Another familiar visual glitch is a returning 
 one: Splotches of blood and goo still stick to the invisible walls, and because there's so much 
 gore, this flaw sticks out all the more. By now, this sort of thing should have been addressed. 
 By contrast, the vivid special effects, excellent enemy design, and fluid animations are fantastic, 
 and they make it easy to notice that the rest of the visual design is decidedly behind the curve. 

           The environments? Not so much.      

  The cutscenes are great as well, if a bit cheesy, and they give some flair to Ninja Gaiden II's 
 throwaway story. Not that it's bad, but the tale's just an excuse to pit you against a series of 
 greater fiends, and to introduce you to the game's femme fatale, Sonia. She's exactly what a Ninja 
 Gaiden fan would expect: blond, beautiful, and buxom. So buxom, in fact, that you will marvel at 
 how she manages to move at all without suffering from back pain, and at how much breast physics 
 have evolved over the years. Ryu's archenemy Elizebet is just as curvy, and a scene that features 
 blood dripping from her bare bosom is wild, intense, and disturbing. You probably won't get invested 
 in any of these characters, but the cutscenes are good enough to look forward to, and the finale 
 may very well knock your socks off.  

  Leaderboards and unlockable, masochistic difficulty levels provide some replay value. You can also 
 record sections of gameplay and upload them for other players to watch, but though this feature 
 is neat, it isn't implemented very well. You're stuck recording entire swaths of gameplay, and 
 the frame rate takes a bit of a hit when you turn the option on. But it's a feature that, like 
 its amped-up combat, will please the game's core audience. If you're one of those folks, you'll 
 enjoy what this sequel offers. Its various inconsistencies and visual deficits are obvious, but 
 the fluid, heady action makes Ninja Gaiden II a great game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (365 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PUREPL7YA
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2009 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 heavily relies on brutal, fast paced action... and even though slicing your way through 
 hordes of enemies has never looked or felt better, elements such as storytelling, puzzle solving, 
 exploration and adventure which all made previous iterations so enchanting take a back seat in 
 this somewhat shallow prequel of sorts. In my opinion, the series has taken a full step and a half 
 backwards, as after beating it for my first time I never got that great sense of accomplishment 
 as I did playing through the original version for X-Box. Mind you, I have beaten the game more 
 than once and here I give you my overall verdict:
  
  Presentation 7.5
  + Online Rankings encourage sharpening your Ninja skills
  - Story feels random and inconsequential 
 and doesn't tie-in too well with the game
  - Optional installation actually worsens framerate issues
  - The whole game feels slapped together 
 and a bit rushed
  - Achievements are all just plain uninspired
  
  Audio/Visual 8.5
  + Fluid animations with sharp and shiny detail
  + English/Japanese voice overs generally sound 
 great
  - Not much of a visual improvement over original NG (X-Box)
  - Noticeable technical glitches/bugs (IE: blood splatter)
  - Plenty of recycled music and sound 
 effects
  
  Technical 8.5
  + A new regenerative health system eases the difficulty level
  + A new inventory system "freezes" 
 the action keeping you fully immersed
  + Dismemberment can turn the battleground into a gory palette of flesh and blood
  - NO improvements 
 were made to the out of control camera whatsoever!
  - Framerate often struggles with more than 10 enemies on screen
  - Frequent loading often pauses 
 the game (IE: collecting items, entering new areas)
  - Basic and derivative puzzle solving is insulting and a major letdown
  - Uninspired environments 
 feel claustrophobic without much to explore
  - Invisible walls are in abundance and scattered everywhere
  
  Tilt 8.0
  + Unlockable challenge 
 levels within stages adds replayability (IE: DMC)
  + Multiple difficulty settings are available for those with masochistic tendencies
  - Feels somewhat 
 shorter (maybe due to lack of content) than original X-BOX version
  
  As an X-Box 360 exclusive, Tecmo should have focused on character development and deeper storytelling. 
 Instead, the player is left with this feeling like you're just being thrown in random stages and 
 rushed through without the slightest clue why until the game is over. There are fewer cinematic 
 fights than found in previous versions, no more golden scarabs to collect and sell at Maramusa 
 shops, and why oh why does the camera feel even worse this time around? This is absolutely unacceptable 
 considering it was virtually the only thing broken with previous versions.
  
  Overall, a rental can be recommended to newcomers only if you enjoy having your ass handed to you 
 over and over again. Hardcore fans of the series might feel slight disappointment due to the numerous 
 design flaws and sorely missed opportunities. At any rate, this game can still be recommended to 
 anybody looking for a brutal and bloody ride. Just don't expect it to have the same magic as Ninja 
 Gaiden or NG Black for X-Box was simply overflowing with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mibukin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 11:52 pm PT
Review:  I finally got a 360, got this game and finished this game after wanting it for 1 year.
  
  I havent played the original NG, so I can't really compare them. I have played every DMC game and 
 NGDS, so I can relate to how I like my action games. I would say this game is awesome. It has some 
 lttle flaws that would have given it a 10. I think it's possibly the action game of the year in 
 2008, in my opinion, but i haven't played DMC4 yet. There really isn't much competition for this 
 genre though.
  
  Lets cover the negatives before the positives. I usually don't mind the camera in these games at 
 all. I love how cool it looks and how it often looks semi cinematic. In this game I sometimes find 
 myself off screen and not knowing where i am or covered by a wall. Theres no lock on button to 
 zoom into the enemy, meaning it's often hard to tell where they are. 
  Some parts are really annoying. An example would be fighting some underwater giant dinosour things. 
 The strategy is to either go in the water and equip lunar (since the other weapons don't move while 
 using the spin attack) , and jam the power attack button, or stay near the shore and equip the scythe 
 and tap the quick attack on the shore where they can't hit you. Either way it takes forever to 
 kill those things. Some parts require using the arrows which slows down the pace too much for my 
 liking, or has rocket launchers so far away that it takes awhile to get to them. 
  My only other beef is that I often kill everything, and lose track of which way i'm supposed to 
 go, or have to figure it out. There's no responning enemies, or map screen. The game also has a 
 bit of bugs and slow down.
  
  Now lets look at the positives, and they far outweigh the cons.
  The action in this game is just 
 insane. Even compared to DMC3 this game is fast paced and more deep. Ryu literally moves so fast 
 that he's sometimes off camera unless you turn up the camera speed. Theres so many ways you can 
 chop up your enemies. You chop off a limb, and eneimes try to grab you and blow themselves up, 
 which is cool. It's also really gory and you sometimes can manage to behead a lot of baddies with 
 flying swallow which just looks awesome. The game is challenging, but no where near as cheap some 
 other games I tried. I manage to kill some bosses on my 1st try on the lowest difficulty. It's 
 usually challenging in a good way since it's just so action packed. The way Ryu finish most bosses 
 with decapitations when they are on their last health is always a sight to behold. The boss battles 
 are often epic.
  Replay value is pretty good. after you finish the lowest difficulty (which you should since it's 
 enough of a challenge for almost anyone the 1st time) , you get more outfits and can play at higher 
 difficulties. You can also play new game plus and try to unlock tests of valors. 
  The Graphics and sounds are the best I've seen. Ofcourse this is my 1st next/current gen title. 
 The enemy design is great. Japanese voices are good, but I dont know about english. Music is good 
 but not the best.
  The story is kind of weird but reasonable in my opinion. People say it makes no sense, but I don't 
 really care. If you use your imagination, its easy to make sense of some of the parts, with the 
 exception of lack of other CIA agents (not that it would have made this game better) . It does seem 
 like it jumps parts like, why Elizabeth ended up going to Africa with Ryu following her. I would 
 have liked seeing more Ayane since she's my favorite DOA character. I would probably have to get 
 ninja gaiden black eventually.
  Bottom line, this game kicks more ass than anything else, and anyone who likes action games should 
 atleast give it a try. Buy it since you'll probably get stuck and not be able to finish it on a 
 rental, and it's not expensive now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duvendor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 5:13 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2
  There is blood on the dance floor and dismembered limbs aplenty. As master ninja Ryu Hayabusa that's 
 what you do all day in Ninja Gaiden 2 - execute your dances of death as you cut rival ninjas and 
 demons down to size (quite literally) and hack off their hands, legs and heads. There's so much 
 of violence and blood that it could easily pass off as Kill Bill 3 with extra gore. Despite a huge 
 array of weapons and slick combo moves at your disposal, the going is extremely tough. The bosses 
 are hard to beat and it takes a lot of thinking and trial and error to figure out a way to beat 
 the end-of-chapter bosses. For the record, I am still stuck with the Chapter 3 boss, a giant flying 
 machine which looks like an armoured Medusa with a snake-like body. She throws lightning bolts 
 and sends tons of exploding snakes at you, which you cannot dodge or block. And if she gets close 
 enough, she grabs you with her mouth and smashes you against the rocks. The game starts off in 
 the skyscrapers of Tokyo where a buxom CIA agent called Sonia warns you about the Archfiend. The 
 next thing you know, evil black spider ninjas are upon you. They abduct Sonia. You chase and end 
 Chapter One killing an enemy ninja that looks like a monstrous black spider. You manage to save 
 Sonia only to realise that this was all a distraction. The baddies are really after a sacred artifact 
 called the Demon Statue that can unleash demons. This takes you to the next chapter. You rush home 
 to defend your village and your honour. It ends with the baddies successfully unleashing a horde 
 of demons from the top of Mount Fuji, which is destroyed in a huge explosion. By the end of the 
 second chapter, you will have three weapons - your trusty Dragon Sword, a twirling pole called 
 the Lunar Rod which works great for crowd control and the Phoenix Claws, a pair of claws which 
 let you slash through enemies in quick succession. You also have ranged weapons, including normal 
 and explosive shurikens (literally, sword hidden in the hand) and a bow and arrows.
  
  As you kill enemies, they drop yellow orbs which you can use to buy herbs or upgrade your weapons. 
 Combat is pretty much a case of executing combos at the right time as well as blocking and counter-attacking. 
 Some cool moves with the Sword include the Otoshi drop where you slash the enemy in the air three 
 times before grabbing his head and pile-driving him into the ground - the trademark move of Ryu 
 in other games as well. Button mashing X and Y combos look cool but they won't work in a major 
 fight where there are a dozen ninjas after you. That's because as you cut one enemy down, three 
 more are slashing at you. You need to fight smart and the first rule is to block. Blocking and 
 waiting for an opening to counter-attack is a good strategy. I played this game without a manual 
 and I am happy to say it was easy to learn the moves. Scrolls found in treasure boxes and among 
 your dead enemies will highlight the moves that you need to learn. One example: Pull the left trigger 
 to block and push the left thumbstick at the same time to dodge. You also need to learn how to 
 get to inaccessible places. For example, if you are between two walls that are close together, 
 you can flip your way from wall to wall all the way to the top. You also have access to "ninpo" 
 magic which unleashes fireballs and blades of wind at the enemy. The graphics in this game are 
 simply stunning and detailed. I found it hard to put the controller down once I got started. The 
 level of gore, however, is certainly unsuitable for the young and I had to lock myself in the study, 
 away from the neighbour's kids, to play this game on the PC. Overall, this is an excellent game 
 which will undoubtedly make it to the list of Top 10 games for Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LemonAid
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Sonia is an overly busty blonde woman walks into Muramasa's shop asking for Ryu Hayabusa. The living 
 legend's whereabouts is unknown. Suddenly the shop is attacked by the Black Spider Clan and they 
 kidnap her. As a hero is supposed to do, Ryu shows up too late and is off on his quest to rescue 
 the mysterious woman.
  
  The graphics sure is a nice first impression. It's clean, smooth, detailed and shiny. Though Ryu's 
 path of walking is pretty much narrow and there isn't really too many optional places to go in 
 towns and fields.
  
  First of all, the game is quite gory and blood will splatter all over the place. Sharp weapons 
 allows you slice and dice your enemies, when you've managed to cut off a foot or an arm, you can 
 instantly kill them by pressing the Y button if you're close enough. Same goes with the blunt weapons, 
 instead of slicing you'll have a fun time to try to smash their skulls into porridge.
  
  You'll often have an entire mob of the Black Spider Clan ninjas or mutants on your tail. Using 
 "ninja magic", ninpo, will make it easier to take out several enemies at one go, but use it wisely! 
 Changing weapons occasionally helps a bit fighting your enemies. Different range and function works 
 well one some enemies, but a little tricky on others. Experimenting with different weapons is a 
 good thing.
  
  Changing weapon, projectile weapons or ninpo is just a button away. Press the up or down button 
 to access the little menu. Healing items can also be selected from the same menu, the game will 
 be put on hold while you're at it, so don't worry!
  
  Compared to the first NG Xbox game, this one is alot easier, it's not really that difficult. Camera 
 control is also much better and Ryu's movements are in fact paced down a little bit and easier 
 to control and predict. Items and upgrades are more expensive and carrying things are more limited. 
 Even if your health bar drops, there still will be a "track" of the lost HP which you will recover 
 after fighting an enemy or a mob. Another way to recover is hoping for the healing type of orbs, 
 blue and red.
  
  There's also something you can collect, crystal skulls. Remember keep your eyes peeled for something 
 white and shiny. You can't sell them, but they're mainly around for those who love to pay more 
 attention to the achievements. You'll also be able to test your skills in some kind of arena that 
 are "hidden" somewhere and get achievements.
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 is an enjoyable action-packed gory game. If you're a fan of hacking and slashing 
 with an unimpressing story, this is the game for you.
  
  The thing that annoyed me the most is that Ryu is super shiny and his neck is next to non existant. 
 Though there are some cool downloadable costumes you have to pay for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekKwok1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 5:30 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing! In it, you take the role of Ryu Hayabusa and try to stop this evil organization 
 from reviving a beast known as the Archfiend. 
  
  This game is just action packed. You have access to numerous weapons that you acquire throughout 
 the game and each weapon has its strengths and weaknesses. They are all very fun to use and you 
 can end up pulling off a huge combo that looks cool and feels great. In fact, this game's animations 
 and controls are just wonderful. When you pull off a combo, you watch as you chop off an enemy's 
 leg or hand and then do a flashy move to cut his head off. The first thing you will notice when 
 you play this game is just the combat system. It is absolutely the best aspect of this game and 
 you will end up doing many combos on accident. All of the combos are very fast and look extremely 
 amazing.
  
  The camera in this game is the only thing keeping me from giving this game a 10. The camera is 
 so messed up that sometimes, you won't even be able to see yourself. This happens in the middle 
 of fights, boss battles, etc. and can get really frustrating as many of your deaths will come from 
 off screen. I would be fighting this group of ninjas and I would just shift the camera a little 
 bit to get a better view. All of a sudden, I was disappeared and I was getting pwned and killed. 
 It was very annoying, but everything else more than makes up for this.
  
  The game itself is HARD!!! On its easiest difficulty, you will die, A LOT!!! The game is so challenging 
 and difficult that you might find times where you just want to throw the controller at the TV. 
 Some parts in story mode are so impossible that you might just want to quit, but once you figure 
 out the strategies to kill certain enemies and bosses, it gets a little better, but not much. AI 
 is also pretty smart. They actually block and attack and counter just like a regular ninja would 
 making this game all more challenging. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xenium1516
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 9:39 pm PT
Review:  The first Ninja Gaiden game was an alright game. The bad parts were that you die every time you 
 come back to life. Meaning that game was hard as hell to beat. This second one though is like a 
 whole new experience. The first time i played this game i was all like whoa. The graphics are superb 
 especially on the ninja the best graphic you'll ever see on your own character. If you want to 
 buy a ninja game then all i have to say is to just buy Ninja Gaiden. In this game you mostly fight 
 demons from this supposedly dark lord. You might think that is stupid, but trust me if you get 
 the story you'll love it. there are some cool combos in here that you can pull off which is pretty 
 neat. The most hardest part in this game is the last chapter when you fight this big monster that 
 has a huge crystal ball in it. I don't know how you can beat it, but if you find out let me know. 
 Overall this game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bunyip94
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 6:50 pm PT
Review:  In Ninja gaiden 2 there are some new weapons new story and new characters, the game is overall 
 a really fun and addictive game but there are some major let downs because the difficulty varies 
 alot in one mode, like in the easy mode at the start to easy then you go futher along the campaign 
 and some bosses are nearly impossibe, such the lava armadillo i got stuck on that for ages the 
 shouldnt of made some parts in the game that hard and unexpexted. The goodparts are the new weapons, 
 there are really different weapons that i have never heard of and they are really fun the cut up 
 things, the gore of the violence is great such as whan your attacking you see legs, arms and head 
 flying of which feels great. The bad part about that is that when they are crawling around with 
 only one leg you dont really thing that they are a threat but then you find yourself on the ground 
 getting stabbed by and indecitary sheriken, that just becames really frusterating. So the gameplay 
 of ninja gaiden 1 and the new weapons, fiends and a frustrating parts this is still a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hayabusa-Chaff
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playing ninja gaiden since the XBOX days when i used to travel to my friends place to 
 give it a whirl. I always loved it and hearing that theres a sequel on the 360 i couldnt help but 
 pick it up. In case you didnt know by my name im a fan of Ryu hayabusa (greatest ninja of them 
 all)
  
  This game is action packed, and i mean like 10 minutes of platforming throughout the game and the 
 rest choppin' of limbs of evil ninjas, giant mutant bats, etc. you name it. Theres a lot of unique 
 weapons in the game and most are awesome.
  
  One of my problems with the game is the foes with ranged weapons. i dont mind a ninja with ninja 
 disks but one with a bazooka? Come on. not only are these guys hard to reach from a distantce they 
 are VERY frustrating. also some of the boss battles kinda suck, but some are very very very hard 
 indeed.
  
  The game will leave you crying blood, its that brutal. After playing on way of the mentor (and 
 failing) i didnt even want to know about the difficulty level after that.
  
  The story is bad, but are you really playing ninja gaiden for its Story? it more than makes up 
 for it with its music and fantastic arcade like presentation and graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xplayer2391
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2009 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Playing ninja gaiden was a great experience. Perfect graphics, exceptional gameplay and a story that 
 break hearts. Ninja gaiden 2 will satisfy all gamers except those who don't like violence.
  The main character is Ryu Hayabusa, a skilled ninja with great physical abilities. The story begins 
 in Muramasa's shop, in Tokyo city. Sonia, an agent of CIA is looking for Ryu to warn him about a 
 dark force that's trying to destroy his clan and resurrect an ancient fiend that's called "The 
 Arch fiend". With the assistance of Sonia, Ryu tries to stop the fiends to fulfill their evil plans.
 
  From the start ninja gaiden 2 will make you wanna play more and more .It's a fast paced action-packed 
 game that does not forgive mistakes in any case and in order to finish it, the player must be fully 
 concentrated. Ryu is able to decapitate his opponents and perform some special moves in which the 
 player presses the button Y, the camera zooms in and heads and limbs splash right and left. This 
 is a new addition to the game and gives it a new, more violent perspective. 
  The graphics are amazing and gives the perception to the player that he is in the game. The arsenal 
 is large and includes simple swords, to weapons that look alike the reaper's scythe. But the most 
 exciting thing is the variety of moves that you can perform during the game and gives you a lot 
 of reasons to re-finish it.
  The game is perfect but sometimes it gets a bit buggy and that can be really annoying. Also sometimes 
 because of the amount of the enemies that stand before you, you must button-mash to get through 
 them.
  Despite these small exceptions Team Ninja did a great job with the programming of Ninja Gaiden 
 and gives the player a fanCtastic game to play! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickyiscool
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2009 10:29 am PT
Review:  Okay First off not as good as number 1, I kno people will be like "omg your so fcking stupid number 
 1 sucked this one is better" but i bet your one of those halo nerds huh. Controls- Very smooth 
 but bugs up sometimes when you wanna do a move you might accidentally use up your last ninpo and 
 that really pissed me off but everything else is great.
  
  Story-
  Kinda Weird i kinda got lost at the begging but i caught up with it.
  Its about this girl looking 
 for you and this demons and this guy goes to your village gets this crystal thing or sumthing OH 
 YEAH YOU GET TO SEE JOE!!!!! (not joe from king of fighters, Joe Hayabusa Ryu's dad) Idk but its 
 intresting. I havent played this game for about a month so i kinda dont remember things.
  
  AI/Graphics/all those juicy stuff-
  Okay the graphics are better than the first imo but some 
 things are a little wack. The blood N gore is a really nice addition to the game and the weapons 
 are sexy sexy (TONFA FTW!!!) . The AI will kick your ass i warn you if this is your first time playing 
 dont think your a badass and play normal play acolyte its for casual players! The cool things are 
 the obliteration techniques because you can chop off limbs of enemies and press Y to do a sexy 
 animation and destroy their ass!! it is awesome but watch it cause enemies are more aggresive without 
 limbs LOL! they have this kamakazie attack and it kicks your ass.
  
  Thats the Review. I dont think this is as good as number 1 but it is a great squeal and i like 
 it just that i would rather play the first one. I recommend it if you love everything Team Ninja 
 creates (goodbye Team Ninja hopefully you can help Koei make a sexy Dynasty warriors!) If your a 
 casual gamer just wanting to play just rent it. That is my Review/Opinion. Oh yeah if you like 
 this style of reviewing tell me and ill do this way more often than my super paragraph of death 
 in my other reviews lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mf29
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2009 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden II is a sequel to Ninja Gaiden, and was released exclusively for the XBOX 360, and 
 was developed by Team Ninja and published by Microsoft Game Studios. In this installment you play 
 as Ryu Hyabusa once again to restore honor to his Dragon Clan lineage. The storyline seems fairly 
 uninteresting, with some rather shallow characters whose attire and appearance looks better than 
 their personality does. From the beginning of the game, the main character is set on saving and 
 building a small relationship with a perfectly attractive woman who looks strikingly similar to 
 Rachel from Ninja Gaiden on the XBOX. Some characters make multiple appearances, and basically 
 any enemy you see, will be fought some time in the game, some more than once.
  
  Ryu is back again with an even more expansive arsenal of weapons and attacks. The Dragon Sword 
 is once again the starting default weapon; some old weapons have made a pleasant return, along 
 with some rather odd ones that come in handy with certain enemies and super fiends. Unsurprisingly 
 enough, Ryu manages to be quick and nimble with any weapon in hand regardless of the weapon's weight. 
 The attack lists for all weapons go on and on, and discovering or achieving new attacks is a very 
 invigorating experience. This time around, Team Ninja, from the start, included two difficulty 
 levels. From the average player's perspective, (Acolyte) , is normal mode, and evidently, (Warrior) , 
 is hard mode. The Acolyte mode is hard mode masquerading as normal mode. The expectancy of Normal 
 feeling like Hard is apparent here. Acolyte packs much of a punch, and the difficulty of the AI 
 is very inconsistent.
  
  Throughout the first three chapters in the game, gameplay seems like a complete cakewalk combined 
 with a peaceful walk through the park. Shortly after, the AI abruptly increases in the skill the 
 department, making the game nearly unbearable. It's asinine that all of these fiends and humans 
 are out for this one Class A ninja. The game expects the player to bask in failure, and precisely 
 dodge, evade, and counter every little significant bullet and weapon slash. With the difficultly 
 level this way, there is no excuse for the camera to be faulty. The bogusness of camera is beyond 
 comprehension. Often times in play through, a player will have to cautiously dash and block repeatedly 
 before walking around corners of through doors, because you might have some cheap enemies waiting 
 patiently for you behind that door or surface.
  
  You will have to predict enemy presences because sometimes there is a lack of sound effects or 
 movement to signify their presence. As soon as you slip up slightly the enemy (s) will knock you 
 into submission, then you will have to wait until their combo is over to retaliate. Their mannerisms 
 are rather sporadic and uncertain. Mastering keen predicting skills can be a pain. If you stand 
 in one spot and block, the enemies will either grab you or attack randomly as possible to make 
 you let go of your block because you think you see an opening. Some situations seem impossible 
 or unbelievably laid out. With the screwy camera in action, (that sways itself further away from 
 Ryu, and slightly skewed to the bottom of the screen) , and multiple enemies wailing on you with 
 untold amounts of attacks, the enemies can be more difficult than boss fights.
  
  The enemies stop at no line to kill you. They all bombard you with attacks with weapons, explosive 
 shurikens, missiles, grenade launchers, bullets and whatever else. Sometimes you will be required 
 to stand against a weapon party and it isn't your birthday. Blocking cannot block everything, you 
 will spend more time trying to dodge opposing forces, than trying to kill enemies. Cutting off 
 an enemy's head right after they drowned you with annoying bullets is very rewarding, but that 
 empty health bar gained afterward isn't. Instead of your health just simply going down, the health 
 bar goes down from a point, and from that point where health is lost, there is a red spot, which 
 lets you know, how much your health will automatically heal afterwords. It's similar to Tekken 
 Tag's health system.
  
  Explosive jellyfish are reasonably placed within water, sometimes you will have to battle three 
 men with grenade launchers that shoot two to three grenades at a time, while running on water, 
 trying to avoid touching an explosive jellyfish at the same time. It's hard to do correctly without 
 some type of slow motion vision. Anywho, this brand new obliterating technique is very helpful. 
 After slicing at least one limb from your enemy's body, you will be able to press Y once, (while 
 close to them) , and then Ryu will unleash this very brutal and gruesome type fatality that is a 
 blast to watch and never gets old. If you discover the convenience of this attack, watching it 
 will never get old, it's a great savior in itself. Platforming seems a little easier this time, 
 in combination with automatic jumping animations and solid ninja wall to wall maneuvers, platforming 
 seems lesser of a hassle from the second game. Some platforms refuse to allow you to fall off of 
 them, which in some ways take some pressure off of your jumping precision. All weapons can be upgraded 
 three times. If one takes the time to scour a stage for items and cash, you will be rewarded with 
 being able to max out some weapons before the third chapter.
  
  The same orbs are still present. (Red) , filling in Ninpo slots, (Blue) , replenishing health, and 
 (Yellow) , giving you cash. Also, instead of having to pause to use items or change weapons, there 
 is a quick tool used by pressing up and down in the D-Pad, a subsidiary that allows you to quickly 
 choose a weapon, item, or Ninpo scroll, but can seem redundant because the time it takes to load 
 that small box at the bottom of the screen takes just as long as it does to get to the pause menu. 
 The Pause Menu's activation is also delayed if you are grabbed by an enemy or boss. You will have 
 to wait until their attack is said and done before accessing it. When the enemies grab you, you 
 can tap buttons rapidly to escape their hold. The ultimate attack is back and better. Instead of 
 an enemy being able to knock you out of deep chakra concentration, your toughness has been increased, 
 and now you are able to charge your weapon while getting attacked. All of the ultimate techniques 
 for each weapon are brilliantly animated and are well done. They come in handy with bosses especially, 
 and with hordes of fiends.
  
  In mid-stage you are able to take the Test of Valor which is a circular room filled with only so 
 many enemies. If all enemies are defeated without dieing, you will be rewarded with some handy 
 items. Often times (Life of the Gods) , or other items that increase your Ninpo slot capacity, money, 
 or orbs that increase the level of your Ninpo power. These come in and handy and they can be taken 
 over and over until completed. Some boss fights are complete jokes and some seem despicably tricky. 
 It also doesn't help that some bosses explode, and they take you with them. To defeat a boss and 
 then die in their explosion is maddening. Some realistic features in the game are undesirable. 
 You even lose health if near a robot that explodes. The new save points may appear to be helpful 
 but further down the road they seem illogically placed. They replenish your health after one use 
 and only can be used when no enemies are around. The same goes for buying items and using the blacksmith. 
 The music is good, but it isn't overpowering. The sound effects are there, the graphics seem very 
 average, per say. The environments don't look very impressive and the models, seem, rather average 
 as well, all sharing the same action figure type qualities. The controls are extra responsive, 
 making way for spectacular skill development.
  
  The game is a steal at $25 or less. It's a great gameplay experience with an agonizing experience 
 upon difficulty. However, the game doesn't seem superior to its predecessor, in fact, its predecessor 
 is superior. Nonetheless, for the hack and slasher fans, Ninja Gaiden II is a game worth playing. 
 It's flaws can be forgiven, when it has smooth animations and intriguing gameplay elements.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmitDog109
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2009 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely all it's cracked up to be, it's fresh, fast and extremely intense. It sucks 
 you in from the very beginning and you'll have a very hard time putting it down. What I like best 
 about the Ninja Gaiden series is the fact that they are very challenging games. Ninja Gaiden II 
 lives up to that legacy with an extremely difficult levels, bosses and combinations. This game 
 is all about combinations with weapons. Once you get some of the more simple combos like XXY and 
 XXYY you will be well on your way to mastering it quickly. Ninja Gaiden II is anything but a button 
 masher, if you take that approach with no rhyme or reason, you will get extremely frustrated very 
 quickly. You must use all the weapons; they are each very good in their own way. I found myself 
 drawn to the Dragon Sword at the start but I quickly found that the Lunar Staff was one heck of 
 a weapon. You can do so much with that bad boy, my personal favorite is the jump Y to quickly decapitate 
 and kill your faux with one quick strike. This weapon is extremely useful against larger enemies.
 
  The game play in Ninja Gaiden is very smooth, the combos come quickly and the action is fast, 
 you will find yourself gasping for air especially when you get into some tight corners. The one 
 drawback in this game and the first thing you read in most reviews is the fact that the camera 
 is broken. All be it too tight sometimes and difficult to get used to, if you stay focused and 
 reposition yourself during battles it becomes a non issue. 
  The graphics are great as usual; the characters are beautifully drawn with no rough edges. The 
 scenery is great at times, like when you're in Tokyo, and other times they leave something to be 
 desired like when you are in caves. But all and all, they are very nicely done.
  Again, one of the best things about Ninja Gaiden games is the length of the game, with 14 levels, 
 some of which take well over an hour to complete, you will be getting your money's worth. The replay 
 value on this game is great; you will immediately want to play this game through again on the tougher 
 levels. As with all Ninja Gaiden games, the bosses range from those that you straight up do battle 
 with to those where you have to take aim. I've always preferred the straight combat bosses over 
 the ones where you have to figure out another way, using the bow for example but they are fun none 
 the less.
  Team Ninja continues to impress, if you are a Ninja Gaiden fan you will absolutely love this game! 
 If you are new to the series, where have you been?! Seriously, if you are new to this game, you 
 will love it, it's the best one yet in my opinion. NGB was awesome and completely revolutionary 
 but NGII takes it to the next level with the overall speed of the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: makchady
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is the first true sequel to the original xbox's hit action game, and it delivers 
 a satisfying and solid gaming experience that is instantly enjoyable and also instantly frustrating. 
 Put simply, Ninja Gaiden 2 delivers fun, gratifying, visceral combat every time you sit down to 
 play, yet in the same breath, it's also intensely aggravating due to brutally difficult and often 
 cheap enemies.
  
  The gameplay is truly Ninja Gaiden 2's only saving grace. If the melee combat wasn't arguably the 
 best and most intuitive out today, Ninja Gaiden 2 wouldn't be nearly as great as it is. 
  
  There are several various weapons for you to dismember your enemies with. A few include the falcon's 
 talons, lunar staff, eclipse scythe, and the well-known and popular dragon's sword. Each weapons 
 has it's own distinct personality and your attack patterns will surely change depending on which 
 weapon you are using. Eventhough there are nine unique and different weapons, you will typically 
 find yourself relying on your two personal favorites for the majority of the 12 hour single player 
 experience. Further complimenting your arsenal of death and mayhem is your dependable bow, shurikens, 
 and ninpo. Combos are plentiful, spicing up gameplay, and timing your offense, defense, and evasive 
 maneuvers is key to defeating your opposition.
  
  Levels and enemies are varied and never become dull. Each level takes approximately an hour to 
 beat, and the next level, and enemies within it, are entirely different from the previous seen. 
 This helps to keep the game a fresh experience from start to finish.
  
  Graphically Ninja Gaiden 2 is a blood bath. If an enemy is dead and his or her limbs are all still 
 intact, the game has malfunctioned. Ryu, the main character, now has finishing moves that he can 
 perform on downed, but not out, enemies. These finishing moves are grotesque and a gory feast to 
 be seen and are extremely satisfying, yet when one of these downed enemies gets ahold of you, Ryu 
 is in trouble. As a last attempt at killing you, these downed enemies will execute suicide missions 
 that severely hurt your character, so be wary. Character models in general look great, especially 
 their animations which are fluid and natural, but the environments can be hit and miss, some are 
 awe inducing whilst others are bland. Ninja Gaiden 2 for the most part is an above average game, 
 but isn't in the same league as Gears of War or Call of Duty 4, which is unfortunate since the 
 original was a technical marvel.
  
  Bosses have always been a highlight for this series and they don't disappoint in Ninja Gaiden 2. 
 They are tremendously difficult at times and take plenty of skill and practice to defeat. While 
 some bosses are balanced perfectly, others stray the lines of being cheap. A veteran of Ninja Gaiden 
 should play the game on its normal difficulty setting, but everyone else should play on path of 
 the acolyte, its easiest mode.
  
  The camera is often troublesome and may cause unnecessary curse words, but shouldn't hold you back 
 from playing Ninja Gaiden 2, an otherwise great game.
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2's story is entertaining but devoid of any fleshed out ideas or depth. It gets the 
 job done, but won't be remembered in the future. What makes Ninja Gaiden 2 memorable truly is its 
 highly effective combat system. This series has refined the action genre perfectly and set the 
 bar for what is to be expected.
  
  Overall, Ninja Gaiden 2 is a game that excels beyond any other action game in its fast and deep 
 melee system. Minor annoyances keep this game from reaching its true potential but don't warrant 
 you to pass it up. If you're looking for the definitive action game then look no further than Ninja 
 Gaiden 2. However, if you can't handle dying a few times, you may want to continue playing your 
 Avatar game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandyJH
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2009 12:09 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot of fun to be had in Ninja Gaiden II for the 360, but Personally I think it is the 
 worst in the series. The old Ninja Gaiden's were merciless in their difficulty because of an intuitive 
 need for precise timing and skill to get past the bad guys and difficult platforming. This installment 
 is still tough as nails but only because of the immense amount of bad guys now, which are many 
 and fun too kill, with a great degrade in the amount of platforming necessary. There is some and 
 when its there its usually fun, but on a few occasions very clunky. There's also never that "oh 
 !@#$" factor that was there when you messed up as in the old installments. I really feel without 
 the title at whole is missing a right arm. Its still nice overall I think. Technically fantastic, 
 though the overdone Japanese traditional "giant breasts (why can't I say t1tt7 on gamespot!) monster" 
 does make an a appearance, the artwork and design of the game is none too shabby. The camera is 
 not terribly messed up, but is far from say Eternal Darkness. So it is bearable. The most enjoyment 
 just comes from killing monster after monster and that the game does well giving you plenty of 
 moves and gory expletives to top it off. It doesn't quite save the title though, and I think it 
 merely will remain a good game and not a great game because of it. Its worth a pick up for any 
 action game fan, and at least a rental if you own a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twohalos3
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2009 6:56 pm PT
Review:  awesome game, hard-core violence and killing, tons of moves and weapons, it has a total of 14, 
 awesome long levels awesome enemies awesome weapons awesome combos,4 awesome difficulties and tons 
 of awsome unlockables, did i mention that this game is awesome? anyways, this game is not a button 
 masher, in-fact you must be defensive and evasive or you'll pretty much die right away on the harder 
 difficulties....... just buy it already!! it really is an awesome blood and gory game.... all i have 
 left to say is.. team ninja has bestowed an amazing sequel to their first ninja gaiden game for 
 the xbox..
  it is the best game i have played in a really long time if your not a veteran to the previous games, 
 it'll take you a while to catch on but it really is a great game if you get past all the deaths 
 you'll get..... BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tearo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 10:42 am PT
Review:  I'm a great fan of Ninja Gaiden 1 on the X-box and I loved to play that game I have finished it 
 at least 8 times.
  
  Then this game hits the shelves and.. Wow.
  
  The graphics are AMAZING but not revolutionnary like the first' were on the X-box.. Gameplay is 
 TIGHT! It is amazing, My heartbeats go faster as I unleash these combos and seeing blood splattered 
 everywhere accompanied by arms, legs, heads and torsos flying everywhere.. This game is 
 
  It does not represent realistic ninja skills like Tenchu, but realistic isn't always fun.
  
  A flaw in the first game was you have a decent arsenal of weapons but some of the weapons played 
 the same.. Example The nunchuks and the vigoorian flail, Warhammer and Dabilahro, Dragon Sword and 
 Kitetsu ect ect.. But in this game, each and every weapon is unique, unlike Ninja Gaiden 1 where the 
 weapons' speed went from Warhammer's Very slow to Vigoorian flail's Very fast.. Here it goes from 
 the Eclipse Scythe's fast to the vigoorian flail's ULITRA SUPER DUPER ZOOP LIGHTNING FAST!
  
  As usual the story is dull, Devil May Cry 4 has a much better story but after I played Ninja 
 Gaiden 2.. I tried to play Devil May Cry 4 and I wasn't able to how much slow and un-intense it 
 was (I have already finished devil may cry 4 and I found it amazing the first time I played but 
 it's nothing compared to Ninja Gaiden 2)
  
  The game is very difficult and still challenging at the easier difficulty levels.. And to be honest 
 I still didn't beat the Mentor difficulty level but I'm getting there!
  
  The game is amazing, the bosses are amazing too.. But I miss the small IMPs from the first Ninja 
 Gaiden
  
  Overall this game is truely amazing! and a true sequel to the first game that blew my head off 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan_Lionheart
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Ninja Gaiden II. How I looked forward to you so much. It's something about the way you behead 
 and dismember generic baddies with limb cutting and bone crushing moves that keeps me coming back 
 to your for another fling.
  
  Ninja Gaiden II expands on the gameplay and weaponry of ths original Xbox game, but not without 
 a cost. See, the camera and environments are so close to Ryu Hayabusa that the camera itself experiences 
 some dramatic problems. The sensitivity of the right analog is also far too low (and non-customizable) 
 to remedy the situation. I think if I'm getting dizzy, it's safe to say there's a problems with 
 this design. I would go as far to say as this is the single worst camera I have ever encountered 
 in all my years of gaming. With how solid the combat is, it brings in the question of who gave 
 the okay to the camera setup and level design. I can only wonder
  
  Design issues aside, no other logical complaints could be made with Ninja Gaiden II other than 
 story. It's... well, not engaging or interesting. But it doesn't have to be, you're a ninja! And 
 if you've got a problem with being a ninja, well... screw that! Who cares?! On a serious note though, 
 the game does a very good job surviving on turf that a man named Kratos made his own a few years 
 ago. I still enjoy Ninja Gaiden as an alternative to God of War, but it's clear that after this, 
 Devil May Cry is definitely above it on the ladder. Bosses are literally easier than a general 
 mob of grunts. I think the problem with that however, is that the general mob of grunts is what 
 makes the game so hard. It makes me wonder if the game is really intended to be this hard, but 
 brings the question back up regarding whether or not Team Ninja just did a very bad job designing 
 some of these levels. It's one thing for the AI to block your attacks and counter accordingly as 
 they did in the first, but it's an entirely new problem for off-camera enemies to shower five or 
 six rockets your way while you're already being attacked by three or four guys, and are trying 
 to find out where to go. This is by far the most frustrating game I played in 2008.
  
  There's not much to touch on with Ninja Gaiden. The game plays well, but it has many flaws. The 
 overall game is merely problem after problem surrounding solid gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 598gh
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 12:12 pm PT
Review:  this game roooox this is the best of the best of the action games and im waiting for ninja gaiden 
 3 sooooooooo much hjghhjg hgygh hgyfg hkgkhg hkgkhg fgvj nfuvbf cvc bfyvbn yhjlth ryihlg tn ut 
 ie5th tiuyi tu5tiyut ug itogiyt uyij u h iuytiy iiyt yutiyi igutu tyuyi bi iurtuyi5i yirytiu6r 
 jiopeddrip9y bmrjy uy iurt6uyj urit rgh uugid dyjghtfu gigu titgi yiotu utiyg u viu pty ytuy i 
 uitykjghc ktj uityse utueyt re hgjrgh uthdigjimgksg gfigi rtjhyfiuhjfkjh igcuhkjbcijgj ijhthkgcjbkg 
 giufihjkjb gjbftjhjkfhmnk hji jihjkgcjbk ugkjhbkg jkjg jhkcjbcgbkjgbjh gduikgjkbjhhkghnign ijhgdjhnb 
 bjg dfkbjkc b ingvjfn fvb chbcjbngcm kngfngbv v kcnvbncfnf hgjknghcj bkjbnk g n kcbnnkv nvb gnfmnjb 
 fgbnf bfkjgvb jvknbb fmnnmbcgjvhbvgm fbnhj gjfhb g bjjvbnfgb kjfg rfjghfgvmf fygn rfnfgv hfgvnfv 
 fkjgbfjkg bfkhgjnkf bfhgfjhfjh gjfgfmngfm fjcg gjfhjgf gfjhgfngjhf hgmf gbfuyvh f, gkfngn vfjhgjfgjv 
 fuvhgfjkghf fugrgh fguhuhfdhgj jhvhcbhfj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Video_Game_King
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Many gamers complain that games today are too easy. They feel that a game should last longer and 
 be more of a challenge, especially for $60. Team Ninja must have heard this, since Ninja Gaiden 
 II, their latest game, is the hardest action game made since Devil May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening. 
 However, the game's frustratingly hard difficulty has roots in both legitimately demanding situations 
 and cheap technicalities that the development team did not fix.
  
  Ninja Gaiden II starts with Sonia, a promiscuously dressed CIA agent, visiting Muramasa in his 
 shop in a near future version of Tokyo. The Black Spider Clan quickly captures Sonia, and Ryu Hayabusa 
 must rescue her. However, he soon finds himself in a race against time to stop the restoration 
 of the Archfiend at the hands of the four Greater Fiends. While this may sound like a clichd "save 
 the princess, defeat the baddy" story, this is not the case; Ryu rescues Sonia before the halfway 
 mark of the game. Instead, Ninja Gaiden II resembles a typical Hollywood ninja/action movie, especially 
 in the beginning. Within the first few levels, you will see a "duel of honor" between two ninjas 
 (one of them being Ryu's dad) and the protagonist slashing demons in the streets of New York City. 
 However, there are enough flaws with the story to label it "adequate at best" easily. For example, 
 the settings in Ninja Gaiden II are very disconnected; Ryu Hayabusa can leap from Rome to Mount 
 Fuji without any explanation for how he got between the two locations. And while the small number 
 of cutscenes is appreciated, it comes at a much worse cost: there is a lot of reading to be done 
 in this game. Each chapter begins with a small introductory paragraph, and there are four or five 
 scrolls throughout each level with collectively enough text to fill an entire game manual. 
  
  Furthermore, Ninja Gaiden II contains very few references to the previous Ninja Gaiden games. 
 Yea, it is supposed to be a prequel to the original NES games, but it still feels very disconnected 
 from the Nintendo games. Ryu's dad is now called Joe and looks more samurai than ninja; Irene, 
 Jaquio, and the BIO-NOIDS are nowhere to be found; and the closest thing to an old school reference 
 may be the fact that the final level, without spoiling anything, bears an uncanny resemblance to 
 the inside of the Great Northern Crater from Final Fantasy VII. In the end, though, none of this 
 detracts from the game too much, since action games are not known for their stories. In games like 
 Ninja Gaiden II, the story is meant to give the player a reason to continue slicing enemies in 
 half, and that is exactly what Ninja Gaiden II does; nothing more, nothing less.
  
  Instead, gamers enjoy games like this for their gameplay and their combat systems. Fortunately, 
 Ninja Gaiden II pulls this off fantastically. Controlling Ryu as he slashes through hoards of demons 
 is easy, requires skill, and most importantly, feels fun and satisfying. You have a variety of 
 weapons to choose from, including a bow and arrow, tonfas, ninja claws, a windmill shuriken, and 
 chain sickles. However, the only area where choice will matter is in projectile weapons. There 
 are exploding shurikens for quick kills, a bow and arrow for more precise shots, a windmill shuriken 
 for Mortal Kombat-esque decapitations, and regular shurikens for when you have lost all your ammo 
 for the other ones. You will often find yourself switching between these weapons for the right 
 scenarios, which is more than can be said of melee weapons. Most of them have the same effects 
 and moves, and the only reason to choose a different weapon is out of preference.
  
  Once you actually start fighting, two things will come to mind: "This is fun", and "This is hard". 
 Gamers have always known the Ninja Gaiden series for being incredibly difficult and the latest 
 installment is no different. Even the easiest difficulty can be a challenging ordeal. Sure, battling 
 a single non-boss enemy is easy, but these moments are rare, and in crowded skirmishes, you MUST 
 know what is going on around you at all times in order to survive. The difficulty is not like Ghosts 
 'N Goblins, where a plethora of bad design choices made it near impossible to get through a level 
 without getting a Game Over; instead, killing an enemy actually feels rewarding and leaves you 
 with a sense of accomplishment. That is not to say the game is not cheap, however. The camera will 
 often lead to some very cheap deaths from off screen enemies, and some bosses can drain half your 
 life within the first second of battle. You can control the camera, but this does not mean it will 
 go to a good angle when you need it to. Level design can also be a bit annoying at times, since 
 the entrance to the next area can sometimes be unclear. However, the countless groups of enemies 
 often act as a guide for the level, making the game hard rather than cheap.
  
  Like the difficulty, Ninja Gaiden II's graphics are a mixed package. On a technical level, it looks 
 a lot like a shiny Xbox game; nothing seems to jump out as next-gen. However, this is more a problem 
 with the industry in general, especially with games that are sequels to last-gen games. Still, 
 the game does have several problems of its own, like animation problems and, most noticeably, blood 
 problems. The game treats blood as a texture, and the lack of edge detection makes this very clear. 
 If blood only partially covers a wall, it will not wrap around the edges or only cover the wall 
 up to its edges. Instead, it will hang out in space like a very stiff poster. Sometimes, while 
 looking at the right angle, you can see the blood hanging in mid-air, not attached to the wall 
 in any way. Conker's Bad Fur Day achieved multi-layered textures on MUCH lower-end technology, 
 so why was Team Ninja unable to do this with Ninja Gaiden II? Aside from the blood problems, Ninja 
 Gaiden II is a great looking game (according to the industry's standards) .
  
  Of all the games to come out in 2008, Ninja Gaiden II is not only one of the hardest, but also 
 one of the most solid. Whether or not a hard game is a good thing is subjective. Casual gamers 
 who have not played anything beyond Brain Age or Bejeweled will not like it enough to play past 
 the second chapter, but gamers looking for a game that feels rewarding will definitely find it 
 in Ninja Gaiden II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: childofrock11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 7:45 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden for the Xbox was an instant classic.... maybe not for everyone.... but for the hardcore 
 gamer who appreciated insane difficulty mixed with spectacular visuals with a bad ass ninja thrown 
 in the mix, it most definately was. Oh but how many items I broke while facing the forces of the 
 greater and lesser fiends. Allow me to list a few....
  
  -A Xbox Controller which i snapped in half with my bare hands
  -A small wooden chair that just 
 could not stand the abuse which it recieved
  -A moderatly sized box fan that blew its last breeze after it recieved a kick to the gut that broke 
 through.... well.... its gut...
  
  The difficulty was on a level of sheere brutality given by the enemies, especially the bosses, 
 and you can expect the same from Ninja Gaiden II. In ways it is a bit easier seeing as how there 
 are more save places scattered about the levels and the bosses seem a bit more tame this time around. 
 But this title has another level of difficulty added to the mix: The Camera. At times you will 
 be slicing and smashing through enemies with silky precision not even paying attention to the seemingly 
 perfect camera angles, when other times you will be wanting to do such things in which i listed 
 above just because you can't see an unblockable hit coming from off screen when your sluggish camera 
 just wont help you out any. If you are a gamer who just considers this part of the extreme difficulty 
 then it wont bother you. But if you cannot force yourself into this sort of thinking behind the 
 camera mechanics then you will be frustrated beyond reason. As for myself, i consider it part of 
 the difficulty. Yes, it bothers me now and then but for the most part it is fine for a player such 
 as myself.
  
  I have noticed that this NG title will pit you against more enemies at a time. So the basic "make 
 your way through the level" premise seems to be the more challenging part of the game this time 
 around instead of the boss battles like its older sibling was. 
  
  It is on the top of my list for giving the player a sense of accomplishment; everytime you utterly 
 destroy a group of ninjas or a four armed werewolf you will feel like the biggest bad ass in the 
 universe. And don't forget the weapons, absolutely some of the most brutal melee weapons you will 
 ever see in any action title.
  
  Graphics are sleek and smooth, offering only a few minor slow downs in a small amount of places. 
 Most wont even notice unless they are someone who looks for that particular flaw in games.
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 is for extreme/hardcore gamers only. It will punish you and sometimes seems 
 to cross that line into cheap territory. But the feeling that you get for completing those tough 
 areas (which will be the whole game for most) is one of the greatest feelings the gaming industry 
 has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorclaw1234
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:22 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is fun when you hack and slash your enermies. I heard that this game is a bit hard 
 and the old series is hard and nobody can finish the game accept some of them. The new weapons 
 is the claws and the scythe they are awesome to me. Some of the old weapons are not here and put 
 new ones which is even better than the others. The new content are 3 costumes and a popular mode 
 called mission mode. The theree costumes are facinating and my most favourite is the Biometal costume. 
 Mission mode I never played before but still is good. The nippo is money and i got a lot of them 
 if you don't spent time fixing your life if you are a very good player you don't need to spent 
 on them. This is just like devil may cry series that the boss is hard and ninja gaiden the level 
 is hard. When you fight the bosses you need thinking skills how you defeat it easily. I hope anyone 
 enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kataloni10
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE THIS GAME ITS VERY FUNN, THE BOSSS ARE FUNN TO AND THIS IS THE BEST NINJA GAME OF 2008, 
 AND THE BEST THIN WITH THIS GAME IS WEAPONS, TO MANNY WEAPONS AND ALL OF THEM ARE VERY FUNN TO 
 KILL ENEMY WITH :D, THE GAME HAS NIPO = MAGIC AND MANY KNIFS,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ITS VERY VERY FUNN GAME,,,, 
 10 FOR THIS GAME, I HOPE BETTER GRAPHIC NEXT TIME, AND THE STORY OF THE GAME IS VERY VERY VERY 
 NICE. I LIKE THE ENEMY TO, ITS NOTT EASY ENEMY, ITS VERY HARD AND THE BOSS ARE FUN,,,,,,,,, THE 
 NINJA HAS A VERY SEXY MOVES TO AND HE HAV A LOT OF MOVE, EVERY WEAPONS HAV OWEN MOVE AND EVERY 
 KNIFE HAS HER SPECELL POWE,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, THE BEST SHINOBI GAMES OF 2008, ITS VERY FUNNY AND ITS 
 LIKE DEVIL MAY CRY 4, LOOKS GOOD AND ITS BLOODY ,,,,,,,,, I HOPE THAT THE DO NINJA GAIDEN 3 ON 
 XBOX 360,,, WITH BETTER GRAPIGHC ;) THE BEST SHINOBI GAMES OF 2008, ITS VERY FUNNY AND ITS LIKE 
 DEVIL MAY CRY 4, LOOKS GOOD AND ITS BLOODY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mazoch
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:07 pm PT
Review:  First off, this is my first experience with the NG series and added to that my not a frequent console 
 player so I was expecting a brutally though game. The game is certainly a challenge even on the 
 'acolyte' mode (the easy mode) , however the biggest cause of death is due to one of the most frustrating 
 cameras I've seen in a 3d game.
  NG2 would have been a truly outstanding action game if it wasn't for a handful of glaring flaws 
 that will constantly drag down your enjoyment and cause you to die.
  
  The Camera. Oh dear.. Given the experience of the team behind the game the abysmal camera control 
 is unforgivable. In a game where acting and reacting to your enemies moves is central it's insane 
 that you have to get use to fighting enemies you cant see for a large portion of the game. Even 
 in close combat, the camera will place itself so enemies are outside your field of view. All you 
 can do is hack and slash and hope you are hitting. 
  
  The enemies. For the most parts the enemies your fighting are great! Most are fast aggressive and 
 forces you to adapt and alternate your strategies. Against most ninja enemies you'll rely on blocking 
 to hold them off while picking them off with counter attacks. Against Imps or Werewolfs the block 
 is only partially useful you you find yourself moving constantly to avoid their attacks. Lots of 
 fun. But then you get a number of enemies that cants be blocked, that have ranged attacks that 
 can hit you from the games horizon, that knocks you back when hit. These are just not a lot of 
 fun. You'll beat them eventually, mainly by running around like an idiot and hope the camera when 
 mess with you if your lucky enough to get within striking distance for long enough to attack (a 
 second later another rocket will knock you back and you'll be back to square one) .
  
  The underwater sequences are another gripe of mine. In several places you'll be forced to fight 
 over and underwater at the same time. How ever each time you break the surface the controls change 
 and your camera becomes even worse than on ground.
  
  It's a shame really. If not for these flaws NG2 would have been a really outstanding game. When 
 things dos work it's a blast to chop slice and kill your way through your levels. 
  
  There is a story but it's the kind of cliche I'd expect from a bad 80'ies Ninja movie. The two 
 females in the game have breasts that are so exaggerated that they look more like mutants than 
 most of the demons your fighting. None of the characters have a shred of personality of character 
 development. But to be honest that dosent bother me. The game is about action and chopping up bad 
 guys. I just wish the camera didnt constant force you to fight stuff you cant see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpIash
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2009 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Pardon some grammar mistakes =p
  
  inb4 tl; dr
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 is easily classified as a hack and slash game. Much like the Dynasty Warriors series, 
 Ninja Gaiden 2 puts the protagonist, Ryu Hayabusa against an army of countless amounts of enemies, 
 the classic fairy tale structure. Although Ninja Gaiden 2 offers a lot of the action as it's predecessor, 
 it's story is unfulfilling, over the top and just doesn't make much sense at times. I respect that 
 Team Ninja tried to get a wider variety of exploration and global placement within the different 
 scenarios but sometimes these situations are illogical and seem to have nothing to do with the 
 progression of the story. For example, when Ryu goes to South America trying to pursue Elizabet. 
 Who ever thought of this idea? I'm under the assumption that they were high while this game was 
 in production. Muramasa statues in the middle of South America, giant tunnel worms that conveniently 
 lead to an exit, jumping off an airship with Sonya, 33 000 feet in the air and surviving the jump. 
 I said it once and I'll say it again, it was way too over the top. 
  
  Character development in the game is nearly non existant. If you haven't played the previous Ninja 
 Gaiden on the Xbox, generally nothing from this game will make sense to you. It's never elaborated 
 why Sonya wants to speak with you, it's some crap about Mount Fiji and the Hayabusa village which 
 i didn't fully understand. I only realised Elizabet is a greater fiend by chapter 10 or so. Genshin 
 had so much potential but Team Ninja completely failed when it came to his development and also 
 the greater fiends were also a bit frustrating to comprehend. There was always rambling about the 
 four greater fiends, one would typically think to him or herself that they would be based around 
 Water, Wind, Fire and Earth, the typical elemental structures for pro/antagonists in any role playing 
 game but no, Team Ninja would take it a bit further to produce even more nonsense and plot structures 
 which confuse the player. Storms, Lightning, Blood and Fire... What were they thinking... Aside 
 from the random elemental bases placed on the "four" greater fiends, have they discluded Alma and 
 Doku from the mix? The entire story was about "FOUR" greater fiends, ONLY four. Apperantly they 
 missed out on that part. 
  
  Weapon development is outstanding. I'll give Team Ninja a high five on this section. The Lunar 
 looked awesome (my favorite weapon) and also the new weapons they added such as the Dragon Fang 
 and whatnot. It was a bit dissapointing that they had no super weapons like the Ore and Dark Dragon 
 Blade from the first installment. Regardless, it was fun to play with each weapons and ninpo spells.
 
  
  Overall, Ninja Gaiden 2 deserves a 7.0 just due to the lack of plot line and a failed attempt to 
 be a sequel to one of the greatest action games ever made. This is more of a game for 12 year old 
 that just want to hack and slash rather than paying any attention to the plotline what so ever 
 but will be highly disappointing for any casual gamer who enjoys a steady story accompanied by 
 satisfying action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLuckyKidd
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Any fan of fighting games will love this. Easily the bloodiest game out there, the fighting part 
 is unrivaled. Its amazing how much fun you can have by slicing up differetn types of ninjas and 
 monsters; the variety of fighting moves, different combos and weapons and so many ways of killing 
 your enemy is just SO MUCH FUN! You hack and slash your way through some truly great levels (I 
 didn't say pretty because some of them are ugly, I mean, they are good levels, just look ugly, 
 yeah, you actually go somewhere where it rains blood) . The story isin't its forte, but it is quite 
 entertaining. You try to save your clan and the world from the Archfiends, who are monster who 
 long ago, ruled the world until the dragons beat them up, and you, Ryu Hayabusa, are the last descendant 
 of the dragon lineage, trying to save his heritage. Easily, the most fun you'll have is when your 
 fighting, bloody, yes, but incredibly fun and great looking and cool, not to mention exiting, and, 
 you really feel powerful, I mean, you get an unrivaled sense of power, like nothing can stand up 
 against you. There are many bosses and most are pretty fun, but most are also quite difficult. 
 Also, pretty much every woman in the game have surprisingly large breasts.
  
  The Bad: Well, as you may have heard before, the camera is quite bad; it didn't bother me as much, 
 but its too low and sometimes is gets in the way of your watching yourself obliterate enemies. 
 The difficulty; well thats an issue, if you're a good gamer, or just a good Ninja Gaiden gamer, 
 it will be hard, but not THAT hard. There are times where you feel like putting your foot through 
 the T. V or throwing the controller at your grandma and scream with rage for half and hour; yet, 
 these occasions are not THAT common; still, beware of the difficulty, I wont spoil the contents 
 but some things are just plain CHEAP! Some level designs arent THAT good, like a part of Chapter 
 8... or 9, i forget.
  
  Well, the point is that Ninja Gaiden II is a must have, but beware of incredibly hard diffculty 
 and copious, and even ridicullous amounts of blood. Later
  
  The LuckyKidd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolnades
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Before I start, i'd like to say that i've beaten ninja gaiden black on master ninja. Just saying 
 in case some people's opinions are swayed. 
  
  
  This game is sort of like a dog. You love it at first, but there are some times when it can be 
 a chore. 
  First, the combat has been greatly improved and its faster than ever. The weapons, although less 
 in quantity, have more diversity on how they play out. Slashing someone's arm off feels badass 
 with the scythe. The new obliteration techniques and the ability to cut off your opponents' limbs 
 make for more options on how you kill your enemies. The enemy AI is also improved. The enemies 
 will now follow you no matter where you go (well mostly everywhere you go) . The game will probably 
 take you maybe a week depending how good you are. Though the graphics are just a bit dated, the 
 blood effects are great. 
  
  Despite all this, the game has a few problems. The enemies and bosses are grab-happy. I can see 
 how they think that it adds to the challenge, but of the grabs are (more often than not) pretty 
 long. I dont know about you, but i dont like watching the same animation just to lose health. Also, 
 in the harder difficulty settings, some enemies just become downright cheap. In the first ninja 
 gaiden, the enemies were strong, but at the same time they still gave you a fighting chance. In 
 this one the enemies are fast, they throw exploding shurikens/shoot 10 exploding missles at a time 
 while you sit there, get stunned, and repeat the process until you die. Although there is a way 
 to counter the ninjas with exploding shurikens, the move to do it gets so repetitive its not even 
 fun anymore. 
  
  
  Overall this game is great at a first glance, it will probably leave you wanting to throw your 
 controller out the window. I wouldn't buy this if you're not crazy about action-adventures, but 
 it's worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarkatanWarrior
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  When I first bought my 360 the person I had purchased it from obviously didn't have the best taste 
 in games. Not only did I recieve Tenchu Z, but Ninja Gaiden 2 was also in the mix of games he gave 
 me with the system, hell he even threw in that piece of **** assassins creed.
  
  I tried Tenchu because I'd never even heard of the series, and now I know why, it was absolutely 
 terrible, but I gave it a chance, because I wanted to play a ninja game as I previously hadn't.
 
  
  After giving up on Tenchu Z because it was downright terrible I decided to throw in Ninja Gaiden 
 2 since I had heard good things about it. 
  
  What an utter disappointment. The camera angle in this game absolutely ruins it, and prevents any 
 redeeming factors that the game has, like a great weapons selection, and challenging difficulty 
 level.
  
  The gore was over the top, and like Soldier of fortune: payback seemed unnecessary.
  
  Some 
 of the enemies are extremely cheap. I'm not complaining because I can't kill them, I'm complaining 
 because they're cheap, lame enemies. Around the halfway point in the game there's an area where 
 enemies are shooting missles at you from windows in a building. After lining up headshot after 
 headshot and watching them bounce off of an invisible barrier, or getting hit by one missile and 
 having the camera jerk around like I was being attacked by a shark I was through with this sad 
 attempt at a DMC rip off.
  
  Not to mention Ryu being one of the most flat, lifeless characters in history. The story got so 
 boring that I completely stopped following it, it didn't matter at all.
  
  As for the bosses, the fights were pretty well done, I just hate it when games cop out and make 
 you fight the same bosses twice or more, NG2 manages to throw that right out of the window and 
 have you fighting the same bosses up to 4 times! How about that for innovation.
  
  
  Not to mention the wonderful job they did on the last few bosses, hey let's make you fight three 
 of the same bosses in succession, that's challenging. No, that's bull**** The archfiend rivals 
 the raven king from heavenly sword for cheapest piece of **** boss.
  
  Screw you team ninja, stop making these games, give some of your meager funds to Capcom where they 
 belong for you ripping off their style.
  
  I absolutely HATE this game, if the rumours are true, and Team Ninja is dispersing, I'm overjoyed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D3dr0_0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is the hardest game I've played on the 360 so far, its more difficult than the first 
 but its not impossible to beat. I had fun with the variety of weapons in this game my fave was 
 the wolverine-like claws and the schyte. The things I didnt like was the lazy camera even though 
 I got use to using it and the other thing [SPOILER] I didnt like was the end boss first form the 
 way he would kill you is by coughing blood on you that made this game frustrating. If you played 
 this game on path of the warrior you found alot of challenges where the enemy would out number 
 you at any given time to the bosses which were hard since some of them had help with distractions 
 but thats what a hardcore gamer is all about challenge. I enjoyed this game but they really have'nt 
 added anything new except new weapons and the abillity to swap weapons with the d-pad.
  
  Overall I really enjoyed the difficulty and how fluid they made Ryu in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReconKing
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Trust me: Any fan of fighting games will love this. Easily the bloodiest game out there, 
 the fighting part is unrivaled. Its amazing how much fun you can have by slicing up differetn types 
 of ninjas and monsters; the variety of fighting moves, different combos and weapons and so many 
 ways of killing your enemy is just SO MUCH FUN! You hack and slash your way through some truly 
 great levels (I didn't say pretty because some of them are ugly, I mean, they are good levels, 
 just look ugly, yeah, you actually go somewhere where it rains blood) . The story isin't its forte, 
 but it is quite entertaining. You try to save your clan and the world from the Archfiends, who 
 are monster who long ago, ruled the world until the dragons beat them up, and you, Ryu Hayabusa, 
 are the last descendant of the dragon lineage, trying to save his heritage. Easily, the most fun 
 you'll have is when your fighting, bloody, yes, but incredibly fun and great looking and cool, 
 not to mention exiting, and, you really feel powerful, I mean, you get an unrivaled sense of power, 
 like nothing can stand up against you. There are many bosses and most are pretty fun, but most 
 are also quite difficult. Also, pretty much every woman in the game have surprisingly large breasts.
 
  
  The Bad: Well, as you may have heard before, the camera is quite bad; it didn't bother me as much, 
 but its too low and sometimes is gets in the way of your watching yourself obliterate enemies. 
 The difficulty; well thats an issue, if you're a good gamer, or just a good Ninja Gaiden gamer, 
 it will be hard, but not THAT hard. There are times where you feel like putting your foot through 
 the T. V or throwing the controller at your grandma and scream with rage for half and hour; yet, 
 these occasions are not THAT common; still, beware of the difficulty, I wont spoil the contents 
 but some things are just plain CHEAP! Some level designs arent THAT good, like a part of Chapter 
 8... or 9, i forget.
  
  Well, the point is that Ninja Gaiden II is a must have, but beware of incredibly hard diffculty 
 and copious, and even ridicullous amounts of blood. Later
  
  Phil
  A. K. A: ReconKing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shalafein
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  Yes and No. Gameplay is great, but the camera is very bad. Its also very hard so if you want a 
 challenge grab this game. The weapons in Ninja Gaiden II are awesome! They have some sweet finishing 
 moves and some great combos and its just plain bloody. Now onto boss fights: some boss fights were 
 alot better then others and some were hard really really hard. And what stinks is that you'll fight 
 almost but not all of them twice. Which stinks because there isnt much variety and it gets very 
 annoying after you fought the same guy three times already (yes you fight a boss three times.) 
 The story in this game stinks. The graphics are good nothing to go crazy over I think they should 
 have wanted a little longer with this game some of it is buggy but there is some levels that take 
 place in tunnels and its very sweet when you are fighting and some weapons hit the walls and sparks 
 fly, I thought that was really neat. The voice acting is okay. Ryu has the coolest voice out there. 
 This is a great action game for the Xbox 360 and if you want a game that has alot of blood pick 
 this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainHarley
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  This could have been a truly great game, but it has some entirely unacceptable faults that nobody 
 should be willing to forgive. Given the advances in gameplay mechanics, hardware, software, and 
 creative design in videogames, NG II has faults that are entirely embarrassing, and should never 
 have been such a significant issue.
  
  You no doubt have already heard the camera in this game is horrendous, but it bears repeating. 
 It is the single worst thing about an otherwise good game. It moves slowly even on the highest 
 setting of speed. It is difficult to control while int he midst of a fight. The 'reset behind your 
 character' button is useless, as you are constantly changing direction. The camera is too low for 
 you to be able to see much of anything. This would all be well and good in a straightforward platforming 
 game, but when you are beset by enemies on all sides and attacked for all directions, the inability 
 to see what is coming, and where you need to go causes frustration to mount very quickly.
  
  Otherwise, the game is a simple button-mashing affair. Some of the platforming elements are 
 fun but the combat is lackluster in my view; hit 'X' and 'Y' until your thumbs bleed. That's it. 
 There is blocking (and my God, you need to do it a lot, and it's pretty boring) and some evasive 
 moves of limited usefulness when you can just use a counter-attack. Certainly some diversity would 
 have helped.
  
  Graphics are passable. They are far too 'clean' for my tastes, and the animations on the characters 
 in combat are fantastic, but the cutscenes look distinctly PS2.
  
  All in all, there's no reason not to just play another, better, game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djburnzy1
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  This game deploys a feeling in which i haven't experienced since i played dmc 3 non spec and that 
 is disappointment and anger. Inevitably, team ninja delivers a game which is devastatingly difficult 
 combined with annoying, unexplainable camera switches and to top it all off a game play system 
 that tends to fail in cooperation with its other flaws.
  
  Beginning with these bad points of ninja gaiden 2. First of all the insane difficultly level; essentially 
 is completely ridiculous. The game itself spans over 12 levels each containing at least one or 
 two bosses in each (with the very last level having several back to back) . Ok sure, 12 levels, 
 not too bad, but the bosses which are needed to be defeated are absolutely painful. You can find 
 yourself dieing hundreds of times with your only accomplishment being getting the achievement 'Indomitable 
 Spirit' (die 100 times) 5G, which tends to mock you with its 'bleep bloop' sound effect. 
  
  On top of the bosses being extremely hard, you also have the henchmen of said boss being extremely 
 difficult to destroy. It defeats the purpose of playing the level, if once you get to the boss 
 your out of potions, or on half health due to the mass destruction of a dozen of his henchmen. 
 
  
  In certain levels you may find it impossible to complete due to the fact that you cannot return 
 to certain areas which contained shops and health regens. It is hard for newer players to get used 
 to this 'Think ahead' game play style as some would prefer to simply waste a potion to defeat some 
 henchmen instead of saving it for the unknown upcoming boss. 
  
  This brings us to the camera movement of the game itself. Sure, not only do you have to defeat 
 an insanely hard boss with a handful of his henchmen, but you must do it with a uncontrollable 
 camera angle! At times, i found myself stuck in situations were the boss, health bar nearly zilch, 
 until the change in camera angle which resulted in my death. In all honesty, team ninja should 
 have spent more time fixing up the annoyance of the camera instead of thinking of ways to stop 
 the gamer from finishing the game by 'placing extra henchmen here, getting rid of health packs 
 there, etc'. 
  
  Furthermore, the game play side of this game is fairly solid, but due to the reasons listed above, 
 the enjoyment is clouded by frustration and anger at the difficulty and camera. 
  
  In addition, the game controls are fairly advanced and are quite enjoyable once you've got the 
 basics down. The endless list of combination techniques creates very interesting fight sequences 
 which seem overwhelming to the eye. The gruesome details of the destruction of your enemies (and 
 sometimes yourself) creates a realistic gaming experience along with a bloodthirsty ride for those 
 hardcore gamers. 
  
  Along with this you have the variety of obtaining achievements throughout your journey with little 
 to no deviation from the story itself (ie, no random missions which appear pointless in the development 
 of the storyline - sole purpose to add another achievement) . These achievements increases the replay 
 value of this game which to some extent will certainly not go unnoticed.
  
  For those that happen to master ninja gaiden 2 (god knows how you did it) , there is an online leader 
 boarding system, similar to that showcased in DMC4. This ensures further replay value for those 
 willing to replay certain levels to achieve some sort of self satisfaction. 
  
  If it were possible to ignore that negatives of ninja gaiden 2 (which is impossible) , IE the camera 
 angle and the difficulty, then ninja gaiden 2 would be a fairly enjoyable masterpiece of a game. 
 Unfortunately, these negatives cannot be ignored as they play a major role in the overall enjoyment 
 of the game. This inevitably resulted in Ninja Gaiden 2's being somewhat disappointing.
  
  Summary - 7/10
  Game controls: Sharp, Advanced, fun to master. 
  Achievements: Extensive, fairly 
 straight forward.
  Difficulty: Painfully difficult
  Online: Missed opportunity for some sort of online multiplayer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DarthMaul-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  It was four years ago that Team Ninja released Ninja Gaiden on the Xbox, a game that by many consider 
 to be one of the greatest action adventure during the time period. Now four years later Team Ninja 
 have made some improvement to Ninja Gaiden II, but for the most part it really hasn't been able 
 to replicate the impact it had four years ago like it predecessor. Yes Ninja Gaiden II packs more 
 gore, blood, smarter AI, and of course fast-paced game play, but there were issue with this title 
 that should have been fix first such as an interesting story to keep gamers hook. Never-the-less 
 Tomonobu Itagaki has added some neat features that distinguished Ninja Gaiden II from it predecessor, 
 giving gamers a whole new feel to it, while offering the familiar game play elements that Ninja 
 Gaiden for the original Xbox was famous for.
  
  Like it predecessor Ninja Gaiden II suffer the same fate for having an sub-par story that is really 
 lacking in many aspects that a good story should have. The game story takes place a year later 
 where Ninja Gaiden was left off with Muramasa tending his shop until a CIA agent named Sonia shows 
 up asking for Ryu Hayabusa's whereabouts before a group of ninja called Black Spider shows up and 
 kidnaps her. Moment later Ryu, the game protagonist, shows up and rescues her who inform him about 
 the trouble he will face; while all this is happening Ryu village is under attack and the Demon 
 Statue has been stolen by a Greater Fiends. Ryu is then instructed by his father to find and bring 
 this statue back at all cost. The game story is pretty much the same as before but this time instead 
 of the Dark Dragon Blade, it is the Demon Statue that Ryu must bring back or retrieve it from the 
 Greater Fiends. As you can see the story really isn't fleshed-out, and sometime it might feel awkward 
 at times which is ashamed because the story would of added a much better gaming experience.
  
  Keeping the same formula, Ninja Gaiden II still have the same formats for each weapons Ryu 
 acquired throughout his journey. There is a list of combos for each weapons that Ryu can performed 
 which really shows how in depth the game play is for Ninja Gaiden II. Each weapons have a different 
 fell to it, like for instance an heavier weapon will have slower combos and will definitely move 
 at a slower pace, while on the other hand an lighter one will produce faster combo that move at 
 a much faster pace. Not only is speed the only difference but their ranged will be different too, 
 for example the lunar will have a longer ranged compared to preferable close-up falcon talons. 
 As for the damaged that is dealt out the bigger or the slower weapons tends to deal out more compare 
 to the smaller and faster one. What really would have been cool was the ability to string different 
 combos with different weapons on the fly, it really would of made the game a lot more entertaining 
 to say the least. 
  
  Also making it return is the ability to upgrade your weapons at Muramasa's shop. Upgrading your 
 weapons is very important in Ninja Gaiden II because not only are the weapons stronger, the combos 
 also becomes longer and more powerful. There are two upgrade slots for all the weapons that Ryu 
 obtained throughout the game, the first upgrade will cost you ten grand while the second will be 
 thirty grand. Furthermore the inclusion of projectile weapons such as bow and arrows, a variety 
 of shurikens, and others really adds to the depth of Ninja Gaiden II. Like the other weapons the 
 Windmill Shuriken, Fiend's Bane Bow, and Incendiary Shurikens can also be charged up for greater 
 impact when they are being thrown at enemies. As mention above, the ultimate techniques is also 
 back which is basically a charged attack that does devastating damaged to the enemies depending 
 on what weapons Ryu have equipped.
  
  Well we know there are some familiar weapons such as the Dragon Sword, but there are also some 
 new weapons that really fits in well with the rest of them. New weapons such as Dragon's Claw and 
 Tiger's Fang, Tonfa, Eclipse Scythe, Kusari-Gama, and the Falcon's Talons really provides Ryu with 
 various option to dismantle his foe in each of his enemy encounters; even though some are better 
 than others, it is still fun to mess around with your enemies with them. Along with new weapons 
 there are also new Ninpo for Ryu to used against his foe such as The Art of the Wind Blades, The 
 Art of the Flame Phoenix, and The Art of the Piercing Void. Like weapons you can level up your 
 ninpo with items called The Jewel of the Demon Seal which increases the damaged dealt with each 
 upgrade. Also be on the lookout for items called the Spirit of the Devils unlike the former it 
 increase the uses for your ninpo.
  
  If you are very familiar with the previous installment of Ninja Gaiden, then you will feel right 
 at home with Ninja Gaiden II. Game play is really where Ninja Gaiden shines and Ninja Gaiden II 
 really does a nice job of keeping the familiar game play while at the same time added new features 
 that really creates an awesome experience for fans of the series. Same as the first game the blocking 
 technique will be very useful to you because of how vicious and ruthless the artificial intelligent 
 is in this game. Ryu is still able to perform most of his move such as holding onto ledges, running 
 on wall and water, flipping poles, and of course swimming to get out of some tough situation. Even 
 though you might feel overwhelmed at the beginning, the equipment and moves that Ryu possess throughout 
 his journey really balanced it out for any newcomers.
  
  What made Ninja Gaiden famous around youtube was not the speed run but the karma system that was 
 used. The Karma counter or system is pretty much a scoreboard that keeps track of the things you 
 do during each battles. Unlike the first one where all you had to do was beat the clock by defeating 
 a group of enemies in a given amount of time, in Ninja Gaiden II it keeps track of your activity 
 such as number of combos, obliteration, kills, and ultimate technique that was used during each 
 battles. Of course the more difficult techniques will obviously net you more points than say the 
 combos which really balance this feature out. The best part about it this time is they completely 
 removed the timer, which gives Ryu unlimited time to do whatever he choose to his victim. The reason 
 I mention youtube was because many gamers tend to upload their high score on it to show the world 
 their skills.
  
  New to the combat system in Ninja Gaiden II is the Obliteration Technique or OT for short. This 
 technique is very useful because of the way enemies are handle in this game. The enemies will tend 
 to pursue Ryu around if he doesn't completely annihilate them, meaning regardless of their condition 
 such as losing a limbs they will still be after Ryu like shadows. This is where obliteration really 
 comes in handy because with a pressed of the Y button near them, they will be finished in a heinous 
 and gruesome way. Remember to also keep in mind that the obliteration technique is also usable 
 on the boss characters present in Ninja Gaiden II. Another new addition is the Chiburi move where 
 Ryu swats away the leftover blood from his weapons that remains after killing all the enemies in 
 a certain area. What this does is it alerts you that all the enemies are completely taken cared 
 of in a specific area and Ryu health will also regenerate after performing this. 
  
  As mention before Ninja Gaiden II contains much more gore and violence than it predecessor. A very 
 welcome addition to Ninja Gaiden is the ability to dismember your enemies by damaging their body 
 parts and then shredding their limbs apart in a very satisfying way. This features will either 
 make the fiend or enemies less powerful, making them slower, and in some cases immobilizes them 
 but for the most part they will most likely survive your gruesome attacks. You have to be extra 
 careful once you do this, because it makes the enemies much more dangerous in a sense that they 
 will commit suicide by simply throwing you down to the ground and hurting itself with an incendiary 
 shuriken in an attempt to bring you down with it. A very neat way to balance this system out in 
 my opinion.
  
  Okay let get this out of the way now, if you are one of those who hates challenging game then Ninja 
 Gaiden II is definitely not the game for you. The artificial intelligent is one of the best in 
 the business right now, the enemies are literally out there to get Ryu with a vengeance. The enemies 
 or most of the time fiends rarely stay in one places just for you to slaughter it, it will be constantly 
 attacking you giving you no break if the area is full of them. But don't let this intimidate you 
 because the developers did a really good job evening the field with an assortment of aid to get 
 you through the game story. For almost every enemies Ryu slay they leave an essences that your 
 protagonist can absorb. Depending on the colors Ryu absorb, they all have different functions such 
 as the blue essence replenish health as well as the red portion that doesn't refill after battles, 
 red essence replenish ki allowing Ryu to cast more ninpo, and yellow increasing money to purchase 
 items at shop.
  
  Beside these essence, Ryu will encounters items that will certainly help you throughout your journey. 
 There are some that replenish health, permanently increases health, and even one that resurrect 
 Ryu from the dead that you will need to search for if you want a chance at survival. Another thing 
 to point out is if you beat the first one without any challenge then you might find Ninja Gaiden 
 II a little disappointing because it is very easy compare to the original. After every battle Ryu 
 will regain health like mention earlier with the new features, and if this didn't make it easy 
 enough Ryu gets fully heal for every time he is at a save point, but make no mistake if you are 
 new to the series or had trouble previously then you can expect a lot of gameover screen.
  
  Not only is the difficulty scaled down a little bit, there were still some major issue from 
 the original that still hasn't been fix yet. Unlike it predecessor where when you died you feel 
 like it was your wrongdoing and not the game, but in Ninja Gaiden II most of the time it is actually 
 not your fault. In one instance against a certain boss that once defeated he will take you down 
 with it if you don't know what to do for the first time. Another annoying aspect of Ninja Gaiden 
 II is the camera that is presented here, more time then not it just doesn't give you the full action 
 or even worse gives you a different view then you might preferred. There is an option to re-center 
 your camera angle with a quick tap of the right-trigger, but in the heat of battles it probably 
 won't save your life. One of the most frustrating tactics in any game is getting hit from out of 
 nowhere, and in Ninja Gaiden II you will be suffering from a lot of this with rockets coming out 
 of nowhere. If you are a veteran at Ninja Gaiden then it won't be much of a problem and beside 
 there are less platform for you to do in here, which is a definitely a plus considering how action 
 pack this game is.
  
  Visually Ninja Gaiden II isn't anything that will wow you like the previous game did for the Xbox, 
 and to be honest it isn't much of an upgrade from Ninja Gaiden Sigma. By no means is Ninja Gaiden 
 II a bad looking game, it just that its predecessor looks absolutely stunning during its time that 
 we expected the same out of Ninja Gaiden II. The characters model and details are absolutely gorgeous 
 along with all the blood that are flying all over the places during battle. The same don't hold 
 true for Ninja Gaiden II environment and background. Most of them are just too familiar while others 
 such as cave just looks plain and simple. Aside from these problem the rest are absolutely beautiful 
 especially the last few level, you will probably be stopping and looking around with the camera 
 to see how much detail that Team Ninja have put into this game.
  
  Along with looking stunning, Ninja Gaiden II also plays very smoothly running at sixty frames per 
 second, but there are some moments where the game starts to slow down with multiples enemies on 
 screen or during explosion scene. It is just ashamed that Team Ninja can't keep an consistent frame 
 rates throughout the whole game, but it is understandable that due to the sheer amount of action 
 that is occurring all at once on screen that this should come as no surprise. The animations are 
 one of the best in any video game this generation that I have ever seen so far, just looking at 
 the limbs being dismember and blood gushing out are just a site of beauty to be aw at.
  
  The music and sound in Ninja Gaiden II aren't very impressive like other games, but it does managed 
 to get the job done. The music fit's in well with the game moods and feel pretty good in a sense 
 that it adds emotion to that level, like the epic feeling that something's is coming. What is cool 
 here is that they even added the Japanese audio track which like it predecessor added a more authentic 
 feel to it compare to the poorly done English track. Aside from the music the sound effects are 
 pretty well done also, there is nothing better than hearing a sharp weapon going right through 
 flesh and bones. Overall sounds in Ninja Gaiden II managed to get the job done, but it really isn't 
 anything to brag about.
  
  Controls in Ninja Gaiden II is very fluid and similar to the original, so if you play this before 
 than you should feel right at home. If you are new to the series then here is how it works, the 
 Y button will be primarily be used to perform strong attacks, B will be used for projectile attacks, 
 and when pressed together at the same time will activate Ryu ninpo attack. Furthermore the A button 
 will allow Ryu to jump, X will be used mainly for quick or agile attacks, left control stick like 
 most game controls your protagonist, right control stick controls your camera, the directional 
 d-pad allows easy access to the menu, and holding the left button will toggle first-person mode. 
 In order to grab items and interact will object you will need to press the right button, start 
 will pause the game, back will open up the option menu, right trigger just simply reset your camera, 
 and the one you will be using the most is the left trigger which allows you to block.
  
  Replay values just doesn't stack up like the original had, but make no mistake there is a lot to 
 do in this one. For the first time in this series you have the option to turn on something called 
 Ninja Cinema which record everything you do when it is turn on. If you are one of those who love 
 to shared your accomplishment, then you will be happy to know that there is an option to upload 
 and share features with other people. Another thing to note is if you are a stat kind of person, 
 then you will be happy to know that there is also a leaderboards in here just to show off your 
 ninja skill to the whole world. Beside these there are harder difficulty that can take you much 
 longer to beat than the normal difficulty which should take you around fourteen hours to do so, 
 but to do so you have to beat the easier difficulty first before you can actually attempt the harder 
 difficulty. Beside unlocking each difficulty you will be unlocking costumes along the way, and 
 you can start a new file with the weapons you acquired on your last play through which is pretty 
 sweet.
  
  Overall Ninja Gaiden II is easily one of the best action games on the Xbox 360 right now. The sheer 
 amounts of depth in the game play will have you playing this game with each difficulty for a very 
 long time. If you can get over the fact that the camera is one of your biggest enemies for Ryu 
 then Ninja Gaiden II is definitely a must see game. It might not have the same impact when it first 
 hit store shelves like it predecessor did, but don't be alarm because Ninja Gaiden II is a game 
 that no fans of the series should missed. All in all if you are looking for a challenging game 
 then look no further because Ninja Gaiden II is the game for you, but if you want a game where 
 the enemies just laid back then you just might went to look elsewhere because the artificial intelligent 
 in here is out to get you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iqen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is yet another game to continue the famous Ninja Gaiden series, where players can 
 once again guide the super ninja Ryu Hayabusa to complete yet another exciting adventure.
  
  This game has indeed improved many of it's core qualities from it's predecessor, espeically 
 the combat system. The more advanced combat system brings another level of gameplay, with many 
 more special techniques and unique combos to learn. The new Obliteration technique is also an useful 
 addition, where one can perform a finishing combo to heavily injured enemies. Other then techniques, 
 the game's combat system is noticeably smoother and has quite improved from it's prequel. The AI 
 system of enemies has also improved, and so has the many new kinds of enemies. Boss fights remain 
 to be considerably difficult, but however excellent fun.
  
  However, the game does have it's minor flaws. The camera could be quite frustrating at some points. 
 The game is also quite repetitive, as it is still another hack-and-slash game. The graphics have 
 also just mildly improved, with not much environmental scenery to enjoy. Most of the game is set 
 in repetitive dark caverns where sight-seeing is hard to come by.
  
  The flaws of the game are still minor to the good points of the game. This game would be a worthy 
 addition to anyone's Xbox 360 game collection, and a must-have for all Ninja Gaiden fans.
  
  
  
  ~Pro's~
  -Improved battle system with more advanced techniques
  -Smooth gameplay 
 with sharp controls
  -Wide range of weaponry
  
  ~Con's~
  -Repetitive value
  -Quite difficult 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsman92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  Players have been waiting 4 years for a true Sequel, that is Ninja Gaiden. Now, Ninja Gaiden 2 
 is here and continues the story of Ryu Hyabosa... some what. Ninja Gaiden 2 story can be forgettable 
 since it's not very good. A new character, Sonia, looks for Ryu has she being attacked, and Ryu 
 come to her rescue. Seems the leader the dark spider clan, Elizabeth, steals a statue and uses 
 it's power to revive the Great Arch Fiend. The story is just not intresting, as there are a lot 
 of parts you don't care about and don't make sense, and characters you don't care about, even thought 
 there are some cool moments like tanks blasting a demon. Ninja Gaiden 2's gameplay is mixed, yet 
 incredibly fun. The Combat is the same deep kick-ass combat. It's also much more fast pase than 
 the original. There are also a tone of new weapons. Like the brutal Falcon Talons, and the extremley 
 deadly Scythe. The weapons are well balanced and bring there own instant kill moves. 'What do you 
 mean" you ask? Well when an enemy is limb comes off, you can press the Y button to do a finishing 
 move. Speaking of Limb Removal, Ninja Gaiden 2 has a lot more blood than the original game and 
 more limbs come off, which changes enemy A. I to make combat more interesting as they behave differently. 
 After each fight, your health regenerates. As you fight and take Damage, there's red bare form 
 the left filling up. This is health that can't be brung back, unless you get health orbs. Along 
 the way, you have to do some simple platforming elements. On the earlier levels, Ninja Gaiden 2 
 can feel like cake walk with some moments of challenge. However, when you get into the later levels, 
 it can get from challenging to cheap. As there are enemies that can use stuff like rapid fire rocket 
 launchers, use suicide attacks, and grab moves that can't be blocked, mostly the bosses. That's 
 another thing. most of the bosses are some of the worst bosses in any video game. There's no rhythm 
 to how the attack and they all have grab attacks that can't be blocked making them extremely cheap. 
 The Camera is another problem. It can really get hard to control and a lot of attacks from enemies 
 can't be seen. Lets sum up the good of the game, The combat is faster and deeper, there are tones 
 of new and great weapons, the health bar is better, the new finishing attacks are awesome, and 
 it's still fun to play. The bad are the later levels having cheap enemies, most of the bosses are 
 horrible due to the un-blockable moves, and the camera can get twitchy. The look of Ninja Gaiden 
 2 is incredible. The game looks great. There some noticeable glitches, but didn't hurt the game. 
 It look even better than Sigma on the PS3. There was slow down in a late level, but didn't hurt 
 as it made it feel epic. Ninja Gaiden 2 feels more like renovation than a revolation, but still 
 a great game none the less. If your a fan of deep combat, action games, or Ninja Gaiden, this is 
 a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadKarma5g
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  An 8.0? This game is better than the Xbox one an you gave the Xbox one a 9.4?, its a sequel and 
 its more improved. A long better story. The story actually flows better than the first one. Same 
 great moves plus some , tons of weapons. I know one of the developers quit because of overtime 
 fees an bonuses but get off his jock , he looks like a chinese michael jackson anyway. I hesitated 
 on picking this one up because of the gamspot score on here then i downloaded the demo on XBox 
 live an couldn't believe i waited so long to pick it up . Don't trust the Gamespot score on here. 
 This is probably the 6th time I let myself be misled from this site with there bein so many games 
 out there. download the demo an check for yourself. I like this site but the more this place disapoints 
 me the more i keep my eyes out for a better one. I'd give this a 9.8 but I can't so i'm given it 
 a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Will1590
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  If anything ninja lacks a good storyline, They really dont give a good background of who ryu is 
 behind the mask, there is no good explanation on how is able to get impaled by chainsaws or get 
 shot by 200 bullets and still walk straight. Pretty much; its the action the gets you sucked into 
 the game. The combat system is easy to learn but is hard to master. With a vast arsenal of devastating 
 weapons and the many finishing and special moves each weapon has gives the game a good replay value. 
 The cut scenes are average, besides the ones when you encounter one of the greater fiends. Fans 
 of the ninja series will be satisfied with the improvements of this game, If you're not a fan you'll 
 still like the overall game play of the game. If there is any thing that will alienate newcomers 
 of ninja is the frustrating difficulty the this game offers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Brahma
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  If anyone played the first installment on the Xbox, then you should already know what you would 
 be expecting. The gameplay is incredible and it isn't any normal hack-n-slash game. I would describe 
 this as being the new generation of hack-n-slash, as well as the first installment. If you could 
 master the combos instead of just pressing any button, then you would enjoy this game more than 
 just pressing one button all the time or doing the same combos all over again. The enemies are 
 challenging. This is what makes the game. It isn't like other hack-n-slash games where all you 
 have to do is hit the enemy once and it's over. The obliteration combos are great. It's a little 
 on the cheating side because you can finish off the enemies in a few hits once you cut their arm 
 or leg off. The only con I have about this game are the bosses. The bosses are extremely easy to 
 beat with no challenge at all. On the other hand, they are extremely powerful, so I would avoid 
 their attacks at all costs. For most people, they think the video game is very hard. Not true at 
 all! Put yourself in Ryu's position. What's the first thing to do before facing an opponent? Defend 
 yourself! And it isn't hard at all. Counter-attack their moves while blocking. Use your ninpo if 
 you have any. But block and dodge all the time and you wouldn't have much trouble advancing into 
 the next level. The game takes a lot of patience and understanding the moves and your enemies. 
 Practice the game. You know you all want to finish it! Don't get frustrated, think smart. Do what 
 you think you would do if you're in Ryu's position. It's a wonderful game and I don't care what 
 anyone else says about it. It would've been a 10 if the bosses weren't so easy. That's why they're 
 called bosses. They are supposed to be made strong and difficult. Can't wait for a third installment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacsan456
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  When I first brought i thought it was great i realy like the volience level in this but i have 
 some realy huge issuses with this.
  
  
  First off the difficulty is horendes and unbalenced the ai will just spam cheap and unblockable 
 moves i. e kamikazies and those red spider ninjas will not let you move without jaminng you with 
 a shuriken and you explode, second the gattling rocket launchers (what were they thinking?) will 
 not let off and will keep shooting rockets until you die. (Granit they do have a reload time 2.5 
 seconds)
  
  another issue i have is the glicthes you could stand on a table (in volfs first stage in the kicthen) 
 and the werewolfs will just circle around staring and that just goes to show you this gamea ai 
 sucks.
  
  Also the camera in this game is the most broken thing ive ever seen the thing will just jerk back 
 and forth hiding you and worst you could get offscreened and im alot because the camrera will just 
 not cooroparate.
  
  Now on to the good things i realy like the fact that you could cut off enemys head and delimb those 
 morons and the obliterations are wicked cool.
  
  Another thing i realy like about this is the ultimate moves the combos and effects and the bloody 
 resualts blow my mind everytime i see it. 
  
  
  
  overall: the game is a dissapointment it let me and my friend down but thats just our opinion rent 
 it first buy it later. Remember its my opinnion therfore im not wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaz0o0o
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best games ever made .
  from the beginning of it you won't be able to release the gear stick until you lose your grip on 
 it!
  its like controlling a ghost that will do anything to get his porpus.
  you got to be awake, fast ,patient, and have a very high respond to finish this game and if you 
 are not you will be.
  this game improved my game ability because it is a the hardiest game ever.
  the thing iliked 
 the most about this game is how fast RYU is and the tons of weapon's you will get thou the camera 
 will annoy you a lttle bet but if got used to it you will do fine .
  buy this game it is an advanture you will never forget.
  ihope they make more of this game and 
 they but co-op or online gaming it will be HILARIOUS!
  if you like bloody games blood all over the walls ,heads
  flying here and there ,smashing heads, cutting 
 hands and legs, tiered of stupid games this game suits you will belive me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  The answer is yes. You might even have some holes in your wall. While I would say that the difficulty 
 is toned down from the prior Ninja Gaiden games on the original X Box, Ninja Gaiden II is still 
 mind numbingly difficult. The game is not for the faint of heart. The main issue I have with what 
 makes it difficult is that for the most part it's not the player's mistakes that make your character 
 die, it's more along the lines of the game breaking it's own rules that it makes you, the player, 
 adhere to. When you do mess up, whether it be a controller malfunction or an issue with where to 
 go, the game is unmericful in it's retaliation. That being said, Ninja Gaiden II is still a game 
 worth checking out, even if it's recommended for the most patient, and challenging gamer. 
  
  The game looks great. I can't say it looks awesome like the prior on the X Box, but it looks 
 great. The graphic engine hasn't changed much since the first. All the characters look rather shiney. 
 I've been around for a while, and no one looks that shiney all the time. Still the animation is 
 top notch, the details are deep, the colors are vibrant and care has been given to most things. 
 Are some levels that aren't that great looking, such as the ones that look like a vortex. 
  
  The controls could use some tweaking, mostly the camera. It's unforgiving, unadjustable, and 
 makes you perish A LOT. The buttons are responsive, and well set up, that is unless you are being 
 attacked by 15 enemies at once. Then you are just getting beat up. Granted in real life if you 
 get attacked by a large number of people, you probably aren't going to end up on top. But this 
 is a Ninja video game. I'm supposed to be bad to the bone and yet... There is a much higher goar 
 factor, something that makes it a bit more satisfying then the first game. Also there are different 
 weapons (wolverine claws anyone) that make game play slightly different.
  
  The music and the sound quality is good. It sets the mood and plays to the games strengths. The 
 voice acting is pretty good too. 
  
  All in all if you are a Ninja Gaiden fan this is a good pick up. It very tough, although not a 
 huge step forward for the series. If you are a more casual gamer, or someone just looking to chop 
 some people up, this game may not be for you. I yet state again the very high difficultly. I've 
 been gaming for a while and I've learned that if a game makes me yell things that make people's 
 ears burn, and cause me to have to replace two controllers, it's time to hang it up. I'm sure much 
 like the prior game it will have several different takes. I have to say that it pretty much plays, 
 looks, and feels like the prior game with very little change in the series. While this was ok back 
 in the days of the 8 bit Nintendo, now gamers are expecting a bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearjammer188
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is one Bloody Game Heads Arms Legs will fly off in Ninja Gaiden 2, Good stuff is 
 the Fighting Combat in Ninja Gaiden 2 comes off fast smooth and bloody in my view i love it,, Boss 
 fights are Great lots of them through the Game, Graphics look Good in my view could of been better 
 but they get the job done over all, Music is good not Great, The story is weak this takes away 
 from Ninja Gaiden 2 its like a Game with no Heart to it without a Great Story in my View kind of 
 plays out like a old 1990 Game no story but Great Fighting, Save points could be better after Boss 
 fights sometimes i would die before i could find a save point then you would have to replay the 
 old Boss fight over this got old not fun, Over all Ninja Gaiden 2 is a Great Game with Flaws you 
 still can have a blast with this Game sure worth a buy. Thanks Thegearjammer188 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrclortho
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 15, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Having played several versions of Ninja Gaiden in the past going all the way back to the original 
 with I was a kid, I was expecting more from this one. The Ninja has some pretty trick moves but 
 I just could never use them naturally. I kept having to 'think' about moves and you don't have 
 time to do that when you are fighting a bazillion bad guys. Other games such as GOW, COD4, and 
 Halo are just more intuitive and 'feel' right. Plus, this game is ridiculously violent. It is not 
 just violent but borderline insane. It is as if the creators thought if there was enough blood 
 around and limbs laying about, it would make up for the lack of story and plot.
  So, the game flows like this: Short story, kill, move, kill a hundred more, move, kill some more, 
 move, get a new power to kill a thousand more, tiny bit of story, repeat.
  The graphics are OK but nothing like some other next gen games.
  In then end, I did not finish 
 the game and sold it at the local used game shop. It was worth more to me in store credit than 
 the time it would have taken to finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vietboi89
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 11, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  alright lets get some things out first this game has good production value it looks nice, sounds 
 nice, plays out nice and smooth and they're is a good amount of weapons that are unique and fun 
 to play with.
  ok now MAJOR DOWNSIDE that made the game drop from a 9.0 to a 7.0... it is UBER CHEAP and frustrating 
 and simply isnt fun to play in the end. 
  now if we have played the first ninja gaiden then u all remember what a blast u had when u played 
 it and beat it (if u havent beaten the game u shouldnt even consider this game u NOOB) ok now when 
 u play this game u will forget wat fun is and simply play it out of spite. what i mean is u will 
 spend so many times selecting continue and seeing the "you are dead" screen pop up everytime someone 
 lands a cheap attack or 10 missiles fly at ur face onli giving u a second for a breather. this 
 game is so CHEAP that u will simply try to cheat ur way thru most of the fighting. the best thing 
 about ninja gaiden is now a chore to kill the almost invulnerable enemy that cant feel ur atk but 
 if he bleeds enuff itll die. u'll mostly spam the best move that ryu has which is the quick dash 
 skill into the enemy about 20 times until he falls down or u outta sheer luck slice off the head. 
 now i remember when i played the first game i DIDNT spam a single move, i used almost every skill 
 that ryu learned and when it came to the tough boss fights i would still use a variety of attacks 
 but mostly the strong attacks. NG II has a lot of different moves to perform with a lot of different 
 weapons to use but when u fight the enemies that are human or humanoid ull be using about 2 skills 
 on that enemy with 1 weapon most likely. I mean whats the point of have about 10 weapons when the 
 original Dragon Sword kills everything and is the most well balanced weapon. the Dragon Sword is 
 quik, there is hardly any lag after an atk, dmg is decent compared to the other weapons and its 
 the most simple weapon to use. some of the other weapons are cool to use but hey when u decide 
 to use them u better stock up on healing items and the rebirth item cause u gonna get screwed. 
 hell ur gonna feel more violation than a pedophile serving life in Alcatraz. Ryu is gonna look 
 so lame everytime u get smacked around by that overly powered demon or consistently get cheap shot 
 from some guy u cant even see. o yea big issue here camera is HORRIBLE!! I no they are trying to 
 be cinematic and all but it doesnt look cool or is any fun to get cut up from some guy u didnt 
 even no u were fighting. ok let me try to paint it out, ur fighting some guy, most likely that 
 huge fiend that can take 50 hits and still not flinch, and then another *ss muncher comes into 
 the scene and whacks right into ur blindspot and sends u flying taking out a good portion of ur 
 health and the place u end up in the camera shifts over and u dont see any of the guys ur fighting. 
 yea when this happens its game over mostly or u frantically hop, jump and roll to a safe spot but 
 this totally kills the groove as u have to keep stop, defend, attack quickly, get cheap shotted, 
 pummeled for some time, run away, and repeat until u die, sometimes u might have enuff health to 
 endure the pain and emerge victorious as the crippled the ninja. UGH im pretty sure TECMO or Team 
 Ninja or that pr*ck Itagaki ( no i dont like him but ill tell u later) knew how "hard" the game 
 was since healing items werent scarce and save spots heal to full health but still cheap AI doesnt 
 make the game fun at all. if u noticed in one of the showings of the game, the guy who was playing 
 the game to show for the public had to CHEAT to get thru the stage and those guys were the easy 
 ones. Seriously if the guy who is with the company has to CHEAT in order to beat a demo maybe u 
 should take a second look at the game cause it is embarrassing if the guy who is part of the game 
 crew cant get thru the game honestly. Jeez it would have been hilarious if the guy who was presenting 
 the game died right in the middle of it. now if u dont see it lemme tell you, one of the video 
 i saw was of a guy who was playing the game, at first we was doing pretty well while onli getting 
 smacked around mildly but then he started taking it hard up the butt and his life which was a pretty 
 big health bar started going down a lot so after that major butt banging throughout the rest of 
 the demo he just simple spammed the wind ninpo technique which decimated everything that surrounds 
 u. and also note the guys he was fighting are the easy enemies of the game that u will hope to 
 come across rather than those huge fiends who can lay the smack down on the most hardcore players 
 of the game and im not talking about the gamer that are good with NG, im talking about the people 
 who master NG playing it nonstop and have no social life. So yea NG II are simply for those extremely 
 hardcore players who have nothing better to do with their lives than master a cheap game and barely 
 passable for people like me and maybe u who just want to play a fun game like the first ninja gaiden 
 was. though NG II is a nice looking game i cant say that it is fun to play and beating it will 
 onli make u wonder why did u try so hard. There are some good things that i didnt mention but i 
 dont think its necessary since the cheapness just outweighs them and make gameplay frustrating. 
 
  If u still dont figure what the difference than lemme simply put it out 2 u: NG=Skill NG II= DIVINE 
 LUCK
  
  Ninja Gaiden II gets a measly 7.0 for having everything BUT fun gaming... U FAILED NG II, u could 
 have been so much better but UR NOT
  
  oh and about the Itagaki thing it seems hes riding on his high horse cause he thinks he makes good 
 games but he fails to c that he is part of something that is called TEAM NINJA and the magic word 
 is TEAM!!! unless there is definite evidence that Itagaki is the one spending endless hours making 
 character models, designing gameplay systems, composing songs, and brushing up the game to look 
 refine rather than spew out ideas and shout orders and handle all the corporate mumbo jumbo than 
 he should get off his high horse, he can take all the credit for the game publicity or advertising 
 or whatever but most of the credit for a game goes to the little guys that onli get 20 seconds 
 on the credit list i mean without them we would get a true piece of crap... a game that isnt a 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cs110
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I was anticipating adding this game to my modest collection for a few months, since the first one 
 was brilliant and extremely challenging in the right way. But I found this to be a bit of a disappointment.
 
  
  The controls are all they were cracked up to be, they are tight and responsive, as you would expect 
 from a game of this calibre. Usually, the game play is also up to this standard, but it can be 
 surprisingly cheap, as you get pounded by unseen enemies, this can be frustrating on the higher 
 difficulties. The camera also detracts from the game play, as it seems to be worse than the first 
 ninja gaiden.
  
  The graphics are fantastic, but not as mind blowing as the original was at the time. The environments 
 look great in almost all the levels, but there are some places where they can just be downright 
 ugly.
  
  Overall, I would recommend this as a challenging action game, but sometimes it lets itself down. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danny_dm_moore
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  A game with so much potential that winds up being cheap
  
  The original Ninja Gaiden for the original xbox was a masterpiece of action game design. It was 
 tight, the controls were near perfect and the action a blaze of sword weilding ninja mystisim. 
 Ninja Gaiden 2 however, tries to follow on from its almost flawless predecessor, but fails miserably. 
 
  
  Story is not this games strong point, but admittedly neither was it the first games, so that is 
 not something you can really hold against it. It provides enough narrative to move the story along 
 and generate boss battles, but thats about it. Team Ninja cannot tell a good story, that much is 
 true, but this title fails in many other ways. 
  
  The biggest problem with Ninja Gaiden 2 is that it feels like it should have been released years 
 ago, possibly about a year after the first one. Action games have moved on in design, graphics 
 and story, Devil May Cry 4 certainly proved that, and while you cannot fault the action presented 
 here for its blistering speed and gore filled intensity, it was bested about 6 months before this 
 game arrived. 
  
  Technically, it doesnt match up to even its predecessor, let alone any of its contempories. The 
 simple fact is that it looks like a very well polished xbox game, and although the slicing off 
 of just about every opponents arms, legs and heads with a spray of blood looks great, so much more 
 could have been accomplished, and the frame rate hits and occasional lock up only add to this. 
 The power of the 360 can do better. 
  
  The graphics are simply poor for a 360 game, with Ryu hiding in water at one spot and seeming to 
 clip through a stactic back drop image rather than an actual river. The blood spray from enemies 
 is pretty cool, as is the effects for the ninpo magic, but theses are the only real stand out things. 
 
  
  The sound is a different matter and really gives the impression of fighting through hordes of enemies 
 like the worlds most powerful ninja should be able to. The score is really good, setting the tone 
 for a ninja vs demon world action game perfectly. 
  
  Aside from the graphics, this game gets really cheap with its enemies and is horribly linear. Admittedly, 
 by thier very nature games like this are linear, so that isnt too bad a fault, but when combined 
 with enemies that are obsurdly overpowered for standard grunts, it makes the gameplay feel dated 
 and outclassed. 
  
  The worlds most powerful ninja should be able to avoid soldies firing missles at him at a steady 
 clip, but what about when 3 or 4 of them send 10 missiles at him in quick succession? while he 
 is also being hotley pursued by sword and machine gun enemies that will stop you from moving or 
 blocking when firing at you, effectly stopping you from making any progress. I will say it again, 
 action games have evolved from such archiac ways to enforce difficulty on you.
  
  This game has an achievement for pressing continue 100 times. You will earn that, despite its relatively 
 short 9 chapter structure. Hitting such a mark sinks your enthusiasm for what should have been 
 one of the best games of the year, and while some may argue that it is a lack of skill on the players 
 apart, they are probably wrong, as Devil May Cry was hard on the normal difficulty but never, ever 
 felt cheap or made you spend a couple of days of play time just trying to get past a section that 
 dosent even feature a boss fight. 
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 could have been so much more, and while the action is as intense and viseral as 
 ever, and Ryu Hyabusa is still a badass, its game conventions are mired in the past too much for 
 it to be a worthy successor the first games throne.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: roosterbeast
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden is kinda like stabbing yourself in the foot, at first it hurts. Then after ahwile 
 you get numb (probably from hitting the x and y button) it takes ahwile before you realize what 
 you are doing really sucks! The game is visually beautiful, if you can see it between the many 
 deaths that you will occur. Plus the camera seems to be opperated by a grade 4 student with a BLINDFOLD! 
 I have been a gamer for over 20 years and this is the first game i have ever thrown the towel in 
 on. 7 hours on one boss is not fun, just plain annoying! If you are type of player with extreme 
 paitence and high tolerance for the continue button then this one might be for you. The weapons 
 and violence is very high, which a wicked part of this game. You feel very behind the wheel with 
 the killing aspect. This game is a for sure renter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eseries
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  If you liked the original, you'll be happy with this game. While reviewers describe the difficulty 
 as cheap, I'd like to say that even if there is some cheap damage dealt, they for sure made the 
 game easier on gamers. There's more moves, finishers, and your life is regenerated at every save 
 point. Throw in the fact that when a boss defeats you, you start back at the boss instead of a 
 mile and 3 groups of black ninjas away. The gore is very satisfying, and you really feel the impact 
 you make on enemies with your enemies. The magic is kind of ghetto, but is awesome if used as a 
 trick to avoid cheap damage as using it renders you invulnerable until you cast it. Overall, I 
 enjoy it more than the original, though it didn't stray from the familiar formula. The difficulty 
 and gore are upped for more fun, way more weapons opens it up to people who play differently (Lunar 
 all the way!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgn1rountree
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is a great follow up of the first Ninja Gaiden.
  
  Graphics: Character models for everyone, and thing looks great in a sense is that they look more 
 organic than in the first game. The detail of everything is gorgeous and sharp. From the water, 
 fire, explosions, and of course blood is top notch.
  
  Gameplay: Not much has changed since the first game, but what changes are present make Ninja Gaiden 
 2 an instant pick up for fans. In the game you can change weapons and use items you collect in 
 the game from the D-Pad. Saving in the game also refills your health bar after tough fight from 
 the local (and unfriendly) natives. Combos flow and connect alot better from the first game, and 
 the new "fatality" moves are so enjoyable and easy to pull off. Another great improvement from 
 the first game is that when unlock new moves like wall jumping, the game shows a little video of 
 the new moves so that newbies can learn them much faster and easier. The bow and arrows are greatly 
 improve by being able to jump and shoot at the same time, to charging up the power of the arrows 
 you shoot, double the amount you can care (30) , and FINALLY have a target reticule (something the 
 first game didn't have) . The Ninpo or magic attacks can attack more than one enemy like the "Wind 
 Blades", "Art of Inferno", and "Art of the Piercing Void". Sometimes the enemies can be really 
 challenging to just down right cheap. Example: on Chapter 8, you'll be facing "Commando Ninjas" 
 with rocket launchers that can shoot 6 or 7 rockets at time, and these fiend cyborg hybrids that 
 can take alot of damage. Even when you're using the Eclispe Schye the most powerful weapon in the 
 game IMO.
  
  Story: The story... well let's just say it's no Star Wars: KOTOR or Halo. It's basic stuff, like 
 stop the Fiends (demonic creatures) from resurrecting the "Arch Fiend" from hell, so hell on Earth 
 won't occur. The writing is sometimes average, and sometimes just right stupid. I mean at the end 
 of Chapter 2, Ryu and his father could have clearly destroy that guy (which I can't think of his 
 name right now) together so I won't have to worry about him later in the game. I've only played 
 through Chapter 4 (now on Chapter 9) because I'm playing my friend's verison at his house (I still 
 own an Xbox 1 : (
  
  Negatives: Well I just said one of them above, the second one is that there is no multi player 
 in Ninja Gaiden 2. Seriously Tecmo WTF? It would have been great if this game had at LEAST have 
 co-op in it!!! There to many loads in the game. It's not like there long, it's just that they're 
 so many of them. Like pausing the game, using the D-Pad to select weapons and items.
  
  Bottom Line: If you love hack and slash games, and is tired of playing "Devil May Cry 4", and you 
 have a 360 well as expensive as games are today, I still recommend you rent it first, or borrow 
 from a friend of yours!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: impactzone678
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  this game is great if you like the ninja style game. But to understand the story line you would 
 have played the first game before this game. my favorite weapons are the sages weapon and the bladerunners. 
 It is a crazy and addictive game to play . But like i said before you have to like these type of 
 games to have the same feeling i do. And when i read some of these reviews i dont agree with the 
 standards people look at the style of games with and i dont like those people who have never played 
 the game who post bad comments about the game. So when you look at a game to check out and play 
 for a time when your bored pull out ninja gaiden 2 and have a great time playing its addictive 
 and some times frusrating story mode and when your really bored just pull a friend into the action 
 with you and kick ninja but with the hayabusa ninja. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: refreak-1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is an artistic masterpiece. It manages to bring a much needed dose of quality and 
 style to the action adventure and hack and slash genres. The gameplay has a very slick, fluid feel 
 to it and the controls are extremely responsive. In other words, even in the midst of the ensuing 
 chaos on screen, you always feel like you have complete control. As fast paced as the action is, 
 the controls feel so natural that you actually have time to plan which combos you're going to unleash 
 on your foes next. Graphically, Ninja Gaiden 2 is unsurpassed. It's among those precious few games 
 that hold the title of best graphics on the console. The physics are simply breathtaking, and the 
 obliteration techniques, along with the dismemberments that preceed them, will absolutely blow 
 your mind. In my opinion, this game is an instant classic, and a must have for any 360 owner. I 
 just can't see how anyone wouldn't thoroughly enjoy this game.
  
  p. s. Thanks for another great one Mr. Itagaki. We will all miss your work with Team Ninja, but we 
 hope to see more of your technical genious in the near future... no matter which company you end 
 up with. God Bless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LadySia
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is beautifully made, but the problem is that even on the easiest setting it's too hard 
 to beat. A game with an easy setting should have the setting be just that EASY not Easy=hard, normal= 
 very hard and hard=insanely difficult.
  
  I think the people who created the game should have really taken that into account. Beyond that 
 it was well done, but as I put in my classification... Almost, but not quite. It just didn't make 
 the grade for me. I'll probably play until it's beaten but then I won't play it again.
  
  Not much else to say here.
  
  Now I am seriously ticked off. A requirement for a review is 
 100 words and 800 characters. Seriously where do they come up with these things? I really wish 
 people would get a clue. Some people are of a few words and not full of praise or anything else. 
 Get a clue! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creeping-deth87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  The original Ninja Gaiden for the X-Box was an incredible action-game masterpiece. Though many 
 were turned off by the brutal difficulty of the gameplay, the game somehow managed to make an enjoyable 
 experience out of the sometimes frustrating challenge of actually beating it.
  
  Unfortunately, this is not the case with its illustrious sequel. Many of the components which made 
 the original Ninja Gaiden what it was are simply not present in this installment. The foes in the 
 original game were a blast to fight against. Who could forget their first tangle with the Black 
 Spider clan as they made their first footsteps through the Vigoorian Empire. The bosses were imaginative, 
 the environments encouraged and rewarded exploration in a way which somehow did not detract from 
 the action. 
  
  Instead of building on this formula, Ninja Gaiden 2 reinvents it almost entirely. The environments 
 are quite forgettable, as the dreary colour pallette goes hand in hand with the uninspired locales 
 you'll be fighting in. The difficulty has been toned down. The easier challenge takes away from 
 Ryu's exciting fights against several on-screen foes, often pitted against what would look like 
 immeasurable odds stacked agaisnt him. To supplement this, new 'finishing moves' have been added 
 to Ryu's repertoire of attacks. While these can be satisfying to watch at first, they ultimately 
 do not make up for the rewarding sense of accomplishment that came from each encounter in the original 
 entry in the series. As if to help draw attention to this aspect, the camera also seems to focus 
 on Ryu's swordplay rather than where his foes are or where he's looking. This can be a nuissance, 
 though it doesn't detract from the game enough to make it unplayable.
  
  The biggest problem with Ninja Gaiden 2 is that it focuses more on its flash than its substance. 
 The impressive looking sword play simply does not make up for the uninspired villains that make 
 up Ryu's latest hack and slash experience. The presentation of the game looks dated as well. There 
 is very little here to be awed at. Blood will spurt out of your hapless victims and splash its 
 way onto walls, but there is nothing in the game that will drop your jaw in photorealistic brilliance.
 
  
  There is a fairly good variety of weapons to use at your disposal, but there is very little incentive 
 to ever put away the Dragon Sword and see what the other weapons can do. The story is also forgettable, 
 although this can also be said of the original Ninja Gaiden. Still, that was a forgiveable flaw 
 in what was one of the most engrossing action games to ever grace the X-Box in its life cycle. 
 Unfortunately, here it sticks its head out as another glaring flaw in a myriad of new ideas that 
 came together but ultimately did not live up to the magic of its predecessor. Though you can't 
 really blame Tecmo for trying to do something different, it just doesn't come together as cohesively 
 or seamlessly as the first game.
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 is unfortunately an uninspired sequel with nothing truly compelling about it. If 
 the new flashy sword play is all it takes to hold your attention throughout the coursre of the 
 game, then you will surely enjoy the experience. For all others even remotely skeptical, a rent 
 is highly reccommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jets78
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  i borrowed someones 360 to play this game over a weekend and it was very good but not exactly as 
 good as it should have been . butn hopefully they will take there time with part 3 cause it did 
 seem as if they rushed it out. but over all the game was pretty good i was almost going to trade 
 my ps3 in to get an elite 360 but i, ll just wait the first game that i will get is gears owar 2 
 which i played a demo for it was awsome. i did like part one a little better though even though 
 part one was a little on the almost to hard to play side i realy wish they would make a deal to 
 port this game to ps3 already i shouldnt have to wait another year for a port they did put sigma 
 on ps3 so why isnt part 2 on ps3 yet the sales would be just as good . if any body would like to 
 comment on this review please feel free idont usaly get any feed back but i would apreciate it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  now, I didn't play the first one, so this game was very new to me. and it was AMAZING! this has 
 to be one of the bloodiest games I've ever played in my entire life! and I really enjoyed this 
 game, too. the game play is pretty smooth. the controls are pretty basic, too. not hard to figure 
 out. the story doesn't make munch sense. the voice acting isn't bad, either. the camera angles 
 aren't very good. they can get a little irritating sometimes, though. the games difficulty is pretty 
 annoying. I have it on easy but it feels like it's on hard. those two things are what get me really 
 mad. but as for the obliteration techniques are really awesome! decapitating ninjas is a pretty 
 sweet hobby! and the weapons are pretty cool, too! I really enjoyed it. just got it today. and 
 I don't regret it one bit! and I'm not even really sure why people are bashing it so much. it's 
 a really awesome game that you shouldn't pass up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  I just got an XBox360 recently, and this was the first game I picked up. Having played Sigma for 
 my PS3, I wanted to see how the sequel stacked up to the original game. It didn't just stack up -- it 
 surpassed many of my expectations.
  
  As usual, the game is difficult. Hard as nails. But once you master the game, it can get a little 
 fun. It's good whenever you're angry at enemies that always get the one-up on you. Because you 
 can get a little payback by literally cutting them to pieces right before your eyes. It's executed 
 beautifully, and seeing them still trying to fight you minus a few arms and legs sends chills down 
 your spine. It's that good.
  
  The level designs are very elaborate, fresh and new. New York's my favorite level simply because 
 of the incredible amount of detail-work. I really like the different weapons you can use, and all 
 of them are powerful enough to cut your enemies to bloody shreds. You can even finish off an enemy 
 with their appendages removed to quickly put an end to their misery.
  
  Overall, NGII is well-deserving of its M label. The action is non-stop, and the pacing never slows 
 for a second. This is a worthy addition to your library.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pvt_richard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Well every fan of the series knows that the original game was the best game on Xbox. it gave the 
 world of action games a new meaning... and the next release of it Ninja Gaiden Black used the full 
 xbox power and advantages. Many wanted this game to be released on the PS2 System ... they said 
 to Itagaki: lower the graphics a little , don't make it too polish,. and many other things. But 
 Itagaki said that he looks for the quality and any game he mades must be better than any other....
 
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 is also an exclusive for the Xbox 360 
  and it is a game that any gamer would love to play 
  it is a game that delivers for the fans 
 a new experience, an improved game play and a blowing mind graphics.
  
  let us start with the hero Ryu Hayabusa
  he is a fast and a strong ninja he has many skills and 
 
  he respects the skilled fighters he meets despite if it is an enemy or a friend.
  
  in the original game the character was designed in a pretty way and had a lot of customs and weapons. 
 but it was not mush detailed .. in Ninja Gaiden 2 the character is pretty mush detailed and has 
 more skills than ever.
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 doesn't offer that variety of weapons that the original had but some weapons in 
 the original 
  had the same moves ... in Ninja Gaiden 2 the weapons has many many moves .. in fact the move list 
 for each weapon is endless so if you want to play the entire game with the dragon sword or instance 
 probably you will not even memorize all the moves for this single weapon. Team Ninja offered an 
 option that if you finished the game and wanted to start over you can use any weapon you have unlike 
 the original.
  there are some new weapons like the dual katanas which were presented in Ninja Gaiden Sigma but 
 in that game 
  they were incomplete.. In Ninja Gaiden 2 they have many many moves so everybody would find it fun 
 to play with the dual katanas.
  there is the Syth which is a large arc that Ryu uses to cut enemies into 2 parts and it is a very 
 powerful weapon.
  There are the claws.. they make Ryu a human weapon 
  with this weapon you can use the Claws by your hands and feet. They are not just a weapon they 
 are used also to climb walls...
  The krosori gama is a very powerful weapon it is consisted of a blade connected with a chain and 
 at the end of the chain there is a very heavy iron ball.... the cool thing about this weapon that 
 you can't just do a hitting action but a slice action as well....
  The Tonfas are on of my favorites... they are very speedy and can hit the enemy multiple times.. 
 the cool thing about the tonfas is that it is a hitting action not a slice action and when you 
 hit the enemy you will feel the cracking of the enemy's bones...
  the dragon sword is considered the default and the best weapon if you want to finish the game easily 
 you must use the dragon sword... Team Ninja made the Dragon Sword this time more powerful and has 
 a lot of moves and you will enjoy playing with it .
  the lunar is my favorite weapon it is now more powerful and has a variety of moves.
  
  The 
 graphics are what the fans expect, they do not differ that mush from Ninja Gaiden Sigma but the 
 Characters are more detailed and the most of the environments looks cool.
  
  the enemies in ninja gaiden 2 are the stars of the game 
  their attacks do not hurt you as much 
 as the original but they are now faster, more clever and attack you by groups the AI is marvellous. it 
 changes due to your actions so if you cut an enemy's leg or arm he becomes angry and wants to revenge. 
 so he uses all his power to damage you like hitting you multiple times and at the end he takes 
 out a grenade and blows you with him ..
  the bosses are cool to fight. some are very hard some are not very hard and maybe on is normal 
 so you can cheat to win... But some when you defeat them they reward you !!!!!!
  How ?
  by exploding and taking you with him.
  well maybe Team Ninja thought that :
  Hmmm if the skilled 
 players beat that monster what should we do?????
  - AHHH we shall reward them, but by what?
  - By making them play with that monster again... so 
 if the player beats that monster he shall explode and takes the player with him.. so the player 
 once again will play with that monster.... HAAAA haaaaaa haaaa... 
  
  
  And When i say this game is hard i mean it is really hard .
  Ninja Gaiden 2 is not a walk in 
 the park... the enemies attack you with everything they have got... and will fell like a hero when 
 you finish them off..
  
  the controls are easy and you will learn how to master attacking and blocking in no time..
  
 
  Ninja Gaiden 2 suffers from some issues... like the frame rate isn't stable like the other releases...
 
  this issue related to the game engine.. it showed its limits and because of that the graphics are 
 lowered during game play ..
  the camera also plays as an enemy in the game but you will get used to it...
  
  Ninja Gaiden 
 2 is a violent work of art it is the masterpiece of the 360.... Microsoft should be proud of it....
 
  
  if the game had a better engine and the team fixed the camera to a better one .. then this will 
 be the greatest game in history....
  
  
  i live in Palestine Territory - Israel and this game coasted me 120 us dollars... but this game 
 worth's the price... all 360 games are expensive here ...
  
  in the end i thank Itagaki and ALL his team for their efforts in Dead OR Alive series and Ninja 
 Gaiden series ..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickbouyounes
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  let me start by saying that i did like the game. the action was cool and did make it fun to play. 
 i also liked the progression of the game it kept you interested. there are a couple of things that 
 killed the game for me. although you can learn how to do the moves it mainly is button mashing. 
 since it is mainly button mashing it makes the game really easy. you can just use basic strategy 
 to over come any opponent. the AI is pretty dumb so you can get away with alot. also the enviroment 
 is poorly done, almost as if it was left over from the first ninja gaiden. The bosses in the game 
 are very easy once you figure out the trick to each boss. There are points in the game when you 
 seem to be fighting an endless supple of the same characters which makes the game boring. if your 
 looking for a fun action game this will keep you busy for about a day. i would recommend any of 
 the God of War over this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2headedhawaiian
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  My first experience with Ninja Gaiden was on the NES back in the early 90s. That was one hard game. 
 The next NG title played was the remake on Xbox, and then the remake of the remake (Sigma) on the 
 PS3. That was one hard game. The graphics, gameplay, pacing, and boss battles in both of these 
 games, when taking into account the eras in which, and the systems for which, each was released, 
 were top notch.
  
  Enter Ninja Gaiden 2 (for the Xbox 360) .
  
  You're still Ryu Hayabusa, resident badass of the Dragon lineage, wielder of the dragon sword and 
 a plethora of other exquisite instruments of death, and you're still hacking and slashing your 
 way through a fast paced, action packed, visceral thrill ride of brutality. I'd go into the story, 
 but it's just as bad as the last one... well, maybe it's worse. It's difficult to say when dealing 
 with plots so unbelievably ridiculous. But, I digress...
  
  Notable additions? Well, a larger and welcome variety of weapons, such as Wolverine-styled claws/talons 
 and an impossibly huge scythe that most Final Fantasy heroes/villains would have trouble hefting. 
 The speed of gameplay feels like it's slowed somewhat, but it's no less intense. The insanity is 
 heavily augmented by the graphic dismemberment that has been incorporated into the mix. Whereas 
 in NG/Black/Sigma, decapitations were the only form of severed body parts, NG2 rewards your violent 
 flurries of blade and staff with a veritable confetti of legs, arms, heads, and torsos. This effect 
 is more than just aesthetic, as an enemy with no legs will attempt to crawl towards you, and a 
 one-armed ninja will pull a knife and try to take the suicide bomber route. Fortunately, these 
 foes can be quickly and stylishly dispatched with Obliteration Techniques. By pressing 'Y', Ryu 
 will perform a context sensitive, weapon and level specific finishing move, which invariably ends 
 in showers of blood, flesh, and bone. A grisly pleasure, to say the least.
  
  However, it's not all fun, blood, and guts. Just to be clear, NG2 is not as solid an outing as 
 its prequel. The pacing is questionable; at time the level design is deplorable; the majority of 
 boss encounters are excercises in frustration and confusion (what is the point of having one of 
 the best combat engines ever created only to be forced to use the infinitely less satisfying bow-and-arrow 
 to take down half of these guys?) ; the frame rate takes major hits in a few areas; the graphics 
 are nothing to write home about; and, yes, there are glitches. Oh, how there are glitches.
  
  As of the writing of this review, several of the glitches have been corrected by the litany 
 of patches released since the game hit shelves (freezing at cutscenes and game-breaking respawn 
 issues in Chapter 10 which forced gamers to completely start over, among others) . Certain glitches 
 of varying annoyance have not been addressed, and probably never will be. *sigh*
  
  However, it is a testament to how solid the combat engine in NG2 is that these issues notwithstanding, 
 I still came away with a largely positive experience. It took me a little over 14 hours to defeat 
 NG2 on the Acolyte (i. e. n00b) setting, and I have little to no interest in tackling the more trying 
 difficulties. If there was less cheapness involved in the enemy design (rocket launcher hellspawn 
 with infinite ammo and clip, to name one) and fewer uninteresting, repeating boss battles, I might 
 be tempted to do so. Unfortunately, Team Ninja decided it was more important to master the fine 
 art of "realistic" boob physics of triple D blondes than it was to fine tune balancing and fix 
 all the bugs. But, hell, if they spent half as much time on the stuff that actually matters as 
 they did on meticulously crafting the many fine pairs of luscious jubblies, I have no doubt we'd 
 have the game of the decade on our hands.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickalpx
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  ninja gaiden for the xbox resurrected an old hero with everlasting strenght and will, and it quickly 
 became the best action game ever made, and one of the hardest and coolest, intuitive, violent... ninja 
 gaiden II its not better, but certainly lives up to the expectations and reproduce the game style 
 that made the first game a blast (were not talking about arcade ok? thats another territory with 
 different reviews, still great though) .
  
  the game is brutal in almost every way and the adittion of special kills make the violence not 
 only crude but funny, the graphics are not awesome (they should be...) but its still looks good, 
 the controls are very responsive, except when you need to open your side menu to heal, sometimes 
 the frame slows or get stuck, but you overlook this errors just because.. well... its ninja freakin 
 gaiden!!!!, the cutcenes are amazing but we really missed cg animation, the the ai its difficult 
 enough and as you play the game on the hardest difficulties it gets harder, an harder and presents 
 a great an fun challenge, the amount of achievements and the on line content also are a great adittion 
 and it should keep you returning more than once.
  
  ninja gaiden II its a superb game, it lacks somethings but in the end this game will tear you apart 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaifur
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  This game is truly masterpiece; the graphics and the scenery are flawless and beautiful. The game 
 and the controls feel fluid once you get used to them. There is an array of different combos to 
 be executed due to the generous weapon list, even though I found myself using the Eclipse Scythe, 
 Lunar Staff and the Dragon Sword most of the time. Throughout the game by obliterating bad ninjas 
 and monsters you acquire yellow essence which can be used to upgrade weapons to unlock further 
 complex combos as well as items from the weapons shop. The story is pretty as you would expect 
 of Team Ninja with Ryu trying to save humanity from the evil wizards and monsters, and not to mention 
 the spider clan; a long advisory to the Hyabusa clan. 
  
  The camera system is pretty cool, it can however sometimes prove annoying when it tight spots. 
 It's extremely cool when you're completing finishing moves; the camera zooms in from a downward 
 angle so you get the best view, which is cool. However, like I mentioned this may be the only flaw 
 in my opinion as in tight spots and when killing loads of villains it becomes tedious and somewhat 
 of a nuisance.
  
  Another cool thing about the game is the blood splatter, and there's lots of it, whenever you attack 
 an enemy a splatter of blood stains the environment, its looks extremely cool when using the scythe 
 and the blood follows the direction of the weapon staining across the wall, very nice. 
  
  The game is ridiculously hard, many times I found myself throwing my controller after dying at 
 boss levels or even just slicing through a crowd of bad dudes. However, if you master blocking 
 and parrying the game is slightly easier, but you have to be extremely good at it especially when 
 facing multiple monsters. One of the hardest things in the game is the Tests of Valour. These tests 
 are found in every level consisting of a relentless tide of bad guys coming at you like they just 
 don't care. Usually it's ok if you stock up on herbs of spiritual life, but sometimes the ninjas 
 come at you with rockets, exploding shurikens which you can't block, so you have to keep moving 
 and attack at the same time, couple this with the fact that the test doesn't just consist with 
 one type of bad guys, there's a mix of two or three and sometimes four. The tests increase difficulty 
 throughout the game, but the most frustrating thing about them is that after all that killing and 
 effort you only unlock 15 gamer points, harsh.
  
  At some parts in levels you feel relieved and excited to have just blood stained a whole room by 
 killing a torrent of bad dudes, then you go around the corner and there's like three times the 
 bad guys in the next room, ahhh yeah. 
  
  Overall the game is fantastic graphically and in terms of game play. The only things letting this 
 game down are the camera at certain points of the game and the fact that Ryu never changes his 
 clothes: in the first ninja gaiden he changed his clothes three or four times, that's lame. However, 
 apart from that the rest of the game as hard as it may be is awesome. Due to the difficulty levels 
 I think you get a lot for your money; the easiest setting is solid, try it on the hardest one, 
 some won't last a minute, I barely stood my ground on the easiest setting. This maybe a put-off 
 for some but it challenges you and that's what I think gaming is about, am I not right?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redstorm72
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 11:37 pm PT
Review:  After 3 remakes of the original Ninja Gaiden, the sequel has been highly anticipated. For the most 
 part NG2 delivers, but a few annoying flaws hold this game back from greatness. 
  
  What NG2 excels in is fast, fluid and brutal combat. You would be hard pressed to find a faster 
 and more violent action game on the market. All weapons have a visceral feel to them and a long 
 list of combos. In fact, the amount of combos that you can pull off sometimes makes it feel more 
 like a fighting game. If the thought of memorizing combos makes you sick you can get buy on the 
 easy and normal difficulties buy button mashing. Another strong suit of this game are the boss 
 battles. Almost every boss battle is epic and will test your skills (some more than others, but 
 more on that later) . There is also a surprising amount of unlockables in the game (higher difficulties, 
 costumes, gamer pics etc) which lends its self to replayability.
  
  Unfortunately all is not well in Ninja Gaiden land. One major problem that was a constant annoyance 
 was the camera. Most of the time the camera was unable to keep up with the action and made platforming 
 element very frustrating. Another problem with the game was the inconsistent difficulty. For example, 
 in one boss battle you must kill two giant dragons while at the same time having to deal with half 
 a doze smaller flying demons. Then in the next boss fight you have to fight only one giant dragon 
 with no support. Why does it go from hard to easy? That's one of the many mysteries of NG2. One 
 another note, the story of NG2 is just plain awful (it basically boils down to bad guys are going 
 to raise even badder guy, kill everything, girl with massive boobs) .
  
  In the end NG2 is a game you will love to hate. It will make you swear yell and cry (and possibly 
 break a controller or two) but the gameplay is so satisfying that you can mostly look by these 
 flaws.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden that brings back so many good memories and this sequel to ninja Gaiden will do exactly 
 the same, only this time it will also make you feel alive and excited again about gaming. Ninja 
 Gaiden 2 serves its purpose well enough to revive you from run of the mill games already existing 
 by introducing new and improved fighting styles. But it doesn't do enough to build upon the continued 
 storyline that first started in ninja gaiden and the fighting seems not as challenging as it did 
 before.
  
  The same style of game play will be familiar to most fans but it also adds in its own unique and 
 interesting style of game play which not only balances the game out but makes it look and feel 
 sharper. The way the new fighting techniques and familiar fighting styles are implemented really 
 stand out considerably amongst the storyline and other game play elements. If none of the drawbacks 
 in this game make you feel like this sequel doesn'; t appeal to you , then you should feel fine 
 with this sequel and enjoy to it's fullest as long as it is.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CriticR83r
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the best games ever made so times the game gets a lilttle fusterating 
 but some how it all seems to pay off by getting a new wepon getting a new xbox acchivment finishing 
 the level or more the point is best game ever made i dunno how team ninja does it. obvessly u play 
 as a ninja that kills other messed up ninjas i no it sounds pointless theres a real story line 
 and its awesome there could be a book or even a show ninja gaiden. ive not really played the first 
 game but oh well it doesnt even matter when a games is that awsome. my reveiw of the game sux but 
 trust best 50 dollars ull ever spend in ur life! it kinda sux there no multi player but oh well 
 amazing game when i lost the game i was mad but even when u loose the game atleast u can say i 
 had the game i allmost beat it but oh well i lost it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenaciousAds
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  Bloody i mean Bloody Amazing it is the game of the century crap ass camera pisses you off but very 
 very enjoyable. I have had the game for 4 days and it took all 4 to beat accoyte and i enjoyed 
 it it pissed be off alot but it is worth it if you hav freezing probs go to your harddrive press 
 y then xx LB RB xx then yes do not do the updates and it will play fine this game has awesome graphics 
 and amazing game graphic this my friends is the best game i have ever played i would recommend 
 it to every one in the planet do not give up because of its extreme hardness just keep trying if 
 you need help contact me through xbox live or game spot x box live would be easier my xbox live 
 account is mastercheif025.
  
  The Game
  If you are intrested to know about the game heres the place you play has ryu hayabusa you are the 
 last descentdent of the dragon lineage this game begins when sonia (CIA agent you know the blonde 
 with big ****s ) goes to muramusa (the old guy) looking for you this a long cutscene with no skipping 
 options unless you already seen it now when Sonia says "all i'll say is it concerns the achfiend" 
 bang the black spiderclan attack but the only thing in your head is either (hmmmmmm wats the archfiend) 
 or you're thinking ( get on withit i want to play) any way Ryu comes kicks ass but fails to save 
 Sonia you then chase after and find out the 4 greater fiends hav returned to ressurect the archfiend 
 but first they need the dragon statue you must stop them but they get away you must hunt the fiends 
 one by one to stop the ressurection of the archfiend thats all i'll say buy this game now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bochap76
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:50 am PT
Review:  Let me begin by stating that I think that Ninja Gaiden is a masterpeice; so I was really hoping 
 that NG 2 would deliver. I regretfully must say that it is a let down. I think that Itagaki has 
 missed with the fanbase that made NG so successfull. I have played 7 missions and have no desire 
 to go any further. I got 3 missions in on the warrior setting and had to go back and play the acolyte 
 setting so that I would progress faster and enjoy the game more, but after slaving through missions 
 5 and 6 I am just ready to quit, because I am tired of having to replay so much. The block system 
 is almost broken compared to the original NG. You can't rely on block because the enemies grab 
 you and dish out severe punishment, and if you don't block then a hundred projectiles come blind 
 siding you from unknown locations, because the camera angle sucks. The camera angle in my opinion 
 is 3 times as bad as it was in the first. I learned to adapt in the first game, in NG 2 even after 
 you center your view your still left looking at a wall while your getting bombarded by multiple 
 enemies. It almost feels like the game play was rushed and unfinished. Overall the whole game feels 
 like a lazy effort by Itagaki. Sigma looks as good as NG2 in my opinion. Its almost as if the Obliteration 
 techniques and dismemberments were supposed to carry NG2; And they do somewhat, but it just isn't 
 enough to overshadow the cheap lazy difficulty and sucky camera angles that were implemented. I 
 thought that GS was off on this review after reading what others had wrote, but after spending 
 several hours playing, I say that an 8 is generous. At times when playing, I feel that the whole 
 game is broken, others I feel like it is somewhat polished. The whole interpretation of NY city 
 was bland and looked like an arena from Dead or Alive 3 from the original Xbox. Team Ninja is still 
 using the same engine from last gen in its action and fighting games; Higher res textures are the 
 only difference. To me it just seems lazy, and it shows in NG 2. Ninja Gaiden should be Tecmo's 
 Halo or Zelda. They should have made sure it would be well accepted and loved. Instead they released 
 a sub par game that failed to equal its predecessor that has been out for over 3 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigCat2K20
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 6:58 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden II is a TRUE sequel and don't give two pennies what critics have to say about it. 
 Sure, NG II does have it's downfalls, but it ain't going to stop people from popping that game 
 into an Xbox 360 console and get their money's worth. This game's story is about 99% of vengeance 
 and 1% of love! I won't spoil it for ya! WARNING, this review is based on my opinion alone! If 
 you don't like it, there's two ways: respectfully disagree or don't say nothing, it's that simple. 
 By the way, I rented this game and I'm in Chapter 12. Here's my pros and cons of Ninja Gaiden II.
 
  
  
  +Gameplay is bloody awesome
  +Ultimate/Obliteration Techniques are an brilliant idea
  +Responsive controls
  +Most weapons 
 are useful and don't have to rely on Dragon Sword to beat the game like first NG/Black!
  +Checkpoints is still the same
  +Enemies/main bosses have improve. However....
  +Story is better 
 to understand than DMC 4, but...
  +Defense and dodging are a must in order to survive and beat this game
  +Graphics looks good
 
  
  Neutral 
  
  Regenerative health system
  Ninja Cinema is a good idea, but where's rewind/fast forward system? Halo 3 has it for pete's sake!
 
  Unless you like it in Japanese version, voice acting is a total hit or miss
  
  -Glitch when getting beat up, midway chapter 10 on mini worm fiends or tearing fiends in half and 
 it says "now loading". It happens 90% of the time
  -Eniemies/main bosses are fifty million times cheaper than ever!
  -Camera angle is still broken
 
  -Story could have been better and kept gamers interested
  -Slow down game later on Chapter 10
  -The game should be hard, not extremely cheap and hard!
 
  -Recycling bosses (fighing Genshin FOUR times?! Wake up Team Ninja/Tecmo)
  
  I love Ninja Gaiden II and it had all the potential to become the best action/Hack-N-Slash game 
 in 2008. I know fanboys will trash me for "slamming" this game into the ground. Anytime a game 
 has issues with cheapness difficulty, replaying bosses three or four times, several glitches, broken 
 down camera angle and it slows down, some negatives will out weights positives. In the end of the 
 day, I'll still be buying and playing it in the future. Since Gamespot has modified their review 
 score, I'll give mine's: Ninja Gaiden II gets an 7.5 out of 10.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: heavybotpoko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  The game is brillient in terms of the action like when your taking out six bad guys at once but 
 the boss fights sometimes are unfair because of the amount of damage they do to you and the opposite 
 happens when the player hits the boss. The graphics are not quite as good as ninja gaiden or ninja 
 gaiden sigma on the ps3 but are reasonsble enough.
  Also sometimes the enemies are too fast to attack like those dogs with swords in their mouths who 
 also seem to be able to throw those explosive shurikins at you.
  Ok so the game out of 10 from me would get 8.5.
  
  The end, just typing now so i can achieve 
 the 100 word count or i cant post this review.
  
  ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko kok ok ok ok o ko ko k ok ok 
 o ko k ok ok ok ok o ko k ok o ok ok k okok l ko k ok ok ok o ko ko k ok ok o ko k ok ok o ko k 
 o ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko koko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko 
 ko ko ko ko ko ko 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  If you're not ready to put the time and effort into this game, prepare for self-inflicted Obliteration 
 very early on ;) even on the so-called Easy/Acolyte difficulty but if you do spend the time then 
 it pays off big time! It's even better than Ninja Gaiden Black!
  
  Arguably one of the Top 10 games ever created! 
  
  
 
  The Good
  
  - Gameplay   Very unique and challenging, takes a while to get used to then it's a complete blast 
 to play the game and watch the slaughterfest! Very similar to the original game on the Xbox so 
 a plus if you've played it.
  
  - Combos   From Ultimate Techniques to Obliterations and the infinite combos, there's so much depth 
 you can keep coming back for ages for new moves. The obliteration technique was a good add-on, 
 looks like Assassin's creed's finish kills but way more visceral.
  
  - Graphics / Art Style   Looks really good, the art style and bosses are very well done, pretty 
 spectacular when in full combat action.
  
  - Save points   More save points than NGBlack and you can go back to save if needed, well balanced.
 
  
  - Red Costume   Looks cool!
  
  - Collecting Items   30 skulls, not 400 flags or 500 orbs!
  
  - Achievements   Pretty well 
 balanced.
  
  - Button Mashing doesn't work!
  
  - Co-op   Would be awesome!
  
  - Slow-Motion   An optional F. E. A. R.-esque slow-mo mode would be a pretty cool plus to see actions 
 in more detail.
  
  
  The Bad
  
  - Update Glitch   If you downloaded 
 the patch (if you're online) then you have to uninstall it to finish the game and play offline, 
 not a big deal but at least the patch needs to be removed, poorly tested!
  
  - Camera   Not as bad as I expected based on the reviews I read, could be better but with so much 
 speed could get you dizzy if they move it too much.
  
  - Easy (Acolyte) Difficulty   Not as easy as you might think, still pretty hard for casual gamers. 
 Just check the forums for many disappointed players who don't want to put the effort.
  
  - Dialogue   Really cheesy, could be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redsident
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  This game is good and this game is difficult. This game is pretty-it's shiny, the blood and water 
 effects are great. 
  
  It plays the same as the original with the addition of extra weapons and the dismembered limbs 
 feature on enemies when they are attacked, which is great; it adds some level of realism to the 
 gameplay.
  
  Although the camera issues haven't been fixed, that's actually not my main complaint (I actually 
 didn't think much could've been done to the camera system without changing the core gameplay, so 
 I didn't really see that as a fault) .
  
  Now to my point... No matter how absurd the story was in first Ninja Gaiden as it is in this installment, 
 that didn't matter. What really captivated me from playing the original game were the cutscenes-the 
 CG animation in the original were some of the best put forth at the time, on any platform. They 
 were so gorgeous, they sucked you into the story and made you need to play the game. Remember the 
 second round Alma boss fight when she crashes through the church window, glass shatters everywhere, 
 and it starts to slow motion-it feels like the whole world slows down with that one scene. It's 
 art in motion and you don't get that same level of awe from the second of the series. I was expecting 
 the cutscenes in Ninja Gaiden II to better (if not on par?) than most games today-it's not-and 
 in my opinion, that's where it failed to meet expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doodsicle
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is an improvement over the original in several ways, but not so many as to make 
 it really stand out in the annals of gaming history. The combat is face-paced and exhilarating, 
 as expected of a Ninja Gaiden title. 
  
  The inclusion of choice of difficulty is nice for for gamers like myself who are far from hardcore. 
 The Path of the Acolyte difficulty is challenging and many of the boss fights will take a reload 
 or two, but it certainly isn't the controller-smashingly frustrating difficulty of Ninja Gaiden. 
 I'm sure I could relive that experience on Path of the Warrior if I chose to do so, but I'm quite 
 comfortable with being an acolyte, thank you very much. 
  
  The game gives you a nice variety of weapons to choose from so you'll likely find a method of dismembering 
 that tickles your fancy. That being said, there doesn't really seem to be that much to differentiate 
 one weapon from another. One may have a slight advantage in some situations over another sure, 
 but really the choices really just seem to be for flavour. Not that that's a bad thing, I'm sure 
 everyone has their favourite way of turning evil ninjas into evil ninja chunklets. 
  
  A quick note on evil ninja chunklets: Ninja Gaiden 2 is not for people afraid of blood. Every strike 
 from your character spills a large amount of gore to redecorate the landscape. Enemies usually 
 keep fighting until they're short several limbs and/or their head. It's quite shocking for a well 
 adjusted person the first few times you're standing in a shower of body parts without an umbrella 
 but after the first dozen or so decapitated baddies you stop reacting to it. In fact, you start 
 seeing enemies short the full number of limbs as opportunities to execute special "Obliteration" 
 attacks: one hit kills against anyone you've already amputated a limb or two from.
  
  One place the combat does suffer is the camera. Whoever is operating the camera doesn't seem to 
 be interested in the bad guys who are all too eager to chop you to tiny ninja mincemeat. It's easy 
 to lose track of bad guys during an intense fight (which, if you're wondering, is ALL of the fights) . 
 
  
  There aren't a lot of things happening between fights, which is just as well as your hands and 
 eyes are probably better off for the break. The few platforming elements are simple and were likely 
 included just to allow your heart rate to slow down a bit between fights. That said, one of the 
 higher points in the game is the pacing: The frequency and intensity of fights increases as you 
 approach battles with a boss. 
  
  One final beef are the swimming segments. They really feel as if the developers had a little time 
 to kill at the end of development and decided to spend it submerging areas of the game. The swimming 
 controls can be generously described as awkward. The same description could be used to describe 
 underwater combat if I felt like making a grievous understatement. It's so bad that the developers 
 changed the speargun from the first game into a minigun-esque explosive-harpoon firing gun so you 
 can try to avoid having to use your sword.
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 is a good game. Not a great game. It's fun if you're looking for a fast paced game 
 to get your blood pumping and your enemy's splattering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moldyspud
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately, it's not nearly as satisfying as the first one. If you enjoy being hit by a monster 
 and having a huge chunk of your life taken away then this game is for you.
  
  It's a frustrating game, but at least with the first one it was worth doing! I felt like it meant 
 something. Now with the second, I feel like they just slapped a bunch of crappy cutscenes that 
 make almost no sense together and threw it in a game. I could really care less about the story... 
 whatever it is... and the characters are just there like some cheap budget horror movie on UPN. 
 
  
  While hacking and slashing is fun... I'd like some reward. I flew threw the first 5 chapters and 
 felt like nothing had happened or progressed at all. I kept getting weapon after weapon, and while 
 that would be nice, they made everything so expensive that you wouldn't be able to upgrade anything 
 until later in the game which makes having this stuff worthless! You are better off just upgrading 
 the sword, because that's the only thing that's going to get you through the game anyway. 
  
  I kept getting sick of the regular enemies cheap shotting me with all their frustrating glory. 
 It's extremely easy to die rather quickly since one of them can hit you and chop off half your 
 life. While you are attempting to be an amazing ninja, enemy b will toss a tiny chopstick at you 
 and make you stumble like a retard. This game destroys your inner desires to be a ninja and leaves 
 you feeling like an inadequate lover more times than it allows you to feel like an amazing skillful 
 ninja. 
  
  The boss fights are usually a matter of luck and how much health restoring items you have. They 
 all are totally random and there aren't much of any patterns to identify to actually beat them, 
 you wind up having to attempt to dodge some attacks and usually you wind up getting thrown which 
 you have no way to get out of. So instead of developing quick reflexes and timing, you learn how 
 deep down if you didn't pay so much you'd be more than satisfied smashing your controller over 
 and over until it's in a million pieces. It's the kind of game where, if you don't get at least 
 half the bosses life before he hits you one time... you might as well start over...
  
  That leads me to another problem, save points seem to be placed at the worst possible locations, 
 so you are forced to go through hordes of enemies and if you didn't get cheaply murdered by them 
 spamming throws on you, you'll be lucky to find another save point. They like hiding them in places 
 you wouldn't bother looking for. Because honestly, the character models are great but the backgrounds 
 are nothing to be excited about.
  
  This is not a great game, it's very frustrating with small rewards. It's not worth your trouble, 
 and after awhile you'll probably get the urge to turn it off rather than complete it. It's just 
 too annoying to go through the same things over and over searching for the next save point.
  
  To improve this game I think a better camera control system would be nice... why can't I turn 
 the camera in all directions? Why is the camera so slow while my character is super fast? Often 
 I'll fly off the screen and the slow camera will show up and I'm being pounded by werewolves who 
 will easily kill you with a charge. Why can't I just turn around like a ninja instead of some clumsy 
 drunken fat guy? I'm a NINJA!!!
  
  When I completed the game I felt like I accomplished nothing more than the ability to endure frustration 
 and annoyance. The boss fights are not memorable, the story is stupid, and you could care less 
 about the characters. The most fun you will have is amputating enemies, and... with all your skill 
 completely mutilating a single target. Which is rather nice after being surrounded by five fireball 
 and shuriken tossing cheap throw enemies. 
  
  After thirty minutes or so, you'd probably rather turn it off than continue rolling your eyes at 
 the annoying gameplay. I'm still waiting for a Ninja game that actually makes you feel like a NINJA 
 instead of gung ho one man army who usually gets his ass kicked a million times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DocDVD
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 22, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  The game is a disgrace for the name Ninja Gaiden. I played every version of the first one but this 
 so called sequel is a disaster:
  The camera is your main enemy (on so many levels worse than the first part w/o the camera fix) . 
 In a hectic fight you have no idea where you are or where your enemy are - that makes using tactis 
 nearly impossible.
  Combine that with fights in small spaces and the game becomes no fun at all. Expect to die multiple 
 times, not because of lacking skill, but because the game makes any effort to frustrate you on 
 every level.
  
  The levels are uninspired, the later chapters are a joke - why do I have to fight all bosses from 
 the earlier chapters again? Have the developers no more ideas or what?
  
  The final boss is a total disaster as well - who had the idea that the only way to fight him is 
 by bow/charged arrow??? Boooooring!
  
  Save your money or go buy Ninja Gaiden Black (or Sigma if you have a PS3 as well) - far better 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hermitkermit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: THe game really is a fast, furious, ninja orgy of action. There are at least 10 or some 
 weapons in the game, and each has it's own fighting style. The gore and new obliteration moves 
 add to the M rating, as well as the healing dragon statues. THe game's combat is smooth and responsive 
 as well as fun and fast. THe game is unfair at times, while I am kicking some fiend ass, and lobbing 
 limbs off, the next I am staring at the new GAME OVER screen.
  
  Graphics: Shiny..... smooth.... Ryu's suit looks um uh ninja like.... All in all the gore, and blood 
 makes this an eye teaser.
  
  Sound: Music gets repetitive, dialogue is just as you expect in any ninja Gaiden game. 
  
  
 Replay Value: As always, this game is worth playing through again at least twice! The ablity to 
 film and watch your self is an added bonus!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Najohn
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a game where the enemies will scare the Cr@p out of you when you turn that 
 corner to see millions of blood thrusty demoned enemies, ready to tear you lim from lim. To counter 
 that, the weapon combos were like MK meets a new challenge. I have never played a game with such 
 an amazing array of weapons (other then Call of Duty 4) and be able to be so freely throughout 
 each mission (like GTA IV) . The character detail was like you could see every once of blood drop 
 off of Ryu's face, and the realistic, bloodly, gore that was broughten to the game, made GTA IV's 
 M rating, complaints from millions of gamer's parents, seem like a tea party compared to Ninja 
 Gaiden 2. This game was simply amazing, it is not for people who hate the sight of blood, yet gives 
 gamers that always wanted Asian touch not many experience (If you don't live in an Asian country) . 
 All that is need now is an online game play, don't know how, they just need one though, I can't 
 wait for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattVans
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Yes the original was quite hard but not too hard if you gave it at least a few hours of your time. 
 By the time Sigma came out it seemed just right.
  
  Now this true sequel has come out, if anything it's toned down and easier than the original. I 
 cannot work out where people are coming from with saying it's hard.
  
  It's great. If you want to chill out and have a decent challenge then get this. Graphics are great, 
 physics are good, plenty of weapons to keep you happy. Not only that, you can chop heads and limbs 
 off which is very satisfying.
  
  I'm only giving it 8.5 as it isn't a huge jump from the original in terms of gameplay. On the flip-side 
 though, the first was very good.
  
  If you do see a review scoring about 5 or less you can guarantee they'll be moaning how hard it 
 is, (it's not) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_jeebo
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 delivers everything a gamer is looking for in a single player hack 'n' slash action 
 game. Violence, variety, challenge, and then more violence. The up to standards level design, smooth 
 story telling, unhindered progression, character models and environments that are to say the least 
 aestheticaly pleasing, and exciting gameplay more than make up for the odd glitch or cheap shot 
 here and there.
  
  Ryu is a fitting protagonist for a hack and slash action game, in that he is a man of little words 
 and many weapons. Though the plot is your straight forward 'good guy must stop bad guy from doing 
 something bad', which offers nothing in the way of unexpected occurances or 'twists', it is easy 
 to follow and just interesting enough for the player not to get bored. 
  
  The gameplay itself is pretty standard for hack n slash games, so it is not innovative, but why 
 fix what aint broken? The variety in weapons combined with the ultra violence of chopping enemies 
 limbs off makes for a thrilling action experience. 
  
  However, the cheap shots that many enemies can take at you can sometimes be worsened by the punishing 
 difficulty, and occasionally difficult camera. In many cases though the difficulty makes your eventual 
 win more rewarding, so a difficulty spike here and there shouldn't be enough to put the player 
 off. Overall this game is a thoroughly enjoyable experience reminiscent of the days when shinobi 
 was our ninja hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaleem80
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 continues the story of Ryu and the Fiends, where Ryu still hungers for revenge and 
 the Fiends wish to take over the world. A new character is present where she is ordered to look 
 for Ryu by the CIA so they can work together to bring down the Fiends. This game features many 
 more bad and good guys, each with their own unique personalities. You'll find that the story is 
 not what the game is trying to concentrate on, but more on the action.
  
  The game has many weapons to play with, and almost every level, you are given a new weapon and 
 location which keeps the gameplay fresh. In Ninja Gaiden, one of the most exciting times are when 
 making combos and seeing your enemies blood and guts fly all over the place. You can perform obliteration 
 techniques, which are strong moves, and combine them with fast moves to eradicate the enemy. Ninja 
 Gaiden did a good job in enemy AI, where enemies work together, counter, run along walls, follow 
 you if you flee and even sorround you. Boss fights are the best part, where you have to think what 
 moves, weapons and strategy would be good enough to take them down.
  
  Ninja Gaiden has a fun feature called Ninja Cinema, 
  where you can record you game and post 
 it online. The point is to show off to people your moves and even to get proffesional advice from 
 them on how to get better. 
  There are no glitches with graphics and sound. Sound works perfectly in sorround sound, and the 
 voice acting seems so real. You will find that Ryu actually has emotions in the game. (FINALLY!!!) 
 Everything is constantly happening so fast and still the graphics are so smooth. When you are done 
 with the game, the game will reward you with unlockables and game modes to get you to play the 
 whole game the second time.
  
  Overall, Ninja Gaiden 2 is a really fast, fun, sassy and a good looking game that beats any action 
 game this year, even the ones to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10finalfantasy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  Through the many graphic upgrades and remake after remake I was relieved to know they would move 
 on in the story. While I love the game it is nearly identical to Black with slightly better background 
 graphics and a ramped up essence. Seeing the game it made me think "it took them this long to make 
 a sequel" even more stunning I would think that they would try to utilise the next gen systems 
 to their advantage. While I was glad to find out what happens to Ryu Hayabusa the gameplay seemed 
 too hmmmmmm basic. I will admit it was hard and I thoroughly enjoy the quicker essence charge and 
 obliteration, as well as free camera control. By the end of the game fighting seemed to principal 
 like straping lights to a not impressive rock. Overall it was fun but fell short of what I have 
 come to expect from next gen games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireblade1234
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  this game is really good for what it is. I haven't played a good hack and slash game in a long 
 time. great options for weapons and items. it is sometime frustrating with horde of monstrers being 
 more difficult than the bosses. 
  
  I am only half way through the game but it has been really fun to uncover a lot of the skulls. 
 I don't like that the weapons have only three levels. I maxed my main weapon, dragon sword in chapter 
 two. it would have been nicer to have a more chapter dependent level system.
  
  the long range system in the game is good. two of the weapons, the bow and the spear gun have a 
 delay. This causes your character to take damage while in the transition and aiming. it is one 
 of the more frustrating parts of the game.
  
  if you are looking for a challenging and fun game pick this up. like many reviews the camera is 
 sometimes frustrating but easily avoidable by picking good areas to fight the hordes of monsters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t_76
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2008 2:51 am PT
Review:  First of all what's up with the whole ken doll approach? Don't know if anybody picked that up when 
 walking in slow motion with the character. Okay... not a big deal, but you get less items in this 
 game than in the first one, and also the camera and the action is not in your favor, be ready to 
 have the odds stacked against the player. Ninja Gaiden2 in my opinion is not a enjoyable game period. 
 Having to go into first person view to shoot an arrow at a particular spot on a boss or enemy is 
 just plain lame. Matter of fact it made me quit playing the game. Ninja Gaiden2 should have been 
 a fun game to play a hundred times over; not constantly having some developers or designers personal 
 touch on what they think a good game is. Summoning up Ninja Gaiden2 in a nut shell is like this. 
 Graphics... of course their good. Replay value... heck no, unless you like the flying sparrow and 
 searching in first person view while frozen in time, because the character cannot move while in 
 that position too find the right spot to hit the enemy or boss tinker bell light in order to do 
 some damage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migsten
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden II is fun to play. It is very simple and is very much the same as its predecessors. 
 It has nice clean graphics, and a lot of blood. The combat is enjoyable and you get a wide variety 
 of weapons to use. There are four different difficulties and all but the easy difficulty (Acolyte) 
 are almost impossible. All enemies are capable of pulling off an overly aggressive combo on you 
 even when you hit them before they execute it. But if you are a milisecond away from executing 
 a combo on an enemy they'll stop you from doing it even if they barely hit you. There are many 
 new enemies and most of them now have ranged attacks that are out of your control. You cannot block 
 them. Some even have machine guns and rocket launchers. The soldiers with the rocket launchers 
 are especially annoying because they are able to shoot a rocket every second and even shoot you 
 when you're only 5 feet in front of them yet they don't take any damage. I had a decent amount 
 of fun from playing this game but I think the developer did a better job of making the game unnecessarily 
 difficult just to show how hard they can make a game rather than bring something new to the table 
 with Ninja Gaiden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyraxSnake
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  I checked around the users reviews and found that no normal human can ever finish this game because 
 it is supposedly to hard. I played this game for about 10 hours now and I never found any point 
 in the game where I "threw around the controller" or anything like that.
  
  The first thing you should get used to is that you have to adjust the camera every couple of seconds, 
 what helps is that you can adjust the camera speed in the options menu, making it much easier to 
 adjust the view when you are in a pinch.
  
  The only little thing I could discover that didn't really suit me is in fact the camera. Whenever 
 the player moves around in a claustrophobic space the camera often gets stuck in corners or under 
 the player's feet which makes some battles with the fiends somewhat tedious or even dissapointing 
 because you are missing on some awesome move that you just pulled off. 
  
  The graphics and sound are good in this game because the action is solid and looks great. What 
 rose to my attention is that the game sometimes falls into an abyss that I like to call boredom. 
 Whenever you are running around in Venice-like surroundings and fall into a very long cave with 
 just long walls of rock, a sense of boredom may rise. 
  
  As far as the graphics go, the game looks good but sometimes has environments that do not really 
 attract any attention and just serve as some plain backdrop where all the attention should be on 
 the action instead of the background. 
  
  The gameplay remains the same in this sequel what only deserves praise from the consumer. The gameplay 
 is solid and much faster and fluid as it was in the first game. Ninja Gaiden II does not let you 
 take a brief rest from the action, it just keeps on going, whenever you think you are having a 
 break from fighting, another horde of enemies peek around the corner to stop you in your tracks. 
 
  
  Overall this game is well worth playing and everyone should at least try it. Upgrading weapons, 
 action-packed fights, challenging bosses and tons of moves make this game a winner for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bez2083
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is very pleasing if you enjoyed the first one. The one thing that I was slightly 
 surprised about though was the fact that the game didn't improve much graphically over the first. 
 While the camera is even more annoying than it was on the first, and the story is absolute horse ----, 
 this game still satisfies action junkies of even the highest levels.
  
  The assortment of weapons is definitely a plus and the boss battles are better than the first, 
 in my opinion. Obliteration techniques never get old and the ninpo system finally has an aiming 
 mechanism. My personal favorite thing about NG2 are the test of valor. Killing as many fiends as 
 possible in order to get that extra item that will help you along the way is so satisfying. If 
 you own a 360 and don't have this game, you lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denian01
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden II is easily one of the best action games on Xbox 360. The depth in combat is as exciting 
 as ever and the new gameplay additions and changes only add to the experience. 
  
  Frustrating camera and all. It's challenging and rewarding. It looks great in motion and it feels 
 great to know you're the one at the helm, directing this bloody dance. This sequel still offers 
 up a great ride. Start doing thumb exercises now. Your poor fingers are going to be worn out by 
 the time you get through this adrenaline pumping blast.
  
  At the end, the game is very difficult but if you lose a boss fight, just try again an again!
 
  If you can't beat them, you're just not (yet) good enough!
  But that's the charm, or some will say the frustrating part of this ninja gaiden game!
  
  Everyone 
 and i mean everyone has to play this game, not only the fans of the first ninja gaiden game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warokku
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I am what you may call a dedicated Playstation fan and quite honestly Ninja Gaiden 2 was one of 
 the main reasons I bought an Xbox 360.
  Having played the original Xbox version of Ninja Gaiden and Ninja Gaiden Sigma on PS3 (and now 
 the downloaded Ninja Gaiden Black on the 360) , Ninja Gaiden 2 was a must buy/ must play game for 
 me. Initially I was disappointed with the games content and difficulty but after getting stuck 
 into it, I realised that it is very close to being as legendary as it's predecessor.
  There are many similarities to the original but many differences too. Unfortunately there no armlets 
 which was a little disappointing and the skull collecting scheme doesn't quite compare to the scarab 
 collection scheme in Ninja Gaiden. Story content is slightly shallow compared to the original, 
 combine the three missing elements stated above and I would say that Ninja Gaiden would be the 
 perfect game. Story line and locations are still great and some of the little extra game play points 
 really can help substitute for the missing elements. 
  For me it's another buy or die release, unfortunately it doesn't look like it will come out on 
 PS3... hence buying a 360 (being a great fan of Ninja Gaiden) .
  At the moment I don't think that there is a substitute on the PS3... Devil May Cry 4, although being 
 a great game is in a different league all together.
  Ninja Gaiden 2 offers high adrenaline, fast paced action with lavish graphics and details. If you 
 liked/ loved the original Ninja Gaiden, you will love the sequel.
  In addition, after having played all of the origianl Xbox and PS3 versions of Ninja Gaiden. NG2 
 offers plenty of downlaodable extra's that the originals don't have to offer, especially in the 
 form of costumes. There are some very nice costumes on offer for download and another point... NG2 
 in many ways is very similar to the origainal 1988 arcade game in the way of being able to fight 
 your way through the "Skylands" of Tokyo and the streets of New York, which for me was one of the 
 greatest attractions of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setho10
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 14, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  The hype was massive, at least in the mind of this reviewer. After hundreds of hours spent with 
 the original the sequel was finally here. Would it be faster, bloodier, bolder, bigger, prettier 
 and better than the original? These are the thoughts that went through my head as the opening cinematic 
 loaded in Ninja Gaiden 2. The first thing you'll notice when the game starts is just how much it 
 looks like Ninja Gaiden on Xbox. It's obvious that this, like DOA 4 before it uses the same engine 
 Team Ninja made for last generation. Then you start the slicing and you realize that while the 
 game may not look much better from a texture and lighting standpoint, the animation is head and 
 shoulders above its predecessor. Ryu moves so quickly and with such fluidity it literally takes 
 a couple hours before the mind can catch up to just how fast this game moves. Then it happens. 
 At first it's just a moment here and there, then it becomes more common. Yes, the framerate starts 
 diving, and by diving I mean into a 50 foot pool here. It is heartbreaking to see a game that seems 
 so strong to start fall so far so quickly. Even worse is remembering the liquid smooth framerate 
 of the first game. What happened? Whether it is due to director Itigaki's fight with company Tecmo, 
 or whether the engine just wasn't suited to multiple processor design, Ninja Gaiden II is a failure 
 of epic proportions, and not for just that reason.
  
  The story in Ninja Gaiden II makes little sense, but essentially sees lead character Ryu Hyabusa 
 trying to stop The Spider Clan ninjas and their fiend partners from resurrecting the arch fiend 
 and bringing about the end of the world. There is almost no character development, and the plot 
 is paper-thin. It's mostly an excuse to let Ryu travel around the world defeating each of the Greater 
 Fiends. It's not that the story is hard to follow, it's just that it fails so incredibly in making 
 you care about the characters involved. Other than Ryu all the characters are easy throwaways you 
 could find in any action game. The cutscenes using the in game engine aren't as impressive as those 
 in the Xbox game, and the female characters are all so well endowed that they become more of a 
 joke than any real dramatic foil. 
  
  The action fares much better. Unlike the useless weapon selection in the first game, almost every 
 weapon is fun and useful in any situation. They all feature an amazingly deep move set that puts 
 similar games to shame. In fact the combat in Ninja Gaiden 2 I closer to a fighting game than an 
 action game, and, when it isn't running at 5 FPS, it is truly is beautiful. Ryu slices or smashes 
 enemies to bits, tearing off arms and legs with massive sprays of blood and guts. But be warned, 
 losing an arm doesn't mean much to a fiend, it only makes him more bloodthirsty. Therefore wounded 
 enemies must be finished using obliteration techniques. These violent and flashy finishers are 
 the visual highlight of the game and add even more strategy to an already deep combat system. 
 
  
  The combat's depth, and the intelligence of the enemies you face means melee combat stays enjoyable 
 from the beginning of the game to the end. The same can't be said about ranged combat which gets 
 old before it even starts. For some reason Team Ninja felt the need to include flying enemies and 
 bosses that can only be killed by Ryu's bow. Now I'm just as big a fan of shooters as anyone, but 
 not of those that don't let me move and shoot at the same time. Note this isn't Resident Evil where 
 you are fighting slow zombies and have plenty of time to aim and then reposition yourself. No, 
 almost all enemies in NG2 have ranged attacks and almost all of those attacks knock you back. One 
 sequence was enough to make me literally scream obscenities at the screen in frustration. In a 
 Moscow themed level Ryu is attacked by hordes of Rocket Launching enemies. Whoever thought putting 
 rockets into a game where you play as a Ninja needs to get shot. Every time Ryu stops moving five 
 rockets hit him and knock him down. By the time he gets back up five more have hit him back down 
 again, eventually leading to a death that not even the most skilled player can get out of. The 
 glory of Ninja Gaiden has always been that a skilled player can easily beat any situation. Such 
 is not the case with the rocket launching enemies, who are beat mostly by luck and trial and error. 
 After all, a duel between a bow and arrow and thirty rocketeers holed up in a fortified building 
 can only be beaten with a healthy helping of pure luck. 
  
  If the ranged combat was the only problem with the game I could possibly recommend it to more patient 
 players, but the framerate and glitches just ruin the game for anyone. Unlike the nearly glitch 
 free NG1, this game broke on me several times. Once a boss glitched out of a level forcing me to 
 load a previous save. Another time an enemy spawned behind a wall and I could not move forward 
 until killing it. Again I had to restart. Another time my Ninpo magic refused to fire, and Ryu 
 became stuck in the animation, again forcing a restart. The game also crashed and froze several 
 times throughout my playtime. Finally, at least one level is completely ruined by the framerate. 
 This level, which would have easily been the most impressive had the framerate been steady, moves 
 along at about 15 FPS until one segment in which the game moves like a slideshow for about 20 minutes 
 worth of game. This is especially unacceptable because the game is using an engine built for the 
 Xbox and uses almost no advanced lighting or shading effects. 
  
  The game has even more flaws. The pacing of the game is terrible. Unlike the first game, which 
 broke up the combat with the occasional puzzle or platforming segment, Ninja Gaiden II is combat 
 from the first moment until you beat the final boss. As great as the combat is it really gets boring 
 after playing for 20+ hours. A simple puzzle here and there would have really alleviated this. 
 Finally, the game just looks and sounds bad. The voice acting is terrible, the music is uninspired, 
 the levels are largely dull and mundane, and the enemy design is formulaic. 
  
  While I may be wailing on this game, it should be noted that NG2 is still tons of fun when things 
 are working. When the framrate is high, and the glitches are absent, NG2 still manages to entertain 
 like no action game since its predecessor. It's combat is also simply the deepest in any action 
 game bar none. The animation is also top notch, and at times the game runs so blisteringly fast 
 you can barely keep up. It's just a shame that the game eventually collapses under its own ambition, 
 disappointing in almost every regard.
  
  Many may wonder about the difficulty in NG2. I would say that this game is more aggravating than 
 the first game but no harder. If you couldn't beat the first game you wont have any more luck this 
 time around, but Master Ninjas should have no issues finishing off the game without getting the 
 100 continues achievement. 
  
  An average player should have no problem beating this game in under 20 hours, and while that may 
 seem like a long time for an action game, so few players will reach the end credits that it really 
 doesn't matter. If they aren't discouraged by the plethora of bugs or crappy framerate they will 
 surrender to the game's incredibly cheap and frustrating difficulty. 
  
  Because of those reasons Ninja Gaiden II is a staggering disappointment that drops a bomb of Devil 
 May Cry 2 proportions. Not since that game has a series gone from so great to so bad in just one 
 iteration. Hopefully Ninja Gaiden will continue to follow the pattern and the third game will be 
 by far the best in the series. Here's to hope. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JUE2000
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  i couldn't get enough of this game even though i couldn't finish the story because the game crashed 
 on chapter 11.
  
  the weapons are amazing and the graphics are gobvsmackingly good. anytime i see a picture of a 
 katana i crave this game probably the only thing i don't like about it is the blood splatter but 
 that means nothing. i love how perfect the gore is, its not too hard to cut your enemies up but 
 its not as easy as cutting hardened milk, just perfect! 
  
  the fighting is epic and its so realistic the way they all move and how certain enemies move in 
 pack and stick in the background waiting for one slight faillior and they will pounce. 
  
  Its clever how they made the user interface although i still don't completely understand the health 
 bar but I'm sure its very clever. team ninja kick ass!!
  
  fighting skills 10/10
  graphics 9/10
  action 12/10! baby!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seancgn68
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I really do enjoy this game. I am not quite finished yet, but have probably put 10 hours or so 
 into the game. The graphics are beautiful, the action is intense, and it moves along at a nice 
 pace. Lots of cool weapons that seem to function fairly well with the control scheme, although 
 sometimes controls seem unresponsive when you are really getting beat on. My biggest complaint 
 about the game is the wonky camera. Why ,oh why do we STILL have games where the camera flips out 
 and points in every direction except the one you need it too, especially if you are near a wall, 
 low ceiling, etc.. Come on people, this is next gen... lets get it together! There are plenty of 
 games like this that have decent cameras that make gameplay much more enjoyable. Heavenly Sword 
 & most of the true fighting game like Soul Caliber jump to mind. Anyway, it is incredibly infuriating, 
 and does take away from the game quite a bit. Fix that, and I'd give it a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volcanicdragon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  At first glance, as an original Ninja Gaiden fan I was a bit worried about the highly critical 
 review by Gamespot about NG2. According to Kevin, it was absolutely dissastrous with the camera 
 and supposedly the environments were ugly. Considering the only picture of the environments he 
 has up here is of a green cave you spend 5 mins in, that is pretty harsh. He didn't bother to mention 
 the vast array of attractive scenery that Ryu explores throughout the sequel. Like the sparkling 
 waterfall at sunset, the jungles of South America, the bridge of a massive flying warship. The 
 list goes on and on for environmental creativity , not to mention Next Gen beauty. .. Oh and Kevin? 
 Those "unblockable rockets" he mentioned that supposedly are shot by "invisible foes" is a load 
 of bull. If he knew how to use the Wind Run technique he would have no difficulty dodging the rockets 
 and spotting the humans that shoot them. Seriously NG2 on Acolyte difficulty is not hard. But what 
 people do complain about is the intense and terrifying difficulty of the Warrior, Mentor and Master 
 Ninja modes that is built for only the most hardcore players. So there is a setting for everyone, 
 if you can't beat it, know that its simply cause your not good enough :) . Anyways besides the fantastic 
 looking/feeling/sounding attacks and weapons, the game brings what it needs in a good sequel without 
 taking from the old that made it so desirable in the first place. If you want to call yourself 
 a gamer, you must play Ninja Gaiden 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar1221
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  
  Pros: Bloody, best pure action game, combat is rewarding and fun, Great boss battles, new weapons
 
  Cons: Bad story, some of the platforming is bad, characters are forgettable, and not likable (besides 
 ryu)
  
  Ninja Gaiden has always been a great franchise, from the original on the Arcade/NES to the Xbox 
 and PS3 Ninja Gaiden.. The game has always been about fast action paced, ninja action. With blood, 
 swords, and a rewarding difficulty. Now Ninja Gaiden 2 is out exclusively on the Xbox 360, and 
 i can assure you its bigger, better, and more Bad ass then the original. 
  
  Ninja Gaiden's stories have never been easy to tell, and usually a non factor in the overall game. 
 You just want to get into the action. Ninja Gaiden story involves Ryu Hayabusha, Ninja's, Demons, 
 and an Evil Ninja group. All you need to know is they want you dead, and they will do anything 
 to make sure you are not coming back. The story is broken down into different chapters, and if 
 you care you can read through the short description of whats going on, like i said, the story is 
 not engaging and is hard to understand.. but that is not what Ninja Gaiden all about..
  
  I can stand here today and say Ninja Gaiden is the bloodiest, and most satisfy game to kill. Ninja 
 Gaiden is all about action like i said. You want to be the most bad ass Ninja ever, and this game 
 greatly improves in that way. Ninja Gaiden had small amounts of blood, and Ninja Skills were there, 
 but this game totally takes that to whole new level i have never seen. Unlike most games, common 
 enemies don't have a health bar, the way you kill them is by full disembodiment. You can slash 
 all you want, but you gotta be strategic when fighting, you gotta make you sure you take off a 
 limb with a normal attack, then you hit the Y button, and do a crazy finishing move.. doing this 
 over and over so so satisfying.. you leave the bloody seen with limbs everywhere, and blood on 
 your weapon. As an added feature, after you kill, you clean your blade.. The combat system is just 
 filled with cool combos, finish moves, that will just get you to scream.. OH SNAP!! so many of 
 those..
  
  I have been getting a lot of people saying the game was difficult, now idk if they are playing 
 on a different difficulty setting, but the normal mode is quite tolerable.. considering previous 
 game.. i felt it was not too cheap or too hard.. With that added, you also get more potions, and 
 you re-heal after every major battle, plus save points seem more frequent. The challenge in the 
 game to me is a non-issue. Another thing i got was the camera.. personally i found the camera to 
 be sufficient, nothing too great.. but i did not have a time where it bothered me..
  
  In the Old Ninja Gaiden, you only had on weapon, the dragon sword.. the classic Ninja sword.. but 
 now you got a whole new bundle of ninja toys to play with.. everything from dual swords, to wolverine 
 like claws, to scythes, and staffs.. and much more.. and all the weapons have upgrades to them.. 
 each weapon has some plus and minuses.. and give players a diverse set of weapons to pick, finding 
 your right one, that fits your play style. This is one of the coolest new features, because of 
 all the added depth in the already unproved combat system, one nitpick is that the weapons are 
 not in any of the cut scenes (always with the dragon sword, except for a few special times)
  
  Along with the new combat, the game has very impressive boss battles after every chapter, these 
 are big, bad, and just cool looking.. they also have a great deal of challenge, which is lacking 
 in so many games these days.. bosses look cool except for they are easy.. (although final boss 
 was simple then others..) you also get a great variety of enemies, from demon dogs, to demons, 
 to other ninjas.. to robots! its got a lot..
  
  Overall Ninja Gaiden is better then the original.. its a shame that reviews got an early not finished 
 copy when they reviewed the game.. its amazing!
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: Besides the mediocre platforming, Ninja Gaiden is a blast to play. and there is nothing 
 more satisfying then chopping off the limps of a demon.. that just makes you forget those parts, 
 plus enemy AI.. top notch!
  Graphics: One of the best looking games i ever played, everything is shiny, well animated, although 
 sometimes it gets bland.. but top notch character models.. and blood! the game is just good to 
 look at
  Sound: whats there is great.. the music is good.. and the voice work may be a bit corny.. it still 
 does its job
  Value: i guess its about 10 or so hours.. more or less depending on your skill.. but its worth 
 playing more then once.. plus DC content (new mission already out)
  Overall: Its a must buy for any Action, or Ninja Gaiden fan.. If you have an Xbox 360.. you won't 
 go wrong with this gem 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Bloody, best pure action game, combat is rewarding and fun, Great boss battles, new weapons
 
  Cons: Bad story, some of the platforming is bad, characters are forgettable, and not likable (besides 
 ryu)
  
  Ninja Gaiden has always been a great franchise, from the original on the Arcade/NES to the Xbox 
 and PS3 Ninja Gaiden.. The game has always been about fast action paced, ninja action. With blood, 
 swords, and a rewarding difficulty. Now Ninja Gaiden 2 is out exclusively on the Xbox 360, and 
 i can assure you its bigger, better, and more Bad ass then the original. 
  
  Ninja Gaiden's stories have never been easy to tell, and usually a non factor in the overall game. 
 You just want to get into the action. Ninja Gaiden story involves Ryu Hayabusha, Ninja's, Demons, 
 and an Evil Ninja group. All you need to know is they want you dead, and they will do anything 
 to make sure you are not coming back. The story is broken down into different chapters, and if 
 you care you can read through the short description of whats going on, like i said, the story is 
 not engaging and is hard to understand.. but that is not what Ninja Gaiden all about..
  
  I can stand here today and say Ninja Gaiden is the bloodiest, and most satisfy game to kill. Ninja 
 Gaiden is all about action like i said. You want to be the most bad ass Ninja ever, and this game 
 greatly improves in that way. Ninja Gaiden had small amounts of blood, and Ninja Skills were there, 
 but this game totally takes that to whole new level i have never seen. Unlike most games, common 
 enemies don't have a health bar, the way you kill them is by full disembodiment. You can slash 
 all you want, but you gotta be strategic when fighting, you gotta make you sure you take off a 
 limb with a normal attack, then you hit the Y button, and do a crazy finishing move.. doing this 
 over and over so so satisfying.. you leave the bloody seen with limbs everywhere, and blood on 
 your weapon. As an added feature, after you kill, you clean your blade.. The combat system is just 
 filled with cool combos, finish moves, that will just get you to scream.. OH SNAP!! so many of 
 those..
  
  I have been getting a lot of people saying the game was difficult, now idk if they are playing 
 on a different difficulty setting, but the normal mode is quite tolerable.. considering previous 
 game.. i felt it was not too cheap or too hard.. With that added, you also get more potions, and 
 you re-heal after every major battle, plus save points seem more frequent. The challenge in the 
 game to me is a non-issue. Another thing i got was the camera.. personally i found the camera to 
 be sufficient, nothing too great.. but i did not have a time where it bothered me..
  
  In the Old Ninja Gaiden, you only had on weapon, the dragon sword.. the classic Ninja sword.. but 
 now you got a whole new bundle of ninja toys to play with.. everything from dual swords, to wolverine 
 like claws, to scythes, and staffs.. and much more.. and all the weapons have upgrades to them.. 
 each weapon has some plus and minuses.. and give players a diverse set of weapons to pick, finding 
 your right one, that fits your play style. This is one of the coolest new features, because of 
 all the added depth in the already unproved combat system, one nitpick is that the weapons are 
 not in any of the cut scenes (always with the dragon sword, except for a few special times)
  
  Along with the new combat, the game has very impressive boss battles after every chapter, these 
 are big, bad, and just cool looking.. they also have a great deal of challenge, which is lacking 
 in so many games these days.. bosses look cool except for they are easy.. (although final boss 
 was simple then others..) you also get a great variety of enemies, from demon dogs, to demons, 
 to other ninjas.. to robots! its got a lot..
  
  Overall Ninja Gaiden is better then the original.. its a shame that reviews got an early not finished 
 copy when they reviewed the game.. its amazing!
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: Besides the mediocre platforming, Ninja Gaiden is a blast to play. and there is nothing 
 more satisfying then chopping off the limps of a demon.. that just makes you forget those parts, 
 plus enemy AI.. top notch!
  Graphics: One of the best looking games i ever played, everything is shiny, well animated, although 
 sometimes it gets bland.. but top notch character models.. and blood! the game is just good to 
 look at
  Sound: whats there is great.. the music is good.. and the voice work may be a bit corny.. it still 
 does its job
  Value: i guess its about 10 or so hours.. more or less depending on your skill.. but its worth 
 playing more then once.. plus DC content (new mission already out)
  Overall: Its a must buy for any Action, or Ninja Gaiden fan.. If you have an Xbox 360.. you won't 
 go wrong with this gem 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zy-9er
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  ninja gaiden 2 is a great game great graphics and game play but if your looking for a good story 
 line you wont like this one couse the story line are not good as the first one was but the gameplay 
 are realy awesome and fun and they added a lot new moves finishing moves and they are very good 
 and if you are an ng fan you will love it the game are harshly dificalt on the ( path of the warrior 
 ) mode you can play it on the other mode the one that it's much esayer on it so it's the same as 
 the first one was hard to play and fun to play in the same time but there are one problem that 
 if you gona play it on the esayer mode you will be board couse of playing the game and beating 
 it in under than 7 hours the sound effects on the a 5.1 system are realy good in it and there are 
 no map as the first one was so you can go where ever you want there are more than 10 chapters and 
 you have to walk and kill everyone on your way so that you can beat the chapter and go to other 
 one wich it's on a new place and of course it's one of the bloodiest games id ever seen wich is 
 good new thing the camera mode have changed for the worse? yes it is couse when you jump for the 
 other side the camera wont move so that the enemy come and hit you.
  
  so now finally the game now available and it's great and fun so that you wont leave till you beat 
 it and the game are really one of the best action adventure games so if you love action adventure 
 games it's really on of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  In the game you are a ninja named Ryu and you have to defeat other ninja tribes called the black 
 spider clan. On the first level this girl once to find you and help you but she gets kidnapped 
 and you have to go after her by killing the other ninjas and defeating the boss on the first level 
 you save her. Then on the second level you go to this village and I would call it a city hall. 
 And it is burning down and the dark lord is there and so is the girl that kidnapped your friend. 
 When you are going up there your father is versusing the dark lord and also defending a prize treasure 
 but when you get up there your father falls down and you versus against the dark lord and the girl 
 takes the prize treasure. After you win against the dark lord then you help your father up and 
 you go on to the next level. The game is hard and there are also items and you can also up grade 
 you weapons.
  
  The good of this game is that the graphics and the blood and gore are awesome.
  
  The bad of 
 this game is that the camera angle is terrible.
  
  Overall I rate this game 9.5 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HamPster300
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  What an incredible disappointment . . to those expecting a sequel true to the style and feel of 
 the first, at least. Ninja Gaiden 2 is a game with two faces and two different ways of viewing 
 it. I, like everyone else who enjoyed the first Ninja Gaiden for XBOX, waited in terse anticipation 
 through two updates of the original over 4 years (which were in their own right stellar, and very 
 enjoyable improvements) for the sequel to what is in my mind one of the greatest action games in 
 existance. In Ninja Gaiden, defense, strategy, precision, timing, quick reflexes, and good instincts 
 were all forefront in the path to mastering the game and amassing huge point totals. The karma 
 system remains one of the best judges of skill in gaming. It constantly demanded a better performance 
 to post a better score and climb the ranks on the leaderboards of XBOX Live. There was always a 
 way to slice and dice your opponents quicker and make a more efficient use of time and resources. 
 If you failed, you deserved it. If you succeeded, you definitely earned it. There were no enemy 
 patterns to learn, if a strategy worked once, it didn't necessarily mean it would work again, or 
 if it did, there was always the possibility of finding a better one. You really felt as if you 
 were a ninja, stealthily and expertly decimating your opponents and slithering through the shadows. 
 
  
  However, in Ninja Gaiden 2, everything, and I do mean everything, changes. The same weapons from 
 the first game don't have the same attacks. The Reverse Wind technique of rolling out of the way 
 has been changed to an awkward dash which nearly has the effect of stunning Ryu rather than helping 
 him. The smartest action game I've ever played has been reduced to a veritable hack-and-slash. 
 I was expecting an extension of the first game, another adventure with the same character I'd come 
 to know so well. What I got was a completely changed character, and were it not for familiar faces 
 at the very least, I wouldn't have known I was playing a sequel, but a completely different game 
 and series altogether. Some complain that a sequel that plays too much like the original feels 
 like reheated leftovers, and I agree to a certain point . . but it's up to the game makers to introduce 
 new skills, abilities, and challenges to the player while maintaining the mechanics and gameplay 
 that drew you into its predecessor. In essence, a game that is like a good sequel to a movie you 
 watched a hundred times. Ninja Gaiden 2 feels like they reached to a completely different audience 
 while trying to trick the fans of the first into thinking they were getting a continuation. 
  
  Here's where it gets tricky. As a sequel to Ninja Gaiden, it feels like a massive, albeit very 
 pretty and flashy failure. As a standalone game played by someone who didn't play the original 
 or who doesn't mind that it's nothing like it, it still packs a very nice punch. For as disappointed 
 as I am, an objective viewpoint still sees an action game that stands above most of the competition 
 in the genre. While I don't see many graphical improvements over the original game, (which was 
 a visually stunning standout for the last console generation) , which is surprising, given the next-gen 
 platform, the animations are a silky smooth, bloody show that will make even the toughest guy snicker 
 with glee. The finishing moves are a nice addition, and the whole feel of battle is more realistic 
 thanks to sword slashes removing limbs and crippling opponents. However, as previously mentioned, 
 the encounters have been dumbed down to where it feels more like Dynasty Warriors than a game featuring 
 a ninja. Even gamers that are truly impressed all will agree about the camera, which makes the 
 quicker, more frantically out of control battles a trial and error experience on par with games 
 circa the Nintendo and Super Nintendo era, where you learned an enemies' pattern and then had to 
 execute a set in stone strategy to defeat them. Only in Ninja Gaiden 2, in one of the few consistencies 
 with the first, there is no pattern to the enemies. In fact, they're all smarter, quicker, and 
 in some instances ridiculously tougher. You're constantly being hit by enemies you can't see, and 
 who are very tough to eventually find even when you know the general area you need to turn to. 
 There are very few times when the camera actually pulls back far enough to let you see what's around 
 Ryu rather than showcasing the hero, and nearly only the hero himself. 
  
  The scope of the game is a bit broader, but that also makes it more confusing, because you frequently 
 find yourself wandering around looking for a way to move out of the area you're in. And because 
 of Ryu's agile ability to reach higher and further than mere mortals, some of the exits are out 
 of the range of what you initially look for, and very few clues are given to lead you in the right 
 direction. The bosses are more frequent, but in another surprising twist, some of them are downright 
 impossible to successfully and carefully defeat. Some bosses execute several unblockable attacks 
 and are very difficult to even navigate around without getting swatted, and the best strategy against 
 them is to stock up on grains and herbs of spiritual life. In a game that feels like more fantasy 
 than reality, it seems odd that the battle mechanics would take a turn for the realistic. 
  
  Overall, the game is objectively solid. However, since the opinion reflected in this review 
 is my own, I'm greatly disappointed that this game feels nothing like its predecessor, and seems 
 to have gone the way of the summer blockbuster sequel. Bigger, flashier, bloodier, and faster, 
 but utterly devoid of anything that resembles the game that spends most of its time spinning in 
 my console, which is a real shame, because with a little polish here and there, it could really 
 be a solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iraqi_Gangster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  If you get back to the origins of Ninjas, they were a group secret assassins specializing with 
 arts of assassination, poison, archery, stealth and secrecy. The syllable "nin" itself means secrecy, 
 assassination and endurance in Japanese. Well, Ninja Gaiden 2 is far from that. Instead of a stealth 
 gameplay, you are put to fights hordes of demons and rival ninjas with your bloody techniques, 
 weapons and Ninpo arts. It is not good as its predecessors but as fun as it.
  
  As usual, you play as Ryu Hayabusa. A young leader of the Dragon clan (of course, what ninjas be 
 without dragons :P) and one of finest ninjas of that clan. The story begins with introducing the 
 games babe, Sonia. She is a CIA agent who looks for Ryu to help her to stop a great danger concerning 
 the Arch-fiend. Sounds stupid, I know. So the story will is just an excuse to make fight millions 
 of ninjas and giant demons. But the story isn't really important in the game. It is the core gameplay 
 makes the game worth playing.
  
  The graphics aren't up to the standards of its predecessors but not bad though. Some (not all of 
 them though) environments are not detailed well and have bland textures. The green cave is a good 
 example of that. The character models are great and detailed well and ranges from big boobies to 
 blood thirsty werewolves. Although it has quite outstanding models but the shadows and lights are 
 dynamic or impressive as Devil May Cry 4 had and it is pretty weird to see shadows on the ground 
 and there is no one and then you realize they are on the upper floor. What would Ninja Gaiden do 
 without blood? The game got bloodier and even gorier. Blood showers are smooth and seeing someone's 
 limb flying around is cool too. Aside from the great blood and gore effects, it has few problems 
 as well. Sometimes the blood will get on the invisible wall of some environments. Gore isn't great 
 as Ninja Gaiden 2 makes it. You can cut almost every part of your enemies' body and it is fun to 
 see their limbs fly around the stage with blood shower. The most superior thing is the smooth animations. 
 It is good to see Ryu using his deadly weapons and move them around and kill his enemies with finishing 
 moves. To make it short, Ryu is the best moving character I've ever seen in a video game. 
  
  The gameplay has become more excited and they fastened the pace which is a good thing. They 
 even added a couple of new features and fixed some flaws. One of the new exciting things is the 
 Obliteration technique. After cutting a limb of your enemies while performing a combo, if you press 
 Y Ryu will perform a deadly finishing move and kill them instantly. Thanks to the great animations, 
 it is always fun to perform these Obliteration techniques. The combat system is very simple: X 
 for light attack, Y for heavy attack (surprisingly they are not slow) , B is for projectile attack 
 (like shrukin, bows... etc) and Y+B for Ninpo. Ryu can counter incoming attacks. All you have to 
 do it press X or Y while blocking just before an enemy's attack hits you. You will start the game 
 with your trusty Dragon Sword and an unlimited amount of Shrukin. You will acquire new weapons, 
 items and ninpos throughout the game. Every weapon has a wide array of combos even the heavy blunt 
 ones. Each of them can be used for different situation whether you are fighting a tough fiend or 
 surrounded by a group of scorpions. They added a targeting system to the Ninpos which and prove 
 useful when you fight a boss with dozens of ninjas. The healing items are back along with the Life 
 of God stones and The Thousand Lives of Gods that extend your health bar. You can extend your Ninpo 
 gauge with the Devil stones and you can also level up your Ninpos with the Demon Jewel stone. The 
 armlets aren't featured in this game. The game's camera is annoying and can be pretty frustrating 
 at some time. You have to keep the R button pressed many times just to center the camera behind 
 Ryu's back. Ryu's is quite acrobatic. He can run on walls and jump from a one to one without losing 
 balance or anything. This might be good to avoid some slashes and smashes.
  
  Your enemies have a good AI and they are not stupid. If they see you block too much, they will 
 grab you and if you cut their limbs they will get angry and act suicidal. Your enemies range from 
 foot ninjas, assault ninjas with modern weapons, fiends, werewolves and so many big badass demons.
 
  
  Team Ninja added more saving statues to each stage and they will heal you once which is a good 
 thing if you have a bloody fight. There is even a health regeneration system. It works like this: 
 if you get hit a lot, a red bar will appear on the right side on the health bar. This is your endurance 
 limit. When the fight is over, your health will be restored to that point. All these features will 
 add a hope to continue the stage. As any Ninja Gaiden fan would expect, the game is hard and the 
 difficulties consist of four stages: Acolyte (normal) , Warrior (hard) , Mentor (very hard) and Master 
 (ultra hard) . Mentor is unlocked after you beat the game either with Acolyte or Warrior and Master 
 is unlocked by the game with Mentor. Changing difficulties will replace the enemies with stronger 
 one (e. g. lesser werewolves will be replaced with greater werewolves) and the number of enemies 
 will be doubled. Sometimes it crosses the line into cheapness. Yes, cheapness. On the first level, 
 it will put you against Ninjas with Rocket Launchers and what makes worse, they launch multiple 
 rockets and they don't even reload (that is on Mentor) . That is cheap but all these are rewarded 
 with achievements so this and the unlockable custom varieties should be a motive to beat the game.
 
  
  The boss battles are fun and unique. You have to use a different stage against each one of them. 
 Each stage has at least one boss and some has more. You will fight the four Greater Fiends twice 
 and some of them are not hard to beat if you have a decent amount of health potions. When you kill 
 enemies you will either get Yellow (currency) , Blue (health) and Red (ninpo power) essences. Yellow 
 can be used to purchase items and upgrade weapons at Murasama's shop. They are scattered around 
 every stage.
  
  Aside from the bloody action, you can also go around and collect 30 hidden Crystal Skulls. Collecting 
 them will give you achievements. Another new thing is that you can now film your playthrough with 
 the new Ninja Cinema feature. It can be toggled anytime in the game to film your playthroughs full 
 of blood. You can see them and even apply two cinematic effects to them but don't consider it as 
 video editing. And you can upload your videos to the web alongside with leaderboards.
  
  The game's most disappointing thing is the unstable frame rate. The frames drop when you fight 
 too much enemies and it gets more frame hit when you toggle the Ninja Cinema. To make it even worse, 
 the game might freeze for one or two seconds and then go back normal. People who play on Acolyte 
 won't have this problem because you won't fight millions of ninjas at once. 
  
  The game's cut scenes are great and dramatic but the English voice acting is some what cheesy. 
 It is weird to hear Ayane say "Uhh The true dragon sword" like a baby. You can also switch the 
 voices to Japanese. The game's music consists of rock, techno and orchestra. It adds a bit ambience 
 to the game and it fits perfectly. Sound effects are totally mind blowing. Hearing your sword slashing 
 someone's limb will make feel like a badass. Sounds of blood shower, roars of angry werewolves 
 and Ryu's furious expressions while killing someone should make the game's sound effect great.
 
  
  The characters in the game are quite interesting. By all the means Ryu is complete badass, he can 
 use any weapon, run on any wall and in same time being so honorable and good. While the demons 
 from the other hand have zero sympathy or bath in blood naked before killing you. And the old man 
 Murasama is still in shape. Itakagi is in this game so it means there will be big boobs. The two 
 femme fatales have big boobs and it is amusing to see the air moves them around thanks to the great 
 booby physics.
  
  Despite many frustrating flaws, Ninja Gaiden 2 might not be good as it predecessor but it still 
 got few tricks up its sleeve. You will have a lot of fun killing the enemies and cut their limbs 
 and burn big badass bosses to the ground. Ninja Gaiden 2 is worth playing and can be fun but it 
 could've been better.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scratcholic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  The game is so much better than the 1st Ninja Gaiden in terms of graphics, sound, controls and 
 camera (the camera can be shockingly awful still but better than gaiden 1) . The gameplay lags when 
 too many moving objects are involved in real time, which they have released an update or but the 
 same update caused the xbox to crash at chapter 10 and 12. 
  
  The blood and gore is awesome not just because I like to see blood everywhere and enemies get decapitated 
 in pieces but also indicates that to live like a ninja (fantasy and myths) you have to be able 
 to deal with that much death without become a blood lusty 'FOOL'. CHEESE!!! Which also makes me 
 wonder, when are they gonna make Dynasty Warriors like that, because the true path of a warrior 
 leads to purification of a blood bath. CHEESE!!!
  
  The Rocket Ninja appeared in chapter 8 are just silly... I mean they have probably made a lot of 
 players throw their controllers at their Xbox or screens... I didn't but I did curse the Xbox controllers 
 and Team Ninja for given those unlimited rockets/missiles... NOT CHEESE!!!
  
  ... and what was all the CHEESEESSYYYY cut scene about??? A Ninja doesn't need to talk, Fiends can't 
 speak  just need to know how to make noise with lots of Reverb... and 
 Ryu shall just say 'HA' then decapitate their heads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zenpou_Tenshin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  "Tomonobu Itagaki has evolutionized the action genre of gaming."
  
  Welcome to my review of Ninja Gaiden II for the Xbox 360. The Ninja Gaiden series has been around 
 since March, 1989. As time elapsed, the series has developed quite drastically. Thanks to Tomonobu 
 Itagaki and Team Ninja, the series was revived in 2004 with the release of Ninja Gaiden (Xbox) . 
 Now, four years later, Itagaki has released a true next gen sequel to the original Ninja Gaiden.
 
  
  [Spoiler Warning]
  
  Presentation:
  
  From the title screen, to the scenes and menus, this game is presented wonderfully. Each menu has 
 it's own eye catching material. The title screen is what impressed me the most. Swords carved into 
 the ground alongside of thick blades of grass moving with the wind.
  
  In the Ninja Gaiden II logo, you will see that the II/2 is written in blood. The logo seems very 
 parallel to an already bloody game. You will given the chance to choose from 5 difficulty levels. 
 Each difficulty level is unique in it's own way.
  
  
  Story: (Spoilers)
  
  Similar to any other Ninja Gaiden, this game also focuses less on the story aspect. You are Ryu 
 Hayabusa, the worlds strongest ninja. Sonia, a CIA agent informs you on the resurrection of the 
 Archfiend. The Demon Statue, located and protected in the Hayabusa Ninja Village is the only item 
 that can trigger the resurrection of the Archfiend.
  
  Ryu heads to his village, only to find out that Elizebet and Genshin, leader of the Black Spider 
 Clan, have stolen the Demon Statue. Ryu must follow Elizebet and Genshin in order to prevent the 
 resurrection of the Archfiend. Ninja Gaiden II contains a straight forward story of revenge.
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics of this game are truly next gen. Ryu Hayabusa's sprite is 
 stunning and exceptionally smooth. The game's levels are visually stunning (with the exception 
 of the green level) . Each and every level has an original feel to it, making the game feel unique. 
 The textures and coloring are very well done and seem parallel to the earth's environment.
  
  The enemies and bosses look spectacular with immense design and creativity. Weapons, Ninpo, 
 Attacks, Obliteration Techniques, Ultimate Techniques, and blood look fantstic. The scenes of this 
 game are also sole and fluid.
  
  Chapter 11 is what really brings out the WOW in Ninja Gaiden fans. The redesign of Ninja Gaiden's 
 first level is stunning and nostalgic. This level really shows how much the game has upgraded in 
 terms of graphics. Each Sometimes, you will notice a few splashes of blood floating, a body in 
 between walls or some frame-rate droppage. These are minor set-backs to a game with great graphics.
 
  
  Once you have defeated every enemy in the area, take out your weapon and stand still. Ryu will 
 shake the blood off of your weapon. Each weapon has it's own unique way to take off the blood. 
 This is quite appealing to the human eye. Overall, this game is visually beautiful.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Ahhhhhh, this is where the game shines. The Ninja Gaiden series has been known 
 for it's outstanding gameplay. You must control Ryu Hayabusa who can utilize many different melee 
 and projectile weapons, including Ninpo, to destroy his foe. The melee weapons can be used with 
 the X and Y buttons. Mixing these two buttons up can create lots of chains for better damage. Projectiles 
 are executed with the B button. Ninpo can be used by pressing both the Y and B buttons simultaneously.
 
  
  Ryu Hayabusa can use many acrobatic moves to reach unimaginable places and platforms. You must 
 use these moves effectively in order to take the path of the ninja. You will gain three different 
 types of essences to support you on your way. Yellow essence can be used to buy items and to upgrade 
 your weapons in Muramasa's Shop. Blue essence replenishes life, while red essence replenished Ninpo.
 
  
  Ultimate attacks are moves executed by holding down the Y button. There are two levels to this 
 attack. The more you hold down the Y button, the stronger the attack. You may suck in essence in 
 order to increase your charging speed. Every weapon contains his own respective UT's. A new aspect 
 introduced in this game are the Obliteration Techniques. When a limb has been removed of an enemy. 
 Approach him and press Y in order to finish him off. These attacks kill your enemy instantly.
 
  
  Enemies without limbs are much more dangerous. They will either suicide bomb you or slash you, 
 inflicting MAJOR damage. OT them before they use these moves in order to prevent your self from 
 getting owned. OT's and UT's give you bonus yellow essence. They will never give you a blue or 
 red essence. Each projectile (Except the Shurikens) can be charged by holding B. They will count 
 as a UT kill and give you bonus yellow essence. Also, this time around, there are less jumping 
 and platforming situations. It's 100% action.
  
  You will be given a fair number of items to use along the way. Herb of Spiritual Life will restore 
 a small amount of life. Grains of Spiritual Life will restore moderate amount of life. Obtain 9 
 Life of the Gods and your maximum life will increase. Obtain a single Life of the Thousand Gods 
 and your maximum life will also increase. Jewel of the Demon Seal will increase your Ninpo level 
 by 1. Spirit of the Devil will increase your maximum ki limit. Devil Way Mushroom will restore 
 one of your Ninpo. Talisman of Rebirth will revive you with full life and Ki.
  
  Each weapon and Ninpo contain 3 or 4 Levels. For a weapon, the higher the level, the stronger the 
 weapon and higher variety of moves. For a Ninpo, the higher the level, the stronger the Ninpo. 
 There will also be Test of Valor's in different areas. Defeat the enemies in these in order to 
 earn special prizes. The Test of Valor's cannot be accessed without the Rod of Trials. You may 
 obtain the Rod of Trails in Chapter II. Save Points play a major role in this game. They will recover 
 your life completely and save for you. You may save as much as you want, but you can save only 
 once.
  
  Muramasa sells items and weapon upgrades. Some missed weapons can be purchased from Muramasa. You 
 can only access the Save Point and Muramasa when no enemies are around. Once you have completed 
 the game, you may start a New Game+ ONLY on the difficulty you have beaten the game previously 
 on. You will have the same Life, Ninpo, Ki, and Weapons as your previous file.
  
  A new life system was also invented. Once damaged, you will be able to see a black bar inside your 
 health gauge. After you have destroyed all the enemies in the specific area, or you have escaped 
 successfully, that black bar will recover. This aspect makes the game much more forgiving. The 
 only problem I see with the gameplay is the camera. The camera will mess up in the corners or behind 
 doors, causing many problems. There is a solution to this problem. The RT button will fix the camera 
 and set it to Ryu's line of view. A problem, but can be solved with a little practice.
  
  
  Music/Sound:
  
  Starting from the title to screen to the credits, this game's score is 
 catchy and effective. Each theme really suits the environment and situation creating a entertaining 
 mood. In castles or villages, the music will be tranquil. During boss fights and enemy situations, 
 the score will be loud and hasty.
  
  You will be given the option to select either Japanese or English voices. Personally, I despise 
 the English voices. The Japanese voices of this game are very well done. If you ave played with 
 Hayabusa in Dead or Alive 2-4, you will recognize this voice actor. The sounds of weapons are amazing. 
 Each weapon has it's own sound. The enemy voices and groans are very well done. For example, if 
 an enemy burns, he will scream to death.
  
  
  Difficulty:
  
  I though this topic, deserved it's own section. I have seen and heard many people complain about 
 the difficulty. People also underrate and judge the whole game due to the difficulty. I will explain 
 the difficulty levels briefly. Acolyte is Normal Mode. Warrior is Hard Mode. Mentor is Very Hard 
 Mode. Master Ninja Mode is MNM.
  
  Despite the variety of difficulty levels, people still continue complaining. Start the game on 
 Acoyte and move on to each difficulty gradually. Though the transition between warrior-mentor and 
 mentor-master ninja is quite big. That can be solved with some practice and 2-3 runs in each difficulty.
 
  
  
  Extras/Content:
  
  Completing the game on each difficulty allows you to obtain a new color for Ryu Hayabusa. Each 
 difficulty also contains new enemies at different areas an such. Ninja Cinema allows you to record 
 your playing and upload it online creating lots of depth. Downlodable content includes Mission 
 Mode and 3 different costumes.
  
  Single weapon runs are unique but require mastery of the weapon in every situation. As I have said 
 before, the option to choose from either the Japanese and English voices is a plus. You can also 
 obtain 30 Crystal Skulls hidden throughout the game in order to gain acheivments and unlock a gamer 
 pic of a skull.
  
  There are two ways to save. Auto Save will immediately overwrite your previous file, while Manual 
 Save allows you to save in a whoopin 20 slots. This game should keep you busy for quite some time.
 
  
  
  Buy/Rent:
  
  This game is a must buy if your an action gamer. Never has there been an action game so deep and 
 innovative. Tomonobu Itagaki has evolutionized the action genre. So why wait? Go buy it now!
  
  
  Overall:
  
  Tomonobu Itagaki has created a masterpiece when it comes to gaming. A huge 
 thanks to him for giving us something to spend time and master. All I can say, is that it you like 
 the ninja gaiden series (or even if you don't) , I recommend checking this game out.
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simple-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I admit that this game is bad for me since I have an anger management problem... but once u get 
 through the hard difficulties.. you feel pretty high of yourself.. anyways the game. its one of 
 the best games I've ever played, the graphics is good but not great, the movements is completely 
 spectacular, the bosses.. .. come on, don't listen to others saying that you'll be stuck on a boss, 
 they're just being losers.. theres always a way to beat them. The only bad thing about the game 
 is the camera but once you get used to it, it wont bother you that much anymore and i forgot... 
 THE DIFFICULTY , ha ha its insanely hard so if you buy this game and you only played games like 
 i don't know... easy games.. you're screwed up but if you're a true gamer then you should buy this 
 game. By the way.. Sonia is the hottest virtual girl I've ever seen ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_zander
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  My living room is full of twenty-something gamers, and they're watching a friend play through the 
 first level of Ninja Gaiden 2. The air is filled with laughter - hooting, cackling, whooping laughter, 
 punctuated with sharp intakes of breath and observations that, well, everything looks like it hurts. 
 Really quite a lot.
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 is a spectacle. Its predecessor has come to be remembered for a steep but perfectly 
 pitched difficulty curve - but firing up NG2 for the first time is a reminder of just how cinematic 
 and exciting the whole thing is, too. With Ninja Gaiden, we came for the eye-catching, beautiful 
 combat, and stayed for the challenge. Ninja Gaiden 2 ramps up the first part of that formula to 
 a whole new level.
  
  Graphically, of course, it's a stunner, but it's the battle animation and choreography that really 
 pulls in your attention. Ryu's adventure this time around is a far more brutal and violent than 
 his last outing, which featured the occasional decapitation (excised from the European release, 
 you may recall) as a finishing move. Here, the bloodlust goes into overdrive - and with it, Team 
 Ninja's brilliant, over-the-top battle animations.
  
  In NG2, limbs and heads are severed and tossed around like confetti at a wedding. A fairly wide 
 selection of your basic attacks have the ability to sever arms, legs and even heads, assuming you 
 hit them unguarded and at the right time. Every other attack simply sends huge spouts of blood-splatter 
 across the playing area - and even your non-bladed weapons have the ability to cripple, except 
 that instead of cleanly lopping off an arm, they smash the offending limb (or head) into chunky 
 giblets, leaving thick lumps of ichor on the surrounding walls and floor.
  
  Adding to the ludicrous level of comic-book violence is the fact that your relentless foes aren't 
 that bothered by losing limbs. Enemies without arms are restricted in the attacks they can make, 
 but they'll still have a bloody good go; those without legs crawl across the floor and try to grab 
 you for a suicidal bomb attack. To despatch them, you simply press Y in their vicinity. That'll 
 perform a brutal finishing move (usually involving plenty more smashed or sliced limbs) on the 
 nearest crippled enemy, and it's these moves which are likely to generate the loudest cackles and 
 sharpest intakes of breath.
  
  That, then, is the immediate hook of the game - and it's brilliant. No other action game comes 
 close to Ninja Gaiden 2 for looks, for animation or for ferocity. NG2 doesn't even need a map to 
 guide you around, because the section you're looking for is clearly signposted by the absence of 
 blood, gore and limbless torsos, which are strewn and caked all over everywhere you've been. Even 
 the solid and enjoyable Devil May Cry 4 doesn't have the mesmerising quality that watching someone 
 play NG2 exerts. The problem, sadly, arises when you actually pick up the controller yourself.
 
  
  Ninja Gaiden has always been a harsh mistress, and we've loved her for it. Ninja Gaiden Black, 
 which is probably the high point of the series so far (the PS3's Sigma being essentially the same 
 game) , is hard as nails, demanding that you develop superb reaction times, a stunning mastery of 
 Ryu's moves and a perfect understanding of your enemies' animations and abilities as you progress. 
 For many players, it's simply too hard. The popular view around these parts, however, is that NGB 
 isn't too hard, it's just right - as long as you're willing to put in the time and effort.
  
  But Ninja Gaiden 2 strays from the path. Perhaps mindful of the series' reputation for difficulty, 
 Team Ninja ramped up the difficulty level once again - and torn by the conflicting need to provide 
 accessibility for less dedicated players, it's seriously messed up the balance. NG2 regularly stops 
 being challenging and becomes impossible.
  
  Where Ninja Gaiden balanced frustration with satisfaction, giving you a glow of accomplishment 
 when you finally mastered a tricky section, NG2 breaks the equation on a regular basis. It spawns 
 enemies on top of you - occasionally blinking them into existence right in front of your astonished 
 face. It bombards you with unblockable, long-range attacks - and then restricts your movements, 
 limiting your ability to dodge. It throws exploding kunai at you the second you walk through a 
 door, from enemies you can't even see yet. It tantalises with the possibility of clever solutions 
 or stealth (you are a bloody ninja, after all) , allowing you to shoot out searchlights, and then 
 instantly respawns the searchlights and bombards you with long-range rockets again.
  
  These situations aren't something that you pass through by getting better at Ninja Gaiden 2. The 
 game isn't challenging you to improve your skills or work out a cunning solution. It's just kicking 
 your arse until you get lucky. Perhaps the AI will slip up and decide it can't see you, or it can't 
 be bothered attacking you for a few seconds, or you'll score a somewhat random limb-removal against 
 a tough foe and get to finish him off with the Y button.
  (His claw-like weapons are a nicely balanced between offence and defence - but you'll need to go 
 toe-to-toe with the bad guys to use them effectively.)
  
  This isn't to say that Ninja Gaiden 2 never gets it right. There are lengthy sections in the game 
 - entire sprawling levels, in some cases - which capture the beautiful challenge and satisfaction 
 of the previous game. Up against ninja-type enemies, or even some of the better-designed demons, 
 the game flows like liquid silk. Every weapon becomes a joy to use, with its own strengths and 
 weaknesses to master, and every encounter becomes a delicious trial of your reflexes, skill, timing 
 and positioning.
  
  In a sense, it's the knowledge that Team Ninja knows how to do this right that makes it so frustrating 
 when it goes wrong. Some lengthy sections of truly excellent play, combined with genuinely great 
 boss battles - which are still spikes in the difficulty curve, but encourage you to grit your teeth 
 and try again rather than howl in frustration and smash your 360 pad - just make it even more painful 
 when it all goes to pot.
  
  The designers are extremely random in terms of putting save-points directly before or after bosses, 
 although at least they have the decency to auto-restart you at the beginning of a boss battle if 
 you die during one. But one encounter, where you fight two bosses in a row with no intermediate 
 save point, perfectly sums up the overall problem. Upon defeating the second boss (one of the game's 
 cheapest, with lots of phases where you're expected to dodge bombardments of projectiles covering 
 most of the play area) , you get the final animation - sinking your scythe into its unprotected 
 skull. For most of the game, this means the battle is over. In this specific battle, however, the 
 boss explodes, and if you don't have enough health to survive it, or can't turn and block in time 
 (which didn't seem to block all the damage anyway) , you die and have to do the entire battle again.
 
  
  Cheap? They'd turn their noses up at this in the game design Poundsaver, frankly. What makes it 
 even worse is that there are tons of other bosses who explode at the end, but Ryu calmly walks 
 away from those without any interaction from you.
  
  The balance of the game, of course, ultimately comes down to opinion. It's our view that NG2 regularly 
 fails to provide the same level of combat challenge that NG did, instead stooping to cheap shots 
 at the player's health bar in order to create the artificial impression of difficulty. There will 
 undoubtedly be huge NG fans who disagree, and we should add that even if we think this drops the 
 game's quality well below that of its predecessor, it's still hugely compelling to play, as long 
 as you've got a fairly dogged persistence and high tolerance for frustration.
  
  What aren't a matter of opinion, however, are the technical flaws. Frame-rate is a persistent issue, 
 and while a little slowdown can actually look quite cool in places, it's not so great when it prevents 
 you from pulling off a move in combat or just makes the whole display laggy. This is especially 
 noticeable if you're running in 1080p - we had to drop our 360's display back to 1080i to get the 
 game to run at an acceptable frame-rate, and this on a brand new 360 running a boxed copy of the 
 PAL release. There are other minor bugs, too. We occasionally got stuck on the legs of the larger 
 boss creatures, and couldn't move around until the boss moved and we popped out.
  
  The biggest issue, though, is one that's been around since the first Ninja Gaiden on Xbox and hasn't 
 improved in all that time: the camera. NG2's camera is awful - really, speechlessly awful. It's 
 manually controlled with the right thumb-stick, while the right trigger provides you with the ability 
 to centre it behind you, but in a game this fast and intense, the fact that the camera has no intelligence 
 of its own is as crippling to you as Ryu's limb-severing attacks are to his enemies. It'll happily 
 sit there showing you the wall next to you while a boss pounds on you from off-screen, and it makes 
 the game's otherwise-excellent platforming sections (a huge improvement on the previous game's, 
 with definite cues from Prince of Persia) very painful at times. Worst of all, it's not just bad, 
 it's buggy and bad; on several occasions it became stuck behind scenery and showed us a close-up 
 of a wall while we got smashed into kibbles.
  
  All of which is mainly depressing because Ninja Gaiden 2 is still a good game. It's beautiful, 
 cinematic and full of fantastically detailed enemies, gorgeous animations and incredibly fast, 
 exciting combat. But while it's good, it's not quite great. It's marred by technical problems and 
 Team Ninja's previously perfect balancing act just isn't in evidence in major sections. There's 
 too much trial-and-error gameplay, too many cheap shots, and not enough real challenge. There's 
 a difference between kicking your arse until you learn from it, and kicking your arse until you 
 get lucky, and Ninja Gaiden 2 fails that crucial test all too often.
  
  None of which is to say that you shouldn't go out and buy the most balletic, explosive combat game 
 we've seen in years - especially if you were a fan of the last one. Just don't expect it to be 
 as good as its predecessor, allow for the fact that sometimes you're going to have to grit your 
 teeth and accept that some bits just aren't fun - and always remember, if you have to throw a controller, 
 your sofa's cushions make a better target than your TV.
  
  p. s. The new Ninja Cinema feature allows you to record the action at any point and upload and share 
 the results.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken32
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  ***MAY CONTAIN A LITTLE SPOLIER******
  
  **********Starting from this review I will be introducing something called Nick's Pick, which acts 
 as a Editor's Choice kind of thing. But I will only award this stamp to games that are either MUST 
 HAVES or REALLY FUN. So even if i give a game 5/10 (because of sloppy presentation and such) but 
 its really fun and worth your time and money, I will award it a Nick's Pick. I will also be adding 
 this stamp to any previous reviews I wrote whom deserve it.***********
  
  
  When Ninja Gaiden came out for the XBOX, it revolutionized the action weapon based fighting genre, 
 with other games such as Devil May Cry on the market. It was fast, responsive and well blended. 
 Now the sequel is here, but does this game offer enough to excel from the first game? 
  
  The story isn't really about revenge this time around, instead a new evil is presented and legendary 
 ninja Ryu Hayabusa must stop it, with help from a new character, Sonia, working for the CIA trying 
 to stop the resurrection of fiends and it's leader, The ArchFiend. Alot of new characters are introduced, 
 Ryu's father. The leader of the Black Ninja Clan, Genshin, and Elizabet just to name a few. After 
 playing the first Ninja Gaiden, it had a more serious, revenge, ninja authentic feel, NGII not 
 so much, although the game is alot more gory, it feels more like a slapped on cheesy western action 
 flick, with sub par acting. 
  
  Controls are similar to those who played the first game, with the exception of the Use button as 
 the Left Shoulder Button and the use of the directional pad as inventory, dragged from Ninja Gaiden 
 Sigma, its a nice addition which prevents the flow of the game from breaking. As well there are 
 finishing attacks, when an enemy loses a limb ,you can press the Y button to execute a finishing 
 blow, it helps when there are alot of enemies.
  
  This game adds alot more blood and action, in the first game it required timing and elegance, this 
 time around, there's timing and huge combos. For example, when button mashing on the X button it 
 gives you like a 5+ hit combo, while in is predecessor it only gave you a 3 hit combo. Even button 
 mashing on the Y button gives you a 5+ combo, when it used be one strong strike. I've also noticed 
 that charging ultimate/obliteration attacks are much easier, because in the first Ninja Gaiden, 
 if you were hit while charging you'd lose it, in the sequel, only hard attacks inflicted would 
 stop your charge. This isn't a bad thing, but obviously this game has been targeted towards a more 
 western style.
  
  Also newly added to the Karma system is the ability to upload your score to a leader board to see 
 who's the better Ninja, as well there's a new option called Ninja cinema which allows you to record 
 and upload video clips of your game. Also there are a number of achievements that will get you 
 playing for a long time, for you achievement whores out there.
  
  The sound in the game is excellent, as revolutionary as the first game, with orchestral and techno 
 beats keeping the pace. Voice acting is great, but not excellent, as the script doesn't require 
 such aggression or emotion. Some weapon sounds have been recycled, but still sound great.
  
  The graphics although seem alot like from the first game, its still phenomenal, textures and 
 polygon counts have gone up and the number of enemies you see on screen have increased as well, 
 the blood effects are great, and corpses lie around on the ground. There is one part in the game 
 where it slows to a crawl, because of the massive crowd you fight in this level. But other than 
 that it runs very smooth.
  
  Ninja Gaiden II is worth a buy for fans of the game and people who love the action adventure genre, 
 but its taken a new direction in the series, with the game being more action based than skill wise. 
 With bigger combos and more blood, Ninja Gaiden II gets a solid 8.0 out of 10.
  
  *NICK'S PICK* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Just like the last Ninja Gaiden, this game is so hard you might as well not even play it. The third 
 boss (2nd chapter) is so insanely hard unless you are already a master of the game at this early 
 point you will NOT stand a chance. You will continually be attacked by unbelievable and impossible 
 attacks with no chance to block, come back, attack, counterattack, anything. You might have a chance 
 if your reflexes are along the lines of a computer, otherwise don't bother because you'll never 
 get past this boss.
  
  Typical Ninja Gaiden - a fun game ruined by an extremely high difficulty. Seriously, I think Flight 
 Simulator was easier to learn how to do correctly than this... don't even bother. Until these guys 
 can figure out how to make a good game that can be played by regular humans, save your money and 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chakkerz
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 3:07 am PT
Review:  I was not going to buy this game because the reviews made it sound poor. The game is rated as difficult, 
 and the environments as repetitive and somewhat boring. And although the game is quite hard it 
 isn't as bad as GS and IGN made it sound. As for the plain environments, i'm up to chapter 8 (two 
 to go from what i gather) and so far they've been fine, if not great.
  
  First up though, the blood, this game is definitely not for the faint hearted, and many have commented 
 that the violence depicted goes so far into the fantastic that few would take the amount of blood 
 as obscene, that said i don't think the MA rating does the game justice, personally i would have 
 preferred to see it with an R (which Australia as yet lacks) . Never the less, it is very much over 
 the top so no harm done.
  
  Secondly, the voice acting ... is ... garbage, especially in English, my Japanese these days is 
 very poor so i can not assess the Japanese voice acting, but if you play it in English you are 
 missing the feel of Japanese samurai action flicks ... or alternatively you like dubbed films, 
 in which case i guess you still get that... funny i had not thought of it that way. Maybe it was 
 meant to be bad :)
  
  Thirdly, the difficulty. Yes it is hard. But if you take the lessons learnt in game to heart and 
 use blocking, which to me is not very instinctive, you'll be fine. Blocking will become second 
 nature as it is the starting point for a few moves that you will need. So the sooner you get used 
 to it, the better.
  
  Fourth, the boring levels: They are not. There is quite a bit of variety and although there are 
 parts which are very plain (like caves and the like) seeing as you are heading into a cave, they 
 are acceptable. And they don't generally last that long. For the most part the chapters each have 
 their own feel (feels) and although it is very linear, it serves the purpose, which is to kick 
 ass (or chop limbs) .
  
  Enemies are reasonably varied, with different classes of Ninjas, which use a variety of weapons, 
 as well as misc monsters. It's hard to say really how varied the enemies are, but there are more 
 than two handful of unique enemies. Similarly, weapons are plentiful which also was a pleasant 
 surprise. Although some weapons seem to be underpowered (Lunar Staff, and your initial single katana) , 
 others are distinctly satisfying (claws for example) . You don't even have to agree with me ... 
 there is so much choice you are bound to find something that does it for you.
  
  Graphical glitches... yeah there are plenty, and although overall the game is pretty, blood hanging 
 in mid-air is a little sloppy. Similarly every cut scene falling back to your initial weapon, which 
 is the single katana is a little bland. Mass Effect and Soul Calibur IV can render things using 
 in game data, why doesn't this one? In short there could have been a bit more polish in the graphics 
 department, but overall the game looks fine, though likely you (like me) will never fully appreciate 
 it, since the action is so frantic.
  
  Boss fights are a challenge, and more than once i've had to look at the GS guide to work out how 
 to beat the enemy. For the most part they can be beaten first go, or after just a few. As i said 
 before, use what the game teaches you and you'll do just fine (trust me, i'm unco and i'm coping 
 :) )
  
  As far as sword fighting ninja games go, this is the best i've played every, though it probably 
 is the first i've played in 5 years or so, and i never played the first Ninja Gaiden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OracleXIII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  Let's get over the basics quickly, so that I can tell you what makes this game a 9.5 in my opinion.
 
  
  Graphics: Great (environments could be a little better, some minor framerate issues, but insignificant) .
 
  Story: Great.
  Controls: Sharp, intuitive and easy to learn.
  Difficulty: Hard, the game is challenging, but very, very satisfying.
  Overall design: Outstanding.
 
  Music: Atmospheric, very well adjusted to what you are doing in the game.
  Characters: Interesting.
  Camera: Has some problems, at times you can't really see what you're 
 doing because of a corner or a pillar, but pulling the right trigger fixes this problem instantly. 
 One thing can be a bit a annoying in this game: sometimes, when 4 or more ninjas are attacking 
 you at the same time, you can have a hard time telling who's slashing whom, because the character 
 costumes are similar.
  Gameplay: Outstanding, superb, stunning, over the top, state of the art.
  
  Ok, now, let's 
 talk business. The character you'll be playing in this game is Ryu Hayabusa, a ninja warrior who 
 can pretty much do anything. And when I say anything, I mean almost literally anything. Running 
 on walls, jumping from enemy to enemy, running on water, everything you'd expect a master ninja 
 from - it's there. I think the only thing Ryu cannot do is flying. 
  
  But to me (obviously from a very subjective pov) , all of the above don't really matter. To me this 
 game is all about swordplay. The things Ryu does with his swords are nothing short of astonishing. 
 I have been waiting for a game like this, one that allows you to take use of the art of the Japanese 
 sword to the full extent. Ninja Gaiden II achieves this with perfection. If you're a katana fanatic 
 like I am you will really enjoy every second of this game. What can I say, Ryu's swordsmanship 
 is probably the best in the history of video games. You will slash, stab, impale, decapitate, cut 
 in half, cut off limbs and it looks like you're dancing. Dancing the dance of death. The techniques 
 you can use in the game are not really real kendo or nitenichi (when you're using the two swords 
 set) , but it doesn't really matter. The fact is, the swordplay is the essence of this game. And 
 if the ultra-fast acrobatic hyper standard techniques aren't enough for you, you still have two 
 more outstanding ways to kill. The Obliteration technique and the Ultimate techniques. The former 
 are finishing moves, a couple of them for every weapon (it also depends on the enemy) . Basically 
 it goes down like this: let's say you cut off an enemy's leg, but he keeps crawling towards you. 
 So you approach the guy, press the hard attack button and the magic happens: the camera zooms in 
 to show Ryu impale the cripple with his sword, throw him up in the air, then bring him back to 
 the ground and chop his head off with a clean cut (for example.... there's a lot more, things like 
 skull crushing, cutting off every limb, etc) . The latter, the Ultimate techniques are insanely 
 fast, unbreakable combos, which you have to charge first by pressing and holding the hard attack 
 button. They are sequences of about 40 moves that completely destroy the enemy. You won't see this 
 stuff anywhere else, it's real magic. And, if that's not enough, get this: if you're performing 
 an Ultimate technique and the target enemy dies before you finish the sequence, Ryu quickly jumps 
 to the next nearest enemy and then finishes the technique, which can even be a 20 hit combo. Amazing.
 
  
  Action, action, action, this is what this game is. I happen to be a katana freak, so I probably 
 enjoyed this game more than people who don't have this particular fetish, but still. It's one of 
 the best and most violent games out there. 
  All the beauty and essence of Ninja Gaiden II is caught in a single move: when Ryu shakes off the 
 blood from the blade after killing 15 ninjas in a couple of seconds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrWeymes
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  Let me get this out of the way before I say anything else. I can't beat Ninja Gaiden 2 on any mode 
 past warrior. I'm really not that good at it. Warrior gave me a challenge. I enjoy the hack n' 
 slash genre, but i've never been adept at them.
  
  That being said, Ninja Gaiden 2 is a very solid game that suffers from many issues, and is severly 
 overrated by fanboys of the genre in my opinion. Judging from the topics I've read in the forums, 
 I assumed that Ninja Gaiden 2 was going to kill Devil May Cry 4 in terms of gameplay at least. 
 I really don't see where people get that idea. It is certainly more difficult than Devil May Cry 
 4, but I really don't find the combat system to be superiour. They are two different games. Devil 
 May Cry 4 is about killing with style, and Ninja Gaiden 2 is about killing efficiently.
  
  There are alot of things to like about Ninja Gaiden 2. The gameplay is fun, but very unforgiving 
 for a casual gamer. I've been playing games for years, so I actually got pretty decent at the game, 
 although I'm no where near great. Most of the level designs are rather good, as are most of the 
 enemy and boss designs. The gore is a huge positive in my opinion. There aren't alot of hack n' 
 slash games that really push the envelope in terms of blood and gore. In Ninja Gaiden 2, limbs 
 get cut off in every direction, and the blood flows like water. The gore makes killing the various 
 difficult enemies all that much more rewarding.
  
  Although the enviornments are large, and filled with a pretty good amount of enemies, the technical 
 graphics are nothing to brag about. The framerate drops quite often when facing multiple enemies, 
 and in comparison to the scale of each level, there doesn't seem to be enough enemies. Most of 
 the levels feel huge, and empty, devoid of any life. The New York City level is the best example. 
 The texturing is last gen in my opinion. The levels, and enemies look like they were in development 
 for the Xbox 1.5. The game just isn't that pretty. Where the game does shine, though, is in Ryu's 
 animations. He looks amazing weilding any weapon in the game. I don't think the same can be said 
 for the enemies, but I'm sure many will disagree. I felt the enemy animation was average.
  
  Before I ramble on forever, I will say this; the acolyte difficulty will be difficult to any 
 casual gamer. Any difficulty level above that will be infuriating. I don't suggest picking this 
 game up unless you like a challenge. Challenge is an understatement. You've been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamenerd15
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden is back and so is it's insane difficulty. Hoards and hoards of bad guys come at you 
 the lone ninja,. You can use several combos at your disposal and each weapon has it's own set of 
 moves. There are new obliteration techniques This game takes more of a linear direction focusing 
 more on the action with barely any puzzle element to be seen. Levels 6, 7 and 8 are probably the 
 worst levels because of how cheap they are with the military guys shooting at you to slow you down 
 while others hit you with rockets and so on. Another level had you follow footprints in the snow 
 and if you accidentally hit a mine it would explode on you. The annoying part was that if you hit 
 the exact same spot, you would get hit again. That is just lame as is the part in level 6 where 
 after you climb a tower there are like 10 dragons that shoot fire balls at you. You can only shoot 
 the dragons down with arrows. The bosses are quite harder than the actual levels and sometimes 
 there are 2 of them right in a row. 
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 as a technical peace is not very well done. The environments have somewhat a more 
 polished feel than sigma, but still look the same. The FMV sequences look that of a PS2 or Xbox 
 game. In level 10 there was huge slowdown when running up the steps with all of those bad guys 
 around. Being that the graphics are not so hot to begin with, this shouldn't be a problem for the 
 360 at al. The loading in the game is just as long as it was in the original Xbox as well. Loading 
 still occurs while in game and sometimes the game is at a stand still for 5 whole seconds before 
 continuing. The camera is still very jumpy and in awkward positions at times, which is not acceptable 
 anymore now then it was in the first one. 
  
  Luckily the gameplay is still quite fun, it just isn't up to the task of taking on the excitement 
 and greatness that original Ninja Gaiden had. To some extent this game feels like an original Xbox 
 game on 360 which is a shame. It seems that the creator of the game thought about leaving Tecmo 
 for quite awhile and just threw this game together without any polish or change to anything at 
 all. Is it too bad that this series has to end on a bit of a sour note. What's done is done. All 
 in all this game is still good, but fails to live up to it's legacy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_268
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 28, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Whenever you have a great game like Ninja Gaiden Black or Sigma early on, imagining the next step 
 in the series is difficult, Ninja Gaiden 2 delivers, sort of. Any fan of the series will recognize 
 the fast-paced (make that incredibly fast-paced) action that the Ninja Gaiden series was made famous 
 by. if you are in it for that, Ninja Gaiden 2 doesn't disappoint. 
  
  As far as shortcomings, Ninja Gaiden 2 has a few, but they are generally overshadowed by the beauty 
 of the rest of the game. The camera still sucks, I'm not going to be nice with that, a major company 
 such as Team Ninja should know better after all of these years, and the environments look awfully 
 "shiny" compared to real life. Plus, there is this weird "layer" between the walls and the blood 
 of the other ninjas. It almost levitates in mid-air.
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 is a frustratingly game (as it should be) . It is more gruesome and gory than its 
 predecessors. This only makes it more enjoyable in an odd sadistic way. For any die-hard fan of 
 the series, Ninja Gaiden 2 is a must buy. For the rest of you, you should still probably check 
 it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weapon93
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 28, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 had the opertunity of being a very smooth action game. It combines many different 
 combos to take off enemies arms, legs and heads. You can choose from 3 different weapons which 
 mix it up enough to avoid getting dry. You'll even use special powers that allow you to engulf 
 your foes in flames or blades, or blast them from a distance with an explosive dart of fire arrow.
 
  
  The true downfall of Ninja Gaiden 2 are its boss fights. All the jumping techniques, and combos 
 you try to memorize throughout the game, even those special powers you've learned to use in a pinch 
 are pretty much useless when you truly need them... The chapter bosses.
  
  The boss fights are so cheap and require such a completely different style to defeat that it's 
 almost as if it's a different game when those creatures show up. The boss shows up in the center 
 and you pretty much have to jump around hoping like hell he dosn't grab you. He always does, and 
 when he does it begins a long sequence of moves that bring down your health to about half, and 
 make you say, "alright already! I get it! he's kicking my ass!" Unless you stocked up on some health 
 boosting items, your screwed. You'll spend 2/3 of this game having a blast chopping enemies up 
 into bits, the other 1/3 is spent getting your ass handed to you by an overpowered boss, and having 
 to hit continue over and over. Don't get excited when you find yourself good at blocking, and countering 
 the normal enemies, the boss fights are NOTHING like it. The only thing you can do is jump around 
 and spam X and Y and hope to bring him down before you die.
  
  Don't get this game if you have anger management issues (I'm only half kidding) . A true shame they 
 couldn't have made the encounters more like the rest of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LastOneUllKnow6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is fun. the graphics are good, the different weapons to choose from and upgrade 
 really gives that customizing feature.. although it is really easy to upgrade all of the weapons. 
 Difficulty wise the game is challenging like the others. The worst part about the game is the annoying 
 camera, its not easy to control and it bounces around alot. You may even find all the fighting 
 a bit repedative. The enemys you fight are also very cheap at times and just juggle your character 
 around causing massive damage and can get very annoying. Your probably going to meet the Game Over 
 screen more than once. The music in it is alright and it fits in with the levels you go to. The 
 story is a bit hard to follow if you arent paying close enough attention and if you are then you 
 could find it a bit weak. I would suggest maybe renting it first and if you really like it then 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kennykaos317
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  In 2004, Ninja Gaiden was released for the original Xbox and was quickly recognized as one of the 
 best games available for the system. It featured lightning-quick game play, cutting edge and gory 
 visuals, and a steep challenge. Now, Ninja Gaiden II comes to the Xbox 360, and while it amps up 
 the gore, in every other category it falls short of the original.
  
  The story, such as it is, starts with a bang. Sonia, a blond and busty special agent, is searching 
 for Ryu Hayabusa, master ninja and member of the Dragon Ninja Clan sworn to protect the world from 
 evil. It seems there is a plot underway to release the Archfiend, and Sonia needs Ryu to put an 
 end to it. The story progresses from there, with the Black Spider Ninja Clan and monstrous minions 
 of the archfiend one step ahead of Ryu all the way.
  
  But the story is merely an excuse to slaughter hordes of bad guys, and in this area the game excels. 
 Anybody familiar with the original Ninja Gaiden will be instantly familiar with the controls: X 
 initiates a quick attack, Y deals out a strong attack, and pressing these buttons in succession 
 creates combos that will slice and dice your opponents with style. Each weapon that you collect 
 (eight in total) has a unique collection of combos that can be performed. You can still perform 
 Ultimate Techniques by holding Y, which will decimate nearby opponents. New to the series, your 
 attacks now have the ability to dismember your opponents, removing an arm, leg, or head. If you 
 remove an arm or leg, the enemy will continue to fight, but you can deal with them quickly with 
 an Obliteration Technique: press Y near a de-limbed opponent and the camera will zoom in to watch 
 Ryu completely dismember the wounded creature. While looking extremely cool, it also provides a 
 brief, and often needed, respite from the action. You will need these short breaks, as the game 
 bombards you with dozens of opponents, attacking simultaneously from all directions. You will take 
 a lot of damage in this game, and to compensate a new health system has been implemented. You will 
 take damage as normal, but once a battle is over your health will regenerate. However, the end 
 of your health bar will fill red, and this permanent damage will not regenerate; the only way to 
 complete refill your health bar is to find a save point or use a health item. The new system strikes 
 a good balance between maintaining the challenge of the battles and cutting you a little slack 
 by automatically healing you.
  
  Ryu will have a lot more options for dealing damage to the creatures he faces. The different melee 
 weapons offer differing speeds of attack, levels of damage dealt, and combos. The different weapons 
 offer advantages in different situations, assuring that the player will make use of at least some 
 of the different weapons instead of simply playing through with the beginning Dragon Sword (although 
 that is certainly possible) . All melee weapons can be upgraded through Muramasa's blacksmith shop, 
 where you can also buy health and magic items with the essence collected from slain enemies. In 
 addition to the different melee weapons, you will also receive ranged weapons. Some enemies can 
 only be defeated with these ranged weapons. Unfortunately, the frustrating control scheme make 
 defeating those creatures especially difficult, and it brings the quick pace of the game to a screeching 
 halt. Rounding out Ryu's offensive abilities are Ninpo, magic spells that can also be upgraded 
 throughout the course of the game.
  
  While progressing through the game, you will encounter Tests of Valor. These side missions are 
 battlegrounds in which Ryu fights a string of opponents. These tests are separate from the storyline 
 and are not required to complete the game, but feature nice rewards, adding to the overall length 
 of the game.
  
  Ninja Gaiden was famous for its level of challenge, and the sequel retains the challenge of the 
 original. Veterans of the series will want to begin on the Path of the Warrior difficulty, but 
 new players now have the option of starting on the Path of the Acolyte, a lower difficulty that 
 will help ease the new player into the game. Once you complete Path of the Warrior, you open up 
 the more difficult Path of the Mentor, and completing that opens the final difficulty, Path of 
 the Master Ninja. You can also play a New Game+ on any difficulty that you complete; this new game 
 will allow you to begin the game at the same difficulty level while retaining the weapons you earned 
 during the previous play through, albeit reset to level one. The multiple difficulties add to the 
 game's replayability, but seeing as there is no multi-player, the multiple difficulties is the 
 only replayability the game offers.
  
  In Ninja Gaiden II, your opponents may not be as smart as in the original, but they will overwhelm 
 you with sheer numbers. You will encounter werewolves with unblockable attacks, ninjas that fire 
 rockets, and the dreaded spider ninjas that throw incendiary shurikens. These opponents are relentless, 
 never backing off, always attacking. You will find yourself being attacked, and often killed, from 
 off-screen. Creatures throw projectiles and grab you unexpectedly quite often. Although this demands 
 you be constantly aware of your environment, these attacks feel more cheap and frustrating than 
 challenging.
  
  Adding to the frustration is the weak camera, a consistent flaw of the series. Not only is it difficult 
 to control, you will often find it trapped behind a wall or a large creature, completely blinding 
 you. You can quickly rotate the camera, but considering how aggressive your opponents are, you 
 could be dead by the time you regain control of the camera. The camera offers even less control 
 during boss fights, locking your view onto the boss. Although this often makes sense, sometimes 
 you will encounter a boss along with several minions, and the minions will constantly attack from 
 off-screen. An improved camera could greatly decrease the frustration. You can increase the speed 
 that the camera moves, which slightly improves a bad situation.
  
  It's too bad the camera is so difficult to use, because the graphics are often beautiful. Ryu is 
 especially highly detailed. He moves quickly and fluidly, and the lights reflect perfectly off 
 his clothing. The creatures are also inventive and attractive. The gore has been considerably increased 
 since the original Ninja Gaiden. Each slash of your weapon sprays blood into the air, coating the 
 floors and walls. Severed limbs and heads litter the environments. Unfortunately, the environments 
 are not as attractive as the characters. The textures are flat, ugly, and poorly lit. In a lot 
 of ways, the game looks like a last generation title. Sound is well done, with weapons clanging 
 together believably, and steel slicing flesh with just the right amount of gooiness.
  
  Fans of the series will find a lot to enjoy in Ninja Gaiden II. Although the Path of the Acolyte 
 offers an option to the new player, many players will find the difficult camera and often cheap 
 opponents frustrating, and the lack of multi-player severely hampers the game's replayability. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greasemonkey42
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  After adoring the first Ninja Gaiden, along with NInja Gaiden Black, the next instalment became 
 my most anticipated game in years. After I finally got my hands on it, I played it relishingly, 
 and finished it contemplating: is this as good as the first one was? This is a question I'm sure 
 many players come reading reviews to ask, and most reviewers will say that it isn't, but all reviews 
 don't really put it into words why it isn't, at least not as well as they should have. I have done 
 my best to explain what the reviews couldn't.
  
  Just to get this off first, I honestly think this game would've scored higher across all sites 
 if this was the first in the franchise, not a sequel. No doubt at all. It's the pleb's expectations 
 that start to take what this spectacular game offers for granted.
  
  Make no mistake, this is a FANTASTIC game that will offer you a hack & slash quality action with 
 the depth of a fighting game, which is more engaging and more fun than anything else you've ever 
 played. But most of you are probably more concerned about its curious comparison to the first.
 
  
  In short, the game SO VERY NEARLY closely matches the overall experience of the first game, but 
 doesn't quite get that extra 0.5 that the first game would've recieved on this site's rating system. 
 It's just missing that little extra something. Trying to figure out what that is, exactly, is a 
 problem.
  
  First, I'll tell you why this game is good rather than why it isn't. Now this game is all about 
 the combat, and its combat system is one all developers should be scrambling to take notes from, 
 as I have never encountered such an action game that has a combat system that is so deep, engaging, 
 challenging, fun and (my favourite) has an unprecedented animation level that just makes the whole 
 thing look cooler than you could imagine. Remember that these are the guys who make the Dead or 
 Alive games, so this is what gives the depth of a fighting game in Ninja Gaiden, but also, Itagaki 
 has stated clearly that he is passionate about the animation aspect of games and making the game 
 look as cool as possible. It's these two things that make the fighting system as great, and as 
 fun, as it damn well is. You're on a full-on 'super-ninja', and the moves and action choreography 
 that Ryu pulls off is beyond anything you could conjure up in your imagination. With more tweaks, 
 new weapons, new Ultimate Techniques (charge-up combo-extravaganzas) and the introduction of the 
 endlessly fun and cool Obliteration Techniques (awesome-looking context-specific finishing moves) , 
 the combat system is without a doubt better than the first Ninja Gaiden.
  
  This time round we get a weapon tally of 8. Eight weapons, each of them actually different (unlike 
 the first game) , and each one special and effective in it's own unique way. Not only do you have 
 the previous trusty Dragon Sword, Lunar (now revamped for extra-coolness) and Vigoorian Flails 
 (this now has some absolutely insane moves) , but we get the Dragon's Claw & Tiger's Fang from Sigma 
 (dual swords) , the Eclipse Scythe, Tonfas, Kusari-gama and Falcon Talons. These new weapons are 
 inventive and are iterated and implemented flawlessly for the Ninja Gaiden combat system. The Tonfas 
 are fun, powerful and look smashing in action (never thought these would be as great as they are) , 
 the Kusari-gama is ideal for overwhelming numbers and has an array of it's own throwing moves (this 
 what makes it unique and keeps you coming back to use it) , and the Falcon Talons have some truly 
 over the top and lethal moves, whilst letting you do what you've always wanted to do: let you fight 
 and feel like Wolverine.
  
  Different enemies will require different tactics and there is always a specific weapon fit for 
 the job. If one doesn't seem to work, try another, and the game will let you do it effortlessly 
 with it's new quick-menu on the D-pad. You'll want to upgrade and experience what each and every 
 weapon has to offer, and, as a result, there truly isn't any weapon that you'll feel is redundant. 
 
  
  Like I said, it's all about the combat. Now onto some analysis.
  
  Being all about the combat, there's little room for other things like the story. The story for 
 this is pretty much as ridiculous and as over-the-top as possible, and it's basically an excuse 
 for Ryu to go and fight in many exotic locations in his pursuit across the world. It goes right 
 along with Itagaki's philosophy: 'that place looks cool, I wanna fight there.' Many of the locations 
 you could see fitting right into a Dead or Alive arena, and how Ryu gets to these places is often 
 loosely explained. But are we supposed to care? No. 'He's a ninja, dammit, what else do you need 
 to know?' For the most part, this works well for the game and indeed you'll get to fight in some 
 interesting and imaginative places, but the over-the-topness of it all somewhat detracts from the 
 overall experience. 
  
  The story is a notch down from the first, and although we know (and it is quite obvious) that the 
 developers did not want to focus on the story at all and rather the gameplay, as that is what games 
 should be about, it will leave few players still just a little extra teeny-weeny bit detached from 
 the game. Sometimes, players need that story to engage and respect the game just on that little 
 extra level, and so the story can end up affecting the overall experience and engagement with the 
 game, whether the developers intended it to or not. This is what can sometimes separates a great 
 game, from a truly superb game.
  
  There has also been a retraction of puzzle and adventure gameplay elements in this sequel. I myself 
 rather enjoyed the original's occasional exploration and puzzle solving sections; it really helped 
 to separate the action and create a sense of pacing - something which can be utilised by developers 
 to create truly outstanding games and experiences. With very little puzzle elements in Ninja Gaiden 
 2, the constant non-stop action can sometimes make the player appreciate the overall action itself 
 just a little less than they should. Pacing - just a little break from the action every now and 
 then - is what can make a gaming experience more wholly appreciated, longer-lasting and worthwhile.
 
  
  The previous Ninja Gaiden had these two factors to a better extent: the puzzle elements were there, 
 and the story, even though it wasn't very special, still held the game together a bit more. Running 
 around throughout the game in places that were still somehow connected to this large and centralised 
 city, made the experience much more... fresh.... and original. These things are what make that difference 
 in experience between Ninja Gaiden and Ninja Gaiden 2.
  
  Ryu's ridiculous adventure around the world in Ninja Gaiden 2 is indeed quite an adventure, and 
 the hack & slash experience is still the definitive one for the Xbox 360 console, and even it's 
 genre. 
  
  The context-sensitive finishing moves, called Obliteration Techniques, are a great addition to 
 the game. Once you chop off a limb from an enemy, he is susceptible to this technique, and it's 
 something you'll want to do often, even more so when these disadvantaged enemies will try to take 
 you out with them in a devastating suicide attack. Whether you've cut off the enemy's right arm, 
 left arm, right leg or left leg, Ryu will do a different obliteration animation on one enemy depending 
 if he is also standing in front, behind or if the enemy is down on the ground. You can imagine 
 that there's a lot of possibilities and combinations for obliteration animations across ALL EIGHT 
 weapons, and they're all there. Hell, even I haven't seen all of them quite yet. The fact that 
 most of the bosses have their own individual finishing moves, each again depending on the weapon 
 utilised, will keep you coming back wanting to see how Ryu finishes off all the different bosses 
 in new ways.
  
  Yes, some of you may find problems with the game's camera (it actually isn't that big of a deal 
 as most reviewers say it is) , sometimes the environments aren't as pretty as they should be, and 
 sometimes the game goes into *slow mo* on some very rare occasions throughout the game when the 
 environments and action just get a little too big for the console to handle (which occasionally 
 actually looks pretty cool; you can appreciate the choreography) .
  
  But the game gives you much, much more. The new health system may sound like the game has been 
 made a bit easier, but trust me, as a veteran of the first, it certainly doesn't feel like it. 
 The balance between combat, the amount of potions you can carry, and an array of other things actually 
 let the new health system compliment the game's mechanics and combat. The combat is spectacular. 
 The game is animated with unrivalled finesse. You're not going to find most of these weapons in 
 any other game. You're not going to have as much fun killing ninjas and monsters. You're not going 
 to find an action game experience as challenging, as fun, and as different, as Ninja Gaiden.
  
  Lastly, many of you might wonder 'what will the next game be like?' At this point, the answer 
 is simply 'who knows.' Itagaki said this game was his 'swang-song', and he wasn't going to continue 
 the franchise. This made more sense when he left the company and turned to sue Tecmo. Which is 
 good, and also potentially bad.
  
  It's good because now all us fans will get to see future ninja gaiden games, in all their glory, 
 as Tecmo has officially stated that they would be continuing the franchise.
  
  It's bad because, without Itagaki's prominent influence, will the game ever be quite the same? 
 Will it descend into mediocre, or will the team still retain what makes this spectacular franchise 
 what it is? And hell, will it take flight and become better than anyone could've imagined with 
 Itagaki gone, and a new director at the helm? 
  
  Hope for the best, gentlemen, hope for the best. Meanwhile, grab and relish the current Ninja Gaiden 
 experience, while its still truly here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  After a long 4 years with the Ninja Gaiden 1 iterations of Ninja Gaiden Black, Ninja Gaiden Sigma 
 Turbo and Ninja Gaiden: Championship Edition (where you place the bosses) , Team Ninja has released 
 the first totally new Ninja Gaiden game for a current generation system. The Ninja Gaiden series 
 has been running since the late 1980's and has been doing very well for its self the past few years 
 with its 3D re-imagining under the guide of Itagaki, however the future now looks a little rocky 
 with his recent departure from Team Ninja, giving this game the potential to be the end of series, 
 or at least end of an eara. But enough about game politics, lets get this started.
  
  As soon as you jump into Ninja Gaiden 2 you'll get a pretty good idea of how things are going to 
 play out for the next 10-15 hours, you are greeted with a cinematic that lasts just a couple of 
 minutes and sets you up with a basic plot, rescue the girl, without a pause for breath you are 
 quickly dropped into a circle of foes, sword in hand. Combat seems straightforward on the surface, 
 you have the usual, high, weak, dodge, block moves to get you by in the early combat of the game, 
 smash a few buttons and on the starter difficulties you'd be quickly fooled into thinking slaming 
 down on butons will send you on a one way cruise to Ninja victory, soon you'll find that's not 
 the case. Many people find the title of "Ninja Gaiden" to be synonymous with "Brutal Difficulty" 
 and although the easy mode from Ninja Gaiden Black has been adopted in Ninja Gaiden 2, even on 
 the easy setting your going to die and not just a few times, there's a reason why this game has 
 an achievement for restarting 100 times and a reason that all your friends who have completed this 
 game have it. Before we get to far into this I have to warn you all that Ninja Gaiden 2 is hard, 
 really very hard indeed, if you don't fancy yourself as someone who is very good at games, or someone 
 who is easily frustrated then this isn't the game for you, otherwise please read on.
  
  To survive in the brutal world of Ninja Gaiden 2 you'll need a lot to patients, skill and sharp 
 weapons Ninja Gaiden will gladly provide you with the tools as long as you have the talent. There 
 are 9 different melee weapons available that you are able to 'level up' by visiting a shop and 
 spending essence that you've absorbed, once these weapons reach level 3 the move list looks like 
 something out of a a DOA fighting game with a whole host of available moves for each of the weapons. 
 Those long attack lists will be very welcome when you see the list of foes, and while you won't 
 be seeing new targets at every corner, there's enough difference to keep you on the toes on your 
 ninja boots. Throughout the game's 14 chapters you'll be fighting all kinds of different creatures, 
 you might start by fighting two different types of Ninja, some with explosive shuriken and others 
 with bows and you'll find that they each have a different behavior and will require different strategies 
 to beat, especially when you start fighting strange beasts, dogs, robots and dragons. It'll take 
 some time to decipher what tactic you'll want to be using and what weapon fits the moment, but 
 combat will often revolve around some well timed blocks and parrys, absorbing essence for a quicker 
 power attack when you have a moments breathing room and then clearing half a room, then more of 
 the same guys will start flooding towards you and you'll attempt to repeat the process, on paper 
 (or internets) this may seem rather tedious, and it sure would be, if the combat wasn't just so 
 much fun. The joy of the combat does partly lie in the difficulty, you get a honest feeling of 
 accomplishment for getting through each wave and real fear about what could lie around the next 
 corner while you pray it's finally the save point that you well deserve. Combat is also helped 
 by the brutal dismemberment, sometimes you might wale away at a for for several hits before your 
 target drops, other times you might just get the right move at the right moment and slice a leg 
 and a arm clean off, the crippled ninja will lie on the floor and throw shuriken at you until you 
 run up and drive a sword through his back, bringing out new weapons will give you a whole set of 
 new 'Oh Snap!' moments when you pull off that final kill. Between fights you will now auto heal, 
 this new mechanic works extremely well as it does keep the game moving at a fast pace without you 
 constantly worrying about healing, but at the same time it doesn't mean that if you barely survive 
 a fight that you'll be doing just as well as an ace Ninja since every hit you take reduces your 
 maximum available health until you use an item or reach a save point.
  
  While Ninja Gaiden 2 falls into the same genre as God of War 2 and the far more recent Devil May 
 Cry 4 it does have a very different tone and pace to it, firstly you won't be finding any of the 
 God of War style puzzles, the closest you'll find here is confusing level design where the camera 
 spins you around in a small cave and you loose your direction and start walking back on yourself, 
 or you'll wonder around for ages, then realise you need to backtrack through the level and find 
 a crossroads you didn't see before because the camera obscured it. You won't be getting much help 
 from the camera showing you where you need to go, instead think of the camera as just another enemy 
 to conquer, the view is often passable as long as you keep attention to it and it does zoom in 
 nicely when you pull off that final blow. You'll hear many reviews complaining about the camera, 
 perhaps I'm just so used to bad camera games that it just washed off my back, just be aware of 
 the angle and you can get by.
  
  After each act there will be some story handed to you in the form of a cut scene which you can 
 hear in either English or Japanese, you won't find any surprises here however, it's all very run-of-the-mill 
 stuff and its main focus seems to be explaining why you were just fighting in San Francisco and 
 now your halfway across the world. The environments are nice throughout the game, rather varied 
 in both scale and design, from a tight underground cave to a large open area in a city, you'll 
 be having to change tactics as you worry about creatures getting behind you and switch to a different 
 style of weapon to survive. Sometimes these areas get a little too large for their own good and 
 you'll get far to may creatures on screen at once and the frame rate drops well past just being 
 noticeable and at a couple of points in the game it becomes a slide show if your running high resolutions, 
 this gets to be a real heavy frustration when you are simply trying to survive against a screen 
 full of creatures. Even when the screen isn't full the game often pushes beyond hard to just grueling 
 and unfair, some creatures will be able to bypass your block from a distance and cause massive 
 damage, the solution to the problem can often be to run past the entire fight (if you can) or to 
 exploit the AI somehow and shoot from around a corner or lure a smaller group of foes with you. 
 I hate to go on about the difficulty, but at the hardest settings the game wears it's challenge 
 like a pretentious badge of honor, sure it's possible, but sometimes it seems like it's being unfairly 
 tough just for the sake of it. The boss battles are equally challenging and sometimes harder than 
 the preceding levels, the difference with the boss battles is they challenge you without being 
 overly ridiculous. As long as you are well prepared with healing items you can persever through 
 the bosses by just learning their attack patterns and exploiting their weaknesses, just like a 
 good boss should.
  
  Since Ninja Gaiden 2 is missing any kind of Multiplayer, much like most games of its kind, online 
 interaction is limited to sharing your score and recording and sharing video. Video recording and 
 sharing is a nice feature since you can really show off a lot of style although the features are 
 limited to simply start record, end record and upload recording, still, it's a nice feature to 
 have.
  
  Some people will welcome the challenge that Ninja Gaiden brings them, others will become frustrated 
 and leave the game in their "Do not want" pile next to Ninja Gaiden 1 and Dead Rising. For those 
 who can get past the difficulty and fame rate issues you'll find a solid game with a lot of polish 
 and style, since the Xbox Live Marketplace has a downloadable demo, users with a Hard Drive and 
 internet should check the demo out before jumping in, playing the demo will undoubtedly prove to 
 you just how cool it is to be a Ninja. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colemip
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  The title pretty much says it all. Yes, the camera can be frustrating. Yes, the story is ridiculous 
 (but do you really care?) . But the action is just as great as in NG: Black and the post-battle regenerating 
 health and the obliteration techniques are welcome additions. I have to mention that you'll still 
 have to re-fight some bosses (ugh) , and the game seems to take a difficulty spike around chapter 
 10 of 14 (specifically on the Way of the Warrior difficulty) . Ultimately, this a game for the fans. 
 If you liked Black, you'll undoubtedly love the new gameplay tweaks, but they likely won't make 
 you a convert to the Ninja Gaiden series.
  
  Difficulty Note: I found the Way of the Warrior difficulty to be just right, though it was too 
 easy at times and cheaply hard at others.
  
  Summary: Liked Ninja Gaiden (Black) ? Yes   Play. No   Don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercenary-73
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  This new episode has nothing to do with the last one. In this one you have to save the world from 
 the resurrection of the Archfiend battling your way through 4 greater fiends and the're realms. 
 The boss battles are really good and i didn't found them hard at all if you have a good strategy, 
 the only thing i found hard were the tests of valor. The one in the airplane is just insane. Now 
 there's also alot of blood, but it makes the game more exciting and furious. In the lycanthrope's 
 castle chapter it felt so good to see all that blood. there are new weapons including dual katana 
 set! and some weapons from the last episode. The gameplay is the same base as the last one : you 
 battle your way in some levels then you reach the boss then you pass into another chapter, finding 
 in your way some puzzles.
  
  The bad thing is the camera. In some boss battles you can't even see the boss when he attacks ( 
 Genshin battle in chapter 2 ) and it makes things not hard, but seriously annoying. i didn't find 
 any other bad points.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sounds:10/10
  Title: 10 /10
  Value: 9/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto166
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is a good loking game and has some of the finest graphic
  I have seen. But it is to hard to any normal player like my self.
  
  Graphic: it is some of 
 the fines on the 360. The blood look so awesome and is so gory that I can't stop simle every time 
 I choop some one up.
  
  Gameplay: The controler is good but for the other part of this hole game is that one the camera 
 is so frustrated that I die to many time and the bad guy's will take advantage of it many times. 
 Two the bad guy's are to hard even for the easy setings (the bosses don't count) .
  
  Music: What can I tell you the music is really good that I would if it exist I would buy the soundtrack.
 
  
  Difficulty: As I have sade before the difficulty is insanly hard even for easy.
  
  Overall: Ninja Gaiden 2 is a very HARD for normal player (as I have bin sade before) and only NG 
 fans should play or if you play games 24/7.
  If you are not a freak the rent it first before buy it.
  
  I can only give this game a 6.5 
 becuse of the insane difficulty I have to play in.
  
  This is me saying happy gameing all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peter_x_1976
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  This review is for those who played NG1. I played it on the easiest difficulty setting. This game 
 plays and feels very differently. 
  
  First off, the super-frustration factor of NG1 simply disappears. There are tough enemies, there 
 are surprises, but overall the game is not at all punishing. This is due to these factors : 
  
  - All the jumping sequences and other obstacles were removed (there is the tower clock, but 
 is still easy compared to what NG1 had ) . 
  
  - If you lose a boss battle you can redo that battle only ( as long as you don't turn off the console 
 ) . 
  
  - More saving points and different life bar/items approach. 
  
  - The eclipse scythe beats up badly !!! 
  
  The fighting system is a little bit different compared 
 to NG1. Somehow there are more enemies here but also they are easier to beat and overall it feels 
 less strategy oriented than the previous game ( closer to button mashing ) . 
  
  As a total experience, the game is not at all as interesting or rewarding as NG1. For example, 
 NG1 had the UF and kitetsu weapons. Here the only interesting thing I found is that the eclipse 
 scythe ground smashing has a huge range. 
  
  With many bosses recycled 2 times and very few new enemies in the last levels, the game feels unfinished 
 or rushed. Another recycling method is to make bosses of the first level ( the spider ninja ) a 
 regular enemy in the last levels. 
  
  While both NG1 and NG2 are light-years from all other similar games, they deliever different playing 
 experiences. While NG1 was giving the player a full array of emotions, always frustrating but always 
 different, NG2 plays all the same throughout the game, just for plain fun. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dxking919
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  OK I just bought the Xbox360 so the first game I bought was NinjaGaiden 2. When I got home I started 
 playing it and I was shock with all the new stuff it had man all of the move and the speed of the 
 game just make me want to play more. I like the graphic all the character looks great, the scenery 
 is good especially the water it looks great, Weapon is very detail I like the Scythe best because 
 it's so cool and useful but it a little bit slow. Everything seem to be good but the camera, oh 
 my god! It's the same as in NinjaGaiden Black make me mad some time I died 3 time because of the 
 camera and another 13 because of the last boss man that boss is one tough UGLY MONSTER
  Overall, I think NinjaGaiden 2 is the most Amazing action game that I have ever played but there 
 still some small mistake in the design of the game but still it's a good game and I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatMan2121
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is a certain sequel To the Classic Ninja Gaiden that came out in 2004 for The xbox 
 console, But this Ninja Gaiden is better and improved. Ninja Gaiden was a pretty much difficult 
 game for some people and very easy for others, Same pretty much for ninja gaiden 2 but the game 
 features improved they added a new gameplay engine, a health regeneration system and one of the 
 best of them all is the Hack-and-Slash system which pretty much you heard this before. Also whats 
 better is that that some new better improved weapons. 
  
  The greats are you can cut anything off a person and finish them off with a obliteration technique, 
 But wait i made a mistake you can cut any limb from every Enemy, Werewolf's, Fiends, and people. 
 
  
  The Classic is that they still have classic cool weapons like the Dragon sword usually his main 
 weapon, also they have that a ninja usually do which is jump, do super jumps and flips, and plus 
 running on walls, and last running on water.
  
  The bad but you can get over and used very quickly is usually the camera because it gets in your 
 way sometimes but usually I got used to it.
  
  Thats All and Thank You for Reading my Half Opinion and Review About this is one of my Favorite 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyroSniper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  One of those games where I wasnt too sure about it, but I got a recomendation from a friend, and 
 I never looked back.
  
  The Good: Awesome graphics, the gore is fantastic, lots of action, great boss fights, good weapons 
 variety.
  
  The Bad: Punishing difficulty, annoying enemies
  
  Cutting ninjas and wierd creatures limb from limb has never been so fun, I love it. I just cant 
 get enough of this game, it is even better playing a new game with all the stuff you had at the 
 end of the game, it is just insanely fun. One of my favorite things to do is to cut someones head 
 off then just for the hell of it, cut 'em in half or remove more limbs. The story is aliright I 
 suppose, I wasnt really paying attention, I was more absorbed in killing stuff. But basically, 
 this crazy lady and 3 "Greater Fiends" are trying to resurrect the "Arch Fiend" who is threatening 
 to destroy the world or something. The Greater fiends are basically bosses who control various 
 elements such as lightning, storms and fire. 
  
  The weapons in this game are great, there are 7 or 8 different main weapons, 4 long-range weapons, 
 and 4 different attack spell things. This game gives you a lot of different ways to kill stuff, 
 and the combos and finishing moves are awesome.
  
  Gamespot says that the environments are not so great, in part, I do agree, but thats just a few 
 places, most of the envoronments look pretty good, especially some of the more wide open spaces. 
 The enclosed spaces such as caves and things of that sort do look kinda crappy, but other than 
 that, I have no complaints.
  
  Now, there is the issue with the camera, personally, I havent had too much of an issue with the 
 camera, only in a few of the boss fights did the camera ever give me problems. The camera is third 
 person, and you can control it with the right control stick and the right trigger.
  
  I have beaten this game once on the default level, and I am playing through again on that same 
 level. The first time through was pretty difficult, especially some of the boss fights and some 
 of the "Trial of Valor" things (I think there are 9 of em) . Some of the smaller enemies can be 
 hard to kill, but you just got to know the best way to kill them and the best combos to use to 
 kill em, also blocking, jumping and moving has a lot to do with it as well. There are these ememies 
 that hit you with long range stuff, the most annoying are the guys with rocket launchers (especially 
 the multiple rocket launchers) , the flying enemies that shoot crap at you, and the enemies that 
 throw exploding shuriken at you. Other than that, the other enemies are a lot of fun to hack up 
 and kill over and over.
  
  Overall, this is a fun game, and I have had a lot of fun with it to date. I am still playing it, 
 just trying to get a few more achievements before I put this game down for a while, its a good 
 distraction until Soul Calibur 4 comes out. I highly reccomend this game, but if you are one of 
 those people who has issues with punishing difficulty, I suggest renting it first just to try it, 
 or download the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detrek77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  the camera in this game pisses me off really bad. Ive never seen a worse camera its just a little 
 annoying..... i mean alot my bad. Some times i just feel like the camera is stalking me and then 
 when im not paying a attention he/she trys to kill me. But when the cameras not gay i have no complains. 
 The action and slicing and dicing in this game is just plain sweet really dont even say this game 
 deserves anything under a 8 or you are just a humanitarian. The executions are just plain fun and 
 you can cut someones arm off or their leg, that really is a awesome feature. Ryus moves could be 
 updated a little more to give you a new feel ( like basic body motions) but the weapons in this 
 game are fantastically fun to use. This game has blood everywhere you go, i mean theres a level 
 where the queen of fiends is bathing in a bath of blood. So i feel if you like a good old slice 
 and dice game then your gonna like this game. But really the cameras just a..... well its pretty 
 indescribable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickblah42
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 20, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  It's kinda hard to quantify how "good" this game is. On the one hand, it is true to the Ninja Gaiden 
 series, in that it is very hard and unforgiving, and should take hours and hours of frustration 
 to complete. On the other hand, compared to comparable games like DMC4, it feels like an exercise 
 in button mashing reload frustration, compared to DMC4's straightforward, understandable, and more 
 rewarding combat system.
  
  The combat in NG2 is of the hectic, button mashing sort. Nominally there are many moves with each 
 weapon, which are well animated. Realistically, however, you'll end up using a few and ignoring 
 the rest. The combat is fast enough that you can't often control exactly what moves you're trying 
 to perform, and the camera moving around enhances this effect. Lots of enemies attacking at once, 
 combined with range attacks, mean you'll be blocking and moving most of the time, and hoping you 
 dodge incoming attacks while you inflict damage. This works out to lots of button mashing.
  
  Boss fights are similarly random. In contrast to DMC4, where the bosses have predictable patterns 
 and your actions have predictable and controllable effects, NG2 boss fights are very random, and 
 you'll find yourself reloading often. Often defeating bosses just amounts to stacking up on health 
 items and getting lucky, which makes them not feel very challenging, since there's very little 
 skill involved. On the upside, there's an achievement for continuing over 100 times, so your frustration 
 has been both anticipated and desired. Moreover, unlike games like DMC4 where you need to play 
 well to beat certain encounters, you only need health, time, and lots of patience to beat everything 
 in NG2; there's very little skill involved.
  
  Overall, I'd say this game is neither fun nor challenging. However, if you enjoy bashing your face 
 against walls until they fall down, this is the perfect game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadster
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  ok 1st off, like kevin from home alone so famously once said, "DO you guys give up or you thirsty 
 for more?" in relation to Ninja Gaiden 2, i'm just that!!
  
  2nd) After playing NG on the original Xbox, i was curious to know just how much of a nutcase one 
 would have to be play the 2nd installment of such a cruel and punishing game. (She's pretty in 
 every possible way but don't let that fool you, she is twice as cruel and likes to taunt you at 
 the same time if you misjudge something whilst playing)
  
  Finally, DMC is like a walk in the park compared to NG (DMC4 compared to NG2 anyway as i have both 
 on the 360, and at the same time have enjoyed playing both games and can't fault them in any way)
 
  
  Anyways, a little about Ninja Gaiden 2:
  
  Graphics:
  Now to me, Graphics don't have to be ground breaking, and they aren't the best i've ever seen, 
 but what NG2 does for graphics, it does for graphics awesomely, i've rarely seen a game which moves 
 so fast, able to keep up with the pace of what is onscreen and continue running leaving the player 
 in the dust thinking "WTH just happened?" 
  
  Animation and aesthetics are jaw dropping like a brilliantly made arcade game.... i for one don't 
 like this notion of having to play an ultra realistic game, and this is another example of Escapism 
 with games.
  
  GamePlay:
  What can i say? other than a super slick and super stylishly brutal action game, with the notion 
 of destroy everything which opposes you whilst upgrading to more powerful weapons as you play (ie: 
 buying weapons and upgrading them so you can REEK even more havoc on those unrelenting DEMONS (Muahahahahaaaaa) 
 
  
  (Sorry NG and DMC really get me going at times because of the action and choreograpy... lol)
  
 
  Story:
  Not much to say about the story except for the usual: You play the part of the super cool ninja, 
 ryu hayabusa, who has to avenge his clan and save the human race from a brutal and relentless demon 
 and his entire following of hell spawn.
  
  For the Action Junkie Gamer, this is a must get game.
  i almost gave NG2 a 9 but it deserved 
 the 10 because it's a cruel demon who dishes out the challenge and you just always have to come 
 back for more and this b! tch bites you freaking hard and throws you around like a chew toy if you 
 let your guard down for a second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meto_360
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  ninja gaiden has been around for a couple yrs now. Now its back on tha xbox 360.
  Tha story, u play Ryu Hayabusa from the dragon clan. And what they r is a clan of ninjas. Tha game 
 takes place after ninja gaiden 1 aka ninja gaiden black. Waht tha story is , that tha black spider 
 clan and the fiends have jioned forces to summon tha archfiend. And its up to u to stop it, with 
 tha help of CIA agent , Sonia. And it turns out 2 be a descent story.
  Tha gameplay, tha gameplay is where its at. You can do all sorts of stuff. Like wall jump , run 
 on walls, etc. But tha best part of tha gameplay is tha combat. During combat u can slice up enemies 
 and use all these weapons. And trust me... u'll like tha fact that you have more than 1 primary 
 wepon 2 use, espcailly on how hard tha game is. And when ur surronded by enemies u have these things 
 called ninpos, which r like spells to eliminate enemies. Its very usefull in tight spots. The boss 
 battles are intense and dramatic, but sometimes they can be frustrating. Like u can be stuck on 
 a boss for like a while. But once u beat em its rewarding. Tha game isn't that long. It'll take 
 u a good 4 - 5 days to beat it.
  So overall its a fun game that is challenging and fun. I'd prefer it if your looking for a good 
 action game on tha xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  NG2 definitely sets the bar in action games. I never played any of the past games on the SNES as 
 well as the Xbox and PS3 versions. This is the first time I've played Ninja Gaiden ever and it 
 truly was an amazing (and angering) experience. The game's difficulty level is as hard as everybody 
 was saying. Even playing on the easiest difficulty level (The Way Of The Acolyte) I still had a 
 hard time beating it. The game has 14 chapters and will take you about 10 to 12 hours to beat it 
 if your new like me but if your a veteran, you should be fine. The controls are definitely top-notch 
 and pose no problems. The action portion of the game, the fighting, is truly heart racing. Your 
 practically chopping limbs off left and right. When you chop a limb off or damage an enemy enough, 
 you can initiate whats known as an obliteration technique (Y button) that basically finishes off 
 your opponent in a very gruesome and gorey way. Also, every single chapter has a boss battle as 
 well as some chapters containing mini bosses to. You also obtain a total of 8 weapons throughout 
 the game. Every weapon has a total of two upgrades that can be bought from the shops in the levels. 
 There are only two weapons that have a fourth level but that can only be obtained by just playing 
 through the game. Overall, NG2 is truly an amazing action experience that truly sets the bar for 
 the genre and anybody brave enough to try it should because if you don't, you'll be missing out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grampy_Bone
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden for the Xbox was a revival of old school videogame sensibilities; the old NES idea 
 that games should be nigh-on impossible. It took the extreme combat subgenre popularized by Devil 
 May Cry and took it up about a million notches, yet somehow never quite came across as completely 
 unfair or horribly cheap. The sequal utterly fails at this, going well into the realms of total 
 frustration.
  
  Ryu Hyabusa is back, and this time the plot is a throwback to the NES classic. A CIA agent comes 
 to warn our hero that his family is in danger and fiends are about to be unleashed on the world 
 courtesy of a familiar old demon statue. The plot development ends after the first stage and is 
 essentially an excuse for travelling around the world and killing a bunch of demons. But this is 
 a game about hardcore ninja combat, so that's not a big deal.
  
  The controls are the same as the first, and Ryu's moves are still as incredibly slick and impressive 
 as before. You can combine light and heavy attacks to perform numerous combos and special attacks, 
 and they all look great. Ryu starts out with his trusty dragon sword and eventually acquires seven 
 other melee weapons, like a pair of clawed gauntlets, the lunar staff, dual katanas, and more. 
 Each weapon has a huge moveset, more akin to a fighting game than your average action title (which 
 makes sense given Team Ninja's history of making the Dead or Alive titles) . The problem is there 
 are really too many attacks for each weapon, way more than you'll ever really need. Is there really 
 a difference between the combo where he goes slash-slash-slash-jump-slash, and the one where he 
 goes slash-slash-slash-stab-slash? You'll likely rely on a few effective combos for each weapon 
 and forget the rest. Unfortunately there are just so many damn moves often the wrong one will pop 
 up when you least need it, causing Ryu to do something completely different from what you wanted, 
 and then dying. But it doesn't really matter anyway, because attacking with long combo chains is 
 typically the worst way to play the game.
  
  Ninja Gaiden throws dozens of enemies at you at once. They come fast and furious and attack relentlessly, 
 often from offscreen. They each sport numerous special attacks and unblockable throws which are 
 inescapable without taking massive damage. The enemies are almost supernatural in their ability 
 to throw you, as you'll be flipping and jumping and dodging across a room, only to land right next 
 to an enemy who is already winding up his unblockable throw attack before you even land. This is 
 all made worse by the game's abomidably bad camera. It sits low to the ground and hug's Ryu's rear, 
 constantly failing to show you the enemies you are attacking or the ones about to kill the crap 
 out of you. It's like Team Ninja went to Koei's Dynasty Warrior's team and asked them for their 
 camera code.
  
  It is true though that each individual enemy can't take much punishment, if it weren't for their 
 numbers the game wouldn't be nearly as difficult. Even the tougher bad guys can be dismembered 
 fairly easily, and enemies thus injured can be instantly finished off by pressing one button. This 
 happens with a flashy kill animation, during which time Ryu is invulnerable. But the vast numbers 
 of enemies are the least of your worries. The game does everything in it's power to stack the odds 
 against you and create some of the most stunningly unfair combat scenarios ever seen in a videogame. 
 Fighting a horde of snake men is difficult enough, then the game expects you to do it while running 
 over the surface of water. In another level every fight with a dozen enemies has you surrounded 
 by ninjas with rapid fire rocket launchers peppering you with a constant barrage of rocket fire, 
 every one of which takes a huge chunk out of your health (and the other enemies are unaffected 
 by) . 
  
  The game makes up for this with two concessions: One is that Ryu's health partially regenerates 
 in between each fight, and the other is that each save point fully heals you the first time you 
 use it. These hardly put a dent in the challenge of the game, especially the boss fights. The game 
 does restart you at the beginning of a boss battle if you die, which you will, a lot. One boss 
 is fought accompanied by endlessly respawning ninjas who throw exploding shurikens at you; another 
 boss explodes upon death, and the camera unhelpfully centers on the boss and doesn't show Ryu, 
 so you have no idea how close you are to it when it blows. When you kill another boss, you are 
 immediately set upon by a horde of really nasty enemies while no doubt low on health and healing 
 items, and if you die you have to fight the entire boss all over again. They will all kill you 
 in seconds and it's more a matter of luck than learning any kind of pattern or exploiting any sort 
 of weakness. The game has a significant load time after every death, which is quite an oversight 
 in a game where you will die so absurdly often.
  
  Unlike the first Ninja Gaiden, this game never really clicks or gels or comes together at all. 
 Success at the game seems to hinge on using cheap tactics such as going back to save points after 
 every battle or relying on spamming cheap moves and exploiting whatever flaws you can find in the 
 enemy AI. The game just can't be played the way it is obviously "supposed" to be played; if you 
 launch combos you'll just get pummeled to death, if you block you'll just be thrown, and Ryu's 
 dodge ability seems to have been seriously downgraded and doesn't seem to even activate half the 
 time. There are plenty of small bugs and glitches which will pop up, like enemies getting stuck 
 on invisible obstacles or Ryu spazzing out and getting sucked into the scenery; it just isn't a 
 terribly polished game. The graphics would look alright for a 360 launch title but are a joke compared 
 to other games. The character models look pretty good but still retain that glossy, 'rubbery' look 
 of other Team Ninja titles, and everyone other than Ryu is animated poorly. The music is typical 
 techno-rock, and the voice acting is decent, considering the insipid script they manage to play 
 their parts pretty well.
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 is a frustrating mess that will try your patience or will show you how many times 
 you can throw your controller at your wall before it breaks. The game simply is not fun to play. 
 No one really plays this game to have fun though, they play it to so they can smugly say, "I beat 
 Ninja Gaiden!" and increase their gamer 'cred.' It's bragging rights among your WoW guild or Halo 
 clan. But all this game really is is a waste of sixty dollars and many hours of your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvrenDawn
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  As a big fan of the previous game on Xbox that arrived a few years ago I had extremely high hopes 
 for this game. I can honestly say that many of them were fulfilled but at the same time, fears 
 were confirmed and there were a multitude of unexpected disappointments. Although I was very hyped 
 for this game I will only be basing my review on what I experienced personally. To the Skies!
 
  
  Setting and story: Ryu Hayabusa, the Modern Day Super Ninja, stars in a noticably similar role 
 as last time. This time, the Fiends are trying to reasurect their master, the Archfiend which is 
 bad news for everyone, as lesser fiends overrun many places threatening to destroy everything. 
 Not to mention that the Archfiend would rule over the entire worl should he come back. Not surprisingly, 
 it's up to Ryu and his new Female lead Sonia, to stop his minions form doing just that.
  
  The story starts with a remarkably similar set-up to the first game. Ryu's village is attacked 
 (again) and a powerful artifact stolen (again) forcing Ryu to track down the thief while killing 
 everything in his way.
  
  To be honest, the story is not much worth paying attention to. It merely sets up the action and 
 prime evils of the plot although there are some cool tidbits you can find if you pay attention 
 or if you remember the artifact from the previous game. New players won't get much out of it, sad 
 to say.
  
  Graphics: Here's where I felt I was let down. While the graphics are by no means bad, parts of 
 them seem no more advanced than the last game. The environments often feel stale and undetailed. 
 By contrast, character models and particle effects are great especially in regards to the gore 
 (of which there is plenty) . Backgrounds of cityscapes are flat and uninteresting. My guess it that 
 Team Ninja did not assume that players would spend much time looking at them.
  
  Sound: I was almost as impressed with this soundtrack as I was with the last one, which had quite 
 a few killer tracks and some mediocre ones. This one's tracks have an interesting blend of electronic 
 and other more natural elements that really set the mood for the fights Ryu is in. I can't really 
 describe the music well but I can provide some examples if you are interested. (Don't tell my lawyer)
 
  
  Gameplay: Now the Good Stuff (trademark) ! Those who played the last Ninja Gaiden may have thought 
 that the combat couldn't get any more intense were gravely mistaken. NG2's action is upped to 11 
 with the addition of 8 unique weapons with enough combos to make it feel like Dead or Alive. Each 
 weapon is so different that there are Achievements for going through the game using only a certain 
 one and a ranked online board for each too.
  
  Also added to the game are Obliterator Techniques or OT's. Once an enemy has lost a limb, Ryu can 
 press Y to activate the OT if he's close enough, triggering a devastating attack that kills the 
 enemy 100% of the time. This may seem like it makes the game easy but, believe me, it doesn't. 
 Enemies are still very capable of hurting (and killing) Ryu when they've lost a limb and are quite 
 happy to blow themselves up with a grenade to do it. 
  
  Enemies also appear in greater supply and more at the same time, swarming Ryu to try to kill him. 
 Enemies also have a variety of throws and combos as well. Some of which are pretty dangerous if 
 not avoided or blocked. Unfortunately, the game has a tendency of slowing down when to many foes 
 are onscreen. Annoying except for one case in a latter chapter where Ryu is facing about 100 ninjas 
 and slaughtering them in slow motion (the framerate stays solid jut everything is slow) is extremely 
 entertaining.
  
  Some enemies are just annoying. Like ninjas who use rocket lauchers that fire volleys of death 
 dealing destruction which out having to reload. Did I mention that they like to respawn right after 
 you've dealt with the, seemingly from nowhere? Many foes can be seen popping out of thin air without 
 even any magical aura of teleportation. There are also enemies who are extremely difficult to kill 
 as they cannot be dismembered for an Obliterator. In short, there are many many instances of where 
 you will be prompted to exclaim that something is cheap. It only gets worse on latter difficulties. 
 
  
  Bosses offer some variety but you are just as likely to think them as cheap (if not more so) than 
 the regular enemies. I can't recall ever having fun when fighting a boss. By the way, be prepared 
 to fight some bosses multiple times.
  
  Difficulty: This section is exclusive in my reviews to this game. Ninja Gaiden 2 will beat you 
 into the ground and laugh in your face (and some enemies are literally quite good at that first 
 part.) It only gets worse too. The 3rd difficulty level, Path of the Mentor, is a HUGE step up 
 from the 2nd, Path of the Warrior, with a combination of stronger enemies, enemies wielding guns 
 from fight one and more expensive items will dissuade many. I believe that a gentler curve was 
 called for but rejected so as not to anger the "Hard Core" fans. If you were frustrated on Warrior 
 mode, I suggest not even trying Mentor.
  
  Glitches and Stuff: The only reason this section is here is because I feel that I need to talk 
 about it. Ninja Gaiden 2 is THE GLITCHIEST GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED. Team Ninja's reputation for 
 perfection has been thrown aside here. I can't count the number of game freezes I've had, accounts 
 of enemies running in circles or getting stuck behind walls. Body parts and blood often float a 
 few inches from whatever they are supposed to be on and headless enemies sometimes take a second 
 to realize that they are dead.
  
  Final Thoughts: You will love in and you will hate it. Despite it's overall feeling of being unpolished, 
 glitchy and rushed into stores so it could beat Metal Gear Solid 4, the crushing frustration and 
 cheapness, the amount this game has made me swear, I have still logged OVER 50 HOURS! Why? The 
 answer is that while it may be rougher than sandpaper it is still a blast to play. The action can 
 be such a blast that the first time I played I was in awe for the better part of an hour. I have 
 been driven to play through with each different weapon and I will attempt Mentor mode since I know 
 it is possible. So many faults just can't cover up a brilliant action game from start to finish. 
 I am quite satisfied with my purchase.
  
  Breakdown.
  +Action dial set to 11
  +Gore and particle effects are great
  +Sweet Soundtrack
  +Highly addictive
  +Awesome weapons 
 which are all unique.
  
  -Crushing difficulty
  -Confusing and bland story
  -Crushing difficulty
  -Overall unpolished and glitchy feel
  -Extremely cheap enemies will make 
 you swear more than you though possible.
  -Did I mention the crushing difficulty?
  
  Worth buying? I would certainly say so, but if you aren't a patient person or have fast reaction 
 time in video games, you would definetly be better off renting until you are sure. For action buffs, 
 this is a no-brainer.
  
  *Smoke bomb!* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowscale18
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  In 2004 the world was introduced to Ninja Gaiden, and it rocked the world of gaming. In my opinion, 
 that was one of the greatest games ever created, and I absolutely couldn't wait for a sequel. So, 
 when one came out I ran out and immediately bought it. You're about to find out if I wasted my 
 money or not.
  
  The storyline is... well, I have a mixed reaction for that. It certainly tries to be interesting, 
 but it seems like simply an excuse for you to hack apart enemies for 14 or so hours. It has a buxom 
 femme fatale (which is a plus, by the way) and she is searching for Ryu, because the leader of 
 the Black Spider Clan has formed an allegiance with the Fiends to resurrect the Archfiend, an all 
 powerful Fiend. Presumably, this is done so that the Black Spider Clan can become all powerful, 
 but the story leaves a little to be desired. Simply put, it's just not as good as the first game's 
 story.
  
  The gameplay is the selling point, however. The combat system has been completely rebuilt to allow 
 you to chop enemies to pieces with a vast array of weapons. The combat is fast, slick and entertaining, 
 and the gameplay never seems to hit a dull spot. Each weapon you find has a long list of combos, 
 making using each weapon a fun and rewarding experience. My only complaint about this is the horrendous 
 camera. Seriously, it's like Itagaki took the camera from the first game, found what he did right 
 with it, then threw that out and put it in the second game. If it's not positioning itself behind 
 a corner while in combat, than it's hiding a secret treasure or a path you're looking for. I hate 
 the camera, and it mars the entire experience of the game.
  
  The first game had revolutionary graphics for its time. Ninja Gaiden 2's graphics are sort of a 
 double bladed sword. On one side, you have terrific character models and weapon design. On the 
 other side you have bland enviroments and ugly backdrops. Actually, the graphics are like a kid 
 with ADHD. You'll find really pretty enviroments in some places... then find some that would look 
 bad last gen. I really wish they would have put as much effort into the graphics as they did in 
 all other sections of the game.
  
  The soundtrack to the game is amazing, with some truly amazing Asian-inspired scores and musical 
 pieces. The sound effects are also top notch. The voice acting, however, is a mixture of bad and 
 good. Ryu sounds okay, but some of his lines are delivered without enthusiasm. Some others are 
 really well done, like the Greater Fiends and Muramasa. Overall the sound design is good.
  
  The difficulty of the Ninja Gaiden games have long been a trademark, and Ninja Gaiden 2 is 
 certainly hard. However, at times it seems plain cheap. Most of the fights are challenging and 
 worthy to be in the game, but near the end of the game it begins to get fairly cheap, especially 
 that damned last boss which almost made me throw my 360 in a fit of rage. The difficulty also seems 
 to be there to make you die sometimes, as if to elongate the overall adventure, which clocked in 
 at about fourteen hours for me.
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 is a superb game. It has a few flaws, but I still think it's one of the best action 
 games I've ever played, and ever will play. Some extra attention to the graphics, a reworked camera 
 and a better balanced difficulty would make this game every bit the groundbreaking experience its 
 predecessor was. Still, it's a good game. Go play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shannydanny
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Fans and general players of the first 'Ninja Gaiden' on the Xbox will not find many connections 
 between this sequel and the aforementioned; aside from Ryu himself and the shopkeeper Muramasa 
 everything is different, even down to the feel and look of the combat, being far bloodier and gory 
 in every possible aspect... EVERY possible aspect!
  
  Now the first Gaiden was never considered an overtly gory game; sure, you lopped off some heads, 
 but in the original that was reserved for the non-human baddies, the decapitation of humans being 
 considered far too gratuitous. Ninja Gaiden 2, however, has no such qualms; upon your first push 
 of the X button you are greeted with spraying blood and dismembered limbs, ultimately resulting 
 in a torso which, in the aftermath of your first battle, looks very lonely on its own. Such is 
 the level and scale that you spend the first few minutes going 'Wow' and 'Did you see how far that 
 flew?' Not only is the violence a constant joy to behold (in a non-psychopathic capacity) , but 
 it is also immensely satisfying, especially when you perform the much-loved and much-spammed 'Flying 
 Swallow' technique against another opponent in the air, sending his headless body crashing to the 
 floor amid a torrent of blood and 'bits', as you gracefully land before flicking your sword clean 
 of blood. That will never stop being a classic gaming moment for me.
  
  But the gore would never stand up to scrutiny without some nice graphics, which it has plenty of. 
 Apparently, the engine has remained unchanged from the first game, not that you could tell most 
 of the time. I say 'most' because, while it looks fantastic and plays very well, there are a certain 
 few instances where the framerate drops substantially, dragging the gameplay to a standstill as 
 you watch, in literal slow-motion, Ryu Hyabusa being swarmed by dozens of hairy things. However, 
 I am glad to say that these instances are few and far between, and, though frustrating, they are 
 still playable and are often over quite quickly.
  
  The range of baddies is, at the same time, quite diverse and then not really diverse at all; most 
 of the enemies you meet later in the game are reskinned ninjas or winged-purple fiends, but then 
 the challenge is still there to up your game as the enemies up theirs; the AI is almost non-existant 
 (certain enemies hang back, the others don't) , but with every upgraded enemy it becomes increasingly 
 more challenging and more rewarding. Even the fish ghosts from the first game, what I like to term 
 as 'the most annoying videogame enemy EVER', have been simplified and made more satisfying to kill 
 (ie. no more jumping around with twirling fires about you, flailing your nunchucks fruitlessly) .
 
  
  Speaking of the Ghost Fish, however, leads me onto the fact that Ninja Gaiden 2 is, at times, very 
 very frustrating, to the point where you find yourself frequently putting the controller down after 
 dying, not wishing to carry on because of a stupid or unfair death. You will find yourself mobbed 
 at times, unable to stand up because the enemies about you won't give you a chance. There is a 
 difference between challenging gameplay and unfair gameplay; this game manages to achieve both 
 during the course of each mission.
  
  Aside from those few negative points, and the 2-dimensional, cardboard cut out characters and bosses 
 that make up the cast list (anyone else notice the voice actor for 'Piglet' from 'Winny the Pooh' 
 doing Muramasa?) , this is a truely fine-tuned game and well-deserving of its appraisal.
  
  And just for the record, yes: I also hate the giant skull-headed worm thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeldaGodBST
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  Don't let the title fool you. I thuroghly enjoyed playing this game. The graphics were great, the 
 more blood, gore, weapons, and ways to kill people would easily give this game a 10 or at least 
 a 9.
  
  But... there's a couple of things this game really kicks itself in the balls with...
  
  CAMERA 
 ANGLES!!! 
  
  My god I have never been this fustrated with a game over me not being able to see where the hell 
 i was going, where I was being hit from, and where the damn eney was in the first place. The camera 
 acts like it's high and drunk and hasn't slept for 2 weeks. It get MAJORLY fustrating especially 
 in close quarters where the camera doesn't know what to do at all. On many occasions I wanted to 
 throw the controller at the screen because I couldn't see what I was doing and I was getting jumped 
 by enemies I didn't even know were there or I couldn't see.
  
  TOO EASY!!!!
  
  I thought this one would be a huge challenge like the first one. The bosses enemies would be difficult 
 and the bosses would be hard. WRONG! It's WAY to easy to kill more than half of the enemies. The 
 boos battles I wouldn't even call boss battles. It only took about 1 - 2 minutes to kill more than 
 half the bosses including the last 3 main bosses.
  
  LAG AND GLITCHES!!!
  
  I couldn't fight more than 5 people without MAJOR lag coming into play and me stuggling to press 
 start or use the control pad to use for life when I was getting jumped in super slow-mo. And it 
 has lots of glitches such as... The part where you fight the worm boss and those little mini worms 
 pop out, there werenumerous occaions where the enemy got stuck and kept popping out of the ground 
 only to start flickering and pop out again. I had to restart the game a couple of times because 
 it wouldn't let me go to the next part of the level without killing that one enemy.
  
  So all in all I hate to do it as being a MAJOR fan of the first Ninja Gaiden on Xbox (Both Ninja 
 Gaiden and Ninja Gaiden Black) and Ninja Gaiden Sigma on PS3, but I'm going to give this one a 
 7. Sorry Tecmo and Team Ninja, you did good but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trainspotter
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  I was really not expecting much from Ninja Gaiden II given the mediocre reviews and its comparison 
 to Devil May Cry 4. Thankfully i was pleasantly suprised. This is the best action game on the Xbox 
 360 with great action sequences and an awesome array of weapons to choose from. The camera IS infuriating, 
 however the right trigger is default set to reset the gamera behind your character, a cheap fix 
 that shows the developers where aware of the problem and this is one of my few complaints with 
 the game. Once you get used to spamming the view button however; it overcomes alot of the problems 
 associated with the camera. Looking past this NGII is a great game. If you love action games then 
 you will not be disappointed as the combat offers a great degreee of control and it will take you 
 a long time to really master every one of Ryu's attacks which for the most part are actually quite 
 useful. Sure you can cheap your way through by hitting one button but as the game progresses you'll 
 really take satisfaction as you dodge enemy blows, counter their attack, flip over their heads 
 and follow it up with a rolling strike that amputates their leg. Enemies who become 'injured' move 
 more slowly but become more dangerous with the ability to grab ryu and inflict heavier damage. 
 To offset this you can instantly kill an injured foe by performing an execution attack just by 
 hitting the heavy attack button when close. This is a great innovation and really changes the pace 
 of the game as you can finish of enemies very quickly when injured, making the combat feel more 
 involved than simply hitting attack until their hitpoints reach zero. Another feature that makes 
 combat interesting is your health bar which replenishes every time you leave combat. This really 
 makes the combat alot more tense as any battle can leave you very close to death but you are not 
 penalized for it as long as you survive, with your health being restored a little less from full 
 each time. This adds alot to the combat as you can never really find yourself 'low' on health at 
 the start of a fight. And it's the fighting that this game is all about... the combat is alot of 
 fun with blood gushing with every slice of your sword, limbs flying around the place and some very 
 cool finishing moves. 
  
  Having said that be warned, that this is a difficult game. The start of the game, and the first 
 couple of boss fights (of which this game has tons) completely threw me at first, although I wouldn't 
 rate the learning curve to be all that high. It's more a case of getting used to the style of fighting 
 as you have the potential to inflict massive damage while in turn you can be hit for alot (up to 
 half your health bar from a normal mob) . This is where the controls come into play as you can dodge, 
 block and leap around in true ninja style. The buttons themselves are fairly simple with X being 
 light attack and Y heavy. Combined with jump, block and throwing weapon its fairly easy to pickup 
 the basics, however the combinations are endless. 
  
  Each weapon can be upgraded to three stages which really adds some depth as you can choose to upgrade 
 the weapon that suits your playstyle the best. I would really liked to have seen a bit more in 
 this department. Not asking for an RPG but perhaps a max level of 5 would be better as its fairly 
 easy to Max out a weapon quite early in the game.
  
  I disagree with the comments about this game being cheap... sure there are parts which will have 
 you hitting the continue button half a dozen times but it wouldn't be much of an action game if 
 it wasn't challenging and at no point did I ever feel 'stuck'. Some of the boss fights in particular 
 can seem overwhelmingly difficult but they nearly all have some trick to it which invariably involves 
 dodging and countering. Nothing a two minute browse at the online guide couldnt fix (of which gamespot 
 has a great one) . 
  
  Overall this is an excellent action game... the best on Xbox 360 without a doubt but it's really 
 aimed at the 'hardcore' action fan. This is the sort of game that really suits people who want 
 to master all the moves and hack and slash their way through something that's really going to be 
 a challenge. I actually thought the combat in Devil May Cry 4 wasn't that bad until i played this 
 game. Now I'm trading it in first chance i get.... perhaps for a new controller as i think this 
 game just wore my current one out :O
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretcheese
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 was a pretty cool game. My first reaction to the bloody, gorey, exciting fighting 
 was "Aweome!" But after a while I kind of got used to it. I loved all of the weapons and weapons 
 upgrades. They all were great and fun to use and even more fun after you upgraded them. The fighting 
 was very fun and the storyline was interesting. the bosses were fun to fight, and so were the normal 
 enemies. I loved the part where you could decapitate the enemies. I also loved the power up moves 
 and combos that you could do, and how each weapon was different than the other in different ways. 
 the game-play was pretty cool and fun and kept me pretty entertained. The game was pretty fun but 
 after beating it, all you have to do is beat it on a harder difficulty or play it over on the same 
 difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xt3kn1x
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Ahhh.. Ninja Gaiden. Now THIS is one of classics I remember playing growing up that stands out 
 in memory. And to tell you all the truth, I haven't played a Ninja Gaiden title since the original 
 Ninja Gaiden for the NES. I LOVED the original. Why did I wait so long to play? Well, I never bothered 
 to pick up an Xbox, and just waited for a 360 title to come out, to put it frankly. Enough back 
 story on my behalf, on to my impressions of the game:
  
  The game starts out in a pseudo-futuristic Japan where CIA agent Sonia is searching for Ryu at 
 Muramasa's shop to help put a stop to the Spider Ninja Clan. The shop is subsequently attacked 
 and Sonia is taken, shortly before Ryu's arrival. Enter Ryu: Ryu Hayabusa. Badass incarnate. Master 
 of ninjitsu and all forms of weaponry. It appears this time Genshin from the evil Spider Ninja 
 Clan is bringing a world of hurt on the world by attempting to resurrect the Archfiend! It's up 
 to Ryu to slice and dice his way through a horde of unfriendly ninjas, demons, and fiends and put 
 a stop to this travesty.
  
  The game takes you through a visual splendor of blood-splattering, limb-flinging, head-exploding, 
 visceral rage. Ryu has a vast array of weaponry at his fingertips as you progress through the game, 
 and with every gruesome hit you make increases the golden orbs you receive (currency in this game) , 
 which allows you to upgrade your weaponry even further for even MORE ninja beat down. There are 
 a myriad of moves you can use with every weapon which ensures you mastery of every weapon in this 
 game will take some time. Fans of other fast paced action games such as God of War should enjoy 
 this game thoroughly.
  
  As stated previously, I hadn't played a Ninja Gaiden game since the original on Nintendo, so the 
 difficulty was pretty intense for someone like me. Newcomers be wary. I had a very difficult time 
 beating the game on Acolyte (the lowest setting) . Despite the intense challenges, it's still a 
 very fun game worthy of playing. One item in particular that really let me beat the game with relative 
 ease was the eclipse scythe. This thing does MASSIVE damage and really makes boss fights a cinch 
 as soon as you figure out their patterns.
  
  My largest gripe with NGII was the camera. I was constantly fiddling with the right joy stick to 
 redirect the camera, and even after I fixed it, it wouldn't stay. Ryu has a tendency to jump around 
 a lot in battle and fly across the room hitting different enemies around him so the camera often 
 ends up with you looking at a box or a wall. If you can look past the troublesome camera, however, 
 you're left with a very solid action experience with tons of gruesome attacks and techniques. The 
 game plays very fluidly and only noticed lag in one spot in the game I won't spoil it but you'll 
 know why. Let's just say you have to cut a lot of people up. A LOT. 
  
  Audio was above par. Combat sounds were great. Clashing of swords, howls of pain, explosions All 
 sounded wonderful. Most of the character acting, however, was pretty pitiful and the music was 
 downright awful. But because most of the time you're fighting, you really only hear the good stuff. 
 
  Overall I'd say this game is a "must play". It has some very exciting action, fantastic visuals, 
 and is just downright fun. Newcomers expect a steep learning curve and challenging experience. 
 Definitely rent this if not buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden II is fast. I'm not talking about Genesis-era Sonic fast, nor am I talking about Olympic 
 track meet fast. Ninja Gaiden II is so fast that your eyes, fingers and Ryu's own movements all 
 have to become one. Ninja Gaiden II is fast, and while it may not be as fast as Space Balls' "Ludicrous 
 Speed" it's still really, really fast.
  
  The combat in Ninja Gaiden II is so brutally satisfying that it puts every other action game released 
 this console-generation to shame. But a game this fast isn't for the faint of heart. Many will 
 give up on Ninja Gaiden II early on, but those who stay to fight and truly master the mechanics 
 of each and every weapon will find themselves ripping through scores of enemies with the grace 
 allowed only by a ninja. Launching up with an enemy in the air and cutting away at him, only to 
 land again and cut through more enemies, blocking and then counterattacking. Once you become overwhelmed, 
 a well-timed Ninpo (ninja magic) attack will cause major damage allowing you to single out another 
 enemy and take him into the air to end his life.
  
  But if you aren't playing with a mixture of offense and defense, expect no mercy at the hands of 
 Ninja Gaiden II's enemies. Leave yourself open and enemy claws, fangs, swords, exploding shuriken 
 and more will find themselves lodged into your flesh. These aren't the kind of enemies to stand 
 around and wait to be killed, since it's release, Ninja Gaiden has always been well-known for providing 
 cut-throat enemies that will kill you, making every single encounter a life or death situation. 
 Cut off an enemies limb and don't think he's down for the count, when you're least expecting it, 
 that enemy will crawl behind you, grad you and suicide bomb the entire area. But that's where the 
 new Obliteration Techniques come in, allowing to flashily kill any wounded enemy with some of the 
 slickest swordplay shown in the game.
  
  However, while Ninja Gaiden II may be the best playing action title released on the current consoles, 
 not everything is as beautifully done as the game's incomparably cool swordplay. The biggest issue 
 is the story in the game, or rather, the lack of a story in the game. Technically, yes Elizebet 
 the game's main villainess stole the Demon Statue and plans to resurrect the Archfiend. That's 
 all you need to know before running around the world and killing everything in sight (you'll definitely 
 want to kill everyone if you're going to move up those leaderboards) . Nothing is elaborated on 
 in Ninja Gaiden II's story, there isn't even any proper story continuity. For instance, why is 
 the first level set in a futuristic Tokyo, the second level in an ancient ninja village and then 
 followed by a modern New York, and wait for it, we're then taken to Greece, which seems modern 
 enough, but we then see a gladiator (skirt and all) get killed in combat. Furthermore, the game 
 never even tells you why you're going to these various locales.
  
  Situations like that are absolutely unacceptable for a series like Ninja Gaiden and a game of this 
 caliber. The combat may be the best around, but that doesn't mean a poor story is OK, especially 
 in this day and age where genuinely good writing in games (take BioShock, Lost Odyssey and Portal 
 as examples) are almost a must.
  
  However, Ninja Gaiden II makes clear what it is, and what it strives to be, an old-school action 
 game that's more about fighting on to get a higher score rather than a game with a deep, emotional 
 and involving story. That action-packed gameplay however cannot be fully enjoyed without a functional 
 camera, and thankfully, Ninja Gaiden II has one.
  
  Many other reviews have gone on record stating that Ninja Gaiden II has an awful camera, some even 
 claiming that it's the worst camera ever. But all of this is absolutely untrue. Ninja Gaiden II 
 has a functional camera, it follows Ryu, it makes the game playable and keeps up with the action. 
 The problem is ultimately that the camera tries to show off more of the poetic swordplay rather 
 than the actual action. But it's a problem that's easily solved by quickly tapping the right trigger 
 and having the camera center on Ryu. Should your back be to a wall, quickly move the camera and 
 you'll be fine.
  
  The question needs to be asked: Could Ninja Gaiden II have used a better camera? The answer, plain 
 and simply is yes, but that hardly means that the overly exaggerated faults with the camera that 
 many have claimed are true. It may be a somewhat lazy camera, but it does it's job. To help make 
 my point, I never once died by an enemy I didn't know of, and I died two hundred and forty-seven 
 times in this game to boot.
  
  The graphics in Ninja Gaiden II definitely give off the Team Ninja vibe, but these visuals aren't 
 jaw-droppers like the original Ninja Gaiden's graphics back in 2004. The levels are beautiful for 
 the most part, with exception of one dull underground area, and the character models look great, 
 with a slight anime-look to them. The music and sound effects are also rather well-done, the game 
 has geat tunes for the levels, and they add to the game quite a bit. But the sound effects are 
 truly great, at one instance, while running through a tunnel, I heard footsteps but saw no enemies, 
 only to turn around and find two ninja hot on my tail. Instances like that are truly great, it's 
 just a shame that the voice-acting isn't that well-done. Ryu and Sonia sound fine, but everyone 
 else is kind of drab.
  
  Ninja Gaiden II has the best combat in town, with each of the weapons providing a different playstyle 
 and making every fight unique. And while a poor story holds it back from it's full potential, and 
 some minor camera complaints, there's no denying that Itagaki's final game with Team Ninja is on 
 a completely different level from other action games. So if you want to play the most hardcore, 
 the fastest and most brutal action title on the block, look no further than Ninja Gaiden II.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: happy666
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 12, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  well start things off the action was much more intense and fast paced than the original and the 
 moves looked much more intense aswell plus, the limbs that fall off and the amount of blood is 
 simply great. the opening scene really did get me excited to play the game it was very well played 
 out i think ryu looked super cool as he sliced the black spider ninja guy in half and the music 
 soundtrack that went with this game is awesome. I was impressed with the improvements to the combat 
 side of the game but some thing was missing, after a few chapters i relised what it was that was 
 missing?? this time round there was alot of puzzles, to conquer in fact there wernt really any 
 at all which sucks. 
  there have been alot of complaints about camara angle's which really doesn't bother me at all but 
 in chapter 10 i think there a a massive stairwell were loads of enemys bundle up and the game starts 
 to go really slow i liked the idea but seriously if the frame rate cant handle it dont put it in 
 there oh the game also tends to lag a bit from time to time totally kills it. plus the blood connects 
 to i invisible walls not good and claws hanging or the ninja in mid air tutut. i would also like 
 to say that im am glad the old lead designer has resigned he didnt do the game enough justice i 
 think the ability to customise your weapons and gear should have been improved it would make it 
 far more interesting and made for a better replay value really.
  most bosses in the game are easier to defeat than most of the ordinary villains like the last boss 
 arch fiend (2nd form) i can now defeat in a matter of seconds what a load of rubbish.
  Asides from all the bad things its a great game never the less i belive to be one of the best out 
 i hope they do a ninja gaiden 2 black because theres so meny improvements i could point out which 
 would make this a truly great game such as graphics, level design ect. back to weapons i think 
 team ninja had done a great job with the weapon designs it was quite refreashing not usesing and 
 diffrent version of the dragon sword every time alothough i miss the old weapons. Equiped items 
 were missed by me aswell like the little arm bands and earings helped my previous game along and 
 made it much more interesting its good they got combat sorted out but now that you have done that, fix 
 the rest!! although ive slaged off most off the game its still the best game ive ever played sure 
 its ruff round the edge's but i couldnt live with out ninja gaiden i will always love this game 
 no matter how crappy the next ones may be. please let the others be amazeingly better than this 
 one its one of thoses rare game gems ull never find ever again and if i had my way i would'nt stop 
 till i had the perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_187
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  If you like a challenge; and not like a semi hard challenge that you think you can master in 2 
 nights of playing. This game will provide you with a challenges so hard that you will be crying 
 at the foot of your television. it's not a boring game at all. In fact, it's one of the most exciting 
 games that I've ever played. It will get your blood flowing. If you are not a hardcore gamer and 
 if you, like to easily beat games by using codes and cheats, THEN STAY AWAY FROM THIS GAME. Ninja 
 gaiden 2 will provide you with hours and hours of butt kicking, especially when you get to the 
 Mentor and Master ninja settings... they really turn it up and crank the butt kicking meter into 
 overdrive! Good luck for those of you who wish to be a real hardcore Ninja Gaiden Gamer. Team Ninja 
 set the bar high for this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I never played the earlier games but I knew all about the talk about how hard of a game but I never 
 imagined how tough it would get and how bad the bosses would be. I was playing it on the easiest 
 setting and thought it shouldn't be to bad. I did okay with the first chapter, had a couple problems 
 by the second and third chapter and by the fouth I just gave up and wasn't having any fun. I like 
 a challenging game on hard here and there but I like to have some fun and sitting at the Your Dead 
 screen over and over at the last boss got old. Also I got plenty of cheap shots from enemies that 
 I couln't see on the screen. That camera had to be the worst of the ones I have seen on the 360. 
 I had far much more fun playing Devil May Cry when it came out earlier this year and I don't think 
 that is the easiest game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ensatsu-ken
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Overall, I really liked this game, but I'm disappointed that its not as good as the 1st one. The 
 graphics and environments look pretty good, for the most part (with the exception of this 1 cave 
 that honestly looks like something out of the PS1 or N64 ) . For the most part, the critics have 
 really underrated this game, however, it does have some issues. For one thing, most of the boss 
 fights aren't as good as they were in the 1st one. In that one, most bosses were challenging, and 
 it required a lot of strategy to overcome most of them, whereas in this one, you can defeat most 
 of them by simply hacking and slashing at them, unless you're playing on higher difficulty settings 
 like Mentor or Master Ninja. Although, some bosses were designed pretty well, especially the final 
 boss.
  
  Another problem is that the camera can sometimes be an issue, in narrow passageways, or when there 
 are just a bunch of enemies all over the place. I didn't have a problem with the camera in the 
 1st game, and I feel that it was pointless and stupid of most critics to criticize it. In this 
 game, the critics exaggerate how bad it is, but I definitely have to admit that, while its not 
 a bad or terrible camera overall, the developers changed it for the worse. A few critics also claimed 
 that the game is cheap, but from what I have played, its mostly fair difficulty. However, Ninja 
 Gaiden games have never been cheap before, and even though its rare, it saddens me to admit that 
 there are a few truly cheap moments in Ninja Gaiden II, which can cause some serious frustration. 
 And this can be rooted back to the camera, because its cheap when some enemies spam you with attacks 
 by rockets, arrows, and other projectiles, off-screen.
  
  But, for the most part, the developers have done a lot of things to lessen the frustration, like 
 having a regenerating health bar, with semi-permanent damage. Oh, but there is one boss (well, 
 actually more than one, but its the same creature) that literally F***ING explodes, without warning, 
 right after you kill it, and you'll die and be forced to fight it again, unless you're already 
 prepared for the explosion, and block it. Now that's pretty damn cheap. Also, there was this one 
 time when I defeated a boss, who was actually pretty tough, and right after that fight, I was killed 
 by a bunch of mines in the lava, while trying to enter a cave, and that's just BS, because they 
 were barely visible, and they ended up killing me, causing me to have to fight that boss all over 
 again. Moments like those can be really frustrating.
  
  As for the new weapons, they were mostly pretty good, but just like in the 1st game, The Dragon 
 Sword is the most well balanced weapon. However, I loved the Eclipse Scythe, and actually, its 
 probably my favorite weapon in any Ninja Gaide game. It works great on most enemies, and its especially 
 useful on bosses, because even though its a bigger weapon, Ryu is able to wield it pretty fast, 
 and it dishes out lots of damage. Also, its obliteration technique moves look really cool. Hell, 
 I'd actually even put it in a list of my top 10 favorite weapons in gaming.
  
  As for the story, just as expected, its nothing to brag about. In fact, I almost forgot that there 
 was even a story there, at all. The cut-scenes are inconsistent with one another, for the most 
 part, and if you try to pay attention to the story, its extremely confusing. But, such is to be 
 expected from a Team Ninja game. 
  
  So, in the end, this was a very satisfying game. However, I wouldn't recommend it to any casual 
 gamers. I personally enjoyed it, although its still not quite as good as the 1st one. Even then, 
 I definitely recommend this game to any Ninja Gaiden fans, as well as any hardcore action game 
 fans.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LosDaddie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden II Review
  
  Your enjoyment of Team NINJA's latest action game depends on a single question: How important is 
 a game's camera to you?
  
  If you need a perfect camera that you never need to babysit, then you'll hate NGII. If an erratic 
 camera that needs some babysitting is not a deal-breaker for you, then you'll love NGII. There 
 really is no middle-ground on this issue.
  
  Of course, every would-be Master Ninja should approach Ninja Gaiden 2 with expectations of consistent 
 butt-whoopings. This game is no cakewalk.
  
  Alright, onto my review. I'll do this the Kotaku way 
  
  LOVED
  
  Fast-Paced, Tactical 
 Combat: Gameplay has always been the heart & soul of the Ninja Gaiden franchise and NGII does not 
 disappoint. If you try to play this game like a button-masher, then you'll only get frustrated. 
 From using Ninpo attacks for temporary invincibility, to repeated Flying Swallow attacks, to spamming 
 the Eclipse Scythe's Ultimate technique; NGII requires you to fight intelligently. This game is 
 every bit the definition of a "Pure Action Game" .
  
  Fatality Animations: Simply put, if you aren't hootin' & hollerin' after seeing Ryu's finishing/fatality 
 animations, then you've officially invested in the wrong game. The sheer amount of gore (from slicing 
 off limbs to decaptitating scrub ninja) is impressive.... and never got old for me. And the gore 
 only gets amplified when you start using the Eclipse Scythe. NGII has to be one of the bloodiest 
 games to date. God of War II is the only game to compete with NGII in this category (Ryu & Kratos 
 = Brothers From A Different Mother)
  
  Boss Fights: Do you remember back in the 8-Bit days when Bosses were huge (like in fill-half-the-screen 
 huge) and required both skill and luck to defeat? Well, that's exactly the types of Boss Fights 
 to be found in NGII. And I loved it.
  
  Save System: Taking advice from critics & fans alike, Team NINJA implemented are great save system 
 for NGII. Not only are save points far more frequent, but each one also re-fills your life. Oh 
 and did I mention that the game saves right before each boss battle so you don't have to backtrack 
 if you die? Yeah, that rocks.
  
  
  HATED
  
  Erratic Camera: There are two reasons for NGII's poor camera: 1) Level Design: The game's levels 
 are just too confined/small/narrow for the camera to keep up with all the action, which leads to 
 2) Fast-Paced Combat: Ryu Hayabusa is a Master Ninja and I guess that means he has godlike speed 
 because it would be difficult for any camera to keep an ideal position while following him. To 
 be fair, NGII's camera becomes far less of a hassle during the last 4 stages.
  
  Game Crashes: Yup, there were a few occasions where I had to eject the game disc because the game 
 froze-up on me. This happened mainly when there were multiple enemies on screen (or during a Boss 
 Battle) and I paused the game (to heal myself or something) . While this may just be a problem with 
 my Xbox360 (geez... I hope not) , no other game has forced me to restart since I've finished this 
 game.
  
  Story & Soundtrack: Completely forgettable on both accounts... but maybe "hate" is too strong .
 
  
  
  Score: 8.5/10
  
  Achievement Detail: 700 points playing on Path of the Warrior difficulty. Very nice.
  
  Game 
 Length: 20hrs
  
  Closing Comments: Ninja Gaiden II tries to be nothing more than a video game. Yeah I know... just 
 stating the obvious, but NGII really is like playing one of the 8-Bit Ninja Gaiden games in 3D 
 with all the next-gen features we've come to know & love.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainwonton
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long time since I write a review but I thought this game was worth it, especially after 
 seeing how underrated it is.
  
  Ninja gaiden 2 is simply fantastic to play, it is a wild ride all the way to the end, no matter 
 how challenging it is. Thanks to it's superb gameplay, the game will feel like the best action 
 game you've ever played in your life, or for a long time.
  
  But what is ninja gaiden? If you're a owner of the original xbox you know what the game is all 
 about. Although ninja gaiden is a very old franchise, those old games can't be compared to the 
 greatness ninja gaiden accomplished on the xbox. But if you don't have a clue what is ninja gaiden, 
 then let's do a quick overall look:
  Ryu Hayabusa, the character you control, is a skillful ninja, a master ninja when it comes to acrobatics 
 and every-i-mean-every melee weapon control. That's about all you need to know, that's enough to 
 keep you interested for a long time.
  
  Back to ninja gaiden 2, especifically, this game is very violent which is good news since you're 
 a ninja trained to control every available weapon. The gameplay feels very free and loose right 
 from the beginning, although you'll also notice how much health those 10 ninjas attacking you all 
 at once, are taking from you, and if you're not skilled or fast enough might be rhe quickest game 
 over in the video game history, but if that happens you also feel that you just gotta be a better 
 player and improve you're skills.
  
  The story, is really long and not very compelling so i don't I don't wanna get all confusing and 
 try to explain all the deal about the fiends and big breasted girls asking for you, I think is 
 better for you to look at all that bt yourself especially the part with the big breasted girl asking 
 for you.
  
  The gameplay, like I said before this is the best action game avaliable because of it's gameplay, 
 it's so well implemented that you'll probably won't be able to put this game down in a long time. 
 You get a sword and shurikens right from the beginning, and with these you decapitate, dismember 
 and OBVIOUSLY kill many many low class ninjas willing to sacrifice themselves in order to have 
 a shot at hurting you.
  The basics, x button us the light-but-not-so-light attack, the y button is the strong-o-so-strong 
 attack, b button is for your selected projectile weapon, and a button is of course the jump.
  Don't misunderstand the basics though because the game gets very complicated as you try to progress 
 from one area to another, as you combine your attacks with your wall-running abilities, the environment 
 and the different types of weapons and projectiles.
  
  The graphics, terrific graphics will follow right after the fast paced gameplay, although it might 
 not be the best looking game to date it does look really good and the animations for your character 
 and every other character in the game are awesome to look at, especially since you're going to 
 want to see the bad guys suffer right after they took half your health, really, nothing better 
 than taking both his legs and then his head, you practically wish you could do that to every other 
 character who has pissed you off in any other game.
  The bad thing comes when you start to see some glithes and stuff feels like it could've been easily 
 fixed, like blood spilled in the air and some other minor technical stuff that just looks out of 
 place.
  
  The sound, fantastic, from voice acting to the sound of the gory results of your sword being impaled 
 in your foes.
  The sound is really a highpoint, since the thrilling music really suits the fast paced action, 
 and it also suits in all those moments where you might have to think a little more than kill, as 
 ackward as it sounds.
  
  The value, depends on how much you like the main game, bacause there isn't really many other things 
 to do, you can film yourself playing and then see it later or show it to the world, or have a shot 
 at the leaderboards, but as always there is someone that already have all the achievements and 
 the maximun score a week after the game was released. There are also some other difficulties and 
 some neat costumes to unlock but that's about it.
  
  The last words, ninja gaiden 2 is by far the best action game on the platform and it deserves to 
 be recognized for it, I enjoyed this game much more than many other games, like assassin's creed, 
 and I think it is worthy of praise to see how the series have evolved over the years, and I know 
 just like me many other players will see that too.
  
  So don't let the common opinions like the bad camera or the punishing difficulty get at you without 
 before giving the game a shot, because it deserves it and also you may never see the problems with 
 the camera, i didn't, and the difficulty is not that high in the first difficulty setting son don't 
 look away, this game is awesome for everyone looking for a worthy action fast paced rewarding experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden for the Xbox was a beast of a game, plain and simple. It was probably the most difficult 
 game to come out on the last generation of consoles, and arguably one of the most challenging games 
 of all time. I never completed it because, let's face it, there were games I could actually have 
 fun with out there and I didn't feel like "mastering" a particular game at that moment in time. 
 
  
  Years later another addition to the Ninja Gaiden series hits the 360, and it's the same game as 
 the original. I don't care what everyone else says, honestly, what's different? Oh wait, now I 
 remember. There's a couple new weapons, some new magic, new bosses, a new story, and the addition 
 of a new finishing technique called "Obliteration". Which basically turn your enemies into random 
 body parts. So this is the same old Ninja Gaiden with a fresh coat of paint. But, I am not complaining 
 about the game as much as the people who seem to believe it's different. 
  
  But here's what I think. Ninja Gaiden 2 is just as difficult, just as frustrating, and just as 
 fun as the previous game. Enemies will still attack you from offscreen occasionally, there will 
 be radical difficultly shifts seemlingly out of nowhere from time to time, and the story is completely 
 pointless and moot. To me that sounds like the game I played about four years ago (I think it was 
 four years) . 
  
  If you liked the first Ninja Gaiden and want to keep the frustration going then this is your game. 
 I bought it because I wanted to give this series another go ahead. I enjoyed my run though of the 
 first difficulty stage and I will try to get all the way up to master ninja, no matter how long 
 it takes, hopefully. 
  
  Same game, new coat of paint, did you really expect something more? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing visuals, fast fun combat, lots of gore, cool enemies, easy mode is actually beatable, 
 leaderboards, more everything, Sonia is hotter than Rachel
  
  The Bad: Sluggish controls, frame rate can't keep up sometimes, bad camera, difficulty is more 
 insane this time around
  
  I never beat the first Ninja Gaiden due to it's insane difficulty. I wanted to very badly, but 
 no matter how much I tried I failed in the end. Thankfully NG2 is a bit more forgiving on the easy 
 setting, but new comers will never make it past the first level. The game's story is nothing special 
 and feels like a rehash at best. You have to save the world from the Arch Fiends taking over the 
 world and destroying so you have to hunt them down one by one. The game play is essentially the 
 same as NG1. You have light and heavy attacks along with projectile weapons that you can charge. 
 The game has many more weapons and Ninpo scrolls to use. Weapons range from scythes, tonfas, flails, 
 and even staffs. All the weapons are great and you can upgrade them for up to three levels and 
 after the enemies get too strong for that weapon you'll never use it again. The Ninpo magic is 
 useful for enemies, but useless on bosses since it doesn't do any damage. The can be used to cripple 
 enemies and finish them off with a finishing move. There are a lot of new moves in the game yet 
 they are repeated far too often. You can hack enemies apart into a bunch of pieces and continue 
 to hack them up for overkill bonuses. While you rack up your Karma score you can also buy items 
 from the Masamusa shops which are generously spread throughout the levels and the same goes for 
 save points. I never found the game unfair with checkpoints or saves. Once you die at a boss you 
 start right there in front of the boss again so this makes things less frustrating. Another cool 
 element is being able to run on top of water. You can fight enemies this way as well and just adds 
 to the awesome ninja feel to the game. I also found the controls less responsive than the first 
 game and also a bit sluggish. You'll try to hit an enemy, but they'll back away and hit you but 
 you're stuck in an animation that you can't back out of. This isn't a huge issue but it's still 
 there. Another problem is the camera which is terrible. Instead of following Ryu it'll always stay 
 in one spot so enemies are coming at you blindly. While this also isn't a huge issue it doesn't 
 make things better. Throughout each level is a Test of Valor portal which has you killing as many 
 enemies in the room as you can and rewarding you. These get extremely hard then super easy. The 
 game also looks amazing. While it's not Assassin's Creed or Gears of War amazing it looks astounding 
 with awesome lighting, high res textures, realistic physics and what have you. Another problem 
 is that the game is insanely linear with literally only one straight path to go on. this makes 
 fighting a bit cramped sometimes, but overall isn't a huge issue. A lot of people will have the 
 biggest problem with the difficulty. While it's tolerable on easy you'll never beat normal or, 
 god forbid, hard. What makes the game so hard are the limited healing items, some cheap enemies, 
 and the sluggish controls. You never really feel powerful enough no matter what weapons you get. 
 I really hated this and is the most disappointing part of the game. There are also times where 
 the frame rate will chug when there are tons of enemies on screen. This makes those sections even 
 more annoying. The game has lots of gore, sexy women, cool weapons and magic, a long campaign, 
 leaderboards, amazing visuals, but it falls down some with sluggish controls, a bad camera and 
 insane difficulty. If you loved NG1 you're going to have a blast here, but if the first game made 
 you feel standoffish then pick NG2 up because you'll be able to at least beat the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Can you believe that it has already been four years since Ryu Hyabusa made his triumphant 
 return in three dimension :o) ? Just yesterday I felt like I wanted to destroy my TV and Ryu because 
 of the frustrating game that was Ninja Gaiden. Well, he has returned and there will be blood.
 
  
  Everything that you would expect from the last Ninja Gaiden game to be transferred over is here, 
 for better or for worse. The worst part of the game however is your worst enemy. The CAMERA! It 
 never wants you to know where the enemy is and what you are supposed to do. The main problem with 
 the game however, is that it is almost the exact same game as Ninja Gaiden Black/Sigma, except 
 for the fact that it is a different story. We've already seen this formula before, but its the 
 same formula that blew us away four years ago and it is still a great game that you should look 
 in to.
  
  + The game looks gorgeous. And when you kill someone, its beautiful.
  + When you know that you are accomplishing something, it feels gratifying.
  - The stupid camera 
 and the occasional framerate drop hamper the fun of killing people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weelz79
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I understand the frustrations and grievances our gamers of the "casual variety" have pinned against 
 "Ninja Gaiden II." In keeping with the tradition of Itagaki's legendary serial: this is a difficult 
 adventure. True, it's a more accessible outing due to a self-healing life gauge and conveniently 
 placed "Save" locations, but do not be swayed into believing that because there are four tiers 
 of difficulty that the easiest of these (that being "The Path of the Acolyte") will be a walk in 
 the park. This path of the ninja is a challenge for novices and experts alike. Once players have 
 accepted their fate of becoming chopped sui they'll feel less inclined to fault the game's steep 
 learning curve. In essence, "Ninja Gaiden" games are challenging, a real uphill slope, but not 
 without rewards or self-gratification. "Ninja Gaiden II" is no exception to this rule.
  However, what I fail to comprehend (or in many cases tolerate) are the variety of professional 
 reviewers and supposed veterans attacking the technical aspects of the game. The biggest complaint 
 being the game's free-roaming camera. Perhaps after trudging through enough "Sonic Adventure" titles 
 or eye-balling any Paul Greengrass film would prepare an individual to find a substantial balance 
 between the controlled and the chaotic, but no such frailties exist in Ryu Hayabusa's world. The 
 camera is, for the most part, at your leisure and with the simple click of the Right Trigger it 
 will remain as such. Granted, for stylistic purposes, once Ryu's fury is unleashed (whether a UT, 
 Ninpo, or OT) we are allowed a cinematic rendering of bravura bloodletting, but once these dismemberment 
 displays have ceased the camera remains as still as death. With practice and patience the camera 
 can prove most convenient and an asset while traversing the Fiend-plagued worlds with our hero. 
 Those finding fault with this particular element of "Ninja Gaiden II" have not taken the time, 
 nor the imagination, to understand its use. 
  If there be any need to carp about "Ninja Gaiden II" I would argue it's laughably absurd story 
 and seemingly downgraded production values to be a bit surprising. While the broad scope of the 
 narrative allows Ryu to traverse vast and creatively compelling environments, there really isn't 
 much meat on these severed bones. The villains are one-dimensional, the heroine ridiculously unremarkable 
 (weighing in on Itagaki's infamous sexism; the woman's voluptuous anatomy are exploited at every 
 possible turn) and even Ryu's own motivation falls into question. Thankfully, no "Ninja Gaiden" 
 is revered for its plot, so those inclined for emotional pull while this blood-bath is firing on 
 all cylinders will not be taken aback by such details.
  The graphics on the other hand are a different matter. Like many, I found myself dazzled by the 
 original "Ninja Gaiden" on Xbox back in 2004. That isn't to say that "Ninja Gaiden II" isn't without 
 show-stopping moments (some of the cinematic scenes are beautifully realized in real-time, reminiscent 
 of Kurosawa and easily comparable of visual quality to the pre-rendered interludes that graced 
 the original) , but on a whole the game could well be cataloged for a "last-generation" title. Even 
 the Itagaki-less "Ninja Gaiden: Sigma" for the Sony Playstation 3 had more visual pinache. With 
 monster visual feasts such as "Mass Effect," "Assassin's Creed," and "Gears of War" becoming more 
 common, "Ninja Gaiden II" feels a bit dated (though, in its defense, neither of those previously 
 mentioned titles share the smoothness or speed of Hayabusa's swift and subtle ninja action) . It's 
 perplexing to think what might have occurred had Team Ninja used a little more of Microsoft's hardware 
 muscle...
  In closing, "Ninja Gaiden II" is unjustly maligned by many. Those with patience and willingness 
 to embrace a challenging quest will be thusly rewarded and find a true diamond in the barren rough 
 of Xbox 360 action titles. Considering, as of this date, this may prove to be the last "Ninja Gaiden" 
 with Itagaki at the helm, it makes the long and narrow path of the ninja a more precious gem worth 
 harboring.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KonohaKakashi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  Here we are, the next installment of Ninja Gaiden on the Microsoft line. Before I start reviewing 
 this game, let me tell you that this is NOT a game for casuals or easily frustrated people. Although 
 I'm one who found the difficulty fine, plenty of casuals and simply riled players will find this 
 game hard and mostly unplayable.
  Anyways, I love this game. I was always interested in the Ninja Gaiden series, having played Ninja 
 Gaiden on the NES, then Ninja Gaiden for the XBox. Ninja Gaiden II is a great game as well, but 
 it's not without its own flaws as well.
  
  Story - This is one of NGII's weak points, but it really doesn't affect the overall game. It's 
 a pretty stupid idea to try to play this game for its story, as it's far superior gameplay more 
 than makes up for it. Essentially, it starts off as a CIA agent, Sonia, comes to Muramasa's shop 
 to search for our lovable hero, Ryu Hayabusa. However, she's abducted by ninjas before Ryu arrives, 
 so he goes to save her. Once she's saved, Ryu quests through 14 chapters of awesome, brutal slaughter 
 to defeat demons called Fiends and eventually defeat the Archfiend. Like I said before, the story's 
 really not that good, but the cutscenes are always nice to watch.
  
  Gameplay - Here we are, the core of the game. Like the previous games, Ryu has a plethora of weapons 
 to wield in order to completely butcher his enemies and make blood flow throughout the streets. 
 The (True) Dragon Sword naturally makes a return and will remain one of Ryu's most balanced and 
 versatile weapons. The Vigoorian Flails also make a return as a great crowd clearing weapon. The 
 other weapons that you obtain include, but are not limited to, the Falcon's Talons, which equip 
 Ryu with claws and foot blades for excellent melee combat, and the Eclipse Scythe, an obscenely 
 powerful weapon that butchers everything easily. With these and even more weapon options to choose 
 from, you won't get bored with the combos and different ways to mutilate the baddies. You also 
 have your secondary weapons (basic Shuriken, Fiend Bane Bow, and Incendiary Shuriken) and Ninpo, 
 which are special magic attacks that have different effects. For example, Art of the Inferno targets 
 one enemy and torches him into oblivion, and Art of the Wind Blades shoots blades of air in the 
 direction you're facing to chop off limbs of any enemy in the way.
  A new feature that will make you cream your pants is the Obliteration Technique. Remember how Ultimate 
 Techniques were always the greatest was to kill your enemies in Ninja Gaiden? Although they do 
 make a pleasant return nonetheless, you now also have Obliteration Techs to work with. In NGII, 
 enemies will constantly go after you, even after losing a limb, so you need to destroy them completely 
 before they stop coming after you, which is where the Obliteration Tech comes in. All you need 
 to do is rush to an enemy that lost a limb or more and press the Strong Attack button, which will 
 result in Ryu massacring the individual in a pleasantly gory technique. Use these in conjunction 
 with Ultimate Techs to wipe the floor with your enemies.
  Battles in NGII naturally have some distinctions that separate it from previous NG games. One of 
 these is that, unlike in Ninja Gaiden, where you only had to worry about three or four enemies 
 at a time at most, you're going to quickly notice that you're constantly swarmed with 7+ enemies 
 at a time with nearly every encounter. Another thing you'll notice is how the camera isn't exactly 
 good. No matter how good you are at positioning it, you're going to get hit by plenty of off-screen 
 projectiles at one point or another. The camera is one of the weak points of the game that you'll 
 have to live with, but you'll get used to it eventually.
  Of course, you'll still be able to run on walls and flip around like crazy, just like a... ninja. 
 The dodge roll unfortunately didn't make a return and you'll instead be given a dash movement as 
 a dodge instead of a roll. The dash isn't quite as useful as the roll was, but it still doesn't 
 change the fact that it helps in avoiding enemies at critical times.
  
  Graphics - You can't really expect anything bad about the graphics. Ninja Gaiden II looks absolutely 
 superb with its cutscenes, battles... everything. It helps for limbs and blood to be flying around 
 in a graphically pleasing fashion.
  
  Glitches - Now, here's something that was discovered not long after the game came out. Team Ninja 
 didn't manage to fix some glitches in the game before release, so they didn't get rid of stuff 
 like bosses getting stuck in walls or groups of enemies not appearing when they should, therefore 
 making you unable to progress throughout the game. Although I, and many others, haven't encountered 
 glitches yet, there are still plenty of people that have encountered several glitches that are 
 either minor and don't affect the game or are bad enough to make them restart the game (Crap, I 
 just lost The Game) . There's a higher chance you won't come across these than you will, but it's 
 definitely worth a mention if you want this game.
  
  So there you have it, a general outlook into Ninja Gaiden II, although I still haven't mentioned 
 several other mechanics and whatnot. If you're a fan of the Ninja Gaiden series, I say that this 
 game is definitely worth a try. You'll definitely get a kick out of it. Not only that, but if you're 
 as desensitized as I am, this game will bring plenty of laughs as well. Also get this game if you 
 want something that ISN'T a game that button mashing will get you through easily. Button mashing 
 results in a harder time than learning combos and using them well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taylorb522
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  I remember when I got Ninja Gaiden Black for the Xbox, it was awesome, loved it. So I went into 
 this game thinking that I was going to be seeing AMAZING CG cut scenes and all the crazy but interesting 
 characters from the first game... nope no amazing cut scenes at least. I was really hoping for cg 
 cut scenes like they had for the first trailer of the game, but nope they had some old china shop 
 that looked like crap, but then the blood started spraying. Ok sorry to get off subject but why 
 can Ryu in the cut scenes kill the Spider Ninjas in one swing of his sword yet it takes 10 hits 
 in the actual game? And why the hell are there ninjas in the future? Idk, just thinking.
  
  I started the game up and as soon as I had time to pick up my controller after the opening cut 
 scene I was already being attacked in a grab and was getting sliced and diced, and that brings 
 me to a conclusion about this game... IT IS HARD AS F*CK! Ok, I can understand giving the player 
 a challenge but this is just ridiculous. I beat the game but I am a really hardcore gamer so for 
 a person who just bought a game console and they want some ninja action it's kinda not fair, they 
 wont be able to play it because the game is so hard for casual gamers. The difficulty is borderline 
 cheap. aldasladkdlanfkjdb I am to lazy to write anything more about this game.
  
  Rent it first then buy it if you like it. I like Devil May Cry 4 a lot more than thins game. It 
 is a lot more deep and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is one of the best action games I have ever played. The game plays like no other 
 game and has a very simple but engaging story to boot with some great characters including some 
 of the most evil people I've ever seen grace a video game. From the likes of Elizabet and the other 
 fiends to Genshin (quite possibly the biggest bad ass in any video game) to the good guys of the 
 game which include Ryu Hayabusa and Sonya the beautiful and buxom CIA agent who accompanies Ryu 
 on his journey. 
  
  As a first time entree into the Ninja Gaiden series I was instantly blown away by the depth of 
 combat and sheer brutality behind every single movement the protagonist of the game, Ryu Hayabusa, 
 engages himself in. Everything about this game has a certain style of it, brutal yet somewhat tasteful 
 despite the fact limbs and heads fly aplenty. Ninja Gaiden 2 has perhaps one of the best combat 
 systems used in any game ever made and that's quite the bold statement. The combat system is easy 
 to get used to, on acolyte one can get away with simply button mashing the strong attack on most 
 of the early levels. Of course though you have to learn to master the combo attacks as well as 
 timing and general strategies especially when it comes to boss battles. Ninja Gaiden does what 
 many action games fails to do, it makes sure the player can't get away with mashing away at random 
 buttons in hopes of beating a level. The tight control scheme allows players to feel in total control 
 and this is the most satisfying thing about the game, it's the fact nothing is handed to you. You 
 have to work towards everything and every single movement is controlled by you. If you fail it's 
 because you didn't do well that round and you had room for improvement. The game never falls into 
 the boundary of cheap regardless of what any reviewer will say. Chances are they just weren't good 
 at the game. By no means am I a master ninja but there I'd like to think I am somewhat skilled 
 at this game. Ninja Gaiden will do that to people, being able to beat such a tough game is enough 
 to make anybody brimming with pride. Thanks to Ninja Gaiden's tight control scheme, and it's easy 
 to pick up but hard to master gameplay Ninja Gaiden 2 has some of the best action gameplay to be 
 experienced in any video game.
  
  Itagaki didn't lie about this game being the world's best action game because as I explained it's 
 gameplay is unrivaled. Sadly he somewhat lied when he talked about the graphics. Graphics are the 
 major weak point of this game and really held it back from being a universally AAA game and in 
 my books held it back from earning a 9.5. There are many inconsistencies in graphics. The early 
 levels look mediocre, nothing special at all in these levels. The couple levels in the middle such 
 as the jungle level look downright junky especially that infamous green tunnel. That looks terrible 
 to be quite blunt. The later levels though blew me away and look truly beautiful. These levels 
 were definitely more polished then the rest of the levels in the game and have beautiful lighting 
 effects, coloring, and they just look fantastic and strike a sense of awe when you first see them. 
 The character models all look fine to me nothing really ugly but nothing amazing. The physics that 
 went into the female characters breasts never cease to amaze me, typical Itagaki ;) . The best place 
 where the graphics are put to use is the amazing action sequences which look amazing and never 
 cease to amaze. Onlookers and players alike will be amazed by the acrobatics of Ryu and the gory 
 outcomes of these battles. These are truly battles that are not to be missed.
  
  The sound in the game is great if you know what to do. The music is excellent and sets an appropriate 
 mood, there is the typical action game music. There is boss music, combat music, and atmosphere 
 music. Nothing new is done but what is done is done extremely well and I quite enjoyed it. The 
 dialogue to me sounded stupid in English so with some simple changes I changed the dialogue to 
 Japanese with English subtitles. As with most things this made the game much more pleasant to the 
 ears as this was the way the game was meant to be heard. I recommend you do this because it simply 
 sounds better and the acting is a lot more believable. 
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 is well worth the 59.99, despite it being a single player game there is a lot of 
 replay value in the game as the difficulty levels present a new challenge and what feels like a 
 new game every time. In a sense this game is kind of like the 'Guitar Hero' of action games where 
 once you beat one difficulty level you have to do the next one. There is also a lot of fun to be 
 had with the leader board in which you can compare your ninja skills with your friends. Ninja Gaiden 
 2 is a blast and a game not to be missed. It will challenge you and you will be amazed. If you 
 are on the fence, just check out the demo. If you think you like action games you should slap yourself 
 if you think to avoid this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adams134g
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  It's been a while since Ninja Gaiden on Xbox. This is one of the best action games you will find 
 on the Xbox 360 and probably one of the most frustrating too. The story continues right after the 
 first game. Your still Ryu Hayabusa and it's your job to save the world. This game isn't really 
 going to have any suprises instore. One of the worst things in this game is the camera, which is 
 a challenge itself to control while your being mauled by five ninjas. One thing everything looks 
 for in a game is the graphics. Ninja Gaiden II isn't the best in that category for the 360. It 
 still has good graphics but nothing like Gears of War or Halo 3. The framerate is good most of 
 the time. The Ninja Cinema was fun but nothing like Halo 3's saved videos. The trademark of the 
 Ninja Gaiden series is action, which is better in the second than the first. Something that I enjoyed 
 was to watch a ninja still attacking even though he was missing one or two limbs. To add on to 
 that are the satisfying (and gory) finishing moves, which have you slicing and dicing (litteraly) 
 the wounded ninja. The second of the series definetly has more weapons then the first. The frustration 
 and aggravation is still there, which can be good and bad. The good being that you'll always feel 
 like you've accomplished something in the end. It's practically the same as the first but still 
 an awesome, bloody, gory, action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walker1846
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  we need our limbs to occupy our human behaviour and the way limbs and bodily organs are sliced 
 & diced in this game then you would be thankful your limbs are still attached to your body in which 
 you are even more lucky to still have a functioning body. Ryu Hayabusa rips it up in this killer 
 sequel that has gruesome decapitations to go with colourful graphics and solid and satisfying fluent 
 gameplay.
  
  First things first is it good? well yes what really hampers the fluent gameplay is the evil camera 
 which has a mind of its own luckily team ninja have applied a solution in which you tap the right 
 trigger to focus on Ryu again. But other than this flaw is a great hack & slash which delivers 
 with the goods at every set piece.
  
  what really sets ninja gaiden 2 apart from the other hack & slash games are the quite astonishing 
 moves in which you will never see more bloddshed in decapitating other ninjas, its awesome.
  
  this game was never intended to anyone with a very weak stomach, i am suprised this even got 
 past the OFLC ( those bastards never know how to make up thier minds banning drug games but reducing 
 a foe to only his main body is kinda strange it got past the censors) that comment was not meant 
 to lambast the amount of gore in the game it really gives it good results.
  
  Action and hack & slash aficionados this is where the party is at.
  
  +
  *great visual representation
 
  *very niced fluent gameplay
  *lots of blood (i mean it)
  
  -
  *camera will lead you down the path of insanity
  *did i mention it is frustatingly hard 
  
 
  You will not be disapointed
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zfreak1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 was a very cautious purchase. Im not used to playing games this hard, and i had 
 never played the first one. Ninja Gaiden 2 from the get go was very fast and a bit forgiving. Anyways 
 the game is a blast and here is the breakdown.
  
  The Story- The story isnt one i really payed atention to. There great to watch but the story is 
 very run of the mill. It almost seems like a reason to just beat up bad guys. You travel around 
 the world starting in Japan, than New York, than a fictious land that resembles Venice, Italy, 
 than something like a south american village and than back to Japan. Your also met with a pointless 
 girl named Sonia. Based on how she is dressed you would never guess she worked for the CIA but 
 you probably dont care about that. Theres also a werewolf, a girl-guy, a creepy lady, and this 
 fire dragon thingy. All of which look cool and are even cooler to fight.
  
  The Gameplay- The game has 4 dificutlties, Acolyte, Warrior, Mentor, and Master. If you have never 
 played Ninja Gaiden, than Acolyte is the way to go. Acolyte is almost to easy. The bosses are still 
 a blast to fight but there health bar is almost gone withiin minutes. Warrior is the perfect mix 
 between the difficulties and the last 2 are extremely unforgiving. There are two attack buttons, 
 one for heavy attacks and the other for light ones that arent hard to pull off. You will not make 
 it far using the Heavy attack button and mixing attacks gets fun and combos are beautiful to watch. 
 There is also platforming that depending on your reflexes can be a bit tough. You can also decapitate 
 enemies which may hinder your opponent or instantly kill them depending on what part of the body 
 you chop off. 
  
  The Graphics- The graphics in this game are amazing. Water shimmers, character models look great 
 and cutscenes look phenominal. The environments arent horrible, well except for one level that 
 is bascally a glowing green cave. But they can get linear so most of it is there for looks. The 
 gore looks great too, just in case you love gore. Blood usually stays there after battles, and 
 so do bodies depending on what your fighting. 
  
  The Sound/Music- The sound effects are gruesome and that is definetly not a bad thing. Slices are 
 satisfying and getting splattered everywhere sounds cool too. Voice acting is standard. Its not 
 amazing but it gets the job done. I dont even know what amazing voice acting is but it just didnt 
 stand out. Ryu sounds very bored, but hes supposed to so its good too. The music isnt amazing either. 
 It loops for the whole section too. Some of it is quite dramatic and epic, but not all of it. Once 
 again it gets the job done but its nothing memorable or epic either.
  
  The Lenght/Value- Ninja Gaiden 2 isnt a short ride. Well depending on how fast you go. It took 
 me about 15 hours to beat. You can also replay with all your weapons too and a new costume as long 
 as its on the same difficulty you beat it. Replaying with all your weapons is very fun too. Playing 
 through again for more points from wen you beat the chapter may encourage players as well.
  
  The Problems- I had to restart the game twice thanks to an annoying glitch. Luckily i was only 
 on chapter two but the fact that there are glitches that can prevent you from continuing is not 
 only annoying but frusturating. The camera is also bothersome. It always wants to be behind Ryu 
 so if ur being attacked from behind it wont be enough to turn the camera around cause it will just 
 reset. Sometimes it gets into tight spots too. Another problem is the swimming. The levels with 
 water are very frusturating cause Ryu swims horribly. The camera is super zoomed into his back 
 so you can see him and not the exploding jelly-fish things.
  
  The Bonuses- You can record your gameplay ventures to share with your fellow gamers. And you can 
 post Karma points on leaderboards too. Thats basicaly it. 
  
  The End- Overall you will enjoy Ninja Gaiden 2. Dont let difficultie turn you off. But it does 
 have points of pure frusturation. *cough* Chapter 8 *cough* but if you can get past those you will 
 have a intense blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenmaestro65
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  This game should have been excellent and it so nearly was, the camera was inexcusable and tempted 
 me to make it's score even lower but its excellence where it prevailed saved it.
  Under no circumstance can this game be called anything less than flawed, I enjoyed the hardness 
 of Sigma on PS3 and on the whole found that one fair, though Ninja Gaiden II was unfair to the 
 point of extreme aggravation. I nearly gave up countless times due to the appalling camera, some 
 boss fights in particular were beyond belief. How a well respected development team or publisher 
 can release a game in this state is incredible, they must have known how broken parts were.
  Ironically I did not find the game itself too hard, it was certainly a challenge but on the whole 
 easier than Sigma, except for the camera making it harder. Sorry to keep mentioning that!
  My other gripe would be the bowmen and RPG guys, they were too regular and always were there when 
 you had closer enemies too dispose of first.
  The positive side would be the game itself, graphically good, the misty swamp place with trees 
 near the end was particularly WOW! The lack of respawning enemies was nice though this made the 
 spendable essence more precious. Generally I had enough but more spends at the last shop would 
 have made the five boss ending easier for me.
  The blood and gore too was very effective as were the cutscenes.
  In summary, what should have 
 been a classic is reduced to a 'nearly ran' by appalling quality control at Team Ninja. This was 
 a game I needed to finish for my sanity and was overjoy with relief when I did. I didn't buy this 
 game, my brother in law lent it too me along with Alone In The Dark which I put on as soon as I 
 finished, after an hour of play I thought NO! Not straight after Ninja Gaiden Camera !!!!!!!! Back 
 to Bad Company, GTA 4 and MSG 4 for me I need some Triple A gaming after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: howardorr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  "Ninja Gaiden 2" probably will not be remembered very fondly. A game blighted by terrible camera, 
 cheap difficulty-raising tricks, and a game engine generally hailing from the previous generation 
 of consoles, NG2 nevertheless has enough of the magic dust of its XBOX predecessor to make it a 
 fully worthwhile purchase.
  
  Everything about "Ninja Gaiden 2" is intimidating. From the sturm und drang Tecmo video intro sequence 
 to the final boss fight, the game retains the fearsome seriousness and difficulty of 2004's "Ninja 
 Gaiden". That game was possibly the greatest action adventure of the 3D era. To attain success, 
 "Ninja Gaiden 2" has to follow that and add the requisite gloss of current-gen gaming, whilst fixing 
 the original's annoying camera and tweaking the controller-damaging difficulty level. In this regard, 
 NG2 is a failure: the graphics are often bland and barren, the camera sits too close to the player 
 character, and the admittedly lessened difficulty is soured in many places by cheap hikes in difficulty 
 which the player cannot possibly avoid. 
  
  However, there is a big "but". The gameplay is as thrilling as NG, as beautifully detailed and 
 rewarding as the rest of the game elements are shoddy and perplexing. While the sequel incorporates 
 close-up Obliteration moves to kill wounded enemies and a regenerating health-bar (a nod to making 
 the game more accessible) , it is still fundamentally the same game engine as the originalbut more. 
 More blood, more fighting, more all-round violence. 
  
  The point is that the wonderfully fluid and responsive controls actually make the gamer feel in 
 control of a master ninja. It makes you feel proud to have accomplished a tough boss fight or to 
 have countered an enemy attack. This element alone makes this charismatic game worth paying serious 
 attention to. And, having played such cutscene-heavy games as Metal Gear Solid 4 recently, NG2's 
 non-stop action shines particularly brightly for me; the game represents a big gold star in favour 
 of action gaming. Perhaps having realised this, Tecmo have gutted out the often tedious and obtuse 
 puzzles from Ninja Gaiden in favour of added enemies. 
  
  To be clear, "Ninja Gaiden 2" is a deeply flawed videogame. There are plenty of elements to the 
 game which are not really good enough. In keeping with Team NINJA's Mount Fuji logo, the game is 
 either peaks or troughs.. The peaks are fantastic, and the troughs are "fantastic", too. The camera, 
 it must be stressed, is awful, locking up terribly especially in tight corridors and on flights 
 of stairs. Graphically, the game has bland backgrounds, although the detailed character animations 
 make up for this in large part. The story is the usual tosh about armageddon that game developers 
 so love, with demons and devils spewing terrible dialogue -just ignore them. But Ninja Gaiden 2 
 has the magical charisma of a game which just knows it is special, that can treat you badly because 
 it knows you will come crawling back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jres11
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  When i first played this game it was great who doesnt like slicing people up lol the story was 
 so freaking awesome the gameplay was just AWESOME the BLOOD AND GORE WAS AWESOME but wat i really 
 liked about dis game was dat it had bosses that were just fun 2 beat up smack around with ur katana.... 
 although the cameras arent dat gr8 they sometimes fly over ur head and u kant rally tell wats going 
 on and its very hard at sum points i was playing on EASY i know youll probably say i suck i do 
 at dat game ...... the graphics are pretty sweet doe
  
  Gamespot should have given it atleast a 9 but well watever Ninja Gaiden 2 was just Magnificent 
 although i have never really played Ninja gaden 1 dis 1 is a must get if your into action adventure 
 like games because of the story bosses and gameplay although its so freaking hard 
  
  
  
  
  i give it 9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmadilloTaco
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  Firstly, a word of warning. If you dislike difficult games, then this game is not for you. If you 
 have ever found yourself quitting a game, purly because you couldn't finish it, this game is not 
 for you. If you're the kind of person that flinches at the site of blood, thinks the storyline 
 of a game is everything, are unable to look past minor technical flaws, or wear an eye-patch, sailing 
 the seven-seas and have a parrot named Frank on your shoulder, this game is not for you.
  
  If you don't fit into any of these catagories, then congratulations. You qualify to play the most 
 brutal, fast-paced and difficult action game ever created.
  
  Ninja Gaiden II surpasses the previous games in every respect. Granted, the storyline makes only 
 slightly more sense than the first game, but since when was a Ninja Gaiden story-line anything 
 more than an excuse to kill things in new places?
  
  The Deamon Statue has been stolen fron the Dragon Temple by the leader of the Black Spider Clan, 
 Genshin and a mysterous woman wearing just a trenchcoat and a odd metal corset named Elizibet. 
 You want it back.
  
  Your Journey will take you through Tokeo high-rises, the Streets of New York City, the Canals of 
 Venice and the dark, snow-filled allys of Moscow, among other places. Each environment, with the 
 exception of a single bland tunnel (which is oddly placed in one of the best looking, if most annoying 
 chapter of the game) , is beautifully presented, and provides an exelent backdrop for the bloody 
 core of the game, the combat.
  
  Ninja Gaiden II's combat is spectacular. You can feel every single stroke of Ryu's weapon of choice 
 as you dodge, weave and obliterate everything that stands in your way. And obliterate you do. The 
 odd decapitatoon fron the first game won't cut it in this one, if an enemy isn't missing both arms, 
 a leg and their head by the time that you're finished with them, it's a dissapointment. Each of 
 the 8 melee weapons is capable of loping, or in the case of the Tonfa and Lunar, smashing off limbs 
 and heads. Each of these weapons is not only fun to use, they are all unique and each requires 
 a very different style of combat. From the brutal slicing power of the Eclipse Sythe, to the lightning 
 fast, shifting combat of the Falcon's Talons, to the jaw-dropping arial freeform combos of the 
 Vigoorian Flail, each weapon has it's strengths and weaknesses and each is a viable choice for 
 almost any situation.
  
  The actual combat itself, reguardless of weapon, is the fastest of any game to date. Lightning-quick 
 reflexes are needed for the higher difficulties, as the old aproach of "Camp in a corner and wait 
 for a counter attack" no longer work. Each enemy has at least 2 or 3 guard-ignoring moves, and 
 dozens of guard-breaks. Blocking is still essential, but it's no longer a virtual immunity, as 
 it has been in the past. The key now is to stay mobile, and to keep enemies enguaged and out-of-step 
 constantly. This provides a new element to the combat that vastly improves the gameplay experiance.
 
  
  
  The Ninja Gaiden series is reknowned for it's extreme difficulty, and Ninja Gaiden II lives up 
 to this completely. Each new enemy that you encounter will require you to modify your play-style 
 slightly, and until you find the secret to each one, you will be pulverised again and again. Tierd 
 of werewolves mauling you to death? Lop off an arm and start with the obliterating. Already broken 
 two controllers in frustration of the Multi-Rocket Ninjas? Buy another one and turn them into exploding 
 pin-cushions! It's hard to shoot a 30-kg rocket launcher with no arms...
  
  The bosses are no exception to this. Each one has a weakness that can be countered and exploited, 
 and while some are easier than others, some, like Zeonius, will frustrate you beyond belief, making 
 it that much sweeter when you finally kill them.
  
  The game does have a few flaws however. The most complained about is the Camera. Personally, I've 
 never really had a problem with it, but even so, it's still always another thing that you are required 
 to battle against.
  
  To make the battle easier, here's a tip... When you start your game, press Select and bring up 
 the options menu. Then scroll down to 3rd person Camera Speed and take the slider right up to 100%. 
 This has, through three-playthroughs, prevented me from having any of the serous problems that 
 others seem to have, such as the camera sitting behind scenery during combat.
  
  Dispite this, the new camera angle, which is much lower than in the previous games, does still 
 prevent you from seeing some of the flying enemies in the game, which usually isn't too much of 
 a problem, but can get annoying.
  
  Asside from this, there is very few glitches in the game. A few clipping errors with the camera 
 showing the inside of walls, and the odd freeze and nothing unusual. However, bloot splatter being 
 caught on invisible walls, and Ryu grabbing onto nothing when climbing onto some ledges do gove 
 the feeling that the game could have been polished up a bit more.
  
  If you played and liked the previous games, then this is a must-get. If you'd never heard of Ninja 
 Gaiden before now, but you're keen for some good-old ultra-violence and you're up for a challenge, 
 then pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Power_Wrist
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  The combat is stylish, there is a plethora of items to equip and use, the weapons are balanced 
 and the health recharges. 
  Is it good? for a little bit. 
  After the punishing difficulty of the original, Team Ninja added a self-recharging health bar and 
 a new "easy" mode. Does this make the game more accessible to the Hack 'n Slash enthusiast? no. 
 Even in the easiest mode, the enemies start out being simple, still able to kill you, but simple, 
 but slowly ramp up to explosives-wielding machine gun toting robots that take more hits than a 
 speed bag to finally take down. And this is on easy. 
  The checkpoint system is schizophrenic and the difficulty fluctuates from "Nicely Challenging" 
 to "Did the designers even play the game?".
  The story is typical Japanese. Incomprehensible. The voice actors sound bored, heavily medicated, 
 or both, and the women are heavily endowed. 
  
  Oh, and there are platforming segments and a drunken camera. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicidal_T_H
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  What can I say this game is bipolar it can go from being fun and awesome to extremely hard and 
 fustrating. Usually what happens is the levels are fun but when you find a boss and have to battle 
 him that's when all of a sudden the difficulty level jumps up significtly. Usually for boss battle 
 you just try a bunch of ways until you find a way that works the best. The controls are fun and 
 easy to use. One fun new move is the obliderate technique which looks awesome when you perform. 
 One tweaks that I'm glad they made is when you save the game your health gets recovered to full. 
 They have even more weapons than before which can all be upgraded but my favorite new weapons is 
 the talons. Overall this a good game and if you liked the first one then you'll love the second 
 one. The graphics and sound are amazing and are top notch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealMadrid7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  First let me pay respects to the Ninja Gaiden series and say that it provides us with gory, fast 
 paced action that is supremely challenging and rewarding. Now enough respects, what the heck happened 
 to the production values in Ninja Gaiden II. I paid $64.99 for this puppy and we got loading screens, 
 uninspired cutscenes, blood that doesn't splash evenly on a wall, glitches, ninjas stuck in weird 
 places, and other oddities. All of these conspire against the games ridiculously good combat to 
 make it less than the classic it is supposed to be.
  Now the storylineoh the storyline. WEAK is the word that best describes it, but then again I wasn't 
 looking for a MGS type drama. The story could have still been better though, the globe trekking 
 was unnecessary, the CIA agent was unnecessary; the high priest's only purpose was to be an additional 
 boss character. 
  But complaints aside you have to enjoy the fighting sequences. Brutal and gory they always left 
 you feeling like you just barely escaped with your life. My only qualm may be the boss battles 
 needed less use of the bow and arrowthough I understand that they tried to mix up the boss elimination 
 styles and tried to test all of your skills but the bow sucks. What kind of super ninja can't charge 
 his weapon up and fire it off while jumping around??? And Ryu is better than Dante??? I doubt that 
 (anyway that another topic) . Also the boss fights against human-like characters are pretty standard, 
 block, dodge, attack from the side.
  And what the hell happened to the good extras like a Mission Mode, playing with a different character, 
 a new outfit is not a good rewardthat is so last gen... We could have at least got a chance to 
 play with Genshin or the girlsheesh
  So finally my rating 
  7.5.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warhearted
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  On the whole, it's tough to believe that a veteran developer like Team Ninja would produce a game 
 like Ninja Gaiden II.
  
  A solid 90% of my playing time has been spent in awe. All aspects of combat - the movements, animations, 
 weapons, ninpo, and of course, brutality - are everything you would expect from Ninja Gaiden's 
 proper introduction into the current generation of consoles. Moving and attacking are completely 
 fluid. Controls are, for the most part, sufficiently responsive. The gist of the gameplay is beyond 
 absorbing. TN went above and beyond to make sure all eight melee weapons Ryu acquired entertained 
 and the results are disturbingly satisfying. Bladed weapons spew fountains of blood as Ryu flips 
 around enemies, dismembering them before decapitating them. Blunt weapons such as the Lunar Staff 
 and Tonfa knock opponents back with a sickening crunch before bashing enemy skulls in. Ninjo is 
 surrounded by fantastic displays of colorful haze and devastating flames. 
  
  Basically, Ninja Gaiden II is all about the insanity that Ryu can unleash on his enemies, and it 
 succeeds in the highest regard. Weapons begin fairly simple, with a plain appearance and very limited 
 array of techniques. However, spending some hard-earned essence will upgrade your tools of destruction 
 to a grimly polished shine and and a whole new world of possible combos. Each one also comes with 
 its own set of obliteration techniques, which depend on the type and position of the enemy, but 
 never fail to deliver some sickening finish. Even better are the ultimate techniques, which once 
 charged, unleash a hellish combo with immense Hayabusa acrobatics and hails of blades causing dozens 
 of enemies to fall in fountains of blood. 
  
  All of this - brutal core gameplay with enough upgrading to keep one hooked - make NG2 worthwhile. 
 For the most part.
  
  On the other hand, Ninja Gaiden II is ridden with some of the most amateurish, unbelievable flaws 
 that a veteran team in the current gen could ever put in a finished product. Yes, the game maintains 
 the franchise's signature punishing difficulty, but there's no getting around the fact that more 
 often than not the game is difficult simply because of some cheap, underhanded garbage being flung 
 around. The camera is - and I can't stress this enough - completely horrid. Enemies will be flanking 
 a full 360 around you at any given time, and it seems like the two or three in view are the only 
 ones of the twelve not attacking. The camera frequently digs itself into a literal corner where 
 nothing is visible but Ryu and the walls. Maneuvering, even when uncontested, can be an insane 
 chore due to the view's habit of constantly circling and flying around to try and find a better 
 angle every second, but it never seems to find one. At times I've found myself in battle where 
 not even Ryu was visible, just a huge patch of black because the camera accidentally clipped through 
 a wall.
  
  Equally as frustrating are the bosses. The enemies themselves are enormous, well-designed, and 
 everything a boss should be. Except cheap. Virtually every boss encountered has some sort of grab 
 attack which cannot be blocked or dodged in any way and once the ten minute cinematic is finished, 
 you'll be lucky to escape without having half your maximum health drained. Winning all depends 
 on whether you're lucky enough for them not to use it.
  
  More on the technical side, NG fails in the same fields outlined in the GS review. Environments 
 are, though not absolutely awful, pretty sub par by the standards set by the most recent games. 
 Blood has a tendency to splatter on walls and leave a stain floating out in the open. Physics with 
 severed limbs are generally off. Except for Ryu, the bosses, and the attack animations, nothing 
 is especially impressive at all. While it's not tough to overlook it in the midst of dismembering 
 ninjas, some competitive visuals would've been a major plus. Even better would've been some exceptional 
 sound. The violence and animations are totally in order, but the effects of Ryu's slashing still 
 sound like they were built with the SNES in mind.
  
  In the most general outlook, Ninja Gaiden II is definitely worth playing. Much of the difficulty 
 really is beatable. For every attack the average enemy has against you, there's a way for you to 
 avoid or counter, and vice versa. It's a difficult game, but every death should show you that you 
 need to hone your ninja skills. And once you're picking up and upgrading new weapons, adding ninpo 
 and generally obliterating opponents, you're libel to be sucked in for hours upon hours. Unfortunately, 
 some above-minor technical shortcomings and maddeningly half-a**ed balance issues impair what could've 
 been one of the greatest third person action games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benny_is_here
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden II is not much different from its predecessor. You play as Ryu Hayabusa, a 20-something 
 ninja of the Dragon lineage. The story takes place six months after Ninja Gaiden: Dragon Sword 
 for the DS, which in turn took place six months after Ninja Gaiden for the original Xbox.
  
  The Black Spider Ninja clan (introduced in NG: Dragon Sword) and their leader, Genshin, steals 
 a statue from Ryu's father. The story spirals into a one-man war against infernal creatures referred 
 to as Fiends, as well as the rival Black Spider Ninjas. Ryu is joined by Sonia, a CIA agent who 
 ultimately serves the same purpose as Rachel in NG for the original Xbox - a strong, big-breasted 
 female side-character who Ryu feels obliged to keep safe. Ryu runs into several Greater Fiends 
 who serve as many of the bosses in the game.
  
  The story is presented through in-game cutscenes that tie the 14 Chapters together. NG for the 
 original Xbox took heavy use of CG cinematics, but the strictly in-game cutscenes presented in 
 this game are very satisfactory. The lip-syncing is usually spot on, and I am impressed by how 
 natural the characters talk and react. The character models are also well done. Unfortunately, 
 the story is not especially fleshed out. If you're picky about stories, you'll most likely feel 
 like the story is tacked on. If you don't mind a B-movie script, I think you'll find the cutscenes 
 very enjoyable to watch. The English voice-acting is usually pretty good. The adversaries have 
 deep, bass-heavy voices that fit their characters, but the good guys usually feel cheesy with their 
 softer voices, especially Ryu's father, who is emotion-less and bland. The Japanese voices are 
 more thorough, and it's a nice touch that Ryu makes different sounds during combat in each language. 
 Subtitles are available as well.
  
  NGII doesn't push the boundaries of graphics like NGI did for the original Xbox, but the graphics 
 are still very good. It is certainly the best-looking Team Ninja game so far. The characters and 
 environments are generally very good-looking. One exception that stands out is during one point 
 in a level where you drop into what seems like giant, connecting nostrils, with long tunnels covered 
 in an ugly shade of green. Luckily this section of the level ends pretty quickly.
  
  The musical score is pretty good. It's similar to other Team Ninja games, with focus on electric 
 and drums. It fits pretty well. Sound effects are what you'd expect and cover every action.
  
  The level designs are linear, but with many detours usually leading to helpful items. You usually 
 won't have a problem knowing where to go, besides a couple of times where you have to go the way 
 you came from. This is not a puzzle game, but you will have to find a key here to open that door 
 over there and so on, but you do this less than in NGI. Being a ninja, you'll have to use acrobatics 
 like wall-running and water-running. You'll have to do some swimming, but you can hold your breath 
 infinitely (unlike in NGI) . The swimming controls are the same, but the Spear Gun is replaced with 
 the Gatling Gun, which turns into a fun mini-gun instead of the tedious one-shot system of the 
 Spear Gun.
  
  The game has gotten a lot of criticism for its camera. I don't think it's that bad. The camera 
 is close on Ryu, which means that any attacks from behind are hard to predict, but I've never felt 
 like the camera was fighting me. I'm sure anyone that invests some time into the game will get 
 used to it pretty quickly. The camera can also be adjusted with the right stick and re-positioned 
 behind Ryu with RT. During boss fights, the camera focuses on the boss and Ryu at the same time, 
 which might be odd when the boss dashes across the screen, but generally the camera is fair. Still, 
 some might be put off by it.
  
  Ninja Gaiden II is all about the fighting, and it doesn't disappoint. The combat is as slick as 
 ever. NGII introduces loads of new weapons, and unlike NGI where the Dragon Sword was superior, 
 the gap between the Dragon Sword and the rest of the weapons isn't that big. Basically every Japanese 
 melee weapon is here, including a giant scythe and nunchucks. Long range weapons are still here, 
 like the Fiend Bow and several kinds of Shuriken. A new feature in NGII is Obliteration Techniques. 
 The enemies now lose limbs as you fight them, and pressing Y near a dismembered enemy inflicts 
 a cool execution. This can be done on enemies as they are falling onto the ground, which makes 
 it extra satisfying. Ninpos are magical techniques that inflict great damage on one or several 
 opponents. Ultimate Techniques are attacks where the player charges an attack long enough to unleash 
 an extreme combo on one or more opponents. Ninja Gaiden remains one of the greatest when it comes 
 to making a satisfying combat experience.
  
  Slain enemies drop colored essence. Blue essence gives health. Red essence refills a slot of Ninpo. 
 The most common, yellow essence, can be used to buy items or upgrades at the many shops in the 
 game, or to speed up an Ultimate Technique. As well as these shops you will find Dragon Statues, 
 where you can save your game and fully heal yourself. The new health meter replenishes itself when 
 your enemies are killed, but the maximum health available is constantly drained as you take damage, 
 which means you have to find a way to heal all the way up again, usually by visiting a Dragon Statue.
 
  
  NGI was a challenging game, and it seems as Team Ninja took this as a compliment. Although the 
 beginning of NGII is a nice introduction to new players, the difficulty gets a bit high later in 
 the game. There are four difficulties, and I recommend anyone to do the lowest one first. I didn't 
 find it very hard, but some of the bosses were a bit hard to crack. On the leaderboards it says 
 I completed my first playthrough at 8.5 hours (not counting continues) with 55 continues. I assure 
 you over 40 of those were at some of the later bosses. I only used the Dragon Sword, as there are 
 achievements for completing the game only using the specified weapon. Some parts may seem cheap, 
 like how the giant Armadillo explodes after you kill it, but you'll realize that it's not actually 
 cheap. In this instance, simply holding block will save you from dying or having to use a Talisman 
 of Rebirth. So although the game can feel too difficult or even cheap at first, I guarantee that 
 you will get past it once you get more used to the enemies.
  
  There is no multiplayer in this game besides Leaderboards and Cinema mode where you can record 
 your play and share with friends, though uploading is apparently restricted to a certain part of 
 the leaderboards. It's good that the game sports some achievements with replay value, like achievements 
 for finding every Crystal Skull, completing each Test of Valor (a sort of a challenge that can 
 be accessed at some points in the game) , completing the game using just one weapon and completing 
 it on each difficulty. I plan on going through the game many times.
  
  If you're looking for the same experience that made NGI great, you shouldn't be disappointed. The 
 game introduces loads of weapons, enemies and some fun dismembering, but is essentially more of 
 the same. In this case, I don't see that as a bad thing. Casual gamers might want to stay away, 
 since the difficulty can be high even on the lowest setting. Still, Ninja Gaiden II is a worthy 
 sequel that provides extremely slick and satisfying action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merseine
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Cool fighting, action is fast paced.. might be too tough for beginners. Most noted problem is camera.. 
 lousy camera, cannot change view at some places where u cannot see enemies.... resulting in a lot 
 of replays and repetitive fighting of mini bosses where you can't see them properly.
  
  Combat wise, blocking is a lot slower compared to Ninja Gaiden 1 and that the dragon sword has 
 been much tuned down in damage... it got useless at chapter 5 of the game (even with lvl 3 upgraded) 
 and cannot be upgraded till later on in the story. The 1 weapon achievements are over-hyped and 
 at some points in the game, that certain weapon really doesn't cuts it.
  
  Much disappointed to see a good game ruined by the camera, which is simply too close to Ryu, and 
 that it auto locks up at certain portions of the game which leads to frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathofaninja
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  First I'm just going to say as a huge HUGE long time Team Ninja fan. This is the most dissapointing 
 game I have ever played from them.
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 is a revenge story filled with blood bath animations, amazing weapons and so and 
 so graphics. Now a lot of revenge stories can be very well done and interesting. Sadly Ninja Gaiden 
 2's isn't. There is no depth at all to any of the characters. Thankfully there are some cool cut 
 scenes involving the new Team Ninja babe Sonia.
  
  Let's get right down to what makes Ninja Gaiden 2 a popular game. It's a challenge, and the gameplay 
 is pretty much the best the genre has to offer at the time. Now there is a problem with that. The 
 game gets hard when there are a lot of guys on the screen at once, and as it gets harder the frame 
 rate gos NUTS! Especially on Mentor and Master Ninja difficulties. The game actually feels broken 
 on the higher difficulties, and that's a damn shame seeing as how that's kind of what makes Ninja 
 Gaiden stick out from the other action adventure games out there. Still the gameplay is fun. The 
 weapons are unique and everyone will have there favorite. Unlike playing Ninja Gaiden, Black or Sigma 
 people can actually enjoy the other weapons other than the Dragon Sword. There are 14 levels, the 
 last three are pretty much boss levels with some added fiends.. So they feel like filler. The boss 
 fights are pretty fun. But there way easier to beat than ones in NG1. Especially when you get the 
 Scythe. The camera can also be a problem for some levels. It's annoying and that's all there is to 
 it. But most people will get used to it well enough.
  
  The graphics are alright. I mean the combat looks amazing, the game does animate well like Kevin 
 mentions in his full review but some of the characters don't look so good such as the water demons. And 
 the environments are TERRIBLE looking it's kinda sad on the lack of detail NG2 sports. But the blood 
 spilling everywhere thanks to Ryu's kick ass weapon collection more than makes up for it. It reminds 
 me a lot of Quentin Tarantino's Kill Bill Volume 1. So much blood!! So pretty!
  
  There is a huge lack of replay value to Ninja Gaiden 2. There is single player, leaderboards and 
 Tests of Valor wich are really easy and pretty stupid. Talk about adding features? Not even mission 
 mode returns to Ninja Gaiden 2! It feels like a downgrade for the series. Especially seeing as how 
 nothing really new is added at all. I remember hearing people say how lack of multiplayer or mission 
 mode wouldn't bug them. But when I pay 60$ of my money I want stuff to come back to in the game 
 other than a single player mode. HUGE dissapointment! And it almost feels unacceptable for Team Ninja 
 to think about adding it later and charging us money for it. Costumes are set for July and those 
 cost money. But in Ninja Gaiden Black I can unlock a good amount of costumes for free. In Ninja Gaiden 
 2 you get some terrible color swaps. I don't know what Team Ninja was thinking here.
  
  Sound is no biggie in this game but still, there is no memorable tune at all. There whole soundtrack 
 is forgetable and typical. The sound effects are not always in match with the animations but generally 
 sound good. Overall it's not a good sounding game, but not bad either.
  
  If you are a fan of Ninja Gaiden. Buy it of course. Otherwise I might just rent it. It may piss other 
 people with it's camera. Fans are used to the challenge and bad camera. I say fans only but I think 
 others have a small possibility of enjoying this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudee182
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Ever wished an incredibly hard game? Then this game is just for you. I've been playing ninja gaiden 
 2 for about a week in hard mode (path of the warrior) Right now I'm in the last level fighting 
 the archidemon but he is to freaking hard so I decided to stop a little and write a review. This 
 is the only videogame that can make cry of happiness, sadness, pain, anger, make me smile, laugh, 
 scare me, scream, swear (a lot) and lots of more emotions packed up in 1 CD.
  
  The story: Ryu Hayabusa who is contacted by some girl from the CIA and asks him to stop the blackspider 
 clan and some demons to resurrect the archidemon. You fight like 4 times against genshin, leader 
 of the black spider clan and twice with each of the 4 element demons + other crazy bosses in different 
 parts of the whole world, Venice, Japan, London New York, etc. Until you make your way to fight 
 the archidemon inside the Mount Fouji.
  
  The graphics: They look great, not too much improvement from the xbox ones but still are awesome. 
 Team Ninja (same who produced Dead or Alive) always doing a good job when designing characters. 
 The environment effects like water, light, shadows are nice too.
  
  The gameplay: There are 4 types of attacks, a weak hit (X) , strong hit (Y) , projectiles (Shurikens, 
 bow, kunais) (B) and ninpos (magic spells) (Y+B) . You start the game with the dragon blade as your 
 main weapon and it's pretty awesome, you can do a lot of different combos and movements, a "fatality" 
 thing with "Y" throw kunais, shurikens while you are running and jumping, run through the walls, 
 etc. Seriously this aspect of the game in my opinion is greater even than Devil May Cry. By this 
 point you think you are so cool and invincible, well guess what? All the other enemies are cooler 
 than you... they always attack in group of like 5 to 10 and you can't run you are the slowest of 
 all enemies in the game, but there's one particular thing I REALLY HATE about this game that Team 
 Ninja should be ashamed, the camera. When you are attacking somebody you can't see what you have 
 in your back! and when you turn the camera it is always too late, you get hit unless (and this 
 works only sometimes) you block, but even if you block, they can still hit you by throwing or grabbing 
 you! blocking is most of the time USELESS!
  
  Let's talk about the bosses. They are not THAT hard but still a challenge and when you beat em, 
 you found them again in later levels as normal enemies! for example in the first chapter, the boss 
 is some kind of Goro-monster-spider which is ok for a boss, but then in chapter 6 you fight like 
 5 or 6 altogether! give me a break! Also most of the chapters have 2 o 3 bosses must of the time 
 one after another or even at the same time! which makes it really hard since you can buy or look 
 for herbs between each fight to heal yourself. The element demons are the worst, they summon demons 
 (which are enough to kill you by themselves without the help of the boss) , 3 of the elemental demons 
 fly which sucks because you need to evade their attacks (almost imposible) until they hit land.
 
  
  The enemies, oh my god you are a ninja, and you are fighting against demons, werewolves, vampires, 
 monsters, even flying-ninja-robot-demons-with katanas-rocket launchers-machine guns (see pic below) 
 as if they were foot soldiers from the freaking teenage mutant ninja turtles! and why are the enemy 
 ninjas using rocketlaunchers and machine guns? DAMN! But I know I'll laugh when I beat this abomination. 
 I was told also there's another dificulty earned (the path of the master) after you beat the path 
 of the warrior (hard) I'm not sure if I would like to play that, and I know I'm not a sucker gamer 
 I cleared Halo 3 in legendary in 5 days same with COTD 4.
  
  And now I finally beated! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeller
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Be warned. Ninja Gaiden II is not for your average gamer. Even on the easy difficulty setting this 
 game can pose a challenge. You may also have to dip your hand in a bucket of ice afterwards to 
 heal the brutal swelling you have imposed on your fingers. Or you may need to buy a new tv and 
 controller after throwing your controller through your screen.
  
  All that being said NG2 is a great game for what it is. Fans of the series will enjoy it for the 
 challenge it throws your way and new comers will also be able to appreciate it.
  
  Gore, blood, more gore and more blood. The combat can be fun but frustrating. The frustration factor 
 occurs when the camera is simply in the wrong place at the wrong time. But you should come to expect 
 this problem will arise when from the get go they give you a button designated to simply re-directing 
 the camera behind our hero.
  
  Graphics are ok. Nothing exceptional like the games that came before it. 
  
  If one of the 
 main reasons you fall in love with games is the story line put forth, don't waste your time with 
 this game. The story line is pretty hard to follow bordering on comical at time. You will find 
 your self in a huge metropolis one level and a frozen tundra the next. Why? Who knows? Ninjas are 
 just that wild I guess.
  
  The game can at times be very very CHEAP. Have fun with an un-Godly amount of off screen enemies 
 shooting an insane amount of heat seeking missles your way, over and over and over again. Or One 
 boss battle, that transforms into another, and then yet another... Good luck with that!!!
  
  I love the Ninja Gaiden games, But I just wish they could at times focus or add some stealth aspects 
 into their games. You know. More ninja. less roid fueled samurai. But it is what it is. A challenging 
 experience for the true and blue hard core gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is a sequel to the original masterpiece on Xbox in 2004. Unfortunately it contains 
 all the flaws of the original as well as good things.
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 continues the story of a dragon ninja Ryu Hayabusa, whose village is attacked by 
 a Black Spider Clan. This rival clan tries to wake an Arch Fiend and in the process 4 greater fiends 
 as well, while adding a whole bunch of smaller fiends into the mix. Soon the world is in chaos 
 and it's again up to Ryu to stop the fiends once and for all. I recommend you to read the back 
 cover of game booklet: it clarifies a lot about what's happening on screen. Magnificent looking 
 cutscenes move the thin story forward and they are a joy to look at.
  
  Graphics are outstanding and beautiful for the most part, but some textures look just plain ugly. 
 Environments are very static: you can't do anything except to open occasional chest or break a 
 barrel and jump along walls. Sound design works well and the different sound effects especially 
 are brilliant, but musical score could be better. Luckily this aspect improves as the game progresses. 
 Voice acting is good and you can choose either English or Japanese audio track. I also recommend 
 you to choose subtitles.
  
  Gameplay is in short a completely linear third person action game. You move forward in a predetermined 
 path and fight wave after wave of ninjas, dragons and all kinds of beasts. At times you'll come 
 across of an even bigger beast as a boss fight. It sounds very boring and tedious, but that is 
 not true. What makes people play Ninja Gaiden is an extremely rewarding and challenging combat 
 system, which requires a lot of practice to master. If you're looking for a real challenge then 
 look no further than Ninja Gaiden 2. Be prepared to look game over screen many times over before 
 you reach the end of the game. It seems that Team Ninja have been aware of this, since you'll receive 
 an achievement to your gamer score after using 100 continues.
  
  There are 4 difficulty settings, 2 of which are available from the get go: easier Path of Acolyte 
 and a normal mode called Path of Warrior. If you have already played the original Ninja Gaiden 
 I recommend you to choose Path of Warrior: it takes about 10 to 20 hours to take Ryu through his 
 quest depending on how good you are.
  
  Save system works just like you might remember: by using save points (not checkpoints) . It works 
 just fine and most of the time they are at a reasonable distance from one another.
  
  This time different weapons have a real variety in them and you need to change your combat style 
 depending on what weapon you have chosen. Dragon Sword is tried and true all the way through, but 
 others are just as good, if and only if you know how to use them: Lunar Staff, Falcon Talons (Wolverine 
 style claws) , Dragon's Claw and Tiger's Fang (dual Katanas) , Kusari-gama (a blade in a chain) , 
 Eclipse Scythe and a few more, which I will not spoil for you.
  
  Combat system is extremely challenging and rewarding, but unfortunately (or perhaps luckily) it's 
 pretty much identical to the original in 2004. It still works and you need to do some serious work 
 in order to find your own style of combat. When you manage to succeed in this I can assure you 
 that you will feel a sense of accomplishment.
  
  Violence in Ninja Gaiden 2 is a lot more brutal this time around. Enemies are literally cut to 
 pieces in many different ways while body parts and blood litter the battle ground. In the end you'll 
 notice that you have killed hundreds of enemies on your way to victory. Still you will not have 
 any moral issues in doing this in a virtual world, since all the enemies are very aggressive and 
 will kill Ryu without hesitation, if you give them a chance to do it.
  
  Boss fights are varied, many and mostly extremely big. Some of them are pretty easy, while others 
 make you watch a game over screen a dozen times before you finally manage to beat them. One of 
 them is extremely cheap and tough in a wrong way: after the fight the carcass explodes while taking 
 Ryu with it. Good luck trying to find out on how survive that.
  
  There are also other points in the game, when the difficulty level is pumped up in a very cheap 
 and irritating way. Mostly this means explosives in a narrow corridor or on a pool of deep water. 
 I can also assure you, that no chance in hell you'll to find a mine field like in Ninja Gaiden 
 2 in real life. These issues were tolerable in 2004, but now they are simply unacceptable.
  
  Camera was a problem in the original and it still is. You're patience will be tested especially 
 in narrow corridors, when most of the time you may not see where the enemy is or just how many 
 are there. Worse thing are those powerful surprise attacks, which come from outside screen and 
 take a lot of your health.
  
  The most surprising downside in the whole game is the loading times: there are many of them and 
 unfortunately they also tend to be quite long. For some reason at times the screen pauses in the 
 heat of battle for loading and this usually means that the enemy manages to get a few lucky moves 
 in. Usually these loading times don't interrupt the experience that much, but still it's a feature 
 that you'll definitely notice.
  
  There's no real multiplayer component in Ninja Gaiden 2: only leaderboards and the ability to upload 
 your finest moments for the world to see in Ninja Cinema. It would have been great to be able to 
 fight against a real human with similar skills, but for some reason it never happened.
  
  It seems that the evolution of third person combat oriented action games has stopped somewhere 
 in 2005: invisible walls and annoying camera angles are really getting old. First person shooters 
 are evolving and I hope that the new Prince of Persia will show how a next-gen game should be in 
 terms of a third person action game on Christmas 2008.
  
  In the end I must say that Ninja Gaiden 2 is not such a masterpiece as the original game was, but 
 it's still a must buy for the fans of this series and worth checking out for others. If you're 
 looking for a real challenge, then look no further: Ninja Gaiden is here again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zoldaire
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing NG 2 on the Path of the Acolyte, I though I was playing Ninja Gaiden 
 1 on the hardest. It was really hard at first, untill you could get the hang of things and after 
 playing the game about 5 hours, you can really tell when the opponent is gonna strike and counter 
 it with the appropriate attack. Some enemies how ever, can be a real pain to handle. Chapter 7, 
 for example, throws you against what I think are the most annoying enemies in the whole game. The 
 rapid rocketlauncer troopers. Okay, so they can't take much damage. 1 flying swallow with the Dragon 
 Sword lvl 3 and they're dead, but when you are staggered and there are 10 rockets coming at you, 
 you really wish you were someplace else.
  
  The graphics, well, they are what you would expect. Up to standard. They are the same as in NG 
 1. Maybe a little bit better, but in the end, who buys a game just to look at the environments 
 and the graphics? Atleast I buy them to have a great time while playing it, enjoying both the story 
 AND the gameplay. The graphics are just there to give it some flair.
  
  The gameplay in NG2 is absolutely fantastic. The enemies are a real blast to fight with, especially 
 on the Mentor or Master Ninja paths, and some enemies can be challenging even on the Warrior path. 
 The attack combos of the different weapons are done really well, and there are a lot to choose 
 from. Katana, Talons, Tonfa, Scythe, Staff, Dual-Katana, Kusari-gama and the Vigoorian Flails (or 
 Bladed Nunchakus) .
  
  The story is at the same as NG1. Not breath taking, but really good.
  
  The bosses in NG2 are 
 hard, atleast some, untill you can figure out the right tactic to deal with them. At first, some 
 bosses will seem like impossible to deal with but later, you will probably ask yourself, "What 
 was so hard about this boss?". I know I did ask myself that a lot of times after playing through 
 the Warrior once. Even some of the normal enemies are harder then some of the bosses, atleast some 
 of the sub-bosses are a LOT harder then the "big" bosses, which are the Four Greater Fiends, Dagra 
 Dai, Arch Fiend and Genshin (in all of his forms) .
  
  In the end, NG2 is a real blast for the fans of the Ninja Gaiden series. It has some small flaws, 
 like in chapter 10, the place I call "One step, one kill", where just swarms of low level ninjas 
 come at you, and the games FPS tends to drop really low, thanks to the dozens of ninjas on screen 
 and your combinations or Ninpos making them into mincemeat. But in the end, it only happens in 
 one place, so it isn't enough to make the game a flop. It just takes the hardware of the 360 to 
 it's near limits, and probably some more. But as a conclusion, if you liked the first Ninja Gaiden, 
 or if you are a fan of the series, you really need to buy Ninja Gaiden 2, you will love everyone 
 minute of it (unless you throw your controller to the wall when you meet the Armadillo or Dagra 
 Dai :D) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarshreder69
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It is perfect for any fan of the stylish action fighting genee. The game 
 has a weapon for everybody. From throwing stars to a huge scythe that can cut people in half. The 
 action is very high paced. The controls are very good they work seamlessly into the game. The graphics 
 are amazing to the point where you can see your aura swirl around you and it just looks amazing. 
 The game also has a lot of boss anywhere from 15 to 20 boss fights and they are all fun to play 
 and each person has a diffrent weakness that you have seek out and exploit which makes the boss 
 battles a lot of fun. It also has a solid story line. Now for the bad. There are few problems with 
 this game. The biggest one is the camera. This game is hard enough without the fact that your your 
 camera will sometimes veer off of you and start aiming at nothing and its pretty frickin hard to 
 control the camera when you cant get ryu to even stand cuz ur getting beat up so bad. That is the 
 only big problem that i have seen.
  
  OVERALL THIS IS AN AMAZING GAME THAT YOU WILL WANT TO PLAY OVER AND OVER AGAIN. SO IF YOU ARE A 
 FAN OF THE STYLISH ACTION FIGHTING GENRE THEN GO BUY THIS GAME. I GIVE IT A 
  9 OUT OF 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arachosia
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  I don't write many reviews, but since I reviewed the original Xbox Ninja Gaiden, I figured I might 
 as well review its sequel. This was probably the game I was looking forward to the most in 2008, 
 and I am pleased to say that for the most part it lived up to -- and in some cases even exceeded -- my 
 understandably high expectations.
  
  The graphics are pretty great, but considering that the previous NG was probably the single best 
 looking game on last gen consoles I would be lying if I said I wasn't expecting a bit more in this 
 department. The animation and the framerate are liquid smooth, but the environments are rather 
 sparse and not too interesting. Furthermore, the environment is mostly undestructable. I was really 
 hoping there would be more stuff I could break. It kind of pulls you out of the immersion when 
 you can can't cut through some bamboo with your katana blade. This is pretty minor though, and 
 to be fair most games still suffer from this annoyance. I assume that in order to allow for numerous 
 enemies, complete with flying limbs and blood, detail in and interaction with the environments 
 had to be restricted. That's a totally acceptable compromise and a good design decision.
  
  Now, I've heard complaints about the story in NG2, and I will admit that it is nothing special. 
 On the upside, at least it was easy to follow this time around, unlike the last NG. But in all 
 honesty, if you're playing NG2 for the story, there might be something wrong with you. Here's all 
 you need to know: you're Ryu. You F dudes up. Bad. The end. If you don't like that story go read 
 a book. You see, NG2 is a bit old school in its design in that it actually favors gameplay over 
 story. I know, a strange concept in this day and age. But this gameplay stuff is really quite cool. 
 I promise.
  
  OK, so you basically just go from stage to stage in a mostly linear fashion, brutally destroying 
 any person or thing dumb enough to stand in your way and generally being a total badass. If you 
 thought the last NG was brutal, you ain't seen nothing yet. NG2 takes the violent combat of its 
 predecessor and cranks it up to the highest degree possible. Ryu's attacks are an absolute joy 
 to perform and behold, as each is animated with such incredible ferocity that you can virtually 
 feel the immense pain that you've just inflicted on your hapless victims. And now instead of occassionally 
 lopping off a victim's head, you can pretty much guarantee that every enemy you encounter will 
 lose at least one body part (but usually more) , resulting in a fountain of gore. The amount of 
 blood and mangled body parts that litter the floors and walls after every battle is equal parts 
 shocking and amusing. 
  
  NG games have always been notorious for their high difficulty levels and NG2 is no different. You're 
 gonna die a lot in this game, but it's really your own fault the vast majority of the time. But 
 the number of save points have been substantially increased which virtually eliminates any frustration 
 that might occur from multiple deaths. And for some reason I never minded dying in this game. The 
 combat is just so insanely fun that you don't really mind playing parts over and over. The one 
 exception is with the bosses who seem a lot more unbalanced this time around. Sometimes they are 
 insanely easy, whereas other times they will rip you a new one again and again until you either 
 get lucky or figure out their pattern. 
  
  Finally, I guess I better mention the camera since everyone seems to complain about it. Well, it's 
 pretty much the same as it was in the last NG as far as I can recall. It's not perfect as it doesn't 
 do a very good job of keeping up with Ryu. Personally, I never had a problem with it though. Sure, 
 it might not always be perfectly centered behind Ryu (although tapping the right trigger will do 
 this) , but it allows for a much more cinematic experience. I definitely think that there was a 
 conscious design decision to have the camera the way it is as opposed to pulling it away from the 
 action. By having the camera come in close to the action, the brutality of the fighting is intensified 
 even further. Think about it: if you were watching a fight scene in a movie, would you rather the 
 camera be close to the action or have it fifty feet away? Much like the somewhat bland environments, 
 it's a compromise to allow for the absolute best combat in any game ever. You can't have your cake 
 and eat it too, so Team Ninja chose awesome combat over better visibility. I think they made the 
 right choice.
  
  So there it is. If you liked the last NG, there's pretty much no way in hell you won't eat this 
 one up too. And if you didn't like the last NG, well, what the hell is wrong with you anyway? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evinco_DX
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  I've been a Ninja Gaiden fan ever since the release of the original on the Xbox. I loved it simply 
 because it was difficult, had smooth combat and tested your skills. Ninja Gaiden Black improved 
 on it by upping the difficulty and giving you control of the camera though it still remained a 
 big issue. Now after playing Ninja Gaiden 2, it didn't feel much of an improvement and sometimes 
 a turn for the worst. 
  
  Before I go into the bad I'll mention some of the good things of the game. For one, the combat 
 is as great as it's ever been, if not better. Dismemberment of enemy limbs and the obliteration 
 techniques are very satisfying to perform. Though without limbs, enemies are more dangerous requiring 
 you to finish them off after they lose one or they'll grab you to do some serious damage. The weapon 
 variety is decent and each has its own set of moves and you earn more as you upgrade. You regenerate 
 a portion of your health after each fight though the amount you gain back is less as you gain more 
 damage each battle. Save points are more frequent and will regenerate all of your health for your 
 first save on each one. Boss fights are more frequent and you sometimes fight two bosses at the 
 same time or one right after another. Ninja cinema is a great addition as well allowing you to 
 upload your game play vids or download some to see how others play.
  
  Now for the bad, after two remakes you'd figure Team Ninja will finally fix the one big flaw of 
 the NG games, the BAD camera. Ninja Gaiden 2 doesn't make it better but worse. Team Ninja pulled 
 it in closer which inhibits you even more than the previous games to see what's coming at you which 
 leaves you vulnerable to enemies off screen. The level design is linear and has hardly any platforming 
 that the original had and more closed in which makes the camera cooperate even less. Even though 
 I praised the original and the remakes for testing gamers' skills with its difficulty, there's 
 a fine line between difficult and just plain straight up cheap. Ninja Gaiden 2 made a turn for 
 the worst with this by having some enemies constantly throw projectiles at you which some are unblockable 
 (especially rockets) and will stop you in your tracks leaving you vulnerable to enemy attacks and 
 grabs, especially of those off screen. The higher the difficulty the more projectiles are thrown 
 at you.
  
  
  If you can put up with some of the cheapness and a bad camera at times, it will be a bloody satisfying 
 action game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xn71102244
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  i played the first one in the original xbox, i thought it was awesome but a little frustrating, 
 in this one, this game is just right in the difficult, the game is awesome tons of fun, so much 
 deep in the combat system, the variety everysingle weapon with more than 20 combos!!!! thats just 
 amazingm the boss fights are awesome, the lenght is just right, i cant stop playing this game is 
 just so much fun, finally beat warrior, and now im playing mentor the game has so much replay value 
 the thing is that when you start a game in a higher difficulty the enemys change and the AI increase, 
 is so much fun and ones you learn to play the game it becomes the best action game ever made, for 
 real these game is all about gameplay.
  
  the improvemente over the first one is very notable with all the gore and the OT combos and revamped 
 new weapons, also the graphics looks decent, not the best in anyway but great, the camara is fine 
 ones you learn to controll it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StreetFighter21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:53 pm PT
Review:  
  
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2
  
  
  
  After four years of waiting Ninja Gaiden returns with guns blazing, the only problem is that the 
 increased stopping power results in weaker accuracy. With the second installment of the venerable 
 Ninja Gaiden series Team Ninja has lost aim of being the cutting edge action game on the market.
 
  That's doesn't mean the whole experience has lost its edge; on the contrary the brutal action 
 will not fail to impress. Ryu Hayabusa has learned some new tricks since his visit to the Vigoor 
 Empire in the first game. The newest addition to the game play comes in the form of obliteration 
 techniques, which allow for Ryu to quickly finish opponents that has lost limbs during combat. 
 Add that to the games impressive amount of weapons and you won't be disappointed in decimating 
 your opponents to literal shreds. The addition of the recharging health bar evens out the difficulty 
 somewhat but trust me you'll need it in later chapters of the game. But with the addition of new 
 weapons you'll easily be ready for any of the game's satisfying combat experiences.
  The difficulty offers up a healthy challenge but it fails to reward skillful players like the first 
 game did. Enemies often fill the screen and have no problem spaming projectile attacks off camera, 
 which often results in a lot of frustration and cheap deaths, especially when dealing with these 
 enemies during a boss fight. No longer does the game feel to test the skill of the player as so 
 much it tries to frustrate your will into submission. 
  Another addition sadly lost is the adventure elements found in the first game, no longer is their 
 a sense of exploration as you battle your way to your objective, all of the chapters are extremely 
 linear which employs the use of find object A to open door B puzzles which only slows down the 
 game where furious speed is the highlight.
  Oddly the graphics are noticeably worse than the original, the exception being the excellent animation 
 and effects that accompany the glorious fighting, but the environments look the same or in the 
 case with the jungle level in the later part of the game downright ugly. The only exception is 
 the first chapter, which is gorgeous when compared to the rest of the game. Also the game tends 
 to slow down when there's alot of enemies on screen, further slowing down the pacing.
  The voice acting is decent but the lines the characters spurt are almost meaningless when the story 
 makes as much sense as watching a Spanish television program with German subtitles. To sum it up 
 Ryu chases rival ninja clan leader Genshin around the world while defeating the greater fiends 
 and a woman named Sonia (who is so top heavy it's a wonder how she manages to walk with out breaking 
 her spine) that seeks the help of the dragon ninja on the behalf of the C. I. A. I know what your 
 thinking, who needs character plot or cohesiveness? 
  If you can look past the uneven difficulty, the numbingly obtuse plot and some ugly environments 
 Ninja Gaiden 2 offers action that distinguishes itself from its other action brethren, fans of 
 the original be wary as its not nearly as ground breaking as the original, but being a huge fan 
 of Ninja Gaiden myself, Gaiden 2 is worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siemenszeeman
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay awesome, feels like a truly comply complete gaming experience, you get awesome weapons 
 all of which are upgradable, so many moves to master, loads of environments and enemies ranging 
 from werewolves to battle mechs. Boss fights can be difficult sometimes, but once you master them 
 you end up as a more skilled player.
  
  Well so many fancy games come out lately and you just play them through like what half way and 
 get bored right, Ninja Gaiden is not like that I can't stop playing this, played till 5am last 
 night and am determined to finish it. Last game that captivated me this way was Gears and that 
 was awesome.
  
  Great game overall, you will love it.
  
  GO NINJA GO!
  GO NINJA GO!
  GO NINJA GO!
  GO NINJA GO!
  GO NINJA GO!
  GO NINJA GO!
  GO NINJA GO!
 
  GO NINJA GO!
  GO NINJA GO!
  GO NINJA GO!
  GO NINJA GO!
  GO NINJA GO!
  GO NINJA GO!
  GO NINJA GO!
  GO NINJA GO!
  GO NINJA GO!
  GO NINJA GO!
  GO NINJA GO!
 
  GO NINJA GO!
  GO NINJA GO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeadExploder
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I got Ninja Gaiden Black back in February 2006, I became an instant fan of the series. 
 It had near-flawless controlls, the graphics were ahead of it's time for an Xbox game, and the 
 combat, of course, was unlike anything seen before. Today, it still remains on my (extremely exclusive) 
 List of Favorite Games (next to Resident Evil 4) .
  
  When I heard that Ninja Gaiden 2 was coming out for the Xbox 360 (an exclusive, too, which was 
 great. Didn't want to share a great title with those PS3 kids who already got Ninja Gaiden Sigma) , 
 I was freakin' exalted. Almost jumping off the walls with joy. I read every article about it in 
 whatever magazine choosing to cover it, took time to admire the screenshots of actual gameplay, 
 and eventually watched gameplay footage over and over. 
  
  Surprisingly enough, and maybe this was good in my case, the day came to pick up my Pre-ordered 
 copy from GameStop, and i wasnt really that psyched as I thought I'd be. I went home and began 
 playing. At first, I was sorta impressed with the new cinematic-style cutscenes. One minor improvement 
 over the old one. Then the gameplay started and it felt like the old one at first. It was pretty 
 fun. Pretty fun... 
  
  I read the GameSpot review the morning I went to pick up the game, and their main complaint was 
 that the camera had issues. Boy, were they right. Camera sure as hell as issues in Ninja Gaiden 
 2. It's a real shame too. The graphics beat that of many other 360 games, and like the other one, 
 the combat really is top-notch. But the fact that the camera is so focused into the character, 
 you don't know what's going on around you, and thats the problem. Beleive it or not, the camera 
 problems drag the whole game down and it's not nearly as fun as it should be. 
  
  Now, some people (like on the GameFAQs forums) say that the camera is flawless. Let me say right 
 now that those people are on some drug like ecstacy. That, or they just don't want to admit that 
 it's as bad as it really is. I don't mean to sound like a jerk, but it's true. I've heard all kinds 
 of excuses; to protect framerate from going down (um, no... that's not how framerate functions, 
 actually) , and my favorite, "Tomonobu Itagaki-san wants to make you feel like you have a kind of 
 'Ninja-instinct', where you can predict enemy movements offscreen." (i guess that means the producer 
 didnt want you to have alot of fun, then.)
  
  Not only that, but I just get this sense that the developing team, Team Ninja, was too cocky in 
 this game (just watch their free hour-long documentary on the Marketplace) . First, they cram in 
 as many enemies as they can on screen. Sure, more enemies usually = more fun, but not in this case. 
 Not with the bad camera. Also, Ninja Gaiden Black was known for it's grueling difficulty, but Team 
 Ninja definately went overboard. What I see is that they have to live up to that, so they make 
 some of their enemies (particularly bosses) overwhelmingly cheap (one attack takes down over half 
 of your health for instance) . Yes, there is an "easy-mode", but for those who went straight to 
 the hard core stuff, that is what you will feel.
  
  All in all, Ninja Gaiden 2 is a good game, but definately not as good as it should have been and 
 DEFINATELY not as good as the original Ninja Gaiden Black. I'm sorry, but this game misses by a 
 longshot to make it onto my List of Favorite Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKim89
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  ok, if you're the hardcore gamer type who already has like 3 game systems, then this game will 
 be a welcome challenge 4 u. if your one of those "i play once every 3 months" kind of guy, then 
 don't get this game, since this is one of the hardest games i've ever played.
  
  gameplay:
  you have some cool and new weapons. there are the familiars, like vigoorian flail 
 and dragon sword. and then there are some really interesting new ones, like the scythe. each weapon 
 has its own unique capabilities and strengths and weaknesses. regardless, the ultimates for each 
 weapon is amazing and always bloody. even your projectiles, like incendiary and windmill shurikens, 
 can be charged for an ultimate, which was not featured in the original NG. 
  ok, the best part of this game is its difficulty. it's not a pushover game. and the worst part 
 of the game is its difficulty. sometimes its too much too handle, and you can get really frustrated 
 in some parts. one thing i did hate about this game is the absolute cheapness of your enemies. 
 since your camera sucks (as usual) , you cant see the baddies at times. so, you might be charging 
 for an ultimate, and then some guy offscreen throws 20 incendiaries at you, taking away half your 
 health. and a lot of the bosses aren't even hard, theyre just super super cheap. to beat this bosses, 
 you need to rely on luck, not skill. so that was one major problem with this game. but the hack 
 and slash is still amazing, and very bloody as usual. you can actually cut off limbs and even sever 
 torsoes, which can be nasty.
  
  story:
  hmm, seems like it takes place after original NG. not a great story: you have to save the world, 
 beat blah blah blah, and date the chick at the end. what it lacks in story, it makes up for in 
 pure action.
  
  graphics:
  very nice, and the cutscenes are definitely way beter -looking. but since the original NG was so 
 good anyway in graphis, NG2 isn't a huge improvement. but character renditions are really nice 
 (except for some. they just look like crap, like the giant troll) .
  
  sound:
  its good, but not excellent. to enjoy the game, play it in japanese speech and eng subs. the eng 
 voice acting is just horrible. ryu sounds like a retard in english, sorry to say. background music 
 sort of loops over and over while your in a certain area. 
  
  i'd rent this game first if i were you.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: acemasta21
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  ive been a ninja gaiden fan since its been in the arcade and when ninja gaiden came out i praised 
 it for its brutality and hardcoredness that was all perfected in ninja gaiden 2 whether it was 
 me uploading various videos of me experiencing it or the weapon upgrading or the satisfaction of 
 decapitating an opponent and watching wat it does to make an attempt to kill me the only complaint 
 i have for this game is the verry beggining where it makes zero referance to this sonia girl and 
 why was it that ryu hayabusa and genshis relationship toward each other if they were to explain 
 those the story whould be more enjoyable other than that this game is nuthing short of a masterpiece 
 and should be played by the most hardcore of gamers because casual gamers may be crippled by the 
 slightest thinggs like having low health at one point i say this because theres no restarts for 
 this game so i only reccomend it for hardcore gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoinixpyre
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  There are games that shock you with gorgeous details. There are those that wow you with incredible 
 gameplay. The third part of the trinity being the story. Ninja Gaiden 2 manages to do 2 of the 
 3 with high marks. While the story may be somewhat forgettable the graphics and gameplay more than 
 make up for it's other shortcomings. 
  Not only are the visuals just phenomenal, but they run at a silky smooth framerate. I don't think 
 I noticed much, if any, slowdown even with large amounts of limbs flying around the screen. Watching, 
 as your badass ninja self, dismembers a crowd of would be assailants with the ease of cutting an 
 apple. It's glorious, and simple to accomplish.
  The button layout is incredibly simple to get used to. The simple Strong / Weak attack mix n match, 
 thats been a staple in brawlers since the dawn of time, is used to full effect. It also makes the 
 game equally available to the button masher and tactician alike. With proper timing you can pull 
 off more effective moves, combos, and finishers. If you just mash on 'em you'll get lucky but go 
 through alot more medicine. 
  The only flaws I saw in the game were the sometimes irritating camera, and the almost legendary 
 difficulty the series is known for. While the camera for the most part gives a good view of the 
 action; on some larger bosses it becomes unruly. Often focusing on you and leaving them well off 
 screen as you get blasted by some attack. The real fun came when I would get attacked in a small 
 room, as the camera tended to swing outside the room. All I saw was a wall as I fought to wrangle 
 it back in and hope I'm hitting something as I mash the buttons. 
  The difficulty tends to make leaps. The first few levels lull you in thinking it'll be a nice challenging 
 romp. Then the giant fiends appear as you hit them with everything you have, only to have them 
 backhand you across the screen, sucking up most of your health. I was pretty much ready to give 
 up by the time I was having to fight 4 walking tanks while being having a spider clan ninja fire 
 a silo (not one, but a streaming volley!) of rockets in my direction. I ran crying to mama, I'm 
 not worthy. 
  This is a solid game that's worth the time. There's a certain catharsis in leaving your enemies 
 as bloody stumps around the battlefield. There's even plenty of hidden objects and the trials (oh 
 the trials) for those completists that enjoy the hunt. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: richmond5
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Only played the first level, but I have to say that this game is a great game with a few small 
 improvements and some nice additions. Decapitations and disembowlment a-plenty, but something seems 
 to be bugging me a lot.
  
  I have to agree with the negativity upon the camera angling. I see too many pillars and railings 
 and the boss fight angles can be very daunting. What was a lil' troubling in the first Ninja Gaiden 
 became a huge problem in the sequel. The "recharging" life bar is really annoying as hell... I mean 
 just fully deduct the life even if they give you the chance to revive for free after a fight sequence 
 because it just confuses me.
  
  The EXTREME difficulty, even on a normal setting make you feel like the PRISON **** in a penitentiary. 
 You get already raped by the most basic soldier on the first segment and things get bloody worse 
 on the get-go. This issue can be openly opinionated because we expect great diffculty, but coming 
 from this amount of difficulty is too overwhelming to my cause.
  
  Okay the story doesn't make sense, only a traitorous a-hole, his ho-boss, and a few liberatchi-gay 
 bosses are in your way from stoping a demonic invasion, and a fimiliar looking female agent looking 
 like rachel (blonde with the huge bouncing honkers, courtesy of Team Ninja, creators of Boobie 
 Fighter 1, 2, 3, 4.. haah I mean DeadOrAlive) .
  
  With all that said, and still needing to finish the game, this game is still good or even great 
 considering coming to the next-gen console. It just feels that developers Team Ninja and sun-glasses 
 man (main producer) focused on the wrong things that neglected the issues and added too much of 
 what was already good. Try this game anyways and stare at the new ally bimbo for Ryu H. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Art3Zero
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 2:14 am PT
Review:  Game Play- Indeed the game play is fun, and I as a fellow gamer have already put in over 10 hours 
 into Ninja Gaiden 2, but what really makes the game play great is just how well you commit yourself 
 into fighting enemies, determines whether you make it through a chapter or not. 14 chapters in 
 the entire game and the chapters each take you about a half hour, if you skipped enemies and all 
 hidden secrets. Don't let the half hour/chapter ratio fool you; you will play through the game 
 more than once. Willingly of course, but you will be so soaked into the Ninja Gaiden 2 that you 
 will come back for more. There are 6 weapons in the game, with over 10 different combos per weapon. 
 Those combos will take quite a bit of memory to keep those in your head. Weapons can be upgraded, 
 but at a price, and it will help when fighting a variety of enemies in which span at different 
 sizes. Smaller, or at height, or even giant enemies are pit against you in this game.
  
  Graphics  Cut scenes are gorgeous, and the environment is real. A few glitches involving enemies 
 standing still after there head is sliced, or blood staining right side up against nothingness, 
 as opposed to a wall. Mainly the details in which most people don't notice are the only problem, 
 and I say it's a job well done for a developing team that was rushed at the end.
  Sound  All music in the game is instrumental, and sound effects are really detailed to the point 
 you actually question, "Does cutting someone's head off really sound like that?" In game music 
 is decent, not Devil May Cry soundtrack worthy but decent. Voice acting is done well too.
  
  Replay Value  The replay value is a given in Ninja Gaiden 2. If you're goin' for all the achievements 
 you will bet yourself that you will at least play through the game more than once. The Xbox Live 
 feature given by Team Ninja will let you submit your scores for each level you end up finishing 
 allowing you to climb your way to the top of the leader boards. If you didn't finish finding all 
 the hidden secrets in the game your first play through, then be ready to play again. The game play 
 alone is fun enough, that you will play through it for the same reason.
  
  Overall  This game definitely earns a spot in the top 10 hack n' slashes. As opposed to other 
 games that allow to play through a level, and give you an adrenaline rush, this game will also 
 boost your self-esteem knowing that you beat the highest difficulty is looked greatly upon by other 
 gamers due to the games legendary difficulty. 
  
  Game Play  9/10
  Graphics 7/10
  Sound 8/10
  Replay Value  9/10
  Overall 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broncofan21
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2008 2:01 am PT
Review:  Yet it has come a long way since the first one, it still has some bugs it needs to work out. One 
 thing I didn't like about it was the camera not being on your side. I could always find myself 
 not being able to see the enemies coming from the side. That is a small factor and it did not affect 
 my thoughts for this game. Very fun and exciting gameplay and I can't wait til I beat it. SO far 
 I have encountered many challenging bosses, but I have had a lot of fun defeating them. There is 
 a lot of easy achievements for those who only play for a gamerscore. SO far, my estimate is maybe 
 7 hours of gameplay total to beat the game. I's a great game to spend a nice Saturday playing. 
 I think it is too bad that there is no online multiplayer, but It is just good enough. I do reccomend 
 this amazing game to everyone looking for some nice, sweet, virtual action and gore. I love it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirf
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  The new Ninja Gaiden game is a great follow up to the Ninja Gaiden franchise, it is obviously not 
 better than its precursor but has added many new additions to the game, and thankfully ramped up 
 the gore factor to an extreme. Ninja Gaiden 2 is definitely not a game for everyone due to its 
 painful difficulty, but alas it is not as hard as the last game making it more accessible for rookie 
 players and more enjoyable for the veterans, the super unrealistic gore effects are also a new 
 addition to the series making it more appealing for some people and giving the game a really good 
 reason to buy it. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The best part of this game. The gameplay is absolutely out of this world with fantastic controls, 
 satisfying combat and solid platforming. The game also features lots of great weapons, each have 
 their own special uses, abilities, strengths and weaknesses and also the option to be upgraded, 
 though don't expect to be able to upgrade all your weapons, as you probably will only fully upgrade 
 3, but this isn't bad, as you will only specialise in the weapons that most appeal to you, the 
 weapons range from Gatling-guns to reaper scythes. The fighting and sharp control have also been 
 surprisingly ramped up, at the start of the game you probably wont know what you are doing but 
 as you progress on, you manage to take control of the sharp controls and powerful combinations 
 and unleash the true potential of this game. Lots of people are complaining about the camera, it 
 isn't that bad, the game has added the ability to move the camera, without going into first person, 
 with the right thumbstick which makes the camera less horrid, if this feature hadn't have been 
 added on, the camera would seem very dodgy.
  
  Sound/visuals:
  The graphics in Ninja Gaiden 2 are superb, being very flashy and very capable of upholding the 
 games gore. The sound is also great, with every squirt of blood pouring out from a headless body 
 not going unheard, the in game sound track isn't particularly great with many of the songs being 
 dislikeable or just plain weird sounding, while others are rather dramatic and well suited for 
 the area or level of the game. The gore effects are spectacular and very overdone, you could just 
 buy this game based on the blood and amount of severed limbs it features, but will discover many 
 other likeable things about this game
  
  Value/overall:
  Well worth the money, will have you playing for dozens of hours depending on how good you are at 
 the game, it features many levels so you wont feel ripped off or anything. Overall a fantastic 
 fighting game that, as I said earlier, is not for everyone, so if you are not sure about it, rent 
 it first, then make your judgement, it is a very enjoyable game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrPepper124
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I heard that this game was going to bea awesome from everyone but unfortunaltley not for me. I 
 Was so frustrated by the camera because if i was fighting i couldnt see where i was swinging and 
 if i was even hitting the guy. Or if i was looking fir the door to the next scene it was always 
 out of my view no matter which way i turned it for some reason left out the place i needed to go 
 Ontop of that was the difficulty half my health went down by fighting 3 guys and only being hit 
 about 3 times totaal it was just frustrating. The one i liked about this game was the way the enviorment 
 and people look are cool. THe clothes they wear are cool but nothing in this game really appealed 
 to me. I suggest you save your money luckily i rented this game and could just tell it was going 
 to be a repetitive beat em up game i highly recomend you stay away from this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GT_Drag
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Concept:
  You're a ninja with The Blood of the Dragons coursing through you're veins. As Ryu Hayabusa, you 
 need to stop the threat of the Fiends looming over the world. Use many weapons and combos to slice 
 and dice through foes like butter. Lop off heads and watch them roll. Plant a shuriken in a ninja 
 dog and watch it explode. Sounds good, right? Well, its okay. This one is a toss up. Ninja Gaiden 
 isn't known for its story. This one is still fairly poor. But its about the gameplay on this one. 
 And ninjas can survive exploding armadillos by holding the Block Button, by the way... so maybe 
 this game is for you.
  
  Enemy AI:
  i'm not so sure that the enemy AI is so much extremely intelligent, or there are just tons of them 
 thrown your way at once. Both, possibly? Probably. Enemies will know when to pull a grab move on 
 you when you're guarding too much. They have guard breaking moves. They have projectile weapons 
 to screw over your guarding. Moral of this... don't stand in one spot too long. This game will punish 
 you for it. So I'd say the AI is pretty darn good.
  
  Difficulty:
  I never do a separate section for the Difficulty of a game... but this one deserves it. You start 
 off With Path of the Acolyte [EASY] and Path of the Warrior [NORMAL] . Newercomers might want to 
 start out with Acolyte. Warrior is a hard way to begin this game without really knowing what to 
 expect. Acolyte should be a challenge in its own right for the newer players. You should soon unlock 
 Path of the Mentor [HARD] and Path of the Master Ninja [VERY HARD] . Both, I will admit, are extremely 
 difficult. You really need to know when to pull the right combos for these. And there are many 
 combos to know.
  
  Gameplay:
  You're thrown quickly into the fight in this one. Short cutscene, and you're already surrounded. 
 The learning curve can be a bit difficult with all the combos to try and master with the variety 
 of weapons you're given throughout the game. There are Ultimate Techniques, Obliteration Techniques, 
 Ninpos, special doges, couter attacks, etc., etc. This game is not for those looking to hack n' 
 slash their way through. I found a few problems with the platforming aspects of the game. Running 
 from wall to wall can be a bit touchy, swimming is not all too joy filled to attempt, and the camera 
 at times... is atrocious. It makes making your way to the other side of a pole difficult. But I 
 can say that the one touch 'Y' button Obliteration Techniques can make you forget these issues 
 from time to time.
  
  Sound / Voices:
  The sound efx of the game are enjoyable. Its fun listening to limbs be hacked and dropped to the 
 ground. But that doesn't all make up for the crap voice overs. But when was this game known for 
 the incredible voices to go with the outstanding story?
  
  Replay Value: Moderate - 
  If you get good with this game, then take a challenge and go through all the difficulties. Get 
 the achievements for completing the game with onely ONE of your weapons. If this game is frustrating 
 you on Acolyte, it isn't going to get any better for you, bud.
  
  Thank you for reading, I hope this has been helpful to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Not-A-Stalker
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  My really crappy mini-review for Ninja Gaiden 2!
  
  
  I'm not really sure why I bought this game. It was kind of an impulse buy, because I kind of enjoyed 
 Ninja Gaiden Sigma. And the boxart is sweet. I think thats what got me.
  
  Anyways, yeah the game is really cool. Really intense action, and very satisfying when you can 
 successfully dispatch a large group of enemies. I love how the body parts and the blood actually 
 stays on the ground too. A very enjoyable game if you can get past it's faults.
  
  The graphics are... average. There are some small glitches like floating body parts and blood, 
 but nothing that really effects the game. Character models looks great, but thats just about it. 
 Theres nothing else really thats really outstanding in the graphics department. The engine is really 
 starting to show it's age.
  
  The "story" is non-existent. Which saddens me, because a story is what makes a game really memorable 
 and makes it stand out. If a game has a good story I can usually give it a free pass on some of 
 it's faults. Thats not the case for Ninja Gaiden 2, so I'm going to whine and cry all I want about 
 this games camera.
  
  God damn this game is hard. And it's not even the enemies or the bosses that make the game hard, 
 it's the camera. It's just abysmal. I feel as if I'm battling the camera more than the enemies, 
 and I fell unprepared when I reach a boss because of that.
  
  Don't even try and tell that I suck at the game to try and justify everything thats wrong with 
 this game. Shut up. I got through Ninja Gaiden Sigma just fine. There was only one part of that 
 game that I had trouble with, but besides that I breezed through that game. I was breezing through 
 Ninja Gaiden 2 also but I just simply lost interest. Tecmo's gonna have to patch this one if I'm 
 ever going to come back to this game.
  
  And it's like some of the enemies are designed to take advantage of the **** camera to kill you. 
 Like the wolves? Man those things are cheap. They like come out of nowhere and take you down then 
 like plant a bomb on you? What is that? Oh, thats bull****.
  
  Luckily the awesome factor of this game sort of makes up for the terrible camera.
  
  7.5
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yourtoast
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 24, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  ninja gaiden 2 had everything to b a great game. it has pretty good graphics over all except for 
 background scenery, great blood and gore, basically everything you would expect from a ninja gaiden 
 game. one factor canceled that all out for me, the difficulty. This game is obcenely difficult. 
 You are always fighting a group of enemys but unlike some games, every enemy it attacking you at 
 once, either throwing shrikens of melee attacking. even enemys that are missing limbs throw shrikens 
 and if you get close enough they stab you then blow up. the bosses are way to hard. the third boss 
 pretty much never stops attacking, can break your block, and when you do get an attack off he can 
 stop you mid combo and deliver a huge ammount of damage. then on some bosses like the worm they 
 glitch. The worm get stuck in the wall permenently. overall the game is mediocre because of that.
 
  
  people who read this and disagree, i am not trolling i am saying my opinion about the game. wether 
 or not u agree is not my problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killjoydeath
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  I never played the ninja gaiden series but did play the DOA series and to expect this game being 
 very good was high, this game has some of the most intense graphics ever on the next gen system 
 and there is many weapons to chose from ( i prefer the eclipse scythe or the dual dragon claw and 
 tiger fang) and the many ways to cut off limbs in this game is abundant, the real problem that 
 stops me from giving it a 10 is the difficulty and the save system. To begin with, i started off 
 on acolyte difficulty because i never played the series before and the first few chapters were 
 no problem till around chapter 8. thats when the game turned it up a notch, to say this is that 
 the sub boss on this chapter was harder than the actual boss of the chapter, then you know, millions 
 of deaths later i get to chapter 13, which by far is the hardest chapter ever in any game, and 
 here is where the bad save system comes in, you aren't allowed to make more than 1 save and that 
 sucks because when I beated volf the second time at the end of chapter 12 I started chapter 13 
 and saw i had no money and ( remember people who beat this game knowing you have to start the chapter 
 going through many halls with many monsters in each) yeah that was hard as hell and to make matters 
 worse during that time i had no healing items, but somehow i ended up beating that part and chapter 
 14 is hard ( not as hard as chapter 13 though) because you have 5 boss fights first with genshin, then 
 elizabet. after awhile you battle dagra dai (who is hard) and when you beat him you go straight 
 to the final boss fight without saving and I had no healing items for the final boss ( can't tell 
 you who the boss is because spoilers) and when you finally beat him you fight its second form which 
 is easier than the first form. Now overall this game is awesome, fun, and has alot of replayability, 
 but the game is hard as F* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thew13
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Anybody that played and enjoyed Ninja Gaiden on the Xbox (or even Sigma on PS3) will enjoy this 
 game. I for one loved NG and although I am probably less than 1/3 of the way through NG II, I can 
 say I love this one also.
  Yes there are the crappy camera issues and the story isn't a strong point, but the game play is 
 what this game is all about. Sometimes I find myself watching Ryu rip up his victims and forget 
 I am playing for a split second here and there - which can be disastrous. The speed of the game 
 and the different fighting moves (for each weapon) are just incredible.
  
  Camera - So far the only time the camera affected me was during certain boss battles. Maybe because 
 I was expecting the camera and have played NG and got used to the camera then, it isn't that big 
 of a deal for me. Definitely not a big enough negative to stop me from enjoying the game so much
 
  
  Story - Once again not a strong point, but definitely not a weak point. There is a decent story 
 here, but the game doesn't depend on story. You could enjoy the game with no story at all. The 
 story in NG II is strong enough for this type of game. 
  
  Game play - Words don't do justice - you have to experience it to get the true feeling of how great 
 this game is.
  
  All in all - OK it's no perfect (what game is) and the deficiencies are enough to lower the score 
 a point - but for pure enjoyment sake - there aren't many games that can touch NG II
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is not as good as Ninja Gaiden was. There are some cool moves you can do and nice cut 
 scenes with short but good dialogue in them. The problem is that the camera angles really affect 
 the playability of the game. It is so bad in some areas and a couple of boss fights that it really 
 makes the game seem rather cheap. I can't begin to count the number of times I was killed or grabbed 
 by enemies I couldn't see due to the poor camera. The boss fights are all recycled as you'll face 
 most of the bosses twice through the course of the game. The game is fun but the poor camera ruined 
 the experience for me. Sometimes despite your skill you will die because you just couldn't see 
 an enemy. 
  
  Good 
  Characters and cut scenes
  Lots of weapons offer multiple playing styles 
  Wicked moves 
  Replayable at higher difficulties 
 
  
  Bad
  Camera angles are TERRIBLE
  Some cheap enemies that blast rockets constantly and faster as you get closer to them
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This game I have to admit is a blast to play with the gore and many weapons and people and fiends 
 to kill its probably one of the best ninja gaiden games in a long time yet at the same time the 
 camera is so bad that kills you more than the difficulty 
  
  
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The game play is a basic hack and slash fun and decent length (and if you played either sigma or 
 the original for the XBOX you will feel right at home) you control Ryu Habishu (I think thats how 
 u spell it lol) and you go to various locations and fight random enemies on the screen and they 
 react to your hits most of the time they lose a limb or two and don't give up they either crawl 
 to you or throw stuff at you 
  
  
  A cool thing about the game is the weapons they are all unique some might be good for close encounters, 
 while others are good for multiple enemies at once trust me you won't stick to one weapon or (like 
 in previous games) the dragon sword you will constantly change them with an easy menu system that 
 has weapons, healing items (woot they will save you trust me) , projectile weapons, and magic
  
  Another thing is the difficulty and story are very sporadic what I mean is the first level 
 takes place in Japan and you somehow then end up in France then a Jungle then airship etc etc the 
 difficulty on the other hand is very weird the 1st couple of levels are not easy but not that hard 
 yet the game goes from decent to HOLY CRAP!!! this is hard as hell there is no middle ground and 
 the boss battles (to me) are wayy to cheap the combos they pull off on you are way to unfair they 
 can reduce your health from up to 75% (no joke) in one combo and trust me the last couple of chapters 
 are full of cheap boss battles that will cause you to have a heart attack 
  
  
  
  The enemies and bosses you fight go from bland to very unique and some are harder then others so 
 once again its whatever weapon you want to take these things out 
  
  
  The last thing is the camera I feel this is what made me die the most it truly sucks the developers 
 tried their hardest by making the RT button go directly behind RYU but during boss battles its 
 useless because it follows the boss and trust me you will slash and kick and jump in the wrong 
 direction over and over again and the boss will grab you and perform and cheap ass combo oh ya 
 and at some times there is a bad slow down (but it only happened like 2-3 times in the game)
  
  
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  The graphics are also a weird one because at some times they look 
 awesome like if blood hits water it acts like real blood and mixes with the water into it (and 
 some cutscenes look good) yet at other times you can see technical glitches and some blood sticks 
 to nothing and stays solid in the air.. so its like a 50/50 thing 
  
  
  
  SOUND:
  
  The games sound is decent the swords clanging and the limbs and blood gushing sounds pretty good 
 at the voice acting surprised me it is also pretty good 
  
  
  
  PROS:
  
  A lengthy, challenging, hack and slash game that has many awesome weapons, enemies, locations, 
 and bosses and very good replayablity 
  
  
  
  CONS: 
  
  Very very very crappy camera, some boss battles are very very cheap, the levels are good but very 
 sporadic one minute your in Japan the next in NYC and there is no explanation how and why you got 
 there and at some times unbearable slow down 
  
  
  
  
  
  CLOSING:
  
  In closing even though this game has its faults its still a fun game that really tests your reflexes 
 and you can play it over and over again to see things you might have missed (like that hidden chest 
 full of yellow nimpo) 
  
  
  
  
  P. S. the game gets really unfair on the last couple of chapters trust me stock up on every health 
 item you can buy and at the same time save up on yellow nimpo (ya thats hard to do lol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps2forever
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Well , I have to admit that the game has some of its moments, just like how gamespot editors said 
 that on some maps and levels. The textures on some of them are downright ugly, and yes it's noticable. 
 But the gameplay is absouletly fantastic. Some people may have said the the graphics for the game 
 is a slight better than the original xbox, but to me the game's graphics are no sloutch. i think 
 it looks awsome. I know because i have a ps3 also and comparing this game to sigma, this game actually 
 had a slight of a better graphics and of course gameplay. But otherwise this game is probably the 
 most grueling and nastiest game i've played in a long time. Yeah, ninja are known to be stealthy, 
 and are known to cut their foes in halves. But this game did a great job on the fighting. Although, i 
 would perfer a better camera angle, eventhough the new camera angles add a nice touch of difficulty 
 and challenge to the game, But when it comes down to a crucial match with a boss or an enemy, it 
 can be right down frustrating and you will be finding yourself repeating alot. But overall i would 
 recommend this game to anyone who own's an xbox 360 and who is really into ninja. Then this game 
 is for you. Trust me with 60 bucks to spend this game is well worth it, Also trust, if you're good 
 enough you can finish this game in a couple of dayz. But if you are new to this franchise, goood 
 luck... LOL. Get this game everyone!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sixtysixx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  My first impressions were that this game is simply amazing and far surpassed my expectations. Sadly, 
 my first impressions don't sum up the game. 
  
  The game mechanics are greatly improved: amazing combat, a new healing system that adds in more 
 of a challenge instead of taking it away, and more responsive controls among other smaller details. 
 The camera on the other hand, was somehow made worse than the first game. its not that bad but 
 often times it simply gets in the way and doesn't show you what you see. Sure, its very easy to 
 control, but in a fast paced game its not what you should be worried about in the middle of combat.
 
  
  The graphics, good but not great. it looks like team ninja just reused sigmas ps3 graphics. That's 
 not necessarily a bad thing but they could have done much better considering NG1 helped redefine 
 what last gen graphics should look like. And as said in the official review here on GS some repetitive 
 and bland environments but not nearly as bad as made out to be. The frame rate crashing/slowing 
 down is rare and only guaranteed to occur in one place were 50+ enemies show up at once.
  
  The overall game play, well this is were the flaws come in. The first 1/4 and last 1/4 of the game 
 are almost perfect although a little too easy on lower difficulties. In between you've got everything 
 from unavoidable walls of rockets to bosses that blow you up after being defeated if your not blocking. 
 There many other parts that force you to use cheap tactics just to barely survive. The tests of 
 valor are the replacement sixty fiend challenges. Some are what they were meant to be, fun and 
 challenging. Others are insanely hard, and also forcing you to use cheap repetitive tactics. 
 
  
  Overall opinion: This game had the opportunity to become one the greatest fighting games ever made, 
 but due to whats probably simply an unpolished game, its just another good game in the genre. It 
 might be due to the problems between team ninja and tecmo, or maybe just due to devs that got lazy 
 cause they made an amazing game the first time, but a few more months in development would have 
 done a lot for this game.
  
  Its still a must have for any fan or veteran despite the flaws, but to any other gamer whose only 
 planning on going through 1 or 2 play throughs id say just rent it for a week or 2.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OP71MUS-GR1M3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Lets set things straight. Is Ninja Gaiden 2 as good as the original? Quite simply put, no! Is the 
 camera any better then what it was in Ninja Gaiden Black? To put it bluntly, they somehow managed 
 to make it a lot worse. At times it struggles to keep up with the gameplay and when Ryu finds himself 
 backed into a corner, it loses all sense of direction. This, unfortunately, leads to the all too 
 familiar screen "Game Over" (I go to sleep with that image burned under my eyelids) . 
  What else? Did the series really make that next-gen jump? No. Graphically the game is very bland 
 and although it isn't what I would call ugly, it doesn't blow me away either. Lets also talk about 
 those frame rate issues. For a fast paced game such as Ninja Gaiden, a stable frame rate is a must. 
 However, there are times when Ryu is hacking and slashing his way through a screen of enemies that 
 the game crawls to an almost standstill. Not good. However, I suppose it does benefit the game. 
 There's nothing like watching a OT in slow-mo. (The sight of body parts being flung across your 
 screen never seems to get boring) .
  Now that's off my chest, let me appreciate Ninja Gaiden 2 for what it is: the best action game 
 out there. Although, like many, I am disappointed with the title, that does not mean I don't regard 
 the game as one of the best out there. No other game can rival the NG series for its combat. The 
 "infinite" number of combos flow so fluently, look so damn good that when you punch in the buttons 
 for that favourite combo of yours (thinks Vigoorian Flails XXX- XXXXYYYY) you just watch in awe 
 at the level of destruction Mr. Hayabusa himself dishes out. Each weapon feels unique and each 
 combo feels different. It is this part of the game that makes it so special, regardless of all 
 the well documented faults.
  After venturing quite happily through the first few chapters, and upgrading some of my weapons 
 to unlock those extra combos, the game started to crank up the difficulty. For sure, the first 
 few chapters were a breeze, and, for those that were playing this for the first time, I'm sure 
 they laughed at all this talk of Ninja Gaiden 2 being a game made specifically for those gamers 
 who liked a challenge. How wrong they were. I found myself constantly blocking and dodging just 
 to let off a few quick combos. Then it was backs against the wall again. NG2 is definitely a game 
 you have to be patient with. 
  Each enemy has its weaknesses and each enemy can be exploited by a different weapon. For instance, 
 those pesky ninjas, yes, the ones who constantly throw incendiary shurikens, the ones that make 
 you shout "this is so cheap", are easily dispatched with the Vigoorian Flails and Falcon Talons. 
 What about those lumbering dragons, or old cannonball arm? Well the Eclipse Sycth makes short work 
 of them, easily removing an arm or leg for you to tap Y, which then leads to a decapitation of 
 some sort. NG2 can be a lot harder then it is supposed to be if you go in all guns (or should I 
 say weapons) blazing. It is a game that is designed to be hard. 
  However, this doesn't necessarily mean that is unbeatable. Sure, there will be times when you won't 
 be able to get past a certain point in the game. There will be times when your tempted to throw 
 your pad at your screen (just before you realise how much you paid for that 1080p HD beauty) . The 
 solution? Cool down for a bit. If you spend too long trying to get past a certain part you almost 
 get resigned to the fact you can't pass it. And for all those who are complaining the game is cheap, 
 then mimic the game. The "Flying Swallow" technique with the Dragon Sword is very effective. Yes 
 it is by far the cheapest way to dart your way through a boss fight/tight battle but it is a lifesaver 
 nonetheless.
  Ninja Gaiden 2 is definitely the most frustrating game I've played, yet it is also one of the most 
 satisfying. You know you have a good game when no matter what the game throws at you, you just 
 keep coming back for more. For me, this is what saves Ninja Gaiden 2. It is by no means a perfect 
 game but even so there is something about it, an allure that just does not let you give up. The 
 game in some ways emulates the spirit of Ryu himself. That never say die attitude definitely filters 
 out of the game and into the player.
  Although the game offers little to improve the series, the few added features such as Obliteration 
 Techniques, a rechargeable health bar and a easier difficulty setting definitely do add to the 
 game. Obliteration Techniques increases the 'wow' factor of the game and somehow manages to never 
 get boring. The rechargeable health bar, although slated by some die hard fans, is certainly needed 
 in the game and is most definitely appreciated, especially during the later chapters. 
  Consequently, for those who are sceptical of the series, I think honesty is the best way forward. 
 The game does not have a story and I still believe that Itagaki's daughter was the author of both 
 series (seriously) . This theory is reinforced by the weak attempts to piece together a story with 
 the aid of diary entries. The game does have some technical issues and the camera is nothing short 
 of awful. However, Ninja Gaiden 2 is the best action game out there on a next-gen console and it 
 absolutely wipes the floor with its rival (DMC4) even if it is ugly in comparison. Ninja Gaiden 
 2 does little to improve the NG series. However, what it does do is it does show how successful 
 the original was. By sticking to the same formula, NG2 manages to still be a good game and we must, 
 at this point, pay credit to the original Ninja Gaiden. This is why it makes it that little bit 
 more frustrating that NG2 failed to live up to the expectations set by the original. Maybe if Itagaki 
 and his team had built this game from the ground up it may have been the game that it was set out 
 to be. A new engine would definitely have helped this game in terms of presentation and would perhaps 
 have helped to iron out some of its technical failures.
  With recent events at Tecmo maybe Itagaki and his team could be excused as clearly what has happened 
 shows that parties involved obviously were not cohesive. However, I am just going to take the game 
 as it is as no moaning of mine, or anyone elses, can change the final product. For me, what we 
 have been given is the best action game out there and I have enjoyed every kill, as well as every 
 death, along my hard fought journey.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0mEGuY12
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:9/10
  
  You heard me. This game was close to being one of the top games this year, but is easily one of 
 the best ACTION games this year. This game, by all means, is fast paced, fun, satisfying, and bloody. 
 Heads, limbs, arms, you name it will be flying everywhere, and if not, (which i doubt) lots of blood 
 spewing everywhere. First, story. CIA Agent Sonia is asking Muramasa about the whereabouts of Ryu 
 Hayabusa, though he says a Ninja can be anywhere in the world. She is attacked, puts up a small 
 fight, but can no longer defend herself when losing her weapons. Despite getting aid from Ryu himself, 
 She is kidnapped, and you must fight your way through to save her. The story, is very good. Everything 
 is understandable, and though i have seen better, its good. Though in the beginning you start our 
 short handed (in weaponry) starting out with only the Dragon Sword, you will get more weaponry 
 later on in the game. No really. YOU WILL GET... A LOT OF WEAPONS. All of them in which, are powerful 
 and has effectiveness for certain enemies, though once again, they are all powerful. You have three 
 types of attack methods. First is your main weaponry... Swords and whatnot, and for secondary weapons 
 are projectiles such as shuriken, and bows. Third, Spells. In this game, you're literally a killing 
 machine. You can tear enemies apart in close combat, damage or kill enemies from afar, and literally 
 annihilate enemies with spells (they're called Ninpo in this game) . One ability in this game takes 
 the cake, and its called the Obliteration technique. It is mostly used as a finishing move, and 
 is also recommended to be used when the occasion strikes (which is almost all the time) . When slicing 
 an arm or leg off... you press Y which will finish the enemy off. What makes this game challenging, 
 is that if an enemy is wounded, they're actually more dangerous. Though they lack combat ability 
 when losing an arm or leg, some enemies will latch themselves on you, and suicide bomb, dealing 
 plenty of damage. This make sense of course, considering they're gonna die anyways.
  
  What i like about this game, is that you have access to ALL your equipment (after obtaining it of 
 course) . All of it. You can change your weapons midbattle, and put them to good use. Same goes 
 for projectiles, and ninpo. This ability, is good, letting you expand your path of destruction. 
 My favorite weapon, is the Dragon's Claw, and the Tiger's Fang. 
  
  Now... for the problems... Its either i suck ,or this game is just too hard. A recommendation for 
 newcomers to the series like me. If you're a first timer to a game like Call of Duty 4, you see 
 4 difficulties before you. Most people, even noobs choose Normal/Regular, because if you choose 
 easy, it would be too easy. Heres the problem, If you're a newcomer, and you choose Path of the 
 Warrior (Normal) because you think Path of the Acolyte (easy) is gonna be too easy, Think again. 
 This game is hard. Really hard. EVEN on the easiest difficulty, this game is punishing. Also, there 
 is a huge leap of difficulty between Acolyte, and Warrior. a HUGE leap. In Acolyte, enemies are 
 mostly annoying, you will die a few times, but not much complaints. In warrior, enemies WILL cheapshot 
 you. Middle of a combo? Expect it to be rudely interrupted by another enemy. Already being bashed 
 the hell out of? Thats not the least of your worries. You will continue to be bashed as your maximum 
 health gradually chips away. Oh i forgot to mention, The more damage you take in this game, the 
 more your maximum health temporarily reduces. I heard that this game has a new healing system, 
 in which you heal after every battle, and i think the health reduction is new too. Also, the number 
 of save points has increased too i hear.... If the previous games did not have this system... i cannot 
 imagine how hard they must have been. Enemies will kill you. Bosses will destroy you. If enemies 
 are this hard in even the easiest difficulty, i cannot imagine how hard the rest of the game must 
 be. You WILL get your ass handed to you MANY times in this game.
  
  Now for the last few problems.... Camera. Though they have created a way for you to fix the camera 
 should it go crazy or stupid (when the developers should make the game do it itself, and its RT, 
 to recenter the camera behind Ryu) , this camera sucks. I have seen worse since some games do not 
 let you recenter the camera, this camera is annoying. Often, the camera cannot follow you, and 
 goes in a weird area. Often, the camera IS following you, but behind an object... such has stair 
 handles and such. This camera will go stupid on you when you least need it. 
  
  Though the game is hard, after some practice i hear the game will be enjoyable, which is why im 
 giving gameplay the 9 it deserves. 
  
  Graphics:8.7/10
  
  Now... like gamespot said, the environments are a bit... lifeless. Though they look good, nothing 
 much is going on. What makes up for it, is VERY slick animation. Animation is PERFECT in this game, 
 for every move you make, there isnt an error in your actions. The good models in this game make 
 up for loss of environmental detail. Models of several characters are detailed, same goes with 
 weaponry and enemies. There is one problem with the game itself though (This problem im putting 
 in with graphics) ... Frame rate. This is one thing that Team Ninja/Tecmo... OBVIOUSLY did not test, 
 or if they did, didnt fix. There will be times when you are fighting hordes of enemies... But its 
 too many enemies. The game cant keep up, and it starts lagging. I have not downloaded the latest 
 patch, but this is a serious problem... Though it only happens occasionally, it is annoying. 
  
  Sound:9/10
  
  Voice acting in this game is ok. One thing im glad they put, is what Tecmo 
 is known for... Tecmo almost all the time, ADDS JAPANESE VOICEOVERS. I prefer the japanese of course 
 with english subtitles. Sound effects in this game are awesome. Swords swinging, the sound of a 
 leg getting chopped off, explosions, the roaring of an enemy fiend, Priceless..
  
  Overall:9.2/10
  
  Sorry for the long review, just had a lot to say. This game is awesome. It 
 could have easily been one of the best games this year had to offer, but the game suffers from 
 a few problems. I absolutely recommend this game if you want a fast paced action game, And if you 
 like Devil May Cry ( like i do) Get this game. For whether reason, if people like DMC, they will 
 love Ninja Gaiden. Thats all for now. Cya later. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azernus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  If your expecting something different from the first game, you'll be disappointed. It feels just 
 like the first one and in my opinion thats great. In just a few minutes you'll feel back at home 
 with the ninja sword. The old combos even came back to me.
  
  Differences: Improved graphics, fresh and improved animations, lots of blood and body parts, awesome. 
 Improvements to items that make them more interface friendly. There are new and cool weapons, some 
 will actually make you put down the ninja sword.
  
  The story is a bit lame, it feels like there is something I should already know to understand whats 
 going on. Not enough of a problem to take me out of the game though.
  
  Can the camera be annoying on OCCASION, I guess. Is it as bad as people are making out to be? No. 
 If it weren't for these reviews I've read, I wouldn't have noticed anything. If you played the 
 first game and had no complaints you wont have any here.
  
  The game is too hard? Give me a break. Stop button mashing and use some skill.
  
  In summary: 
 If you liked the first game, buy this one, you can't go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zentrenius
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  When Ninja Gaiden was released on the Xbox, hardcore gamers everywhere rejoiced at this fantastic 
 example of what action gaming was meant to be. It was a game of such quality that no other surpassed 
 it and few stood at its side. It was brilliant. Even though its brilliance seemed to be cheapened 
 a little by it being remade, twice, within three years of its release, it still retained its integrity 
 as a legendary game that brought rewarded hardcore gamers and made casual gamers tremble and soil 
 themselves. Well, maybe not, as casual gamers probably have lives and are too busy to be concerned 
 with something so trivial.
  However, I digress.
  Now there's Ninja Gaiden II. Allow me to describe Ninja Gaiden II. Take Ninja Gaiden I, increase 
 the resolution, and add a few weapons. Now beat the camera against your face and drench the screen 
 in blood like an overzealous Carrie fan at a prom dress convention and you get Ninja Gaiden II.
 
  In many ways, Ninja Gaiden II takes many steps forward, but at the same time, feels the need to 
 take a few steps back, and in the case of the audio, it just stands still. The audio has basically 
 gone unchanged, which is not so bad, as the sound effects are still good and add to the satisfaction 
 of slaughtering your enemies. That may sound a bit sadistic, but considering how outstandingly 
 cheap some of the enemies are (especially the ones with rapid-fire explosive weaponry) , it isn't 
 sadistic. It's vengeance.
  The game makes its steps forward with its graphics and gameplay, both of which are polished, satisfying, 
 and unflinchingly brutal (even though the graphics aren't quite up to par with today's games) . 
 Your enemies will fall before your supreme arsenal of Ninja weaponry, given that they aren't kicking 
 your ass up and down the block. All of the weapons are great in their own right, and nearly all 
 of them are quite fun to use.
  Of course, not all is well.
  Now let's get one thing straight: Team Ninja hates you and everything about you, and they aren't 
 afraid to express their eternal hatred of you. Your ass will be handed to you, and it will be handed 
 to you often. This was also true for the original, but there is a distinct difference between the 
 two: when you died in Ninja Gaiden I, odds are, it was your fault. You needed practice. Such is 
 not the case for NGII. Odds are, when you die in Ninja Gaiden II, it was a design problem, which 
 can be the camera, the sometimes cheap enemies, or a glitch that makes you wonder about how much 
 Team Ninja cared about this game.
  There are many enemies in this game. Most are challenging. Others are cheap. Incredibly cheap. 
 Cheaper than a prostitute that accepts Monopoly money. These can be enemies that fire endless streams 
 of explosive objects, a boss that explodes after you kill after fighting it for the eleventh freaking 
 time, and most of all, the camera. The camera, while fairly different, was perfectly managable 
 in the original Ninja Gaiden. In Ninja Gaiden II, the only thing that the camera seems to want 
 to capture is you dying. Some of you may say that the camera is not a problem because it can still 
 be adjusted. That's kind of like saying that because a gun can be deconstructed, it shouldn't be 
 dangerous if one is held right against your face.
  The camera is not quite the only design flaw in the game. There are glitches. One of which causes 
 the game to freeze. There's also some purely horrible design choices like a level later on in the 
 game that uses so much bloom that you can barely see what's lowering your life bar in thirds.
 
  As horrible as this sounds, the design problems are not bad enough to take away this game's greatness. 
 It is still very enjoyable, and one of the best action games the Xbox 360 has to offer. If you're 
 a fan of the original, or action games in general, this is a definate purchase. Just prepare yourself 
 for frustration and a game that doesn't quite measure up to its predecessor.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicmole
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 22, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  During the last generation Team Ninja produced the best console graphics any one had ever seen 
 and was an early adopter of HD visuals, but have always suffered from frustrating game play and 
 cheap assaults on the player through unfair balancing and enemies breaking the games rules way 
 too often. Ninja Gaiden 2 much like DOA 4, and DOA Extreme 2, follows in the foot steps of their 
 last gen counter parts ,with little to no innovation.
  
  Graphically Ninja Gaiden is average at best. Some of the blood and lighting effects look cool, 
 but this is not next gen tech here. Character models have noticeable joints and jagged edges anywhere 
 two moving pieces meet. This is painfully obvious during cut scenes. During game play it is comparable 
 to Devil May Cry 4. The decapitations and dismemberments, are visceral, but once again are more 
 along the lines of what we saw last gen. 
  
  Game play wise NG 2 does okay. The game is almost identical to NG 1 ,but adds a few techniques 
 that altogether don't change much. Much like the first NG, the camera is less then perfect and 
 is almost always in the wrong place at the wrong time. It's not the worst camera ever it's just....... odd. 
 The game plays like it teleported straight out of 2003. Hack through enemies, fight boss. No extras 
 to speak of, no other playable characters. This is what we have come to expect from Team Ninja. 
 A rerelease of an old game with a new title. Now I will say that it is a little better then Ninja 
 Gaiden black. Just not $60 worth. Ninja Gaiden is somewhat a amazing budget game that costs full 
 price.
  
  The story is what you come to expect from the DOA/Ninja Gaiden universe. Ninjas in the future who 
 some how also grew up in feudal japan fighting demons and saving girls with big boobs. I personally 
 love it ,but it is with out a doubt stupid.
  
  Basically, Ninja Gaiden continues developer Team Ninja's lack luster release of games for the 360 
 as they try and continue to squeeze of power from their aging game engine. If Techmo hopes to continue 
 they will be forced to push Team Ninja into the Next Generation and demand a much larger, content 
 rich and graphically pleasing experience in future Dead or Alive and Ninja Gaiden games.
  
  Dollar Value: $39.95 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sproke
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  Schwing! Four Black-spider clan ninjas lose their heads as Ryu launches over them with a swing 
 of his sword. Blood flies everywhere and our protagonist coolly flicks the blood off his blade. 
 As I sit there, being overwhelmed by the sheer fun on the combat, a demon flies from off screen 
 and kills me. The fun wears off, and a sigh of anger greets the checkpoint which I know very well.
 
  
  The camera is a frustrating issue that is hard to overcome, but this is lost in the joy of hacking 
 your opponents limb from limb. The game is fun, it's just plain enjoyable to play. It doesn't have 
 an award winning story, the graphics aren't amazing, but the main focus of the game is the combat, 
 and for a good reason.
  
  The game starts off with a well-endowed woman (there are 3) walking into the weapon shop looking 
 for Ryu. Those demons are at it again, those little scamps. Commence cliches, save the world, the 
 girl, etc. The story is basically a cover for the gameplay. It's exactly the kind of story a game 
 would use if the story didn't really matter, and that's the game that this is.
  
  NG2 works at a pretty steady pace. You work through a series of areas and fight a boss, for about 
 half the game. All of the sudden you must fight multiple bosses with scarce saves or shops. Imagine 
 walking a long, level path and all the sudden a steep mountain is plopped in front of you and some 
 guy is sitting at the top laughing and throwing things at you. Despite this, the game is fun the 
 whole way though.
  
  The combat is amazing. As you mash the X and Y buttons, you gradually move from random attacks 
 to settling into your favorite devastating combos. There's a new finisher system, in which you 
 will often hack off 3 to four of an enemy's extremities, leaving a torso soaked in blood. This 
 was meant to be, and is awesome. The new weapons are fun, especially the Eclipse Scythe obtained 
 halfway through, but like in the first game, the Dragon Sword is the best one.
  
  If you've played NG Sigma for the PS3, expect no advancements in graphics.
  "... the very best 
 in breathtaking, realistic visuals..." is put on the back of the box. My breath remained in my 
 possession the entire time, it was just Team Ninja tooting its own horn. I've seen games that claim 
 that their graphics are good, but this statement is a little extreme. The graphics are good, but 
 there are much better looking games.
  
  Now on to the camera, my worst enemy. Most of the times that you will die in this game, it will 
 most likely be because a sword or arrow or what-have-you will fly from the corner of your screen. 
 If you attempt to control the camera, it disobeys you and does what it wants instead. The camera 
 is a separate entity from the game itself, and is there to plot your assassination. Perhaps the 
 man on the mountain is controlling the camera.
  
  Despite these issues, I have no regrets that I played this game. I may be a slightly more violent 
 person, but the anger provoked by several annoyances in the game are countered by the joy of the 
 combat.
  
  
  Spoiler! If you don't want to know what the final boss looks like don't read further.
  
  
 
  
  The final boss looks like the jackalope or hillbilly lore, no lie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jack-The-Ripped
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun... No doubt about that... I have played Ninja Gaiden Black from the XBOX. It's 
 the reason i bought this one... Ninja Gaiden was incredibly hard... Ninja Gaiden 2 follows tradition. 
 It is a very fun, very bloody, very hard game, and i love it. At first this game demoralized me, 
 and made me not even wanna play it. In the end though i fell in love with it just like the first 
 one. The obliteration techniques are very bloody very messy and very satisfying. The ultimate techniques 
 are very effective and very useful. I'm honestly only to chapter 10. But the story is just as solid 
 as the last, and the game play has many step ups from the last one. The camera still sucks, but 
 oh well. I highly recommend this game. The main thing to remember about this game, it's not a hack 
 n slash. It's a block hack, block slash. Once you master the new techniques that actually allow 
 you to get out of the way, then you will be fine at this game... Until you meet the cheep shot 
 bosses, but you'll eventually find a way past them... I honestly love this game, even though at 
 first i hated it. Ninja Gaiden 2, you did not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I want to start off by saying that Ninja Gaiden 2 had a lot to live up to. It is very hard to surpass 
 a masterpiece, such as Ninja Gaiden Black. The one thing missing from NG2 that was in the first 
 game was the non-linear nature path of NGB, which had a lot of back tracking and I really didn't 
 mind. This game however is very linear and the from stage to stage and makes little sense. But 
 I'm not complaining at all, and I'll tell you why. The action is non stop and fast from beginning 
 to end. It's a button masher that is for sure, and a very good one at that .
  
  In terms of violence, it hits the dragon sword on the head, splits it in two, and manages to cut 
 the whole frigging body in half. Sounds gruesome, well it is. To put it in perspective, this game 
 is not for kids at all and parents should not buy it, unless you're sick and twisted, and want 
 to turn scare the crap out of your kids. The best part of the the combat are the obliterations 
 which eviscerate your enemies to no end and blood is everywhere. Limbs or on the floor, heads are 
 on the floor and the walls. Basically, if you can stands massive amounts of violence, then game 
 is for you. 
  
  I thought that NGB was really ahead of its time. As a matter of fact, it was the best looking game 
 on the original Xbox in my opinion. This game has the same graphics engine, but on HGH. It runs 
 at 60 frames per second but when the screen has an extreme amount of enemies it slows down a little 
 bit but it's hard to notice. What I love is the stage where it literally rains blood (mild spoiler) . 
 It made me want to listen to Raining Blood from Slayer. 
  And any game that has a stage that rains blood is winner in my book. The only complaint I have 
 is the camera. But NGB had a horrible camera and still managed to be a classic
  
  This game is for the players who have an extreme amount of patience because you will die a lot 
 and want to throw your controller at the TV. But if you battle hard enough you will have a sense 
 of accomplishment that is rewarding and like on other. Overall NG2 is one of my favorite games 
 on the 360. So just buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juiceb0xx
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  The Ninja Gaiden series has always been known for its difficulty, and this one is no exception. 
 From the beginning you are immersed in the role Ryu and a dazzling display of combo moves, obliteration 
 moves and everything else that comes with being a ninja.
  
  It is a very enjoyable experience, but has some instances where the frustration just builds up, 
 but is rewarded when you finally overcome the objective that was placed in front of you. My personal 
 example was trying to play the second boss while thing that quick hits would be more affective 
 than a slower more deadly move and I got my ass handed to me time and time again, but once I finished 
 him off, everything was relieved and a sense of rewarding as the next cut scene played out.
  
  If you are a novice gamer, I would recommend renting it first.
  
  ~jbx~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zentrixu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I do not understand the low score from the critics, the second one is as the first one with more 
 dynamic battles.
  Ok Camera has always an issue of Ninja Gaiden, but fans have used to live with that.
  The Animations 
 and so are one of the best you will see, enemy design and the variation of enemies are without 
 doubt great and greater, larger than life.
  Gamespot have some issues with graphics, ok there are some not nice looking parts, but also when 
 the graphics are great they are the best, in the gamespot review they showed the green tunnel, 
 but i will mention that this bad looking tunnel is a small part of level 9, the jungle and the 
 rest looks great.
  Best graphics you have in chapter 10,11,12,13,14.
  The envioremnet graphic change during the game, more into demon realms, and yes you can forget 
 Devil May Cry.
  The Beginning of Level 10, do you know famous Metal Band Slayer and the song raining blood, that 
 is the case in this level.
  There is only one time you have an framerate issue in the entire game, the stairs from level 10, 
 100 Black Spider Ninjas attacking you at once, in that case you have an advantage from the droping 
 framerate.
  Great Sequence, goriest of all time.
  The difficulty is the same as the first one, without the frustation like more checkpoints.
  The 
 game is quite long, 14 chapter, and they are long and each chapter has his own charackter.
  Great one, buy it now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Striper_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't checked it out already, you should definately check out Ninja Gaiden II. It's got 
 an arcade feel, as it should considering it's origins, but with cool graphics, great ninja tactics, 
 and about a thousand different weapon combinations ("techniques") to keep you coming back for more. 
 It's also great because you can play for about 15 minutes, reach a save point, and put it down 
 and come back later. You don't have to spend hours in front of the game just to get into it (although 
 you probably will anyway!) .
  
  So far my favourite weapons are the hand and foot claws ("Falcon's Talons") and the dual katanas 
 ("Dragon's Claw and Tiger's Fang") . The massive "Eclipse Scythe" is also very useful for larger 
 oponents and bosses, and the "Vigoorian Flail" seems fun and pretty effective but I haven't used 
 it much.
  
  I think that although the developers did a great job of making the game run smoothly, the texture 
 quality and polygon count of the environments is a little lacking, and there isn't much in the 
 way of environmental effects, other than the odd bit of fog here or there. Some of the lighting 
 is very good, and the character models are very nicely detailed, which helps make up for some of 
 the definciancies, but I think the game would be even better if they could have included higher-res 
 textures.
  
  The best part, of course, is the fighting. You'll mame, dismember, mutilate and vanquish thousands 
 of enemies in graphic ninja form, blood spurting everywhere and in pools, body parts scattered 
 all over the place. The action is lightning fast, vicious and totally engaging. Awesome!
  
  The bottom line is that it's a totally fun game to play, with lots of replay value considering 
 all of the different weapons and techniques you can attempt to master. Get it, and try to beat 
 my karma scores online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bioshock91
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  i have always been a big fan of the Ninja Gaiden series. they are fun, challenging and very gory! 
 this game is no exception .
  
  Ninja gaiden 2 looks great. the graphics are beautiful and the detail added to everything is sick.
 
  the gameplay is very fast , but this never causes any frame rate issues
  The CAMERA IS FIXED, except for the fact that you can get killed from off screen. 
  the controlls 
 work great, and the new weapon switching system is a welcomed addition, 
  
  however they did change several things in the new one, one is that a portion of your health now 
 regenerates after each encounter, also they upped the amount of gore, you can now completely dismember 
 your foes, which playes an intresting role in the game, for example even if you cut off an enemies 
 leg or arm they will still come at you, if you cut off a guys leg he will crawl around and if he 
 gets close enough he will grab you and stab you with an exploding knife.
  
  this brings me to my next big point, THIS GAME IS JUST AS DIFFICULT AS the last one, even with 
 the new healing system you will die constantly.
  As always the boss battles are usually long and very intense. And yes the bosses still have moves 
 that can wipe out 3/4 of your life bar!
  
  overal this is a great game i definatly recommend picking this one up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  ~Intro~
  Well, it's about that time again; time to make the donuts and time to slice some noggins off. Ninja 
 Gaiden 2 taps into the very essence of coolness and awesomeness: Ninjas and ultra violence. Yes, 
 Ryu Hayabusa is back but this time he isn't a young Ninja on his path to becoming a Super Ninja. 
 No, no, this time around Ryu is already a bad trucker out to destroy the evil in the world. NG2's 
 old school mentality of beating you down, while pouring lemon and salt into your wounds is a sigh 
 of relief in a well of easy hack and slash action games of recent memory. It is the quintessential 
 action game: 90s Sunday morning cartoon plot, check; amazingly in depth combat system, check; super 
 awesome boss battles, check. The only action star that comes even close to Ryu's badassery is Kratos 
 and that's because of the god of war title!!
  
  ~Story~
  Many people have complained about NG's story arc; but then again these are probably the same people 
 that go to baseball games to read, or attend amazement parks for the food!! What people need to 
 realize is action games have this special kryptonite that allows them to create generic over the 
 top stories. This provides two major elements: 
  1. Having a reason to destroy everything in site
  2. Justifying the killing with more killing.
 
  
  In most situations it doesn't make sense to have a sensible story; I mean if your parents were 
 murdered by some fiends or demons would you fight back.. hell no, most likely feces would come pouring 
 through your butt cheeks and hiding would commence. Besides justifying action games with logical 
 storylines will result in lame documentaries. Don't believe me, check out any action movie that 
 doesn't have some super over the top storyline; they're lame. The moment a game/movie tries to 
 explain away it's violence; is the exact moment the game/movie ceases to be entertaining. So, what 
 is the story behind NG2; well my curious friends I'll tell you. 
  
  A CIA operative is looking for Ryu in the Skytowers of modern day Japan when suddenly the black 
 spider clan attacks this hot boobtastic blond. Ryu tries to save her but gets distracted by her 
 massive sweater cows. He chases her down and is informed that his ninja village is targeted for 
 an attack. Genshin, leader of the Black Spider clan, has partnered up with a mysterious woman named 
 Elizbet. Elizbet seeks a mysterious artifact called the Demon statue: a magical status that is 
 used to free the imprisoned greater fiends and archfiend. Genshin is trying to destroy the Dragon 
 clan and so begins the chase for Genshin and Elizbet and the inevitable salvation of earth. Though 
 the cut scenes are over the top and cheesy at times, they do a great job of explaining what's going 
 on. I don't understand why most major reviewers blasted the story this time around; it's straight 
 forward and extremely easy to follow. They must not possess the awesome insight that is needed 
 to understand a ninjas tale.
  
  
  ~Gameplay~
  Let me start by saying two major positives that most major reviewing outlets failed to mentioned. 
 One, the pacing this time around is extremely balanced. Every section expands to allow heart pumping 
 action with small windows to catch your breath. There are puzzles and a bit of backtracking but 
 nothing in the realm of Resident Evil. The actual combat is a lot more intense this time around. 
 Enemies work together like a well oiled machine taking every opportunity available to eliminate 
 Ryu. I undoubtedly assume that the newest improvement to the already stellar gameplay; obliterations 
 are no secret. These are extremely badass moves that allow Ryu to decapitate his foes quickly. 
 
  
  Say for example that you managed to chop an enemies arm off. Well, now the array of options to 
 eradicate an enemy can be done with a normal combo or with a stylized obliteration. The amazing 
 part is these moves are built right into the combat system. For example, say Kratos is fighting 
 an ogre from God of War. Eventually, said ogre reaches a point were death is imminent. At that 
 moment, an icon will appear and Kratos will perform some awesome animation to destroy his enemy. 
 Instead of it being a separate set piece; in NG2 the awesome animation to destroy enemies is part 
 of the combat, meaning they can be chained and used during a combo. I honestly couldn't believe 
 that NG's gameplay could really improve much from its predecessor but it did. Besides these improvements 
 the gameplay is relatively the same. I know that some people were probably looking for some major 
 leap forward with the 360 but more of the same is definitely a good thing here. This series isn't 
 new by any means but it has found a way to keep things fresh. As Itagaki said, this series has 
 reached a peak and it really can't get any higher. I mean just because you have a diamond and you 
 add gold to it doesn't make it any less amazing. Then again it doesn't make it any less appealing 
 to women as well!! Again, the "next-gen" expectation is what hurt this game more than anything.
 
  
  ~Sound~
  The sound effects are pretty amazing; I mean I've never heard somebody get decapitated but I'm 
 pretty sure that Team Ninja has. I mean that's the only logical reason for having such great sound 
 effects. The biggest annoyance has to be the English voice actors but thankfully they can be switched 
 for the much better Japanese voice actors. I know I sound like a huge nerd for saying that but 
 the English work is so horribly done it hurts my pure innocent ears. The lines are given with zero 
 to no emotion or super over the top, there seems to be no in between when English actors portray 
 Japanese characters. The music is great, totally 90s style action movie beats; really gets the 
 blood flowing.
  
  ~Graphics~
  Now, the biggest disappointment has to be graphics. First off, I do think NG 2 looks better than 
 sigma, much better. The engine is quite old now so the HD face lift is pretty sweet but isn't anything 
 mind blowing. I personally don't play Ninja Gaiden games because of their graphical prowess; I'm 
 all about the gameplay and this game delivers!! If you play any game strictly for the graphics 
 (I'm looking at you crysis players!!) I'd highly suggest a restructuring of values, since you will 
 most likely be disappointed.. constantly!!
  
  ~Conclusion~
  In a perfect world game reviews wouldn't have a score associated with them. They would be unbiased 
 objective based reviews. The simple truth is that most reviewers bring some nostalgic or personal 
 feelings into their reviews. I mean we're human beings after all; so I have to say that I love 
 NG2. It provides me with everything I wanted out of a sequel; more of the same. I know that many 
 people look for huge innovation or cry wolf but
  I like the Ninja Gaiden series the way it is. The addition of obliteration moves are icing on top 
 of chocolate donuts. I love the story, gameplay and even the camera because when I picked up this 
 iteration of Ninja Gaiden I felt right at home. It felt like putting on an old pair of pants or 
 eating an assortment of baked goods. Now, NG2 does have some short comings, the occasionally frame 
 rate issues and glitche here or there but hey, you show me a perfect game and I'll show you a gamer 
 with wishful thinking or a fanboy!! The ways I see it, this game isn't going to change anyone's 
 opinion on the new Ninja Gaiden series; basically this game was made for fans of the series and 
 hardcore action junkies alike. It isn't easier or user friendly and if you didn't like the camera 
 in the original game forget about picking up this game because it's more of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eggs-Benedict
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  When Ninja Gaiden 2 came out I had no incentive to buy it whatsoever since I didn't much care for 
 the first one. But when I played the demo I was blown away and immediately went to pick it up. 
 I think the first ninja gaiden is extremely overrated but this one is underrated. Ninja gaiden 
 2 improves on almost everything that was in the first ninja gaiden, especially the action. The 
 action is furious, bloody and beautiful. You'll catch yourself being stunned a lot of the time 
 just by how incredibly awesome a move you just pulled off was. The boss battles are absolutely 
 incredible, some of them are a little strange but most of them are epic and will make your jaw 
 drop. The difficulty ranges from easy to impossible, the first two difficulty levels, acolyte and 
 warrior are fairly easy but when you get on mentor, that's when the game starts to kick your butt. 
 I don't even want to think what master ninja is like. But it's all about what your skill level 
 is for these types of games, some people think acolyte is tough while others think mentor is a 
 breeze. But the insane difficulty creates the replay value for this game because after you've beaten 
 it on warrior you want a real challenge, and that's what mentor is there for. The game is addictive 
 and you'll keep coming back for more. The only problems I had was the horrible camera and the horrendous 
 story, but I'm not playing ninja gaiden for the story. (That's what MGS4 is for) Overall if you 
 enjoy action games, you should definitely check out Ninja Gaiden 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fear_Oblivion
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This game was soooo great. I couldn't wait for it to come out because I have played most of the 
 other Ninja Gaiden games and I loved them. I wanted this one majorly because of the graphics. This 
 game finally gets better graphics on a better console. The gore and blood made this game awesome. 
 Lol. The gameplay was fun. It was hardcore (so don't get this game unless you are an elite game) . 
 The challenge was great because it was frusterating at times because of the difficulty, but other 
 than that its great. But the thing missing was...... Its usually longer and more straight-forward. 
 This one was a little short and shakey. The weapons to choose from.... Mhmmmm... not so many as the 
 old ones. It is a great game, just a few faults. it is worth the buy and time you spend playing 
 it. 8/10........... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merend
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I do not own this game right now but i have rented it for a while and have only beaten it on easy. 
 Also the game is very challenging and i love that in games. For the simple reason most developers 
 are focusing on more graphics than on the story line. This game has both. The characters are wonderfully 
 described in the game and they picked the best voices for the charters in this game. The graphics 
 were wonderful. The weapons were very nice was well. I loved the ability to level up the weapons 
 also. Some of the levels were overly hard but that is what makes a game great. Most of the time 
 i do not like hack and slash games but this on was different. It gave me a challenge. It had a 
 great story and also only let you have so many items that heal you. The nipo was superb. The trials 
 of valor were a great challenge. So overall I would have to say that this game is a must have game. 
 I give it two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwwwwwwwwwwwRrX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  Finally, team ninja released a sequel to the groundbreaking title ninja gaiden. This time we find 
 ryu hayabusa trying to prevent the black spider clan from resurrecting the archfiend. This unfortunately 
 is one of the many flaws of game. This is easily one of the most uninspired plots in gaming history. 
 A five year old child with a brain equivalent to the size of a peanut could of wrote a better story. 
 This can by easily overlooked though since what amazed us once before is faster and more fluid 
 than the original. The gameplay of ninja gaiden 2 is insane. From the obliteration technique to 
 landing the ohh so sweet izuna drop, the sequel's gameplay really sets it apart. With that said, 
 the difficulty is brutal. This makes the game so frustrating to the point you wanna just go in 
 your bed room corner and cry. But, at the same time, no other game is more satisfying after completion. 
 
  
  The graphics aren't very good either. The sequel is just a well polished version of the original. 
 And many of the environments are bland and not creative. The game has all so a ton of technical 
 difficulties and loading issues.
  
  The main problem I have with the game though is the lack of challenge the greater fiends give you. 
 All four of them, even genshin and the archfiend, are very easy to beat. The main challenge of 
 the game is getting to these mediocre boss battles. 
  
  Overall, The game is very fun to play and creates a challenge for casual and hardcore fans of the 
 series and it should only take you about 8-10 hours to complete on warrior. I expect much more 
 from team ninja in the future of this franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimplyStealth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden II is the sequel to the Xbox Original, Ninja Gaiden, once again Ryu Hayabusa is back 
 in yet another hack and slash game focusing on Ryu himself, and somewhat realistic ninja combat. 
 Now, Ninja Gaiden was a great game, from the day it was released, to the day Ninja Gaiden II arrived. 
 But unlike Ninja Gaiden, Ninja Gaiden II peers into the void of cheapness constantly, whereas Ninja 
 Gaiden only looked at the very tip of that void. In Ninja Gaiden II, some of the enemies can feel 
 as though they're just too tough to beat, even on the game's easiest difficulty, which is Acolyte, 
 this game can be scream-your-head-off frustrating. This is, unfortunately, the biggest flaw in 
 Ninja Gaiden II. The game's insane level of difficulty, and overall cheapness can make casuals 
 give up too soon, so only the most hardcore gamers will ever complete it's 4 difficulty levels. 
 However there is good news, the game's combat is thrilling no matter how poorly you might be doing, 
 and there's a large variety of weapons you can use to hack and slash your way to victory. The game's 
 character and weapon models are amazing, and the boss fights, although frustrating at times, are 
 just absolutely great. The boss fights will keep you on the edge of your seat, or couch, or bed, 
 or whatever you might be sitting on, and make you attempt multiple strategies in order to defeat 
 each of the game's many bosses. There's also a great variety of battlefields, from a slightly futuristic 
 Tokyo City, to, quite literally, a Flying Fortress! So, all in all, Ninja Gaiden II is a great 
 game, despite it's insane difficulty, and high level of cheapness. The game feels as though it 
 were made for the most hardcore of Ninja Gaiden fans, and yet at the same time, it feels as though 
 even the most casual of gamers can master it's hack and slash combat. So, to wrap it all up, Ninja 
 Gaiden II receives a 9.5 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a55a55inx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- 9/10
  First, I'd like to mention that I have never played a game where the combat was as fluid, intense, 
 flashy and fun as the Ninja Gaiden series. This sequel continues in the addictive combat formula 
 by adding new weapons, each with their own set of combos to unlock, and style of fighting. This 
 is definitely the strength of Ninja Gaiden, fans of the combat will not be disappointed in this 
 area. The difficulty level is still intact, casual gamers will find frustration and may never see 
 the final levels of the game, but many of the things which caused frustration in the past Ninja 
 Gaiden have been removed. When you die from a boss battle, you no longer start from the last save, 
 instead you begin from the start of the battle. There are many more save-points this time as well, 
 it also includes a health regeneration for each one you find. You no longer have to refill your 
 health after a battle either, when there are no enemies around, Ryu's health will automatically 
 recover, except for a certain portion. However, the camera is the main problem in the gameplay, 
 there are times when you won't be able to see anything because the enemy is in front of the camera, 
 or the camera is zoomed in way too closely, it feels as if it can't catch up with Ryu's blistering 
 speed.
  
  Graphics- 7/10
  Many of the later levels in the game look really good, however, the first 2/3 of the environments 
 could use more work. The engine that Team Ninja uses seems to be out of date and needs to be improved 
 upon. There's nothing astonishing to look at, there are also frame rate drops in places where there 
 are a ton of enemies. I've also encountered many glitches throughout my first playthrough, bosses 
 have disappeared and enemies jitter at corners. However, the blood splatters and flying limbs are 
 excellent.
  
  Animations- 9/10
  Although the glitches ruin the believability of the motions, the fluid swinging of weapons makes 
 up for it. Ryu makes fighting look like art, very stylish and the flashy finishing moves are very 
 rewarding to watch.
  
  
  Story- 5/10
  "Huh?" Is the word that will come out of your mouth when you watch the cut scenes. I'm sure that 
 the staff at Team Ninja has a story behind the games, they just don't really bother to fill us 
 in on the back-story, so we are left with scenes that we don't quite understand. It's like watching 
 Star Wars starting from the middle of the film, when you've never watched a Star Wars film in your 
 life. 
  
  Sound- 8.5/10
  The english voice-acting didn't seem very believable, so I usually switch it to Japanese voices, 
 since they usually sound more convincing. The slicing of weapons and special effects aren't bad, 
 it's satisfying to hear the slashes of Ninja Gaiden 2 when you fight enemies, the music isn't too 
 bad either.
  
  Replay Value- medium to high
  After you complete the game there are things to unlock, you can also upload your score to the online 
 leaderboards or even save films and watch them over again (however, it doesn't work as well as 
 Halo3's saved films feature)
  
  Rent or Buy?
  For the Ninja Gaiden fans, I would say that it's a buy, but if you are uncertain of this title 
 or if you are just a casual gamer, just give it a rental just in case it's too difficult.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyvarazer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, the hype built this game up, and I was looking forward to it. After playing it for about 
 half the game, I just got annoyed with it and decided to be done with it. The difficulty of this 
 game is just plain annoying, even on the easiest. Yes, you can probably beat the part you can't 
 get past if you play it over about 20-30 times, but I think that's just a waste of time. This is 
 one of those games you want to beat, but don't want to play to get to the ending because its annoying. 
 I've been stuck at one part for the longest time (about a weekI and I've just had it with the game, 
 so I decided to sell it. The gameplay and the weapons are cool, and the obliterations and ultimate 
 techniques are always fun. However, none of those things matter if you can't have fun while playing 
 the actual game. I say rent, don't buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kfjl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  The ultimate video game badass is back. Some may prefer Solid Snake, others may prefer Kratos or 
 Dante. But for me, Ryu Hayabusa, the uberninja of few words with plenty of inner anger, is the 
 biggest badass of them all.
  
  Ryu made his return to the video game world in 2004 with the brilliant Ninja Gaiden, a rebirth 
 of a series that was born on the Nintendo Entertainment System and gave the world some cutting-edge 
 graphics and teeth-gnashing challenges. The 2004 installment was easily one of the best action 
 games ever made, a silky smooth, super-cool helping of awesome combat and even greater challenge. 
 2005 saw the release of Ninja Gaiden Black, a package that contained an even harder version of 
 Ninja Gaiden along with many new cool additions, while 2007 saw yet another repackaging of Ninja 
 Gaiden in Ninja Gaiden Sigma for the PlayStation 3. 
  
  Now, Ryu is back in his XBox 360 debut and true sequel to Ninja Gaiden, simply titled Ninja Gaiden 
 II. It could unfortunately be the last Ninja Gaiden game as we know it since Team Ninja, the crew 
 responsible for developing Ninja Gaiden, is in the process of a bitter falling out with the game's 
 publisher Tecmo. Tecmo has stated that the series will continue, but what direction it will go 
 in will be anyone's guess. Nevertheless, the much-anticipated sequel is here, and Ryu is ready 
 to chop some heads. 
  
  And chop some heads he does, along with some arms, some legs, and a whole lot of other things. 
 Body parts are flying and guts are splattering everywhere in this version as Ryu slices and dices 
 his way through 14 chapters hordes of other ninjas, mean animals, and demons. 
  
  The difficulty is back, too, making sure Ryu doesn't complete his quest without getting pummeled 
 severely in the process. Ninja Gaiden II is hard, often very hard; don't let the leet "ZOMG ITZ 
 NOT DAT HARD, U JUST SUCK, L2P" kiddies tell you any different. There are four levels of difficulty 
 -- Acolyte (easy) , Warrior ("normal") , Mentor (hard) , and Master Ninja ("very hard") . If you're 
 an average gamer, the Warrior difficulty going to put up a very good fight. If you're below average 
 or casual, it's going to punch you in the gut, knock you in the ground and then stomp on your crotch 
 while you're down there. Some people have said it is easier than Ninja Gaiden or Ninja Gaiden Black, 
 but I disagree, at least for Warrior difficulty and higher. The Mentor difficulty takes it up a 
 notch even further, while only the very best (or most determined) will be able to complete the 
 Master Ninja difficulty. 
  
  Now it's important to note -- I struggled through this game largely because I played very poorly. 
 I was way too conservative with health items, which isn't necessary until later in the game since 
 for the most part they are plentiful. I sleepwalked through the game, never really strategizing 
 any trash mob encounter, electing instead to run in swinging. I didn't discover the beauty of projectile 
 weapons until late in the game. I also made the mistake of trying to go for the Dragon Sword achievement 
 on my first playthrough, which you shouldn't do, at least not on Warrior difficulty. Learn the 
 ins and outs of all the weapons on your first playthrough instead. So in hindsight, there's a lot 
 of things I could have done differently to make it easier on myself, and I can see an experienced 
 player going through Warrior, playing well and not thinking the game is as hard as advertised. 
 Regardless though, it's far from an easy game, and even though it has been said that the Acolyte 
 difficulty level makes the game now accessible for casual gamers, this is still a hardcore game 
 to its core. 
  
  So the brutal combat is back, the brutal challenge is back... all's well in Ryu's world, yes? Well, 
 not exactly. Ninja Gaiden II has a lot of problems with it, problems that hold it back from becoming 
 the game it could have been. 
  
  Let's take a look at some of the issues. 
  
  The Bad:
  
  --Ninja Gaiden II is a MEAN game. I'm not talking about the level of violence or 
 the degree of difficulty, but rather the style of difficulty. It's entirely possible to create 
 an incredibly hard game and still have it be enjoyable to play, but in this case, it seems like 
 Team Ninja elected to stray from that approach too often and instead make a difficulty that frustrates 
 and sometimes even punishes the player. 
  
  It's debatable, I guess, as to whether or not this game is "cheap" when it comes to difficulty. 
 Some say it isn't at all, while others say it's very cheap. My initial reaction to this game was 
 that it was the cheapest game I've played in many years, although I've softened on that a little 
 -- I do think there's definitely some cheapness going on here, but not as much as I originally 
 thought as good play cancels out some of what I originally viewed as cheap. What's not debatable, 
 in my opinion, is that this game has some dirty tricks up its sleeve. 
  
  The dirtiest, of course, are two instances you may have heard about already -- one boss fight where 
 the boss explodes after you kill it, causing you to die if you don't know how to counter, and another 
 boss fight where you most likely will die via nearby booby trap immediately after the fight if 
 you don't know it's already there. In each instance, post-fight death will require you to go through 
 the entire boss encounter again. I'd call that cheap, I'd definitely call it mean, and I'd also 
 call it poor design. If you want to challenge players, you do it through the encounters themselves. 
 You don't do it by making them fight bosses over again on account of unforeseeable booby traps. 
 
  
  Then you get into the behavior and attacks of many enemies, which may or may not be cheap but are 
 definitely frustrating. Some enemies constantly hurl explosives in your direction. If there were 
 only one or two of those at a time, it would be easy to deal with, but when you are dealing with 
 packs of four or more, or a pack that has a mix of melee and a mix of explosive projectile throwers, 
 it can get annoying when you are consistently getting hit by these things from all directions. 
 Other enemies shoot long range attacks at you from across the room or even from outside the camera 
 entirely. Sometimes you don't even know they're there until you get nailed with something. And 
 like the explosives experts, those guys will attack you relentlessly when you are trying to take 
 on larger packs of melee enemies. 
  
  There are also instances where enemies will be on the other side of the room one second, then fly 
 across the room lightning-quick, tackle you, pin you to the ground and start whaling on you. Other 
 enemies explode when they die. Some of them are injured/dismembered enemies who want to go out 
 with a bang and will latch on to you and suicide-bomb themselves if you don't finish them off first, 
 while others just plain explode and give you maybe a second to get out of the way (and still some 
 others explode and don't cause any damage at all -- I don't know the explanation behind that one) . 
 There are unblockable attacks that will take away huge portions of health and will sometimes occur 
 when you are attempting to block an attack from another enemy. 
  
  The bottom line is whether or not you can deal with these things in a positive fashion and still 
 have fun will go a long way in deciding whether or not you enjoy the game. For some people, it 
 doesn't seem to be a problem. For others, like myself, it got to be a bit over the top, and too 
 often got to the point where it was way more frustrating than fun. 
  
  --The camera, the camera, the camera. Chances are you've heard about that, too. While it's not 
 the worst camera in the history of games, it is the worst camera I've experienced in a big-name 
 release over the past two console generations. Is it constantly bad? No... some areas are worse 
 than others, but you will almost constantly be adjusting it since it doesn't like to adjust itself. 
 It does get quite bad though; your view will often be obstructed, and I felt there were at least 
 two boss fights where the camera didn't seem to work right at all. Which leads me to the next thing...
 
  
  --The boss fights. The boss fights in this game are an odd lot. Most of them aren't too out of 
 the ordinary and follow one of two strategies -- dodge attacks/get behind enemy/swing weapon, or 
 shoot enemy with bow & arrow. A few are downright horrible, just bad ideas and bad implementation. 
 A few are strangely easy -- walk up + stab stab stab + dodge or block occasional attack = win. 
 And a couple I thought were at least somewhat interesting... there's a fight in a tunnel with a 
 worm that moves at warp speed that while I am not fully sure I enjoyed it, it was at least something 
 kind of different from the others. However, that fight is marred by the fact that unlike other 
 boss fights, there is no checkpoint at the start of the fight, so if you die, you have to clear 
 10 minutes or so of boring bug packs in order to get another attempt. Many of the boss fights consist 
 of at least one frustrating attack that is very hard to avoid and will take away huge chunks of 
 health if you get caught by it, whether it's a swarm of fireballs or a lighting-fast grab/choke 
 move. And a few of them also include packs of those annoying projectile-throwing trash mobs. Overall, 
 the bosses are more of a frustrating ordeal than they are fun, epic encounters, especially those 
 that are ranged fights that require primarily bow & arrow attacks. (Really, if I wanted to shoot 
 a bow I would have bought Link's Crossbow Training or something. This is Ninja Gaiden and I want 
 to slice and dice, not stand back and wait for a good shot.) 
  
  --The game doesn't feel polished. In addition to the camera, there's an occasional frame rate slowdown. 
 It doesn't get bad on the lower difficulties until later in the game, but as early as halfway through 
 Chapter 1 on Mentor I experienced slowdown to almost a complete stop (I hear it is a lot worse 
 on Master Ninja, where there's a lot more enemies, but I'm not sure) , and on somewhat rare occasion 
 the game will pause briefly in the middle of combat to load. It's possible, although purely speculative, 
 that perhaps the falling out between Team Ninja and Tecmo may have been one reason for some of 
 the problems, maybe causing the game to not get finished all the way, although who knows for sure. 
 
  
  --There are all types of fancy moves that Ryu can perform, but is it actually advisable to use 
 them? You will need to mix it up more on the higher difficulties, but you can complete this game 
 on Acolyte and Warrior by largely relying on block, dodge and pressing Y. There are more complex 
 moves that can be performed by combining X, Y, and the thumbstick, but spamming Y will unleash 
 strong enough attacks, while the Ultimate Technique, which simply consists of holding Y until Ryu 
 is charged up and releasing it, can clear out three or four enemies at once. In addition, you get 
 a high score from using the Ultimate Technique as well as the Obliteration Technique, which consists 
 of walking up to a wounding enemy and pressing Y. You can obtain a Master Ninja score from simply 
 using the Ultimate Technique and Obliteration Technique as often as you can along with ending the 
 chapter in a decent amount of time and with your entire Ki meter filled. This method allowed me 
 to score Master Ninja on the majority of chapters on my first playthrough, while I think I got 
 it on only three chapters on my first playthrough of Ninja Gaiden 1. Combine that with the fact 
 that enemies often attack you before you can complete a more complex move, and really there's not 
 much reason to use many of the combos available to you. 
  
  --Finally, a few things I've seen people criticize but I am personally indifferent about... The 
 first one is the story. Granted, you aren't playing this game for the story, but much like Ninja 
 Gaiden, NGII's story has been criticized by a lot of people for being silly. I actually thought 
 it was better than the story in NG1 though; certainly not a great story by any means, but not so 
 bad that it took away from the game. The ending is lame, unfortunately. People have also complained 
 about the graphics and the level design; the graphics aren't the best on the 360 but they aren't 
 bad either -- like the story, it doesn't diminish the game -- and while the level design is linear 
 and kind of bland in spots, most of the time you're too busy chopping heads to notice or care. 
 The game is also short and can be completed over a rental period, so if you are only interested 
 in one playthrough, it might not be worth a purchase. 
  
  That's quite a list of "bad" things about the game. But it's not all bad... let's take a look at 
 some of the good things. 
  
  The Good:
  
  --The actual basic combat of this game is fast, a lot of fun and satisfying. I'm not much for brutally 
 violent games, so I was surprised when I discovered just how much I enjoyed slaughtering the non-stop 
 droves of enemies. The weapons are cool and great to look at, especially the Lunar Staff. Despite 
 all the issues listed above, this game is somehow, someway still addicting to play, at least if 
 you like a challenge. Those up for it might complain every so often about the type of beating they 
 take, but they'll bounce right back up and keep coming back for more, and that's what it's all 
 about. 
  
  --The game presents several challenges for the hardcore, and that's a good thing. Hardcore players 
 looking for extreme challenge can find it in this game's higher difficulty levels, and once they 
 master the game they can compete for the top spots on the world leaderboards on XBox Live. 
  
  --The new "Ninja Cinema" option is a decent little feature. Going to the leaderboards and checking 
 out the videos posted by the top players can not only give you an entertaining view of someone 
 tearing through a tough part with ease, but it can also provide you with some insight into new 
 techniques or easier ways to pass certain stages. 
  
  --The game has a good save system. The save points are usually pretty well-placed, and all bosses 
 but one have a checkpoint that allows you to start right over again at that boss after dying without 
 having to go back and clear out any trash. Each save point heals you in full, too, which helps 
 a lot. Plus the game gives you the option for auto-save or manual save; you can choose to have 
 one automatically overwritten save file like Halo 3 or Call of Duty 4, or you can choose to manual 
 option to pick a file each time you save. 
  
  In the end, the game does have some good stuff to offer and is worth at least a demo download or 
 rental, and if you are a Ninja Gaiden fan, you'll be pleased with the combat and the level of difficulty 
 that the game presents. Still, it has to be considered disappointing when you consider what this 
 game could have and maybe SHOULD have been. The elements are here for a truly great action game, 
 maybe one of the best ever, but they get overshadowed too much by the game's problems. With a little 
 more TLC, some more polish, a little more depth, and a little less nastiness, we could have had 
 a real jewel here. 
  
  Recommendation: Buy if you are looking for a hardcore challenge or are a Ninja Gaiden fan; rent 
 otherwise. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 18, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I loved the first ninja gaiden. It was one of my favorite Xbox original titles and it offered brutal 
 gameplay, with a coherent story, and enjoyable characters. Sure some would say it was too hard 
 but thats why the game only appealed to a niche cast of gamers. It was leaps and bounds ahead of 
 what was graphically capable at the time and still holds up today. The camera while at times cumbersome, 
 never really hindered you in an significant way. Now a few years have passed and we are given Ninja 
 Gaiden 2.
  As i said before, Ninja Gaiden 2 takes many steps back on territory that its predecessor wisely 
 chose to tread. The first being the story. Most games and even those with a bare bones story, still 
 give you a reason to go on your quest. The first NG while not having an oscar worthy narrative, 
 still gave you incentive and reason to go on your quest. It did this by telling a complete story 
 and didnt just throw you somewhere for no reason. Ninja Gaiden 2 starts off fine, with Maramusa's 
 shop coming under attack by the black spider clan searching for Ryu and the demon statue. After 
 you give chase, youre soon joined by a woman named Sonja who is for all intents and purposes, worthless. 
 She comes to help Ryu constantly after hes already finished the job and offers no narrative herself. 
 Other than the occasional, "Yeah Ryu!" orWe have to stop them!." Anyway after you get to your 
 village you find that its destroyed and then the story spirals out of control there. You suddenly 
 decide to go to New York for no reason at all. The offers the explanation of, Ryu goes to New 
 York only to find it has been transformed by the archfiends." Ok, so why does he go there? This 
 happens multiple times throughout the game and is definitely jarring when you suddenly go from 
 New York to Greece with no explanation other than the one i already mentioned.
  The combat in the game doesnt feel as refined as it once was or maybe ive been spoiled by DMC4. 
 During the course of game play i often found that simply by mashing buttons and taking the time 
 to block and dodge once in a while, it offered no real incentive to try the combos that were already 
 set in place. It really seemed to me that the emphasis this time was on creating as much gore as 
 possible instead of having a deeper combat system. Sure there are new weapons but once you find 
 one you like, you wont need to switch to any of the others. There are times when the enemy AI is 
 brutally cheap and if you've played the game you know that those Rocket Ninjas have a special place 
 reserved in hell just for them. The armadillo boss also comes to mind with its punishing battle 
 and without warning explodes. 
  What also adds to the frustration is the camera seems to constantly zoom in on Ryu and his flashy 
 moves but never give you a clear view of who youre fighting. There are lots of times when said 
 rocket ninjas decided to bring the pain and you cant do anything to them because youre getting 
 juggled by their rockets and getting knocked back, all the while the camera is keeping an eye on 
 you and not your surroundings.
  What else can be said about this game? Well if you like the level of difficulty then you should 
 love this game if you can look past its short comings. The game itself isnt as epic as the original, 
 but hey at least the level of challenge is still there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodd76dog
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  This game receives a 9 from me. This is the best ninja gaiden ever. The game has a few problems 
 but if you understand the camera you can fix it. The camera has to be fixed while playing by pressing 
 the RB button which at first is a pain but later understood and controlled. The boss fights are 
 breath taking along with the artist art work. To me the game was very long and very hard on normal 
 setting. This game is like Devil cry 4 x5. The game will take you old gamers back into time when 
 games was very fun. I felt that way with this game not wanting to put it down. Get it dudes or 
 at lease rent it you will like it.
  
  The real reviews come from real players. There is one thing missing from this game. Online play. 
 If the game had co-op or ninja vs ninja 10 player matches that would be pretty cool. Just to add 
 a little more play to it. The game is long enough but just to long and to hard to up the level 
 and go through the game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoxyVivica
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  I really love the ninja gaiden series, dating all the way back to its days on the NES. But come 
 on this game is what about 20 years old. You would think they had perfected this game by now. I 
 will say I love the concept and the graphics are up to par. But the camera is truly your worst 
 enemy. And not to mention the major glitches I have encountered in this game are extremely aggravating. 
 Sometimes the enemy respawns are completely off. In chapter 5 I encountered a glitch with the jellyfish 
 mines under the water... I shot them before I approached them, but some how they magically kept 
 respawning. But when I died and replayed the section, the didn't respawn at all. Also I encountered 
 another issue in chapter 6 right before the battle with Volf; you have to kill the dragons. Well 
 I managed to kill all the dragons in sight, but had missed one and was trapped on the bridge... the 
 funny thing is, is that the dragon I had missed was stuck behind a wall and I was unable to kill 
 it. Therefore I had to restart the game from the last save point. Extremely frustrating. I don't 
 know if anyone else has encountered these glitches, but it has really ruined the whole experience 
 for me. And I may have been able to over look these glitches, if they didn't continue to affect 
 my progress in the game. And I am going to say this game is hard only because of these obnoxious 
 problems and the camera. Sorry team ninja, but this game really did not live up to my expectations. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aBathingApe_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden II is a fast paced action adventure game that offers a lot of bang for your buck. 
 Offering tough fights on even it's easiest difficulty mode, Ninja Gaiden II leaves you begging 
 for more. Although certain boss fights are so frustrating you'll want to throw the controller against 
 the wall, they still leave that urge inside you to play through the game and see what is next.
 
  
  Graphically, Ninja Gaiden II succeeds with leaps and bounds. From splashes of blood to dismembered 
 limbs and severed heads, you will thoroughly enjoy the graphic masterpiece that is Ninja Gaiden 
 II. The splashes of water as you glide across it, have never looked so good in high definition. 
 Boss fights generally have a beautiful landscape and detailed scenery setting. You'll notice that 
 there is a shop statue of Muramasa conveniently located close by each boss fight for all your healing 
 and weaponry needs. 
  
  There have been numerous improvements to the camera and other portions of gameplay such as the 
 healing system, however the games short-comings still lie deeply within the story of the actual 
 game. You are a ninja that is being looked for by another ninja looking busty lady who at the beginning 
 of the game is kidnapped by a bunch of ninjas and you save at the beginning of the first chapter. 
 Then it is an ongoing struggle between these ninjas and archfiends that were after you and the 
 girl. For some reason this girl knows how to fly a helicopter as she is seen doing a series of 
 scenes. That makes sense, the busty ninja chick knows how to fly the chopper, and where did she 
 get it? God knows. Most of the enemies make absolutely no sense, as do the bosses. However, if 
 you can make your way through the useless story, then this game is definitely for you.
  
  Ninja Gaiden II has a plethora of interesting gameplay and graphical offerings to suit most gamers 
 needs and wants, as well as exceed them. Gameplay elements including damaged enemies being far 
 dangerous than ones that aren't meaning that you must deal with them first, or risk being severely 
 hurt; and the new health system that has some regeneration thing to it, but it doesn't really matter 
 because the game is still hard as hell.
  
  If you enjoyed any of the other Ninja Gaiden games on the last-gen or current-gen platforms, ex. 
 Ninja Gaiden for Xbox, or Ninja Gaiden Sigma on the Playstation 3 then this is definitely worth 
 getting. Even if you are new to the Ninja Gaiden franchise, this is a hearty offering and a great 
 place to start, considering the story means absolutely nothing to how much fun you'll have slicing 
 and dicing stuff for hours on end.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seedofallevil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden isn't perfect. Especially because ninja's don't run out into the open, killing all 
 more powerful then a warrior of samurai proportions. But, what Ninja Gaiden does right, it does 
 amazing. For example, the finishers are widespread through each different weapon, meaning no two 
 are the same. You will see some similarities, though. Like the favored decapitations.
  
  The story isn't amazing, as it's in a future-present-medieval time span. Like I was told, "Don't 
 bring a knife to a gunfight" and Ryu does that with a assortment of seven or more weapons, so you'll 
 get to choose which weapon suits your play style or situation.
  
  The gameplay is Ninja Gaiden's strong point, and boy is it fun. There are plenty of different enemies 
 to try your blade to, so you won't go unchallenged. Especially with the boss battles, which really 
 spice the game up, or make it really dumb. Like when your in a pit of bones. Ryu's about to leave 
 the scene, and for whatever reason he boots some bones, which awakens a lumbering giant (yes, a 
 skeleton giant) that Ryu has to kill. There will be a point in this game where you'll wanna gun 
 the controller at your T. V., smashing Ryu and his opponent (most likely a boss) forever. 
  
  Ninja Gaiden overall is extremely fun and addictive, and it will bring out the killer in you. 
 Score: 8.3 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoGfullmetal980
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2: The best ninja game ever, and one the best action games I've ever played.
  To start off, the story has absolutey no story behind it at all, except you must avenge your clan 
 and restore order to the world. So if you haven't played past Ninja Gaiden games, you're fine.
 
  Ryu Hayabusa, Dragon Lineage ninja, must fight his way through 14 chapters of intense high-speed 
 combat massacring ninja to mutants and slash them up and just watch the blood and gore fly in the 
 air.
  You start out with your Dragon Sword, and go through the game and get 7 more weapons: Lunar Staff, 
 Falcon's Talons, Duel Katana, Eclipse Scythe, Kusari-Gama, Tonfas, and Vigorian Flail. Each of 
 these weapons come with unique combos and wonderfully-imaged "Obileration Techniques".
  This game has four difficulties: Path of the Acolpyse, Warrior, Mentor, and Master. Acolpyse is 
 the easiest, Master is the hardest. As always, Ninja Gaiden is known for intense difficulty even 
 on the easiest mode, well they keep the tradition going. You'll be pulling your hair your hair 
 out during the Test of Valors 5 and up, and the second-half chapters (8-14) because you keep dying 
 or keep having to use healing items or can't figure out how to kill a boss. I was about to throw 
 my controller at the wall on the last boss. YOU MUST BE RELAXED PLAYING THIS GAME!!!
  Team Ninja did on the absolutely stunning job on the game though. Even though GS hates the environment, 
 its 2nd-best to Assassin's Creed, I think they did well. They captured fire, water, air, wind, 
 etc. perfectly.
  
  Overall - 9
  
  Graphics - 9
  
  Sounds - 9
  
  Value - 9
  
  Good: 
  + Insane ninja-action keeps you wanting more.
  + Great boss fights
  + Nice choice 
 of weapons
  + Amazing character details
  + Unique combos, tricks, and abilities
  
  Bad:
  + Stupid camera angle makes me die half the time
  + Tried too hard to make it hard....
 
  + Team Ninja could of added a concept to the whole story besides: Hack 'n Slash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  What's wrong with the state of gaming when I read that people are disappointed in this game and 
 giving low scores..... opposed to what? A game that is almost 5 years old? Put this game side-by-side 
 to the first Ninja and it blows it away. We are playing this game on a next-gen machine people.... hellow, 
 can't you see the difference.
  
  What do you want in a game? Man I'm tired of the F***ing wining babies.
  This game is aewsome 
 in every way. I can't put the game down. And can probably guarantee the people that are whining 
 are logging some serious gametime.
  
  Anyway, with the current crop of games on 360 this has to be the top 3 action games period.
  
 
  graphics - awesome
  action-my pulse really gets jacked playing this game
  Nice campaign length- at least 15 hours
  
  Anyway, you guys keep complaining and sell your 
 game back to wherever you bought it so someone who does like this game can pick it up cheap.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marvingamebeast
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I never wanted this game and I thought it would be crappy, but I went out and bought and all I 
 have to say is DMC 4 sucks. I mean come on this game makes DMC 4 look like a kids game
  
  The fighting in ninja gaiden 2 is awesome it just feels right even if you can't remember some of 
 the combos you will, the combos you do know never get old. The new finishing moves are so sweet 
 it just makes you feel good to see the camra zoom in for the kill.
  
  Now this game is good but it has its flaws so beware. I played on the easy difficulty level and 
 it felt like the hardest level when I got to the middle of the game. You will get pounded by rockets 
 while you are still getting pounded by three robots (and you might as well just use the zoom thing 
 instead of blocking on these guys because all of their attacks break you blocks) . Some of the level 
 design have bad texture. The game skips a little but not alot.
  
  Besides some of the poor level design the graphics on this game are great, character models, blood 
 on weapons, and the weapons in general look amazing.
  
  The controls are easy to pick up on and very easy.
  
  Before I got the game I was hearing about 
 how awful the story was but the story actually make sense a girl is looking for Ryu when the black 
 spider clan shows up. They take the girl and Ryu talks to the person the girl last spoke to and 
 that person told Ryu that the girl had information regarding the fiens and when Ryu gets the girl 
 she tells him that the black spider clan is on their way to Ryu's village to the the demon seal 
 or something. See the story has more than that but that is the base it is not bad at all and you 
 know why you go to every place you go to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDante152
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden II is the long-awaited sequel to the first Ninja Gaiden and it's great game but it 
 just doesn't have that same wow factor that the original had (mostly because the original Ninja 
 Gaiden was pretty far ahead and amazing at the time) . Now first things first, the story here is 
 just well... okay to say the least. You go around killing demons, while hunting a artifact that 
 is said to bring the archfiend back to life. While in the midst of hunting down this artifact you'll 
 encounter the archfiends generals ( think greater fiends) and other bosses as well, such as a giant, 
 mechanical, electric fish. Now with that out of the way, it's time to look at the game-play which 
 the best part of Ninja Gaiden and this time, it's more brutal, visceral and entertaining with the 
 inclusion of obliteration techniques, more weapons, enemies who will continue to fight on even 
 you cut off one of their arms or legs (which allows you to use the obliteration technique I mentioned 
 earlier) and of course more bosses. The combat is set at a much faster pace as well. However the 
 game's camera has taken quite a hit. You will be attacked by enemies off screen and this includes 
 bosses as well. You can control the camera and just reset it with rt, but this is quite a nuisance 
 while your in combat. Many old players of the original Ninja Gaiden (whether it be regular or the 
 black and/ or sigma edition) , may find the game to be a bit easier this go around even on path 
 of the warrior. You can unlock new costumes and difficulties when you beat the game so their is 
 replay value here and the achievements (for those actually care about achievements) and the leader-boards (same 
 for achievements) also give the game even more replay value. All in all, Ninja Gaiden II is a great 
 game that no 360 gamer should miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJayDaddy
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 17, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is a great game that has one of the best combat action I have seen in a while. The 
 finishing moves are just as much fun to watch as they are to perform. Weapons are outstanding and 
 you have a great mix with them. While it is just oustanding to fight..... the camera angles and 
 boss fights can drive you mad! Sure, you can press the button to reset it, but, even in some fights 
 (the 2 beasts) that doesn't even help. A problem like that takes a lot of the fun out of the game. 
 The boss fights can get a little overdone, when its the same move over and over again with only 
 one to choices of moves to beat it. Overall, it is a great game that has great cut scene action 
 and the combat is awesome. You will enjoy the gameplay and have a blast slicing up anyone that 
 gets in your way... you just have a few things to look over! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice_man_1985
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  first thing i want to say is, this game is a great action game at it's best. also it offers you 
 a lot of realistic gore that will let you snap threw the whole game. also what make's it different 
 then the old one?, the graphics is a bit colorfull, stable frame rates and bodies dosen't disappear 
 like the old one did, wich is a good thing of course, the graphics is better and faster, but not 
 too great either. the only major pain is the camera, specially when you walk threw a thin holeway, 
 the camera is uncontrollable and the same goes with the boss fights, but enough with that.
  the story is not at it's best, but the creator of NG franchise didn't want it to be a great story, 
 he only wanted us to enjoy the action, and he did a great job on the action side of course, so 
 i will not complain. also what make's it more interesting, the game is more fun to play then the 
 old one did, and he also added two new difficulty modes, you can choose from easy and normal difficulty, 
 but the original one had only normal and higher difficulty settings, and it was a bit impossible 
 to finish the game, so the default difficulty is set to easy on NGII, so that way some people can 
 enjoy the game if they found that the normal is hard to them.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockdudeguy
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 17, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Well, it's not a complete disaster. Haha, graphically it looks ok... sometimes at least. It's pretty 
 crazy though. Blood looks so... painted on and unrealistic to me. One enemy has enough blood for 
 like 5 people lol. The action is nice but really repetitive. I rented the game and didn't get very 
 far. It's fairly simple and easy. The boss battles are extremely hard though. It completely changes 
 in level of difficulty. The backgrounds should've been better for a XBOX 360 game. The characters 
 are pretty cool though. I think they could've also been graphically improved. His aresenal of ninja 
 weapons is a plus. I like them. I wish the sword he has was better though. Eh, overall, I think 
 that they could've improved almost every aspect about it. It's a little ridiculous in my opinion. 
 Cutscenes! The cutscenes are usually pretty nice. I like those more than anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vergil2016
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden II is so awesome if u liked Ninja Gaiden you will love Ninja Gaiden II its so realistic 
 and so cool they knew what Ninja Gaiden fans were looking for and they put it on that one game 
 it has a good story and very good fighting scences I mean wow if u have a 360 u should buy this 
 game or rent it if u dont feel like its your kind of game but i promise it will change your mind 
 if u think its not your kind of game u fight fiends ninjas and greater fiends so u fight tons of 
 enemys and have a huge arsenal of weapons to blow there brains out not realy more like slice there 
 brains out its cool if u weaken them u can slice there head off practcly any thing on there body 
 Ryu Hyabusa is a god in fighting DO NOT READ IF YOU HAVENT GOT ALL WEAPONS ITS KIND OF A SPOILER 
 ALERT you can get a scythe, dual katanas, dragon sword, vigoorian flail, and much other DEADLY WEAPONS 
 TO DESTROY YOUR ENEMYS INTO PECIES IT IS AWESOME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohcrapitsnico
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  NG2 is one of the few games worthy of me losing sleep over and is so underrated by the press. If 
 you at all question getting this game because of the revies its cuz they magnified all the issues 
 and weren't bribed and drunk with hypeade.
  
  The graphics were much better than GS said they were but I can see where they are coming from. 
 The environments aren't so detailed like a GoW simply because the focus is Ryu, the enemies, and 
 the action. However some parts of the game were stunning graphically while others were sub-par, 
 underwhelming, and somewhat blotchy, and this would be in the same level. The graphics haven't 
 improved too much from NGB but NGB was ahead of its time grpahically and some areas of NG2 like 
 the 1st and 2nd stages are amazing.
  
  Gameplay is better; there is a greater diversity of weapons that are well thought-out and worthy 
 of using the whole game without having to switch like in NGB. The enemies are better cuz they look 
 better and are more fluid and aggressive in combat.
  
  The bad is that the camera can in some parts be aggravating but it tends to be better than NGB 
 in some respects but in no way at all is this game-breaking. The difficulty isn't too bad especially 
 if you have played a NG before. In fact its difficulty is what makes it so good. Various difficulty 
 levels vary enough that they certainly are the replayability factor since the enemies change and 
 it gets significantly harder, beckoning you to get better. This game requires you to think and 
 not to button-mash which I hope is a good thing too.
  
  This game will only get better as DLCs come out so go buy it cuz its orgasmic good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerver1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  There are games that you feel you can get away from any situation unscathed. Then there are games 
 that just wants to kill you at any instant. Ninja Gaiden II is that such game that where lots of 
 skill and luck matters. The first one on the Xbox is one of my top five favorite games of all-time 
 and I have high hopes that the sequel will push it further. Team Ninja has gone through two remakes, 
 Black and Sigma, to finally put together a full fledged sequel fixing any problems that prevented 
 the first game from perfection even though some problems are still present. The combat is still 
 is the best in the action genre with its amazing depth and having that emotion of being a badass 
 ninja. On the other hand, Ninja Gaiden II is a technical nightmare at times and it is not the monetary 
 leap some have expected to be as a complete package.
  
  Ryu Hayabusa is back again in Ninja Gaiden II and the storyline is as old-school as it gets while 
 making no sense at all in certain moments. Basically, the Black Spider Ninja Clan and the Greater 
 Fiends have joined forces to resurrect the Archfiend to cause chaos in the Earth while it is up 
 to Ryu to prevent this from happening. A CIA agent named Sonia warns Ryu of their events and while 
 she helps you in certain moments of the game, she still feels like a damsel of distress being the 
 main female character of the game. The game takes place all over the world from the skyscrapers 
 of Tokyo, a deserted New York City, and various spots at Europe. One chapter you be at Tokyo taking 
 down enemy ninjas and pop up at New York for almost no reason at all other than a Greater Fiend 
 lurks there. Genshin leads the Black Spider Ninja Clan in a rivalry against the Hayabusa clan while 
 Elizabet leads the Greater Fiends in hopes of getting the Demon Statue to bring back the Archfiend. 
 As with most action games from Japanese developers, the story is never really the main focus as 
 it just gives the player a reason to slice and dice towards victory.
  
  Ninja Gaiden II's combat is still as deep and satisfying as ever being compared to a fighting game 
 in terms of a movelist for Ryu. You can get away from just using certain moves like Izuna Drops, 
 Flying Swallows, and Guillotine Throws for certain weapons throughout the fourteen chapters, but 
 using the whole movelist makes the game as deep and fun as the first one. Speaking of the weapons, 
 they are truly the stars of Ninja Gaiden II than just Ryu. Team Ninja wanted to make the weapons 
 as fun and satisfying that you can play the whole game using just one specific weapon and they 
 delivered on that front. The Dragon Sword is still the go-to weapon especially in tough situations 
 while returning weapons from the first game and its remakes such as the Lunar Staff, Vigoorian 
 Flails, and the twin katanas, Dragon's Claw and Tiger's Fang, still being great weapons in Ryu's 
 arsenal. The new weapons pushes the combat to a new level with Falcon's Talons, claws on Ryu's 
 hands and feet doing his best Wolverine impression, the Kusari-gama, a sickle chain-like weapon 
 that is perfect against crowds of enemies, the Tonfa, which is similar to the Vigoorian Fiail, 
 and the Eclipse Scythe, a big scythe that can deal huge amounts of damage. All of the melee weapons 
 in Ninja Gaiden II invokes different play-styles as some of them are perfect in one-on-one situations 
 while others are perfect against crowds. Other than the melee weapons, the projectiles and Ninpo 
 are more of a priority and more used in certain situations than the first game. The bow and arrow's 
 usage has increased by a lot as there are more bosses and long-range enemies. The Ninpo is pretty 
 useful to get out of jams with Ryu launching fireballs and wind blades against the opposition. 
 Ryu's arsenal is truly something special as they offer different experiences for the player to 
 witness.
  
  Ninja Gaiden II is pretty linear compared to the backtracking seen in the first game. It is simply 
 point A to point B of slicing through anything that gets in Ryu's way, which reminds me of the 
 early 90s beat-em-ups structure. The Halo-like rechargeable health system gives even the casual 
 players a chance to beat this game as Ninja Gaiden on the Xbox was one of the hardest games of 
 that console generation. While Ninja Gaiden II is not as hard as the first game on the normal difficulty, 
 it gets to be that hard and borderline cheap on harder difficulties (Mentor and Master Ninja) , 
 but still doable pending on lots of skill and luck. It retains the rewarding challenge like the 
 first game in which it is an accomplishment of beating a game like this. At least there two difficulties 
 to start with (Acolyte and Warrior) in this new one compared to the original. The normal enemies 
 are just aggressive as they were previously as they want to kick your ass at any cost whether by 
 throwing you around or even committing suicide to take you out. The bosses, on the other hand, 
 are a little easier especially against the Greater Fiends, while other bosses can be a pain at 
 times. The best relief in this game is getting to a save point with barely no health after a tough 
 onslaught of enemies since they fill your health to full the first time you use them. It is also 
 forgiving when you die against bosses, as the game will start you at that same boss battle.
  
  Ninja Gaiden II pushes dismemberment of body parts to a whole new level as well. Body parts 
 will be flying around as you slice and dice your foes to their death. The new Obliteration Technique 
 is a finishing blow to an enemy of cutting someone's head off. There are loads of different finishing 
 blows against normal enemies and some bosses with the amount of weapons in the game and increases 
 the amount of blood to staggering heights. In this current generation of consoles, it is one of 
 the bloodiest games and perhaps the bloodiest game ever. Ultimate Techniques make a return as well 
 with a combo-like sequence of Ryu tearing someone apart. The variety of enemies and bosses in Ninja 
 Gaiden II are not much with ninjas with swords, claws, guns, missile launchers, and those cheap 
 grenade launchers along with various fiends, demons, and beasts. Even the infamous ghost fish are 
 back, but they are not as cheap as they used to be. The overall gameplay is still as deep and fun 
 as ever, but even Ninja Gaiden II's technical issues hamper that fact.
  
  Ninja Gaiden II is a technical nightmare as if it felt rushed and incomplete at times. Graphically, 
 it is a good looking game, but the Team Ninja engine is starting to show its age with the look 
 of the environments and characters. Their signature boobage as seen in the Dead or Alive games 
 is still here, specifically Sonia. The technical flaws at various points of the game can be even 
 unplayable with huge framerate dips when things get too chaotic, some instances of tearing, mid-level 
 loading (even during combat as well) , and the bad camera. The game just goes fast all the time 
 and the camera cannot keep up mostly which leads to pressing the R trigger to center it lots of 
 times. The slowdown is pretty bad in some moments that the game is going ten frames per second, 
 but when the game runs at 60 frames, it flows beautifully. All these technical issues could of 
 have fixed easily, but it signifies the game feels rushed even with some game-ending bugs as well.
 
  
  Ninja Gaiden II's sound is pretty good following genre standards. The music is very moody at various 
 locales and epic at certain moments as well as if the perfect track kicked in to cut some ninjas 
 up. At least the voice acting is both English and Japanese with the Japanese track being the way 
 to go as long as you have English subtitles on. The sound effects are accurate as well according 
 to the weapons with swords clashing, cutting effects, guns and explosions, and the magic. The fiends 
 and demons themselves have their terrifying screams as well. It can get out of hand when too many 
 things are going on, but it is pretty rare to witness.
  
  With a 10-12 hour campaign, four difficulties, leaderboards of comparing scores with the world, 
 the Ninja Cinema which allows replays of your work, achievements that can be a while to get the 
 full 1000, and downloadable content of alternate costumes in the future, there is a good amount 
 of replay value in Ninja Gaiden II. The combat is as satisfying and gory compared to other action 
 games along with no sense of backtracking. It definitely feels like an old-school beat-em-up of 
 going to an area of defeating enemies, repeat, and then the boss battle to finish the level. Despite 
 maintaining the amazing gameplay, it is a technical disaster filled with camera issues, slowdown, 
 and other bugs. If you're expecting to play this game for a good story, you're not going to find 
 it as if it is like a Saturday morning cartoon. The rewarding challenge is there too, which is 
 rare to see in this generation of consoles filled with easy games. If you like deep combat, an 
 old-school challenge, and that feeling of being a badass ninja, Ninja Gaiden II is worth a playthrough.
 
  
  Score = 8.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pycho22solid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is finally here! After some huge hype and one huge opening at last years tokyo game 
 show we're all finally able to slice, mangle, decapitate, and flat out f**k up foes with some serious 
 ninja Awesomeness!
  
  The story starts out as some large chested chick Sonia, a CIA worker, comes to Japan to look for 
 Ryu Hayabusa. As you could guess things get pretty crappy and Sonia gets captured by members of 
 the Black Spider Clan. You rescue Sonia, find out the Spider Clan wants to ressurect the "Archfiend" 
 and so on... and you have to save the world. Again.
  
  Gameplay-wise, it rocks! Animation is spectacular and you'll find yourself fighting an entire army 
 of enemies. Combat is fast, fluent, and easy to control... but then the camera... THAT sucks. Bosses 
 are cool and usually show off some great visual flair and they REALLY test your skill on playing. 
 I'm serious, these bosses are INSANE!!!!!
  
  Overall Ninja Gaiden 2 is an awesome game, even if it isn't quite up to par with the first one 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  2004 saw the rebirth of the Ninja Gaiden franchise on the Xbox, Team Ninja setting a new benchmark 
 for the action-adventure genre in the process. Four years later and Ninja Gaiden II hasn't had 
 quite the same groundbreaking impact as its predecessor. It doesn't have the same visual kick as 
 the first game did in '04 and it lacks the same level of polish, but rest assured it provides all 
 the sword-swinging, blood-bathed action you've come to expect from Itagaki-san and company.
  
  Proceedings begin when a scantily clad CIA agent named Sonia gets kidnapped whilst searching 
 for Ryu Hayabusa, the fleet-footed ninja protagonist of Ninja Gaiden. She comes to warn Ryu of 
 the awakening of the archfiends, terrible demons sealed away since ancient times. The enigmatic 
 Elizebet has teamed up with the Black Spider clan, sworn rivals of the Hayabusa clan, to unleash 
 these beasts and wreck havoc on the world. In typical one-man-army fashion, Ryu sets off solo to 
 slice-and-dice his way through the legions of evil that await.
  
  Ryu emits an overpowering aura of cool, and a large part of this is down to his detailed character 
 model. His ninja garbs are crafted masterfully, and his weapons have a similarly precise and deliberate 
 design. While he may gobble up most of the limelight, the supporting characters have also been 
 built impressively. Team Ninja's Dead or Alive physics engine is used to full effect with Sonia, 
 and the archfiends are made to look as devilish and brutal as they are to fight in combat. 
  
  All of these visual qualities are magnified during impressive CG cut scenes, but the standard 
 level environments are underwhelming in comparison to the character designs. Despite travelling 
 to locations including a futuristic Tokyo and the Statue of Liberty, there isn't much that'll make 
 you sit up and take notice. Many other games on the Xbox 360 have used textures and special effects 
 to a significantly higher level than Ninja Gaiden II, which is a shame considering how impressive 
 the rest of the game's visual design is.
  
  Discounting Ryu's charm as a ninja (because everyone loves ninjas!) , the characters aren't exactly 
 magnetic. You won't feel any great emotional attachment to any of the good guys or bad guys; cut-scenes 
 at the beginning of each chapter move the story along, but there's never any significant character 
 development. But if you're playing Ninja Gaiden II, it's probably because you want some fast-paced 
 action with plenty of blood and gore: it has this in abundance. Ryu has a ninja armoury's worth 
 of weaponry to (literally) tear his foes limb from limb. Each weapon has a different range of techniques 
 and can be upgraded to encompass even more deadly attacks. The strengths and weaknesses of each 
 weapon become quickly apparent after a couple of minutes of using them: the katana you begin with 
 has a good balance of power and range, whereas the axe is slower to wield but possesses devastating 
 force and reach. 
  
  Whichever weapon you choose to wield, the same tight combat mechanics are always present. Mashing 
 the attack-button will only get you so far before herds of enemy ninja overwhelm you; a bit of 
 thought when stringing attacks together goes a long way, and this is most evident when it comes 
 to finishing your foes off. You've got a better chance of severing limbs when you put together 
 combos, and limbless opponents can be destroyed with the obliteration technique, a bloody finisher 
 that'll put them away for good. Tapping the strong attack button near a dismembered foe will initiate 
 a Kill Bill-inspired animation with a lot of blood. No matter how sophisticated you might be, it's 
 hard not to crack a smile when Ryu goes mental with his katana (or axe, or claws, or flail) . You'll 
 be relying on the obliteration technique time and time again, so thankfully the animation is context 
 sensitive in relation to yours and the victim's position. For those rare occasions where the up-close-and-personal 
 approach isn't the best course of action, shurikens and the bow are plenty enough to take down 
 flying foes and distant demons. You can also unleash the power of ninpo (think of it as ninja magic) 
 to scorch those around you with searing flames or sting them with sharp winds.
  
  When you're not slicing and dicing, you'll mostly be undertaking light platforming sections. Mobility 
 is essential for any ninja, and Ryu makes scaling high walls look like a piece of cake. Hell, he 
 can even walk on water! There are plenty of situations that test your fleet-footedness, but this 
 is still very much an action-adventure game. Jumping across rooftops and running across walls only 
 serves to make the transition between combat sequences more interesting, a goal that it accomplishes. 
 Unfortunately, it's these sequences that begin to expose Ninja Gaiden II's main weakness: a dodgy 
 camera.
  
  You're locked in to a close-panned camera that can make routine jumps tricky, and, frankly, tight 
 combat encounters frustrating. In confined environments, such as the corridors of the skyscraper 
 in Tokyo or the halls inside the Statue of Liberty, the camera has a tendency to go AWOL. Underwater 
 sections are also hampered quite significantly by this, especially because controlling Ryu underwater 
 is a surprisingly clunky affair in the first place. It's not at all intuitive like the rest of 
 the game is, but thankfully most of the action takes place on solid ground.
  
  The camera trouble is a bit of a blow, especially considering Ninja Gaiden's renowned challenge 
 is present. Although it isn't quite as unforgiving as the original Xbox offering, it's plenty challenging 
 for the average gamer (even on the lowest difficulty setting) . More save points are scattered around 
 each level and you'll recover a limited amount of health after each combat sequence, but you still 
 need to be at your best in fights and conserve healing items for when you really need them. Whether 
 you like your games to push you or not, there's an undeniable sense of achievement as you progress 
 from chapter to chapter because of this challenge. The boss characters are the epitome of that 
 statement and never fail to impress. Many of them are huge beasts that initially appear impregnable. 
 Trial and error is often present, and having your ass kicked a couple of times acts as a humbling 
 and (hopefully) enlightening experience. Each boss has a weakness that you may not notice straight 
 away, but rest assured that it's there. You just have to find it.
  
  Toppling 2004's masterpiece was always going to be a tough job for Team Ninja, and ultimately, 
 it's hard to argue that they have. Ninja Gaiden II simply doesn't have the "wow" factor that its 
 predecessor did, but there's no shame in falling short to such a great game. The young upstart 
 ninja isn't quite a match for his old master, but that's no excuse for you to miss out on the exciting 
 sword-fest that is Ninja Gaiden II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingdomcool5
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  i do have to admit Ninja Gaiden ii is a great game but im shure every one has to agre that thre 
 were a couple or alot for some people frusturatinng moments four example the 5 bosses you have 
 to fight in a row on the last level and the camra angle was a bit odd at some moment so this is 
 what i would give ninja gaiden ii
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  fun factor: 9
  
  sound: 9
  
  gameplay: 9.5
  
  controls: 10
  
  also id have to say my favorite part of the game is 
 smashing everyones haeds in with amazing amounts of gore but if you look on the wals ere the blood 
 splaters its out from the wall not on it.
  
  if you really like this game try devel may cry 4 its baiscly the same but not as hard and more 
 pusles and not as gory
  
  
  
  HAVE FUN.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HXC_Ninja
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is an action-packed sequel to Ninja Gaiden Black in which you play as Ryu Hayabusa 
 of the Dragon Lineage. The plot thickens as the leader of the Black Spider Clan, Genshin, Steals 
 a prized possession of the Hayabusa clan. The Rest of the story is just about following the elusive 
 leader as he quests to resurrect the ultimate evil of the story. The game lets you try out 8 different 
 weapons throughout the story. Everybody will have a different weapon preference, but i prefer the 
 Falcons Talons. Ninja Gaiden 2 will leave you breathless in some enviornments and cutscenes, but 
 will have you gagging at a few areas such as a 'Worm tunnel' that looks like it was created in 
 5 minutes by having a tunnel with green spots on the sides. All in all, Ninja Gaiden 2 is a great 
 game to play if you are a fan of the series, but the surprisingly hard difficulty may leave you 
 frustrated, but keep on playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  been a long time after god of war 2 and dmc4 that we got to play a good hack n slash fighter.. the 
 game is very impressive from the start. even though the camera of the game is reviewed annoying 
 by many reviewers i did not find it more annoying than many games of the same genre.. the fighting 
 in the game is superb. good graphics, great moves and powers, a very seat gripping gameplay but ALAS 
 comes the very disturbing boss battles especially i found the second boss genshin almost impossible 
 to defeat unless you sit with the boss battle for hours trying and trying.. finally once that is 
 done i would say the rest of the game was very enjoyable and real good.. in short a very enjoyable 
 and real gripping game except for some real difficult gameplay and annoying boss battles. the cut 
 videos of the game are very impresssive and so is the storyline. a must buy for any xbox 360 gamer.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyvian
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 30, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden on XBOX was one of the few games over the years I went "OMG" to when I started playing, 
 very difficult but skill based so once you learned to defend/attack properly you got a massive 
 sense of achievement out of it.
  
  Ninja Gaiden II on the other hand I was so excited to buy, get home and hook it up and play, and 
 1 hour into it I was thinking when does this get good, the thing is, it doesn't look better, and 
 the combat overall has less of a feel of skill about it and more luck and button mashing.
  
  The Camera is infuriating and it has lag issues as if you are playing a multiplayer game online 
 and your connection is crap, these are thankfully few and far between but they shouldn't be there.
 
  
  As for the combat, its fun at times and like I said before sometimes it just feels like luck, also 
 I wanted more of it which may sound weird but in some parts of the game you seem to be fighting 
 too many bosses and not enough henchman.
  
  Boss fights can be ridiculous, some of them seem impossible and then you find some little glitch 
 and exploit it like you are fighting a punching bag, doing the same move in 1 spot on some boss 
 taking no skill whatsoever.
  
  Weapons in NGII are very nice, and I find myself switching a lot based on the circumstance, ranged 
 combat also seems to have improved a lot.
  
  From half way onwards through the games progression it gets a considerably better, i. e.; approaching 
 the game play of its predecessors.
  
  If this was the first game on the XBOX not XBOX 360, and wasn't the latest addition, I would rate 
 it higher, unfortunately it is on the 360 and isn't as good as the previous games, and it doesn't 
 do much to make you feel happy about forking out the $ to buy the game, and once you complete it 
 yeah you may try playing it on higher levels but the fact is it is just nowhere near as addictive 
 as previous games, and for me a major dissapointment.
  
  To sum it up to me this game is like Jordan averaging 20 ppg in his prime, yes 20 ppg is good, 
 but for him its disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FORKFIGHTER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I have played all the ninja gaiden games to date and this is by far my favorite. It seems like 
 it's going to be a little shorter than the last one but I've only been through the first difficulty 
 mode so the replay value will keep it around for a while. I recommend this game to anyone who likes 
 ninjas. Play it and you will be hooked. Don't play it and remember that you will want to play it 
 because now I am just trying to fill space to take up 100 words on this review. Ninjas ROCK!!! 
 Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas 
 ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! 
 Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas 
 ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! 
 Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas 
 ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! 
 Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas 
 ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! 
 Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas 
 ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! Ninjas ROCK!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXecutor195
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  First of all there are lots of people complaining about this game. Let me tell you a good advice 
 that you shouldn't listen to them. First of all the camera is annoying but cmon. thats why there 
 is a button which helps you turn it around. Is it really that hard to press that button? Then again 
 there are hard moments in the game like chapter 2 boss but then again lol would you rather be playing 
 winnie the pooh collecting honey or ninja gaiden hard games where you actually have to do something 
 besides sit through it and watch it mindlesly how he chops stuff.
  
  Yes I know the story doesnt make any sense but that is why we have games like MGS4 and such, where 
 the story is the stronger part. To be honest I dont care about the story, I buy a game because 
 I want to play it and have fun and not just sit though a bunch of bull"""t that some japanese guy 
 made up ( besides isnt that what books are for?) So here are what I think about the game review.
 
  
  Graphics: 8/10 Sound: 9/10 Gameplay: 9/10 Fun Factor: 8.5
  
  Overall Score: 9/10
  --------------------------
  
  + Long and hard but rewarding fights, changing environments, 
 pretty long
  
  - Camera can get annoying if you are new to the game, some small unnoticed glitches.
  
  Hint! 
 Try DMC4 (Devil May Cry 4) if you like action games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vodka_7up
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is a action game where you take the role of Ninja Master Ryu Hayabusa. You go through 
 a dozen various levels fighting evil Ninjas and Demons. Sounds great doesn't it? Well it isn't. 
 I'll address what the game does right before I tackle the long list of what it didn't get right. 
 Fast paced combat, it's the meat of every action game and for the most part NG2 gets it right. 
 Even the "slow" weapons move rapidly, enemies rarely stand around picking their noses, and everyone's 
 normal combo's can be broken. Add on to that a bit of weapon variety, the only problem with this 
 I had was that it's a bit unnecessary. Who honestly needs eight different weapons, you can get 
 by using just three to four. You can also shake things up by using magic spells, alas there are 
 only four spells throughout the entire game. I'd have preferred to see a few extra ones, say an 
 earthquake spell that slows down enemies, or a life stealing spell.
  
  With that over I get to tell you everything the game does wrong. I'll begin with the storyline. 
 It's crap, just utter crap. Don't be fooled by the back of the box and it's promise of an "immersive 
 story." The plot is the basic evil guys are threatening to take over the world and you follow them 
 while one to two steps behind. Character development is non existent, same with plot twists. Two 
 of the main character, Genshin and Sonya, are basically rehashes of NG1 characters. Also I think 
 Ryu says about ten to twenty words the whole game. Another thing, why the hell is the CIA involved 
 with this?! It's just retarded. Lets not forgot they only sent ONE agent to help the master ninja. 
 Oh no, lets not give the ninja what he needs to buy all his items and weapons so he can save the 
 world, heavens forbid. That part of the game should have just been cut out.
  
  Next I'm going to deal with level design. NG2 does a decent job of switching things up, from wilderness, 
 to urban, to underworld. Check. What it fails in is flow. One minute you're on the streets of New 
 York, then next thing I know I'm climbing up a building for some asinine reason, only to plummet 
 down into a sewer so I can do what? hunt hobos?!! No, to fight some stupid metallic lightning eel 
 thingy. It just makes no sense to me. The game SHOWS you a big environment, but it's just that, 
 show. Invisible walls block your movement. I think in this stage of game design, either give me 
 free roaming or give me enclosed environments. Don't try to fool me like this. Maybe if Ryu rationalized 
 at some point why he feels the urge to scour the depths of the subway system. Just take a **** 
 cab man or stay on the streets. Mazes. When I play DMC4 and NG2, the last thing I want to do is 
 "explore" a level looking for an obscure item that can be used to open an arbitrary closed door. 
 That reminds me, how do holding a door "firmly shut" stop a guy who can pummel giant demons to 
 death with Tonfas! It's ridiculous, any locked door in this game should be destroyable. In the 
 end I feel like this is just useless boring filler meant to stretch the game.
  
  In summation, NG2 is basically a hack and slash with nothing else to offer, but is tragically weighed 
 down by it's frustrating level design and non-existent story. New game options are also shallow, 
 when you beat a difficulty you don't get to carry over anything except for a disappointing alternate 
 color costume. All of these points make me glad Itagaki is out of a job, maybe the next NG won't 
 be a disappointment.
  
  For more reviews check out http://gaugingtherift. blogspot. com/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bombed420
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Since not having touched a Ninja Gaiden game since the original for Xbox, my first play through 
 turned out to be a brutal mess. I kept screwing up combos, making foolish errors and frustrating 
 myself more than actually enjoying the game. 
  
  It wasn't until my second play through that I was able to master the controls and fully grasp the 
 concept of what, Tomonobu Itagaki, was trying to do. He didn't design this game for the casual 
 gamer. He designed it for the hardcore Ninja Gaiden fans.
  
  Anyone can pick this game up and enjoy it, but to really appreciate it you need to master the controls. 
 Itagaki didn't just create a game that makes you control a Ninja, but a game that makes you think 
 like one too. You need to be able to react quickly and strategically in every fight during the 
 harder difficulties, or otherwise you won't even make it to the first save point. 
  
  I don't rate games on one aspect, but many little things. People are complaining about the story 
 being boring and unoriginal, which in times it is, but that was because they focused more on the 
 fighting then the actual story. Being able to hack limbs off and watch blood ooze from open wounds, 
 all the while keeping a smooth frame rate is far more important to me in this type of game then 
 a story. I have killed over thousands of enemies so far and not once has it felt repetitive, and 
 to me, that should merit a job well done.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: derekc124
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  I will start by saying that Ninja Gaiden II is just as good, if not better, than the original. 
 Many may not agree on this statement, but let me explain, in terms of all categories.
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  The graphics in Ninja Gaiden II superior to the original's, with improved animations, 
 and fantastic character models, as well as some great set pieces. However, some environments are 
 just gross-looking, with lazy textures, and there is occasional framerate lag. But ONLY occasional, 
 some people exaggerate the framerate problem.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  Even better than the original's. It has all of the same moves, with better animations, and the 
 new obliteration techniques are fantastic. The blood is very satisfying, and the limb removal system 
 makes for smoother gameplay (i. e. the enemies don't just keep getting back up after you've slashed 
 them with a sword...) And there are even more weapons as an added bonus. The "God of War" weapon 
 and the claws are two especially cool additions.
  
  Story: 9/10
  The story itself is incomprehensible, but the idea behind it is more interesting than the original's. 
 The story mechanic of finding and hunting down the Greater Fiends is a successful one, as it makes 
 for varied environments as well as bosses, spanning all of the elements. It also makes you feel 
 like you are on a mission that you understand, unlike in the first storyline.
  
  Value: 8/10
  Very fun to play, but I'm afraid that I will get bored in the future. However, replaying 
 it with different weapons being upgraded and on the harder difficulty setting will prove interesting. 
 The gameplay itself is very addictive. 
  
  Conclusion:
  The addition of an easier difficulty setting, as well as the health recharging system, make this 
 a game that is simply more FUN to play than the original, even if some difficulty is sacrificed. 
 But this makes for smoother gameplay, and I believe that gamers will find themselves enjoying this 
 game more, even if the original was an instant classic. I would highly reccommend buying this game 
 if you like action games, ninjas, or even just like having fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maraos
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  I had never played a Ninja Gaiden game before playing NG2 and I honestly was expecting a lot as 
 I had heard great things about it, however soon after renting the game for my first play through 
 I was dissapointed early on. The first stage of the game is simple and is basically a tutorial, 
 and the action of cutting people in half and chopping their heads off with a samurai sword was 
 always fresh until I reached the end of the second stage. Now I know many people always complain 
 about the difficulty of Ninja Gaiden 2 and most Xbox 360 owners usually dismiss this complaint 
 as something that can be overlooked by just getting better at the game, this is not the case with 
 NG2. Once I had reached the 2nd boss (And I was playing on the easiest difficulty) , he destroyed 
 me over 10 times, at one point I had actually gotten so frustrated with his unblockable combos 
 that take away 2/3 of your health that I actually turned the game off and considered returning 
 it. This is not something you want to happen to someone playing your game, while boss fights should 
 be hard, they should not be cheap and should be defeatable. 
  
  I did eventually beat the 2nd boss after I decided to pick the game up again the next day and after 
 that I was not stopped until about the 9th chapter, it was incredibly fun after chapter 2 and was 
 constantly engaging. It was at chapter 9 however that the games linear maps, horrible camera controls, 
 and at that point repetitive gameplay that discouraged me from continuing and so with out actually 
 finishing the game, I would rate it from what I experianced, a 7.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyboy94
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  aside from some bosses that are as cheap as mr crabs, this game is one of the best games i have 
 ever played, the combat is constantly made better by new weapons and enemies, and there is a new 
 tactic for every level, weapon upgrades keep you playing just to see what the weapons look like 
 new. the gameplay never really gets repetetive unlike some other games. finding crystal skulls keeps 
 you searching for things and trying to upgrade your max. health with life of the thousand gods 
 is just plain fun. also teh nimpos are a great way to have some mindless fun with killing enemies. 
 would reccomend this game as a buy it gets a 9/10, just because of really cheap bosses. on another 
 note, if you can find all the crystal skulls you WILL get another gamerpicture, if you would like 
 to add me on xbox live my gamertag is KILLERWOLF1911 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tullistyler
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden II is one of the best action games on the market. 
  
  Having said that, "one of" doesn't mean a lot these days. Ryu's new adventure is a bloody action-fest 
 to be sure, but it's weighed down by several factors that put it behind the competition. 
  
  Let's get the difficulty out of the way first. This game is hard. Too hard. Harder than it 
 needs to be to have a good time. There's a fine line between challenging and victimizing the player, 
 which Team Ninja needs to wake up and realize. Standard enemies are just right to keep you on your 
 toes, but bosses are just plain not fun to play against. They murder you. The fact that the gameplay 
 is so taxing on the player on any difficulty level takes away from the experience, especially when 
 it gets cheap, as it frequently does anytime projectile weapons come into play. If you want to 
 make an insane difficultly level for champs on the game, that's fine, but leave some room for the 
 casual player who just wants to take in the gameplay. Only the most skilled and masochistic will 
 be having fun by the end.
  
  Perhaps the most significant reason this game is behind the curve of such games as Devil May Cry 
 and God of War is the fact that while it has a clearly defined and action packed gameplay style, 
 the rest of the game is presented poorly and doesn't give you the action rush like the aforementioned 
 series'. Ninja Gaiden lacks the stylized story, cutscenes, art style, and other presentation elements 
 outside of gameplay. Dante and Kratos have games that show them off as the ultimate action stars, 
 but Ninja Gaiden doesn't do it's leading man justice. Devil May Cry makes players feel like a one 
 man army that unleashes destruction on anyone foolish enough to cross their paths in the most bombastic 
 of displays, but aside from the gore and cool attack animations, Ryu doesn't give off that enthralling 
 vibe. It's a real shame.
  
  The bottom line is Ryu Hayabusa is an action star trapped in a game that can't keep up with him. 
 He's brought down by ridiculous difficulty that frustrates more than it excites, uninspired levels 
 and cutscenes, and an overall lack of effort to present him as the badass he is. Ninja Gaiden II 
 is definitely worth playing if you're an action junkie, but be prepared to be utterly manhandled 
 by bosses and weaklings alike, owned by cheap projectiles you can't even see coming, bored by the 
 story and cutscenes, and overall disappointed if you're comparing it to Devil May Cry or God of 
 War. This is a great game but still a good ways behind its competition.
  
  Team Ninja seems to think that slick death animations alone will carry their game. Hopefully Ninja 
 Gaiden III will give us the complete package we've yet to see.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlOoDyDeAtH360
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me just say that this is one amazing game, absoutely worth the $60 in my opnion.
 
  
  The game is a little on the challenging side, but if youve played the first one on the original 
 Xbox, then you'll be ust to it, and really, Ninja Gaiden 2 isnt as hard as the first was because 
 this one has 2 difficulties to choose from right from the start, Path of the Acolyte and Path of 
 the Warrior If your a newcomer to the Ninja Gaiden games, then start on Acolyte to get ust to the 
 game and how its played before you get into the really challenging levels.
  
  The only gripes I have with the game is the camera, the camera will frustrate you because sometimes 
 when your in fights, the camera wont let you see behind you so you wont know if there are any enemies 
 comming from behind until you get hit. The other complaint I have is with the rocket launcher enemies, 
 These guys are very frustrating because they can continously fire rockets at you almost one after 
 another, and can be very frustrating espically when there far away and your tryind to fight another 
 group of eneimes.
  
  There are a total of 14 chapters in the game, each with a boss at the end of them, and some have 
 sub bosses (if not all) There is a new female character this time called Sonia, Rachel from the 
 first Ninja Gaiden diddnt return for this one, so they decided to add a different one to the game.
 
  
  Another thing that I think is cool about Ninja Gaiden 2 is how they took the recording feature 
 from Halo 3 and incorporated it into NInja Gaiden 2. If you turn on the Ninja Cinema then it will 
 record everything between each time you save, meaning, you save at savespot A, do alot of stuff 
 then save at savepoint B, you can then go to Ninja Cinema at the main menu and watch what you just 
 did, and after you beat the game once you can then upload one clip for other fellow Ninja Gaiden 
 2 players to download and watch. It works out very well with Ninja Gaiden 2, but inorder for it 
 to work you must go to the options and turn it on.
  
  The game also now has a regenerating health bar, but It will only regenerate once a battle is finished, 
 so you cant just run from enemies until your health comes back, you have to kill all the enemies 
 there then it will regenerate. There are also alot more savespots that also heal you the first 
 time you save. And now, if you lose to a boss, then you can start from the begenning of the boss 
 fight instead of having to start at the latest savespot.
  
  The game follow's Ryu Hyabusa as he trys to get revenge for his clan and to start the Archfiend 
 from being reborn, along the way in your journey you'll encounter demon's, warewolves, ninja's, 
 and spider's as enemies. You can also cut off limbs of your enemies and decapitate them completely. 
 Even if you cut off an enemies arm or leg, they will still try to come after you to kill you, and 
 some of them if they get a hold of you will explode trying to take you out with them. The game 
 is also alot more bloodier then previous Ninja Gaiden games.
  
  Overall, the game may frustrate you at times, but its not as hard as the first Ninja Gaiden on 
 the xbox, and its a superb action adventure game, that should be in any action adventure game's 
 collection.
  
  If the game sounds too hard for you, then rent it to see if you think its right for you, as im 
 sure you'll find something to love about this superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steven_Beynon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  Hold Y, then You're Winner!
  
  Pros
  -Brutal combat that will keep you on your toes. 
  -Eli Roth gore fanatics will find this games buckets of blood tasteful, decapitations, limps being 
 chopped off is a scene you'll encounter in every battle.
  -Kick ass weapons
  -Astonishing looking fighting movies
  -While most of the enemies look cartoonish, they still 
 are attractive in their own right. 
  -A wide variety of enemies to cut in half
  -Did I mention you can cut off dudes limbs? 
  -Ninjas 
  
  
  Cons
  -While the challenge 
 is an attractive factor to most folks, the challenge is more cheap than the AI being fine tuned.
 
  -The difficulty is also inconsistent
  -Terrible art style
  -Abysmal character style
  -Bad framerate 
  -One of the worst cameras in a high budget game I've ever seen. 
  -Occasional 
 texture popping issues 
  -Framerate suffers, especially on higher difficulty setting with more enemies
  -Lacks music and 
 ambient sound effects in most segments
  -Immersion in this game is impossible
  -What the hell is up with the story? 
  -Get a new art style Team Ninja
  
  NOTE: I don't like 
 the 10 point system most sites such as Gamespot use. I prefer the 5 star scale used by X-Play and 
 Giantbomb. com
  
  SCORE: 3/5
  
  Ninja Gaiden II is an oddball, the game blends aspects that make it both a standout, and a less 
 than great title. As fans of any previous Ninja Gaiden adventures would come to expect, you return 
 to the role of ninja master Ryu Hayabusa rolling around the world hacking up evil demons, nefarious 
 nameless ninjas, and random gigantic monsters. Fans can also expect that Team Ninja kept one thing 
 in mind while developing Ninja Gaiden II, and that's the combat. While chopping off enemy's arms 
 and legs prove to be entertaining, the brutal combat never really evolves from the game's first 
 stage. The game does offer a wide variety in foes, werewolves, ninjas, dogs with knives, but most 
 of these minions die the same way, and while they typically appear to fight you in a different 
 manner, you predominately go about killing them the same way you would any other beast. Enemy's 
 can mostly be broken down into three types, ranged, toe-to-toe, and the boss battle which we'll 
 talk about later. 
  
  This leads me to my next topic, and thats that your foes (forget that) every character in this 
 game is crazy, and sometimes, if not all the time, a major turn off. What I mean by that is every 
 character in this mature bloody tale feels ripped from a Saturday morning cartoon. This includes 
 your antagonist, minions, and most embarrassingly, the bosses. For example, at the end of chapter 
 seven their's a boss fight against a giant turtle with a beard, that shoots fireballs at you. While 
 it's perfectly ok for a game to have an over the top Saturday morning-like character style, but 
 Ninja Gaiden II presents itself as a mature gore-fest and immature art design really sticks out. 
 Remember, dogs with knives. 
  
  What really holds Ninja Gaiden back from being great is its horrendous level design. Well, maybe 
 horrendous isn't the correct vocabulary to utilize, but it seems as though the level designers 
 haven't worked on a game thats released since 1998. You'll encounter the classic level barriers 
 such as the doorway to the next area is locked, oh wait, you defeated all the enemy's in this area, 
 alright the door magically unlocked! Unlike the ridicules character work, the level design is just 
 lazy linear throwaways. In a game that seems to be all about arena style battles, Team Ninja could 
 have at least given us interesting or attractive environments. Poor lighting, boring areas to fight 
 in, and a lack of environmental interaction hinders Ninja Gaiden II's artistic side a thumbs down. 
 
  
  While the artistic side of the Ninja Gaiden coin is rusted, few will care because players will 
 come and stay for delicious combat. Clashing steel with your mighty foes is as flashy as ever, 
 and pulling off stylish moves is as easy as 1, 2, 3, or at least X, X, Y. The fighting mechanics 
 are incredibly easy to pick up, making Ninja Gaiden II more accessible to a wide audience, it's 
 just a matter of how quick your figures are sometimes. In fact, on the medium difficulty the combats 
 a bit to easy compared to the original. The first nine levels or so area cake walk, I didn't even 
 worry about blocking the first half of the game. The difficulty does progress, but in less than 
 a dramatic fashion then you would expect.
  
  The difficult segments are the most depressing aspect of the game. This isn't because it will cause 
 your favorite controller to be thrown out the window (well, maybe) but when the game is kicking 
 your ass in true Ninja Gaiden fashion, it's not because of the sharp AI, but the game just becomes 
 a cheap joke. Enemies and bosses alike will spam cheap moves, and unleash unblockable attacks. 
 As Ryu, you too can be cheap and spam such attacks as the almighty Ultimate Technique which can 
 pretty much be your fail safe plan if your in a jam. Between button mashing, your Ultimate Technique, 
 and Ninpo spells, no minions will give you much problem if you can tame the game's horrendous camera, 
 which can pretty much serve as a game-long boss itself considering how many times you'll die because 
 of it. This time I utilized the correct vocabulary. 
  
  Keep in mind Ninja Gaiden II isn't a bad game, but it posses many negative aspects that are however, 
 mostly outweighed by its positives. That goes to show how powerful the combat is considering its 
 the only redeeming quality about the game, and has so much negativity going against it. With the 
 bad camera, and level design a side this sequel has failed to evolve from its predecessor, and 
 it leaves me the impression it was a rushed product. With that said everything about Ninja Gaiden 
 II feels eight years old, menus, level design, presentation, and so on. However, there is little 
 on the Xbox 360 library in the realm of character action beyond Devil May Cry 4, and this game 
 is totally better than that. So fans of the series will find no surprise, but will return to an 
 even bloodier battlefield comprised with many faults, but also some of the best action you'll find 
 on the platform. Change is a powerful thing, Team Ninja should keep that in mind for their next 
 title. 
  
  Steven Beynon
  Gamertag: Epicbomb
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  If you guys didn't know, Ninja Gaiden Black is currently my favorite game, and it's sequel seems 
 jsut as good. The storyline is slighty better than the one presented in Ninja Gaiden Black. It 
 starts off with aa girl named Sonia, a US agent looking for Ryu Hayabusa because of something called 
 the archfiend. Eventually it leads into a plot involving Genshin the leader of the Black Spider 
 Clan and the four Greater fiends. The gameplay is pretty much the same as it was in Ninja Gaiden 
 Black. A jumps, X is swift attack, Y is strong attack, hold down Y to charge up an Ultimate technigue, 
 when you have severed an opponent Y also does an Obliteration attack, B buttons throws your projectile, 
 Y+B is your Ninpo (Ninja Magic) , LT blocks, RT zooms in with your arrow, RB interacts with objects, 
 Left thumbstick moves, Right thumbstick works with the camera, D-Pad brings up a fast menu to swap 
 out weapons and stuff. A new gameplay feature is an auto-heal system, but you get semi perminate 
 signs of damage (red bar) which need healing items to restore or a save point. The graphics are 
 really nice for the most part, but there will sometimes be framerate slow downs (most notiably 
 in Chapter 13) . The games music is nice and the voice acting is pretty solid. This game you're 
 gonna have to play through several times if you want every achievement. So overall Ninja Gaiden 
 II is without a doubt one of the best action games on the Xbox 360 and is certainly a worthy follow-up 
 to Ninja Gaiden Black. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is a really good game. it has lots of blood and gore. this is a hard core game for 
 hard core gamers. if you don't have lots of patience than don't play this game, because you will 
 die tons of times. you will have to battle some of the bosses lots of times before you finally 
 beat them. even the regular enemies like the ninjas are tough to beat. this is one of the hardest, 
 if not the hardest game that i have ever played. i love a challenge. stay clear of this game if 
 you don't want a challenge. if you do want a tough challenge than this game is for you. this game 
 is bloody, gore filled, fast paced, and action packed. its simply a really fun game to play. the 
 difficulty is awesome. just right. 
  I give it a 7.5 out of 10 for game play. very good game play. tons of brutal action and lots of 
 fun. 7 out of 10 for the graphics. character models are great while the back grounds are only average. 
 so overall the graphics are just good and not great. 8 out of 10 for the sound. the music is great, 
 the sound effects are sharp, and the voice acting is done quite nicely. 7 out of 10 for the value 
 and replay value. its fun to replay through the game on a harder difficulty. this game has good 
 repaly value. 7 out of 10 for the tilt. the camera is a problem, but overall its easy to controll 
 Ryu. the controlls handle quite nicely. so overall i give this really good action packed game a 
 7.5 out of 10. this is an awesome game. truly fun to play and hopefully more ninja gaiden games 
 in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MjolnirTru7h
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  The only thing tarnishing this gem is the constant projectile spam enemies and on occasion having 
 to fight 3 bosses or so with no save in between. The combat is intense, and if you're anything 
 like me you can feel yourself improving against enemies the more you play. 
  
  Sure you may get beat into the ground in the start, but several classic nes games did the same. 
 You adapt and learn the game's moves and you thus gain your own ability to really take down baddies. 
 I think some of the grabs are pretty ridiculous in a lot of cases, but it was the same in Ninja 
 Gaiden I.
  
  In all honesty, this is a true sequel to Ninja Gaiden I for xbox. And imo, the weapons are far 
 improved with a better combo system and more variety between the different kinds of weapons. The 
 ai is fierce, and you think the guys are cheap but then you realize that not long after you're 
 introduced to them, you can easily dispatch them in hordes. The only case this isn't true imo, 
 is projectile spammers, which are really an ugly tarnish on the game. I played the game starting 
 on path of the warrior, and I don't know if this has anything to do with it, but at least in Ninja 
 gaiden the flying swallow move took care of rocket launcher enemies. In this sequel however, jumping 
 assures you getting hit and taking a lot of damage, and then the melee enemies charge in with a 
 gruesome grab. 
  
  Overall though, the game has a phenomenal combo system and fast action, only marred by a few design 
 flaws. Massive replay value in this game, with a feeling that you are rewarded when taking down 
 more enemies and playing again. I look forward to possible hurricane pack downloads to hopefully 
 make a Ninja Gaiden II Black like the first one was made into a black, then it will really be something 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnakePlisskin88
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Okay so, so far ive seen alot of other peoples reviews - and they all made me laugh. Some people 
 slamming it because its not such a classic compared to the first - to this i say, you have to let 
 go. The old one might be a classic but that was at that time, now comparing the two, NG2 is much 
 better.
  
  Also people have said its too hard. TOO HARD, come on. You cannot honestly give a game 2/10 because 
 it is too hard, thats the beuty of the game. No other game has driven me more to actually get better 
 at it so i can finish it. Instead of just working your wau through the game your forced to work 
 hard at getting better before you can progress.
  
  On my own note it is just the most beautifully violent, amazing, rush of a game. Intense on every 
 level, it is true that it will drive you absolutely insane but thats the best part. 
  
  The level of combat is the best from any game ive ever played, and is so detailed it'll make you 
 be able to totally control the basis of the combat, unlike other games.
  
  This is my opinion, so dont slam it just because i gave it a 10. I gave this game a 10 because 
 in my opinion this is the most thrilling and entertaining game ive ever played, if your into this 
 sort of thing - buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackhawk692
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay, Not much has changed since Ninja Gaiden, but II explorers a lot that was left on the 
 back burners in the original. (Ex: Water Running) Sadly the when the game explores these features 
 it seems a little off pace. The new weapons give a nice flow to the game, they still aren't as 
 balanced as they should be, but they are improved. The most noticeable feature to the gameplay 
 is the Obliteration Kill, it is extremely satisfying every time you do it.
  Graphics, Overall the graphics are terrific, with the occasional hitch here and there. The most 
 noticeable decline in the game is the "worm cave" later in the game. The character models are sharp 
 and look great.
  Replay, This game is strangely addicting, even more so then the original. You are either going 
 through trying to get the weapon play through achievements, trying a harder difficulty, or trying 
 for the rest of the games achievements. The unlockable costumes are not quite up to the quality 
 of the original, because they all are just color changes.
  Difficulty, The enemies are just as difficult as they were in the last game, but this time there 
 is something different. The developers thought it would be hilarious if they just throw more enemies 
 at you. In the other hand, most of the bosses are easier, because on 90% of them you can just spam 
 the dual katana on them to win. They also repeat bosses on several occasions which can get annoying 
 because you already know how to beat them.
  Stability, Some of the framerate issues are reasonable such as a famous stairway on chapter 10. 
 Then, others seem like development laziness such as major slowdown by just walking. On a few occasions 
 the game crashed on me, but that's rare.
  
  Overall, Ninja Gaiden II is true to the series as being one of the best action games out there. 
 It has lost some of its charm with the loss of a "hub" area for you to explore, some framerate 
 issues and a couple of frustrating elements. Despite all of these downfalls the Ninja Gaiden series 
 is still the best action series out there, I have high hopes for a remake.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lesteristheone
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I love ninja gaiden 1 having done it 3 times over the first one was hard but not cheap and the 
 camera was fine.
  
  In ninja gaiden 2 the camera flat out sucks somtimes its just far too close to ryu trying to get 
 the best view of his bum you cant see the other badys around you sometimes because of this you 
 get owned and died not your fault at all. this is good reason why its harder.
  
  I wasthinking of giving the game a 9/10 up until about chapter 6 when badys just got cheaper and 
 cheaper throwing there arrrows and rockets from a mile away like chickens they just take it way 
 too far doing it far too much all the time it just get worse its so cheap it takes the fun out 
 it.
  again this is a good reason why its harder.
  
  The grapics are'nt that bad ninja gaiden 1 almost looks better when it comes to level design the 
 levels on the first one were more intersting.
  
  Listen to this there is a couple of boss fights when you defeat them they explode how would you 
 you feel if you spent good time and skill killing a boss and then all a sudden it explodes and 
 kills you exuuuuuucse me for not knowing that was going to happen its just cheap and stuipid.
 
  
  The combat is still great getting 8 differant weapons means you can fight how you want.
  
  I honestly think that ninja gaiden 1 was a bit longer.
  
  The bosses simply arent as good 
 and some repeated lame.
  
  Black is better because they did it right ninja gaiden 2 feel lazy.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidprimer
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely difficult, but not near as difficult as the first one. Throughout the first 
 three chapters I only died once. Against a boss, nonetheless. The graphics are pretty good for 
 a 360 game, but the cut-scenes were better graphically in the first game. It seems like the cut-scenes 
 in NG2 just use the in-game graphics. The double-edged sword (for me) is the fact that the action 
 is freakishly flashy. I was only half joking when I said to not buy this if you have sensitive 
 eyes. I literally got a headache from watching the action as I pulled off different moves. That's 
 why I have yet to play the game since I beat Chapter 3. There is just so much happening on the 
 screen that I had to take a break. That being said, the moves you can pull off in this game are 
 second to none in complete awesomeness. Some people might get some nausea from watching all the 
 limbs and blood EVERYWHERE. Personally, I think it looks sweet. The music sounds basically the 
 same as in NG1, along with a lot of the sounds.
  
  Overall, another great game from Team Ninja and I can't wait to finish it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RootsRockRebel
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 1:24 am PT
Review:  Being a fan of the first Ninja Gaiden for the Xbox I went into this with fairly High expectations, 
 and I finished the game with those expectations satisfied. The game sets a comfortable pace that 
 keeps you moving from one intense battle to another from beginning to end. Whats nice about the 
 sequel is that there is a difficulty for everybody. The enemies all have their strengths and weaknesses 
 and all of them can be taken down with most of the weapons with ease. I think the best improvement 
 of the sequel are the new weapons, the old ones that made it to the sequel have not changed in 
 mechanics but their appearance has changed a bit, but the new weapons are awesome! The Ninja Claws 
 especially. Team Ninja also made it so the Dragon Sword doesn't have to be your go to weapon if 
 you get into a bind, I have actually found that in many cases i go from the dragon sword to the 
 lunar staff or the claws. 
  The camera does get problematic in some areas, especially if there is a tight corridor with multiple 
 enemies, fortunately you can usually find your way to a more expansive area to continue the battle. 
 The only major gripes I have about this game is the swimming, it is down right awful, especially 
 when you are trying to fight enemies and even a boss. Frame rate also drops in places where they 
 decided to put way too many enemies on the screen to battle, but it happens infrequently enough 
 not to affect the over all game play. Bottom line, if you enjoyed the first game, this one is a 
 must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kano-619
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  when i played the first game i thought it was way to difficult bu t this one is simply perfect. 
 in my opinion this is one of the best xbox 360 games even better then halo 3, bioshock, call of 
 duty 4, because it is not that difficult and it is so bloody and gory, i get so excited each time 
 i do an obliteration they are so cool, the enemies are so cool and the graphics are awesome 10
 
  but the best thing in all the game are the weapons, there are 8 weapons and they all have so much 
 moves and obliterations, the ninpo (magic) is also very cool, so at least rent it, you will end 
 up at least liking it. ok i downloaded the demo, and i loved it, that same day i rented the game 
 and i was so impressed, the next day i sold my turok and i bought this game and i play it like 
 3 hours a day and i dont get bored of it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bixar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is an awesome game. I personally think that the game has been underrated because 
 the points of criticism in the game are not major, actually the game offers one of the best action 
 experiences on the XBox 360.
  
  There are two minor points about the game that can be criticized, the graphics are not up to date 
 and the camera can be a bit problematic, but other than that the game has no problems, it runs 
 smoothly even when the action is getting intense. The cut scenes in the game are awesome and filled 
 with action and tell the story properly.
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 offers the best action ever seen, specially when you pull off Ryu's moves in a smooth 
 flow. The controls for the game are very simple to understand and it does not take long to start 
 pulling off amazing move combos.
  
  With all that said, the game is actually very difficult and people will find it hard to finish. 
 But it's not impossible and can be finished once you figure out which moves need to be used in 
 which situation.
  
  According to me Ninja Gaiden 2 deserves a solid 9.5 and is a must have for everyone looking for 
 some mind blowing action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdpowen97
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Ok i'll start off by saying this review is probably pretty bias. I played the first NG and NGB 
 and played them into the ground. As such, im pretty good at the series and didnt have trouble jumping 
 right into this one. Basically, if your new to the series, you will probably hate it. If you're 
 already a fan, you should love it.
  
  First things first: the camera. I will be the first (maybe) to say that the camera IS NOT THAT 
 BAD. All these people complaining about it dont know how to deal with it. The trick is dont try 
 and control the camera with the right joy stick. If anything, that is what makes the camera system 
 bad. If your in the heat of battle you shouldnt even have the possibility of using your thumb to 
 use the joystick anyway. I just simply use the right trigger, constantly reseting the camera on 
 whichever direction Ryu is on. I only had 1 or 2 instances where the camera screwed me up, but 
 even still, it didnt effect me terribly to the point where i died or anything. Second: The difficulty. 
 As i stated in the beginning, if you're new to the series you will have a rediculous time dealing 
 with how hard this game really is. You will die... a lot. Even if your a veteran, you will still 
 die, a lot. This is where the true fans of the game are presented. If you like a game that will 
 challenge you and you succeed after the second try... Ninja Gaiden is not for you. If you like a 
 game that will constantly beat you into the ground, laugh at your face, kill you another dozen 
 times, but leaves you with a rare sense of accomplishment, NInja Gaiden is for you. If you dont 
 like challening games, just leave NG alone. Veterans probably know this so it doesnt apply. Now, 
 the story. Ill try to leave out any massive spoilers, but most will say "who cares the story doesnt 
 even exist." I beg to differ. While the story IS indeed lackluster, i do not think it is that bad. 
 It's a classic story of 2 arch enemies, Dragon Ninja Clan vs Black Spider Ninja Clan, where the 
 bad guys help evil demons take over the world. Anybody who cant follow that and says the story 
 is "really confusing" didnt get far enough through school to know what makes something confusing. 
 As most things with this game are, if you're new to the game and you like games with really elaborate 
 and immersive stories, Ninja Gaiden is not for you. However, if you really dont care then go buy 
 this now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebladinieres
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  This is a game a was waiting for, because i love this kind of game genre, where you can actually 
 see your character (for a refreshing change, with so much First person shooters in the xbox 360 
 market) perform acrobatic stylish fighting combos .
  Ninjas are very cool in every way. So this game was promising for me.
  The problem is, I like 
 to fight against ninjas, not monsters or demons, or robots, or little scorpions!!! why do i have 
 to fight little bugs or bats in a ninja game?
  Everybody is complaining about the difficulty. They are right in some points.
  I dont have a 
 problem playing difficult games, if they have the purpose to challenge my playing skills, and not 
 just to annoy me. I mean, the point of every game is to be fun!! 
  The real problem is the inconsistency with the difficulty level. Sometimes its real easy, and sometimes 
 its extremely hard.
  If i lose a battle with a boss, i like to think "hey, maybe im not blocking right, maybe i have 
 to learn a bigger combo, maybe i have to hide over there and throw arrows at the enemies" and in 
 this game the only thing i think is "maybe next time i will get lucky.
  For example, on level 9, (the green level, with the big worm boss chasing you) , for a lot of reasons, 
 i played it twice, and beat the boss at the first try, both times. Then i made a mistake for the 
 second time and deleted my saved game, and had to play it a third time. Now that same boss is extremely 
 difficult for me, even though i beat him twice before. So it's plain luck?
  Sometimes i beat a hoard of enemies with 4 sword strikes and it looks awesome, sometimes i have 
 to block my way out and jump around slashing.
  So far i got to level 12, where i beat a boss (two armadillos) and then just after that, i have 
 to beat Zedonius, a boss that i encountered on earlier levels.
  I totally hate to fight the same boss twice in different levels. Please make a new one for each 
 level!! devil may cry 4 has the same problem.
  Even so, the game is quite good, and i love the fighting animation, and the weapons. I love that 
 you dont need a particular weapon to beat a particular situation, and that every weapon in the 
 game is there just to give you options to choose the one that you like the most, (or to see different 
 combo animations) , The gory part of the game would be attractive if you could see it on real enemies, 
 not robots, or demons with green blood or whatever.
  I didn't mind the lack of detail on the backgrounds, and the story is lame, but when i want to watch 
 a good story i watch an oscar movie. Sure it would be great tom improve the story on this game 
 but , hey, it's Ninja Gaiden, its all about fighting crazy characters. I could not care less if 
 i fight them to get a box of cookies, instead of saving the world from chaos, or whatever, i'll 
 fight them anyway.
  So, it is a good game, but because of the enemies and boss design, and the incosistency in the 
 difficulty level i will give it a 8.5 (i am enjoying it far more than GTA 4 by the way, and that 
 game had a perfect score according to gamespot, i will never stop complaining about that) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saren_Arterius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  After playing through the game now (well alot more than since my last review anyway) i decided 
 to change my review a little. So lets start again.
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 is the most electrifying, fast and bloody experience ive had with a video game... 
 ever. From the moment you pick up the controller your led straight into a battle. What amazed me 
 is the level of beauty and color involved when your slicing off limbs. All of your senses are assualted, 
 the colour, the action, the pace of the game - it all evolves into a violent fiesta of limbs and 
 screams, but all you can do is say wow.
  
  The action involved, is incredible. Basically, the game is full of action, and combot with a tiny 
 bit of platformer mixed in. But that proves how good this game really is. While mainly just involving 
 combat for your play, it still manages to hold your attention throughout the whole game. Not only 
 that but it still excites you long after your first playthrough, and you know your just gona have 
 to play it again (on a harder difficulty level if your up to the challenge!!)
  
  Now, thats another thing. There is no doubt that Ninja Gaiden 2 is the hardest game ive ever played 
 - maybe this and Guitar Hero 3 on expert (you know which song im talking about) . The game, at times 
 will drive you insane with its difficulty, and when a boss does an inescapeable grab move you will 
 feel like throwing your controller out the window - but its no reason to give the game bad ratings. 
 By all means it makes the game a hell of alot better. Besides GH3, this is the first game to challenge 
 me to get better. It forces you to keep at it, untill your good enough to continue, and in all 
 this forces you to keep playing, and keep learning - all so you can rip apart enemies in spectacular 
 glory.
  
  One last thing that ive got to say about the game, is the current slamming of its story by some 
 critics. This i must say is laughable. Honestly, you have to be an idiot to not be able to understand 
 this story. Maybe there comparing it to MGS4 i dont know but heres the laydown. 
  
  Basically the demon statue is stolen from the hyubusa village, to be used to reserect the arch 
 fiend. Sorry if you think thats a spoiler but its not really, its at the begging of the game. I 
 mean come on, how critics say that makes no sense. I believe its not such a bad story, but then 
 again who cares, its all about the carnage.
  
  In my final words this game is an absolute must for hardcore gamers. If you feel like a bloody, 
 hard hitting challenge then buy this game now. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockutd
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden II did almost what every sequel should do: improve on the old formula of its predecessor. The 
 game did do that. However, it has also taken certain steps back in other aspects. The most notable 
 of which, was the camera angle. The camera seems to focus on the slashing action of the chararcter, 
 and neglects the surroundings. Along corners and dead ends, the camera changes and disorientates 
 you. This leaves u prone to attacks by enemies and adds onto to the difficulty of the game.
  
  I also had frame rate issues in the game. Whenever enemies flood the screen, the game just slows 
 down and becomes laggy. This just infuriates you and makes you wonder why the developers hadn't 
 done enough to rectify these problems before launching the game. Graphically, i also feel that the 
 game loses out abit to Sigma, and could have been improved.
  
  Having said all that, Ninja Gaiden II was a fun experience for me. New weapons, new moves such as 
 the obliteration techniques that allows u to annihilate enemies with a single push of a button 
 and cinematics all add to the dynamics of the game.
  
  In terms of replay value, the game does not have much of it. Upon the first completion, u unlock 
 one new costume and a new difficulty setting. U might want to challenge yourself by playin @ a higher 
 difficulty.
  
  To sign off, i would like to say that if you are a fan of Ninja Gaiden, you wouldn't regret picking 
 up a copy of Ninja Gaiden II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluemacondo
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  I've never written a review for a game until now, but Ninja Gaiden II warrants it. The first one 
 is as you've heard it: one of the finest pieces of action gamery in existence. Its mix of a hokey-but-fun 
 melodramatic story, brilliant difficulty, and expertly paced action makes it a crown jewel of the 
 genre and easily the greatest Xbox game.
  
  I fondly remember the original Ninja Gaiden's on the NES which - although completely different 
 than their 3-d counterparts - were masterful and slick. They rewarded memory, and demanded repeated 
 tries, which is where they are indeed similar to the newer incarnations. The one thing Ninja Gaiden 
 II is missing, however, is obviously love.
  
  This game is difficult, sure, that's been well-documented. But it's overall cheap and heartless. 
 For one thing, the boss battles are abysmal and each one are exactly the same. Here's the blueprint 
 for nearly every boss in the game **** SPOILER, (I guess) *****
  
  -dash-and-slash move, kind of a teleporting slice
  -grab move that eats between 1/3 and 3/4 of 
 your health
  -a blockable combo that lets you get a few licks in
  -oh yeah, some of them can fly
  
  These are the most cookie cutter POS bosses you could possibly 
 imagine. They get really inventive (sarcasm) by sometimes throwing enemies at you to deal with 
 while you battle them.
  
  But at least the roving mobs of enemies make up for it, right?
  
  Not exactly.
  
  Here's the thing, you get ninjas, which are great. The new cat-claw ninjas 
 seem the counterpart to those ever-frustrating brownclad spider clan ninjas from Ninja Gaiden I. 
 They pop up a lot and will give you a run for your money. The other guys are mostly fodder but 
 they're a hell of a lot of fun to fight. Throw in a few military-style enemies and there's certainly 
 some entertaining battles. When you die from a particularly cleverly placed gauntlet of enemies 
 hiding behind buildings and walls and you become overwhelmed, you start to remember some of the 
 beauty of the first Xbox game. Yeah they kill you and keep you coming back to the continue screen, 
 but you're enjoying yourself. You try different weapons. You hit hard and fast, then try a slow 
 methodical process with the scythe. You hoard your ninpo until it's required to prolong your life. 
 It's here where the game hits greatness.
  
  But guess what? Get ready to trudge through a billion demons and robots (!?) and spiderbeasties 
 until you are just sick to the death of them come the final credits. I would estimate the game 
 is populated with 25-30% human combatants and 70% big hulking demons. And those things just bore 
 the crap out of me. They're big, they shoot fireballs, that's it. When they're difficult it's only 
 because they keep grabbing you in an unblockable move (like the spiderbeasts) or because there 
 are a few out of your vision blasting you to death with fireballs.
  
  ****SLIGHT SPOILER*****
  In the last few levels of the game these spider-robot things start appearing 
 that aren't difficult but just a PITA. I mean they are groan-inducing. After the first few you 
 think all will be well, you'll get through them. Well get comfortable. Because after they appear 
 you fight well over 60 of them, so you'll have plenty of time to nurture your hatred of them. What 
 are robots even doing in hell?
  
  On a positive note, there is a framerate-ruined battle up some stairs where you slice up HUNDREDS 
 of ninjas. That's probably THE money moment in this game. Except for the slowdown.
  ****END OF SLIGHT SPOILER****
  
  Keep in mind I don't write game reviews. I needed to get this 
 out of my system as I just beat the game tonight. The difficulty is definitely apparent (I did 
 kick it off with hard/warrior mode, the reason for which is that I figured I had absorbed enough 
 skill playing the first one. I suppose if you start on easy/acolyte mode your mileage may vary) , 
 but it's cheap and unlovable. I was very close to turning the game off and just getting rid of 
 it without even beating it, and I've never done that with a purchase of mine.
  
  I give it a 5.5 only for it's few fleeting moments of greatness. But trust me, you will feel no 
 satisfaction when you've put the last boss to rest. Just disappointment.
  If I was responsible for this repulsive tarnishing of a legacy, I'd probably quit my job too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skellington25
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 11, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok, i know, ive seen the reviews almost all of them are 9.0 or up. The game is great, fun weapons, 
 and its really fun to be able to rip your enemies limb from limb. But once you get to a boss fight 
 forget it. they are relentless and dont stop for anything. for instance (spoiler) ..................... 
 the fish thing boss in chapter 3, the fish things he sends after you are unblockable unless you 
 have ninpo (slicing winds or whatever) and the face he sends after you is also unblockable and 
 does some serious damage. (end spoiler) also how they lay the weapons out in the game is kind of 
 frustrating, if you dont see it the first time around, wich you probably wont, then you just flat 
 out dont get it for the rest of the game unless you start a new one. You miss the weapon, good 
 luck beating the boss of that chapter. Ive been playing games since i was like 5, and i rarely 
 ever run into a game i cant beat and this game will be smooth sailing and then a sudden uprise 
 in diffuculty wich is extremely frustrating. bosses are over dramatically hard and you find yourself 
 screaming at the screen every once in a while or switching to different game before you kick a 
 hole in your xbox. The game.. alright.. too difficult for my liking so i give it a 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srrchode
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Ok i'll start off by saying this review is probably pretty bias. I played the first NG and NGB 
 and played them into the ground. As such, im pretty good at the series and didnt have trouble jumping 
 right into this one. Basically, if your new to the series, you will probably hate it. If you're 
 already a fan, you should love it.
  
  First things first: the camera. I will be the first (maybe) to say that the camera IS NOT THAT 
 BAD. All these people complaining about it dont know how to deal with it. The trick is dont try 
 and control the camera with the right joy stick. If anything, that is what makes the camera system 
 bad. If your in the heat of battle you shouldnt even have the possibility of using your thumb to 
 use the joystick anyway. I just simply use the right trigger, constantly reseting the camera on 
 whichever direction Ryu is on. I only had 1 or 2 instances where the camera screwed me up, but 
 even still, it didnt effect me terribly to the point where i died or anything. Second: The difficulty. 
 As i stated in the beginning, if you're new to the series you will have a rediculous time dealing 
 with how hard this game really is. You will die... a lot. Even if your a veteran, you will still 
 die, a lot. This is where the true fans of the game are presented. If you like a game that will 
 challenge you and you succeed after the second try... Ninja Gaiden is not for you. If you like a 
 game that will constantly beat you into the ground, laugh at your face, kill you another dozen 
 times, but leaves you with a rare sense of accomplishment, NInja Gaiden is for you. If you dont 
 like challening games, just leave NG alone. Veterans probably know this so it doesnt apply. Now, 
 the story. Ill try to leave out any massive spoilers, but most will say "who cares the story doesnt 
 even exist." I beg to differ. While the story IS indeed lackluster, i do not think it is that bad. 
 It's a classic story of 2 arch enemies, Dragon Ninja Clan vs Black Spider Ninja Clan, where the 
 bad guys help evil demons take over the world. Anybody who cant follow that and says the story 
 is "really confusing" didnt get far enough through school to know what makes something confusing. 
 As most things with this game are, if you're new to the game and you like games with really elaborate 
 and immersive stories, Ninja Gaiden is not for you. However, if you really dont care then go buy 
 this now.
  
  Now the most important part: The COMBAT. O wow the combat. Although said to be "built from the 
 ground up" the combat system is remarkably similar to the original NG. This is not at all a bad 
 thing and even still the combat has boosts that make it way better. All weapons are balanced nicely 
 and all have unique combos. In NG the Dragon Sword was the weapon to use mainly because of its 
 versatility, but also because it had the most combos. In NG2 it is still amazing, but now there 
 are more combos for every weapon causing it to no longer be the "fallback" weapon. Ultimate Techniques 
 are incredible and the new Obliterations are quite the sight to behold.
  
  Graphics are legit, as they should be, but not quite the jump that would be expected from a jump 
 to "next-gen." Still, the locations are nice to look at and nothing is "bad" to the point where 
 it takes a lot away from the total experience. Only thing that may make you say "seriously? they 
 couldnt fix that?" is when random blood splatter floats on an invisible surface. Kind of random, 
 but forgivable. On that same note... this game is EXTREMELY bloody. If your a younger kid and need 
 a parent to get it with you, be prepared to provide some elaborate explanation like "oh its really 
 not that bad," or "its only partial nudity... not like you can actually see **** or anything" because 
 most parents wont fall for that. So thats basically it: NG2 is an amazing game with intense action 
 and a lackluster story. To help out any new-comers to the game i have a couple tips:
  1.) DO NOT GET FRUSTRATED! You will die a lot. The worst thing to do is throw your controller or 
 scream at the game. Simply take a deep breath and concede that you are not yet good enough, and 
 then continue.
  2.) When fighting bosses, utilize more than just your melee weapons. In most cases, your bow is 
 one of your best weapons. 3.) Don't use the manual camera control. Just press the right trigger 
 often.
  4.) When at a shop and are unsure on whether or not to buy health potions or upgrade your weapon... go 
 with the potions first. I was in a bad position where i had 1 potion to use between multiple bosses 
 in a row. This is near the end of the game so before the ladder chapters i would say get the weapons.
 
  5.) There is a part in the story where about 100 enemies or more will be on screen at one time. 
 Framerates will slow down and you'll probbly yell "WTF" a few times. Stay calm... the enemies are 
 way easier to take down when there are that many because not all can attack at once. Simply kill 
 1 or 2, and then ULT the hell out of everyone else. If i have failed to mention anything crucial 
 or you have any questions PM me and ill be glad to help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeroicVillainXB
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing so many shooters lately and my gaming life was getting a little blan. Even 
 with COD4 and Halo3 I still needed a good action game. Well, Ninja Gaiden 2 answered my prayers. 
 I played Devil May cry 4 when it came out and it was fun but it didnt last very long. Then I played 
 Ninja Gaiden 2 and it was so fast paced, bloody, and fullfilling. It's so hard that when you defeat 
 a horde of enemies you feel acomplished. When you come to a boss you play it over and over just 
 trying to figure out a strategy to defeat him, and when you do it feels like you have actually 
 worked for something. The game can get frustrating after a while but it's worth it. 
  
  However, the camera is aweful. Your constantly having to adjust it and it gets in the way more 
 often than not, and there is not a really good story line. So this game is really about the gameplay. 
 I give it a 9 out of 10, it could have been 9.5 if it were not for the camera and if there was 
 a good story to follow. 
  
  Anyway, this game is definately worth getting if you are up for a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HernanSotoGarza
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden II es un excelente juego de accin, si bien la cmara no ayuda del todo, la accin 
 que ofrece recompensa la cmara, tambin se puede agregar la dificultad, lo cual le quita lo que 
 pudiera llegar a catalogarse como repetitivo. A final de cuentas un titulo *MUST HAVE*.
  
  Los detalles adicionales como los movimientos finales y el que este ubicado en lugares reales le 
 da un buen toque al juego, otro punto a favor es la configuracin del control la cual se mantiene 
 con la del titulo original lo que permite a los fanticos del primer titulo disfrutar de la accin 
 desde el primer momento del juego.
  
  Algo que le quitaron y que no me agrado es la posibilidad de regresar a los escenarios anteriores 
 para buscar objetos que se te olvidaran o suplemente por la diversin de cercenar a las enemigos. 
 
  
  Regards from Mxico (Monterrey NL)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkerKamikaze
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is the follow up one of my personal favorite games from the last generation. As 
 it goes Ninja Gaiden's main character Ryu Hayabusa is facing just as many problems in the second 
 installment of ninja gaiden as he did in the first. Now the games story isn't the best story you 
 will find in a game but Ninja Gaiden has never been a game thats had a rich story with long cut 
 scenes. This game falls under the genre of a fast paced Action game like those of the Devil May 
 Cry series. Now as you go through this game you will find yourself taking on Ninjas, monsters, 
 and demons; Oh my! 
  
  These fiends give you a challenge as you go further and further in the game. The fast pace game 
 play provides much entertainment to the player. I find that with the diverse weapons you can never 
 go wrong with any of the weapon choices. Next the boss battles provide you with a challenge and 
 a sense of accomplishment when you finally down them. The difficulty of the game varies on the 
 difficulty you play on. Acolyte (easy) provides a challenge to a new Ninja Gaiden player or a casual 
 player, while some one who has played a Ninja Gaiden and wants a challenge may start out on Warrior 
 (medium) . You can go through and unlock higher difficulties that will give your hands a work out 
 and your mind a challenge. 
  
  The graphics are still great and the animations still smooth even with all the fast pace Ninja 
 action. The blood spills every where and it never lets up as Ryu has to clean the blood of his 
 weapons a lot through the game. The sound is fine the weapon sounds sound great the voice acting 
 is alright and the sound of limbs falling off sounds great. The characters look good and you can't 
 really find any errors in the looks of the game. The frame drops only happen when there are a lot 
 of characters on the screen (mainly chapter 10) and it doesn't effect game play all that much.
 
  
  With the addition of Ninja Cam you can film your play and show everyone what you did in certain 
 points of the game. The leader-boards provide you with a new challenge as you can rank higher with 
 each play through. Then you always have achievements which can add to your gaming experience and 
 make this game last longer. With the addition of hidden skulls (only used for achievements) you 
 can go through looking for them and find all of them (30 in total) . New game+ provides you to play 
 through again on the same difficulty but with all your weapons still on your character (back to 
 level 1) so you can go and play again for the weapon achievements with no hassle.
  
  There is a total of 14 chapters in this game (Chapters = Levels) With at least one Mini boss or 
 Boss battle in each chapter. As follows the battles with bosses or mini bosses can be redone with 
 out having to continue from a save point. There are a total of nine weapons you can receive through 
 out the game which starts with the Dragon sword. From the original Ninja Gaiden you can purchase 
 items and upgrade items from Muramasa. 
  
  New in Ninja Gaiden 2 is the ability for Ryu to dismember his enemies, severing their limbs and 
 tearing their bodies apart which adds to the blood and gore of the game. Obliteration techniques 
 give you the ability to finish off an enemy missing an arm or leg so they can not gain the upper 
 hand. with Ultimate Techniques you can achieve high combos and when charged to the highest it can 
 be it can spell certain doom to your enemy. 
  
  Fans of the original Ninja Gaiden will love this game and for people who have never played a Ninja 
 Gaiden game but love action games will enjoy this title. There are some frame rate issues that 
 you will experience and the camera takes time to get used too. I say if your a fan of Ninja Gaiden 
 this is a buy and if you are just getting into Ninja Gaiden rent it first and try it out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dutch_Mix
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  2003's Ninja Gaiden was one of the greatest action games of all time. It raised the bar for what 
 you should expect in an action/adventure game including unparalleled graphics, gameplay, and sound. 
 Four years later, the Ninja Gaiden series returns. Is it as ground-breaking as the first installment? 
 Well, not quite. 
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2's story is an incoherent mess. From what I gathered, the plot revolves around some 
 fiends trying to resurrect what's called an "arch-fiend" which is (you guessed it!) intent on taking 
 over the world! And it's up to you, Ryu Hayabusa, to stop them. Oh, and the C. I. A. is involved. 
 Throughout the game, you'll have little to no idea of what is going on. You'll often start a chapter 
 in one location, and begin the next in an entirely different area with no explanation as to how 
 you got there.
  
  If you've played the original Ninja Gaiden then you should have no trouble with Ninja Gaiden 2. 
 Right from the start, the game plays almost identically to its predecessor. The "X" and "Y" buttons 
 are used for quick and heavy attacks, and the "A" button is used primarily for performing acrobatic 
 moves including, wall-running, jumping, and running on water. This is easily the best part of Ninja 
 Gaiden 2. Gameplay is fast, fluid, and extremely responsive. Even when you're being swarmed with 
 enemies, you'll always have the feeling that survival (for the most part) is entirely dependent 
 on how fast your reflexes are. Unfortunately, Ninja Gaiden 2's camera is one enemy that you'll 
 be dealing with throughout the entire game. It's probably the worst camera I've ever seen in a 
 video game period. It gets stuck behind objects when you're fighting, and will sometimes lose you 
 all together. This is compounded by the fact that a majority of the places you'll be fighting in 
 Ninja Gaiden 2 are close quarters. It's frustrating and disappointing because this was one aspect 
 of Ninja Gaiden 1 that needed fixing, and was completely overlooked in the sequel.
  
  One thing you'll immediately notice upon playing Ninja Gaiden 2 is that it's considerably bloodier 
 than Ninja Gaiden 1. If you've ever seen "Kill Bill" of "300" then you should have a good idea 
 of what to expect as limbs and heads will go flying with every swing of your sword. Even better 
 is the fact that once an enemy loses an appendage, you'll be given the opportunity to perform an 
 "Obliteration Technique". By tapping the "Y" button near a downed enemy, you'll decapitate him 
 which will result in a geyser of blood appearing on screen. This adds exponentially to the already 
 visceral combat.
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 is a difficult game. If you had a hard time with Ninja Gaiden 1, don't expect Ninja 
 Gaiden 2 to be any easier. The A. I. is fast, ruthless, and at times downright cheap. They'll often 
 perform un-blockable attacks which can take off a large chunk of your health. Ninja Gaiden 2's 
 boss battles are not particularly great, and you can expect to fight all of them at least twice 
 throughout the game which is really just a half-hearted attempt to add to the game's length.
  
  Visually, Ninja Gaiden 2 doesn't look significantly better than Ninja Gaiden 1, which is surprising 
 considering the fact that Ninja Gaiden 1 came out four years ago! While the animation and special 
 effects look good, environments appear inconsistent; some look impressive, others look as though 
 they could have used another year or two of development. Regrettably, Ninja Gaiden 2's framerate 
 stutters throughout the game, often dropping to single digits when fighting dozens of enemies at 
 a time. This hurts Ninja Gaiden 2 badly as even the slightest drop in framerate can often ruin 
 your timing. Poor collision detection and some unsightly character models round out the game's 
 underwhelming visuals. 
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 is a long game. Depending on what difficulty you start out on (two are available 
 from the start, and another two can be unlocked) you'll probably finish the game in around 10 hours. 
 New to the Ninja Gaiden series is a theater mode in which you can record and upload videos of yourself 
 playing the game. However, this feature doesn't feel nearly as fleshed out as it should be as you 
 can't upload anything until you've completed the game, and when you're watching actual footage 
 of yourself playing, you can't change the camera or fast-forward/rewind. Rounding out the package 
 are achievements and an Xbox Live leader board.
  
  Overall, Ninja Gaiden 2 is a disappointment across the board. It brings nothing new to the series, 
 and the few problems apparent in Ninja Gaiden 1, have been magnified in Ninja Gaiden 2. Even if 
 you're the most ardent Ninja Gaiden fan, you may want to simply give Ninja Gaiden 2 a rental.
 
  
  6.0/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redvasi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  Presentation - Love the presentation... the absurdity of the story line cracks me up! 8.5/10.
  
  Graphics - Needless to say, the graphics are amazing. Ryu/enemies are well defined and the 
 gore/blood is believable. Environment/backgrounds could be a little more refined... but still well 
 done. 8.5/10.
  
  Sound - Sound FX and character sounds are well done. I would have preferred a little more "screaming" 
 from enemies when they were being hacked apart... but you can't have everything. I was disappointed 
 w/ the background music. I would have preferred something more upbeat... for ex. when battles become 
 intense, the beat of the music picks up. 7.5/10.
  
  Gameplay - The camera angles can be irritating... not as bad as the original NG for the xbox... but 
 still irritating. Otherwise, it's been pretty decent. Most instances when facing a large group 
 of enemies/boss, you have a large area to slice/dice. 8.0/10. 
  
  Lasting Appeal - Overall, in spite of it's flaws (camera angles, superior difficulty) , I loved 
 it. I never got tired of butchering ninjas... even after getting my butt handed to me after boss 
 battles. 9.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracula_16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is a wildly inconsistent game. It feels as if it was rushed out the door. As a result 
 of that it's not even close to being as good as the first NG; I ultimately consider it to be a 
 disappointment. That's not to say that I think NG2 is bad, because that's completely untrue. There 
 are plenty of awesome moments to be had and you'll likely enjoy yourself if you were already a 
 fan of NG like me. 
  
  If you haven't heard already, this game is very difficult. NG2 unfortunately has a mixture of legitimate 
 challenge and cheap challenge. When you die [which is inevitable] it will sometimes be your fault 
 and it sometimes will not. There are times where you'll get the worst camera angle possible and 
 you'll get knocked around by enemies (which is frustrating) . There are also several instances where 
 you'll turn around a corner and immediately get attacked by foes that were impossible to see. The 
 only way you could avoid that is if you go through the game a second time and you remember that 
 you need to block as soon as you turn that exact corner. 
  
  Ninja Gaiden games have never been story driven but that doesn't save the story in NG2 from being 
 terrible. There are some familiar characters that show up as well as some new ones, and these new 
 characters are never given the opportunity to show any personality. It's all basically "These are 
 the bad guys. They want to kill you because they are evil". You're never given an explanation as 
 to why these evil doers want to cause destruction over the world by resurrecting a giant monster.
 
  
  It also doesn't make sense [from a story perspective] why the main character would be going through 
 all of these different environments. There are these little bits of text before you start a chapter 
 but they basically just say "Ryu has come across a forest. Kill some dudes" or "Ryu just found 
 a town. You should go kill some more dudes" Don't get me wrong, killing dudes is fun in NG2 but 
 it would be nice if I was given a reason why I should be killing them.
  
  NG2 involves a lot of cutting things up and it's the bloodiest game I've ever seen/played. It would 
 have been nice to have the option of toning down the blood because if you have a weak stomach then 
 it's possible that you may feel nauseous after some of the more gory moments. If you've read my 
 God of War or Dead Rising reviews then you'll know that I'm a fan of brutal combat and NG2 satisfies 
 in this department with flying colors. After every fight, limbs will be scattered on the ground 
 and the ground or walls will be drenched in blood. There are also plenty of moves that had me jump 
 out of my chair and say "Oh my goodness! That was awesome!" (Only with way more expletives) 
  
  The combat is by far the best thing about NG2 if you haven't already guessed. There are a lot 
 of weapons to choose from and each one has its own set of delightfully brutal attacks. The enemies 
 are really aggressive and they won't stop attacking you even if you chop off one of their limbs. 
 Sometimes they'll try and pin you down and blow themselves up in hopes of taking you with them. 
 It's simply marvelous. 
  
  Graphically speaking, NG2 looks all over the place. The animations are probably the best you'll 
 see all year but there are a lot of flaws that bring the game's look down. As mentioned, the camera 
 can be a royal pain at times, there's a lot of screen tearing in the later levels and there's one 
 chapter outside of a castle that is home to some awful looking textures. NG2 looks pretty good 
 when you mix the good with the bad. 
  
  Assuming that you don't smash your controller against the wall, you'll get about 13 hours out of 
 NG2 before you finish it. There are some unlockable difficulties to have a go at if you wish, and 
 the many different weapons will provide some replay value. This game is strictly for NG fans; anyone 
 else should either rent this game or avoid it if you have little patience. Thanks for reading. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vaasman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  The Ninja Gaiden series as we have seen it definitely isn't for the casual gamer. The first in 
 the reincarnation of the series was brutal, and had a near punishing difficulty and pitch perfect 
 combat bundled in a great presentation, making it one of the greatest games of the last generation, 
 and probably the greatest action game of all time. Ninja Gaiden 2 follows in it's footsteps, but 
 not as perfectly as one might hope.
  
  Let me start off on a high note by saying that the combat, the game's key focus, is still top notch. 
 It's incredibly in depth and intuitive, and incredibly satisfying, especially using it on enemies. 
 The game carries a great balance between offense and defense, though it becomes a little too much 
 offense if you get the scythe. The bow system has been revamped, but not so much that it had to 
 become a frequently used weapon. Several bosses need to be taken down with the bow. This game essentially 
 carries over the combat from the first, but adds a few new components, one of which are the obliteration 
 techniques.
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 is pretty ultra violent. In the first one, you might gain a decapitation on a random 
 hit. In Ninja Gaiden 2, the violence takes a new step, with blood splatter flying everywhere and 
 frequent removal of limbs and heads. This is incorporated into the game play in the form of obliteration 
 techniques. When an enemy is missing a limb, you may press Y to zoom the camera in and perform 
 a devastating attack. It's brutal, and very fun to watch, especially because it varies with weapons 
 and enemies, and you can even use them to kill some bosses. This ensures each fight is an ocean 
 of gore, and it makes every fight fun to watch, especially once you grab the eclipse sythe.
  
  The problem's with the game arise in the combat however, in the form of the horrible, horrible 
 camera. As bad as the camera in Ninja Gaiden was, it never was so bad that it became a nuisance. 
 That is not the case with Ninja Gaiden 2. First off let me say anyone who tells you the camera 
 is the same as NGB is lying. The camera is NG2 is spastic, uncoordinated, and simply terrible. 
 Frequently you will engage enemies who run off camera and jump and attack from there. Other times 
 you may have to dodge incoming projectiles that you can't see, or walk around a corner and immediately 
 get jumped by enemies you can't see. On some bosses it can even be downright sinister, as it won't 
 stay properly targeted and you have to spastically press the right trigger to retarget them or 
 suffer a painful death.
  
  Speaking of painful death, that's what you will experience extremely frequently in this game. NGB 
 was accompanied by a brutal difficulty, that often felt rewarding when you overcame obstacles. 
 This is not so in NG2. The enemy A. I. can be completely cheap at times. Frequently you will encounter 
 enemies who just plain ignore the damage you dish out. They don't flinch, and as a result can hit 
 you mid combo, which is an extreme pain. Other enemies simply swarm you with defense breaking moves 
 and you just have to run the heck away. Having to deal with the terrible camera doesn't help, and 
 it frequently feels like you were cheated out of a victory. The game also pulls some cruel tricks 
 such as having long periods without a save, or seemingly endless fights that you will cry for an 
 end to lest you run out of healing items. The game has two unlockable difficulties, though to be 
 honest unless you derive some sick pleasure from dying, you will probably not finish those. I myself 
 went through path of the warrior, and the difficulty was already almost too extreme at some points.
 
  
  Bosses are another point were the difficulty ramps up to an annoying level. The only boss in NG1 
 that felt downright cheap was alma, who drove many people insane for quite some time. In Ninja 
 Gaiden 2, there are many, many bosses, and many of them feel extremely cheap. The chapter 3 and 
 7 bosses come to mind, with attacks that are just plain ridiculous or nearly impossible to avoid. 
 The only way you can really beat them is with a serious amount of luck, as you just need to hope 
 that they don't use these almost undodgeable moves. Many bosses use these lame tricks however, 
 which can become downright frustrating when you are fighting the same boss the 20th time. The bosses 
 also recycle. Occasionally in NG1 you fought a smaller boss two some times. The last chapters bosses 
 in NG2 however are ones you've fought in an earlier chapter, which is pretty dumb. Near the end 
 you may even fight two bosses in a row without a save or shop. Fortunately the game autosaves at 
 the beginning of bosses now, so you don't have to fight your way back. All that said, the boss 
 fights in this game are all freaking awesome. The bosses are graphically stunning and some of the 
 most epic fights in any game.
  
  Graphically, NG1 was stunning for it's time. It was practically at the level of some 360 games. 
 Ninja Gaiden 2 uses the same engine unfortunately, and it is starting to wear thin. The game's 
 graphics are completely inconsistent, ranging from fantastic to distinctly last gen. For example, 
 the caves in chapter 9 and the city in chapter 5 are bland and poorly textured. Havok physics might 
 have been a nice touch, but instead the game has fixed death animations, and the game as a result 
 has tons of clipping bodies. Some character models, including Ryu's, only look ok, nothing special. 
 Then again the animations in this game are fantastic, and some areas near the end are awesome looking, 
 and really show off what the whole thing could have been. In fact this whole game becomes much 
 better by the end graphically.
  
  The story in this game is pretty preposterous as well. The game cites ideals such as honor, love, 
 and mortality, but never goes in depth with these or anything at all. The story is pretty much 
 there to move you from location to location, and it doesn't even do a good job at that. The dialogue 
 is pathetic, with Ryu being the worst. The actor is ok, but his lines are all short and full of 
 cheese. Pathetic dialogue and story aside, the game has some incredibly sweet cutscenes, that emphasize 
 the badassness that Ryu brings to the table.
  
  The game is marred by a few technical issue as well. The game occasionally experiences slowdowns. 
 This mostly happens in moments where you kill around 20 enemies with a ninpo or some similarly 
 chaotic moments. however, this can even happen in areas where the environments don't look good. 
 Ironically though the ending chapters don't have much of this, even though they are the best looking 
 chapters. The game also has mid chapter loads in some areas, and you have to load again if you 
 backtrack. This may not usually be a problem, but sometimes you get caught in a fight right after 
 a load, backtrack to gain an better footing, and it loads again mid combat. Some enemies also have 
 some weird A. I. bugs, and they will walk around you or avoid certain areas.
  
  As much as I wanted to give NG2 an 8 or 8.5, I knew I was biased as a fan of the series. Anyone 
 who is was a fan of the first like me will definitely enjoy the second and overlook it's flaws 
 to partake in the deep combat and brutal challenge, and they will walk away satisfied. If you weren't 
 a fan, the difficulty and flaws might scare you off, and if you simply disliked the first, you 
 will downright loath the second.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaturalXX
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is not as stealthy as new comers to the series think it is. But after the first 
 three installments to this series, Team Ninja has finally knocked themselves out of the first game 
 and created their new game Ninja Gaiden 2. Just like the first games, you play as a ninja (can't 
 spell his name) and you try to stop a warrior from resurrecting a powerful demon-like thing and 
 stop the destruction of the world. But this is a game you have to pay attention to. You can't miss 
 a cut-scene if you want to understand the storyline.
  But this game is all about action and gore. From cutting off heads, to destroying them with unbelievable 
 finishing moves and the hardest and cheapest creatures out there. When I mean hard, I mean it. 
 Especially the bosses are very cheap and very hard that you need from guidelines to defeat your 
 opponent. On top of that the camera is annoying. The loose camera actually makes you face the other 
 way when a monster is trying to attack you from behind. Other than that, this is a solid game. 
 The weapons are fantastic, the bosses are amazing to look at (sometimes) and the graphics look 
 a little like the playstation 2 graphics in a mission. Other than that, there is 14 chapters you 
 go through each probably take you from 30 to 60 minutes to complete. No multiplayer but the game 
 is a great sequel that anyone who is up to the challenge should try and of course Ninja fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoKeR360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 finally made its release on the Xbox 360 Console, Exclusively. But does the game 
 actually live up to the hype? This can be a rather difficult question and really really determines 
 on the audience. If you Played any other Ninja Gaiden game and liked it, you will probably like 
 this one. If you are more of a casual gamer this game may not be best for you. Either way you are 
 most likely to get enjoyment out of this game.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in this game are ok in some areas and bad in others. Lets get one thing straight, 
 there is LOTS of blood in this game. Every time someone dies, there is blood. You kill a LOT of 
 people... Now thats overwith, Ryu looks great and you will see blood on your weapons from enemies 
 that you killed. Some of the environments look great, while others not so much. You will also notice 
 random specs of blood floating in the air. While this isn't anything to major it makes you wonder 
 why they couldn't have spent a little longer polishing graphics up. Overall the graphics are better 
 than some games but not better than gears of war or call of duty 4.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is where the game shines. It is an intense fast paced action game. You have several different 
 weapons that you will acquire through out the game. You start out with a basic sword and eventually 
 you can earn other weapons such as double swords, scythe, blade talons, etc. You also have a selection 
 of ranged weapons, such as bow and arrow, throwing knives, ninja blades, etc. You will also acquire 
 new "spells". You get new ones as the game goes on. You can also upgrade both your weapons and 
 your spells. You get yellow orbs and throughout the game you will find shops to upgrade your weapons, 
 while you will find items to upgrade your spells. The further you get into the game the more powerful 
 you get, which feels great. The AI is pretty good as well. Sometimes it almosts feels cheap the 
 way some of the enemies attack because it isn't fair and can almost be impossible to block some 
 things. The combo system works great. Hit Y for powerful attack, X for a weaker attack. And you 
 can also do combos. Have your enemy's arm cut off? Hit Y to perform a finishing move! There are 
 also some parts where you could be confused where to go, kind of like a puzzle. This could be a 
 little frustrating, but most of the game is straight forward.
  
  Difficulty:
  
  Ninja Gaiden games have always been challenging, and this one is not different. This game can be 
 very frustrating. If you dont want a challenging game where you will die over and over, then don't 
 get this game! Thankfully after each battle you replenish health. But you do have some wounds that 
 cannot be healed. There are also healing items that can be picked up and used throughout the game 
 to heal your wounds that were auto healed. Save points are also a relief incase you do die.
  
  Story:
  
  I dont even really think there is a story to it. The game attempts to add one 
 but its so jumpy and just all over the place that you don't know and probably dont care about the 
 story. If you get this game it will be for the gameplay, not the story.
  
  Sound:
  
  Every weapon has its unique sound whenever you kill your enemies. Also the sound of whenever you 
 cast your spells sounds pretty cool. Cut scenes voice acting is done decently as well.
  
  Overall:
  
  I gave Ninja Gaiden 2 an 8.5/10. The main reason it got this score is because the 
 gameplay is done so well. Even though some things set this game back it is still a great game. 
 It is probably the best action game on the xbox 360. Replayability could be high if you wanted 
 to try and replay the game at a higher difficulty. There will probably be DLC in the future which 
 will also increase the replayability. If you're a fan of Ninjas, Action, or even a challenge you 
 should definitly check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden as shown itself to be a popular series, I have to admit that I really enjoyed Ninja 
 Gaiden Black for the XBOX a few years back, but its hard to ignore the fact that this hotly anticipated 
 sequel really lacks in certain departments and can often feel like your actually playing a game 
 from the previous generation of consoles, infact despite the great action througout the game you 
 can't help but feel that this could have easily been done on XBOX as it doesn't graphically look 
 the best. But NG2 is still a Ninja Gaiden game, and gameplay wise it is still a total blast. By 
 far the best new addition to NG2 is in combat, you can now do fatal kills which are basically like 
 finishers and look fantastic. Body parts fly about and the action is superb, little as changed 
 bar the fatal attacks and the combat is both looks great and feels great to play. NG fans will 
 love this sequel, but new gamers to the series will fall into two catagories, there will be those 
 that love every aspect of it and will no doubt revel in its murderous bloody body parts falling 
 everywhere gameplay and then there will be those who will simply find NG2's problems simply to 
 big to enjoy. Sadly NG2 as some serious problems, overall it plays great and graphically it is 
 ok despite a few issues that (although won't affect performance) will aggravate you, such as the 
 lack of reflections in the water and some graphical issues in the distance, but its nothing to 
 bad. NG2 biggest problem is its camera, it seems odd to say this but in the 360 and PS3 generation 
 we can at least expect games to have better camera systems and its a real disapointment that even 
 this hasn't been fixed, many games have had camera problems but in newer installments have fixed 
 this. But NG2 doesn't seem to have even tried which lets the game down. Storywise its the same 
 old thing so I won't discuss that in this review, but its ok and the voice acting is solid if unspectacular. 
 As I said, NG2 does a lot of things right and you simply won't find another Ninja specific game 
 as good as NG2, the gameplay is superb and will probably leave your fingers numb after a few hours.
 
  
  The developers have also tried to fix NG's questionable differculty, despite this being one of 
 the reasons fans love the NG games it is also a pain for people who simply want to have fun with 
 the game rather then try to get the best score, it also doesn't offer the best first experience 
 for newbies to the series. But some nice new additions have been made, for instance the fact that 
 your life bar gets regenerated after every spell of battle and general enemies are still tough 
 but easier then past games. Sadly there isn't that balance through the game, some bosses are downright 
 tough and its not always clear on how you must kill these bosses like in past games, be prepared 
 to get frustrated with NG2, I personally reconmend taking a few days break if your stuck then come 
 back to it refreshed. Because if you don't you'll begin to hate the game, and despite NG2's problems 
 it is a great game overall that is a lot of fun for anyone willing to take the bad with the good. 
 Its worth stating also that the game does not feature multiplayer of any sorts, this is a real 
 disapointment but the single player experience is still good enough to worthy the cash purchase 
 especially if you have loved previous NG games. The game also features a nice little theatre kind 
 of mode which allows you to watch other gamers gameplay to figure out how to kill that one boss 
 or how to continue in the game, in can come in use and is a nice new addition. But if you asked 
 me if I would have chosen that over a better camera, no way simply because the camera hurts the 
 games score quite a bit. In a game so fast paced and fun it simply doesn't do having a camera that 
 it terrible to use.
  
  Overall, if your a fan of the NG series then you'll no doubt love NG2, it does a lot right gameplay 
 wise and is a blast to play, but for thosse new to the series you might just feel that the games 
 problems will spoil your experience of the game.
  
  PROS
  - Great animation and gameplay.
  - Fatal Kills look great.
  - Still the best Ninja action anywhere.
 
  - New theatre mode is a nice, if unspectacular addition.
  
  CONS
  - Poor Camera.
  - No Multiplayer.
  - Differculty is very unbalanced.
  - Graphically looking its age.
  
 
  Ninja Gaiden 2 is a solid sequel that will please fans of the series, but new gamers will be split 
 on the experience.
  
  I Give Ninja Gaiden 2 a:
  8/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperBlueMonkey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  Being a top fan of the first xbox game of Ninja Gaiden (and still owning my copy of Ninja Gaiden 
 Black) this was one of the most anticipated games for me of this year. However the release soon 
 came about and it got me thinking that it seems quite quick. I was right. What Tecmo has released 
 here is one of those experimental sequels which ultimately leads to the third being amazing. Like 
 Halo 2, experimenting with Ninja Gaiden 2 is with the combat having forgotten about free-roaming 
 environments, graphics and story which the first almost perfected. The game, like the first, plays 
 out in chapters but these chapters don't feel like chapters in a story, more like levels. The first 
 game had the player move from point to point across a fairly free-roaming city and complete various 
 aspects which would then lead to progression of story and completion of a chapter. This sequel 
 however, holds your hand as to where one is meant to go, making exploration and the possibility 
 of discovering secret places practically non existent or blatantly obvious.
  
  The graphics show no sign of update from the original in terms of new design and textures. Ryu 
 looks exactly the same as the first game. Whilst the game in itself and graphics are polished to 
 the point where it does have a slight shine on it, the game simply and obviously doesn't take advantage 
 of the next gen technology. Talking about how Ryu's looks, what's the deal with the character design 
 here? Is the guy who designed the main enemies into bondage or what? But this is similar to Devil 
 May Cry's character design and really doesn't show anything fresh or interesting. No one feels 
 mysterious like in the first game. Everything is spelt out for you.
  
  Overall for new players, Ninja Gaiden 2 may hold a challenge and could be one that they enjoy however 
 if you're fan of the first then I very much doubt you'll like this better. Most likely see it again 
 next year re-titled Ninja Gaiden 2: Black or rather in this case Ninja Gaiden 2: Hot Steamy Brown. 
 Incredibly disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jandrobag
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  I'll get straight to it: teh camera is horrid. besides that everyting is the opposite of aids.
 
  you start the game off as mega pimp daddylicious Rya Hayabusa, who probably gets moar tang than 
 casanova on AIDS. Mothafo's got this ninja sword that be bangin hardcore, be choppin heads off 
 n sh^^. you get 9 wepponz in teh gaem, which can b totally pmpd out to da max (lvl 3) except for 
 1 but i don want to ruineet. teh axn is effin m8zing, 34ch weppon is very cool, xpt for teh karibusa 
 which is w34k4r me thinkz. teh vigoorian flail is teh max roxxorz. emm hawt chix in teh gaym wit 
 naic tittays. teh cut scenes are rly good, then i was like whoaaaaaaa
  
  im just typing to fill in the gap that i must fill, for u see that i must have a i diont knwo what 
 haoefmafn of word and di dont feeel like writing so much n **** lajdsf aaaa i watn to fisnish 
 this is bull adadfadf im off 2 play ninja gai cya peepz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danthegamingman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 provides exactly what fans of the first game wanted. It takes all the great parts 
 of Ninja Gaiden and expands on them. Great enemy and level design, a lengthly campaign, upgraded 
 graphics, astoundingly creative boss battles, and a gameplay engine that is second to none.
  
  While the first game was prohibitive in its unforgiving difficulty, do not let it keep you 
 from giving NG2 a go. While NG2 still caters to the hardcore, the easier difficulty, while still 
 a challenge, is not punishing to a point that newcomers can not make their way thru this action 
 masterpiece. The new health regeneration system works well and save points are more numerous this 
 time around and they will fully restore your health gauge.
  
  The gameplay in NG2 is the greatest that can be found in this genre. DMC4, GOW 1 & 2 combat systems 
 pale in comparison to NG2 its that simple. Button mashing is the quickest way to see the Game Over 
 screen. NG2 requires a more methodical approach to combat, a poetic dance of moves to dispatch 
 your enemies is the best way I can explain it. If you take the time to work on your combos and 
 timing you will be rewarded with the most awe inspiring combat and big Karma points.
  
  26..... thats right NG2 has 26 mid level and end level boss battles. They are largely interesting 
 in their design and aside from a few frustrating (the couple that require the bow and arrow to 
 defeat) bosses, mostly once you become familiar with their methods of attack you can appreciate 
 how awesome they look and fight. Also, the developers have created numerous interesting regular 
 enemies that require different strategies and/or weapons to defeat efficiently. 
  
  Graphics, The graphics are very impressive when you consider there are no loading screens during 
 massive levels that are close to an hour long each. There are at times dozens of enemies on screen, 
 with environmental effects (rain, lightning, etc.) and an enormous amount of special effects (and 
 I mean a ton of particle, special effects, dismemberments, and blood during combat) plus it runs, 
 for the most part, butter smooth. NG2 is on par graphically with NG Sigma on the PS3 from last 
 year, however, Sigma has nowhere near the special effects or open areas going on that NG2 has, 
 so yes I think NG2 is an upgrade in the graphics department.
  
  The camera does require some getting used to. It is no better or worse than the camers from either 
 NG, NG Black, or Sigma. There is a learning curve in using the right trigger to center the action. 
 But after about an hour, it will become second nature and before long you will be using the right 
 trigger as part of the gameplay. Frankly, I do not know the answer to make the free roaming camera 
 any better, when the combat is this fast, the camera just cannot anticipate the players moves. 
 If the developers had choosen a static camera like found in DMC or GOW, the action would not be 
 as intense or as up close and personal. Its just the way things are until a genius can program 
 an intelligent camera, which would be a revolution in gaming.
  
  The weapons are aplenty and well balanced this time around. Whereas, the first game had a couple 
 weapons and many throw aways, weapons this time around are so well balance that anyone one weapon 
 can be used strictly thru the game and well serve you well.
  
  To sum it up. NG2 is an action gamers dream. It caters to the hardcore, but provides an easier 
 entry level for new comers. It is fast, brutal, beautiful, fun, and satisfying. If this is T. Itagaki's 
 swan song, I can not imagine a better way to end a career or a series. 
  
  Buy this game, take the time to become efficient and you will be become more than a better gamer 
 for it, you will become a Master Ninja. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feuer_seele
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  This is a game for experimented gamers in the saga. The original Ninja Gaiden was very hard, but 
 nothing better than play a while, get used to the controllers and movements, and the game turns 
 really easy and fun.
  
  This is a game for player who likes challenges, and for fans of the saga... I liked a lot! 
  
 And that doesn't means that you're gonna give it a 2.3 of calification, just because you can't 
 beat it! Please, grow up mate!
  
  The game has a little problem with the camera, i hope an actualization download for that problem. 
 Some of the weapons in the first game were not that fun, so in this one you're only gonna see blood 
 blood and blood forget punches and kicks!
  
  It is hard to complete, but like i said up, it's just question of time and patient.
  
  The 
 game looks wonderful, the best on graphics in the xbox 360, so, if you're like a baby in this, 
 rent it first, if you like challenges, blood, babes with big boobs, blood, ninjas, japanese mithology, 
 blood and more blood, you need this in your collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuttercane
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so I didn't do my research on this game; but I played Ninja Gaiden Black and loved it so 
 I gave it a chance. Being the type of player that attempts to play every level of a game this was 
 one I couldn't get with. Frankly, I couldn't finish the "casual" level fast enough to trade it 
 in and feel as though I got something out of it besides frustration!!
  
  The graphics, weapons and techniques were awesome! 
  
  However, this game frustrated me to 
 no end. First, boss after boss! Before your fingers could recover good you were back on the battle 
 field for yet more intense fighting with another boss. I thought I was going to have to take preventive 
 measures and strap on wrist support. 
  
  Another challenge was the camera which I had to almost slow down to a crawl to get a glimpse of 
 what was happening around me. 
  
  I won't go on but I will say that if you're going to create opponents that are practically indestructible; 
 at least provide weapon upgrades to give them a fighting chance. Example: Chapter 7 fight with 
 Genshin and his minions was ridiculous! Exploding shurikens and that guy was on your a%*&. At what 
 point in the game did you have time to charge a weapon. Sorry, I know this. . . when you've taken 
 a beating, killed everyone and before the next board begins.
  
  Well I believe this is the end of the Ryu journey for me. Man, add a disclaimer or something because 
 it was crazy! Happy gaming everyone and I salute the true NINJA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twin_Blade_Mike
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to say this right off the bat... this game is completely and utterly amazing. The difficulty 
 and gameplay give it a nice retro feel while at the same time being refreshing and a new experience. 
 This game cracks everything to 11, starting from a soundtrack that makes the game just click to 
 the difficulty that is challenging and yet rewarding at the same time. I've gotten frustrated at 
 the game before, but never once did I think it was cheap, just a player error that caused my downfall. 
 Along the course of the game, you just get better as your weapons do (you pretty much have to to 
 survive) , and you just have a brutal, bloody blast. My 1 and only gripe on this game is the glitches 
 at points (like on the Lycanthrope Castle, I got stuck in a wall on a roof fight with some of the 
 werewolves, and then they got stuck too) , but all in all, this game is the epitome of action games. 
 If you want to have fun, pick this up, but you better bring your A game to the table with you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Okay so the now controversial final tecmo/itagaki game has released. we've all heard that he's 
 quitting tecmo and suing the company. and much of the buzz about that has translated directly to 
 buzz over ryu's latest adventure. Is it justified? well sort of.
  
  Let's get the inflammatory stuff out the way first. Itagaki has still released a ridiculously difficult 
 game. Despite promises to the contrary Itagaki has released a game that only the dexterous uber 
 hayabusa fans can conquer. Even path of the acolyte difficulty which is passive-aggressively insulting 
 in it's title by his design, is still waay too hard for the advertised: "casual inexperienced gamer". 
 Man i couldn't get passed the 2nd boss and i've been gaming for twelve years now. 
  
  So of course the immediate response is, "Well gaeren, clearly you aren't very good at action games." 
 okay mebbe. i don't think so but hey mebbe that is the case here.
  
  However, as an example to the contrary i attempted a boss fight 17 times with the aid of acolyte 
 difficulty and a strategy guide, and a fully upgraded sword for attack... still got butchered. My 
 issue with the game is not really that it is difficult. the issue is that it is cheap and underhanded 
 in it's technique. not really spoilers ahead...
  
  example one: archers shoot flaming arrows at you from perches you can't reach. these guys show 
 up on the first level of the game. fortunately you can snipe them with a bow of your own.... except 
 you don't get said counter weapon till two hours later in the game?? really? really?
  
  example two: bosses will defy your attacks outright ceaselessly interrupting combos, and shattering 
 your defense, all while never relenting their own attack combos even so far as to take a breath.
 
  
  point is, for most of us this game is gonna be rough. Now- that said, if you can stomach the difficulty 
 and frustration what you are presented with is a visceral exploration of graphical genius and violent 
 dismemberment. in a word... awesome.
  
  course you'll need to be able to see the action to appreciate it, and the camera in this game is 
 not good, at all. it regularly fights you. example: when a main controller button ( (the right trigger) ) 
 is assigned to righting the camera, you should get the hint that you will be using it a lot... like 
 too much.
  
  All told the action is awesome, the new weapons are snazzy, the enemies are relentless and you'll 
 see game over a lot. In the end Ninja Gaiden 2 really is an arcade game in the old school definition. 
 If you dig that and like getting hurt (different strokes for different folks) then have at it. 
 Itagaki has a game for you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sadshadow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Heil PAGANS!
  
  I just got NG II and i can say its awesome!
  
  First of all, I ve played all the NG on the NES and Xbox (only ninja gaiden shadow on game boy)
 
  
  all Ninja gaiden series are pretty hard, but no one as NG Black... thats the hardest NG i ve ever 
 played.
  
  Lets begin:
  
  Graphics:
  
  Nothing to say, are awesome! the details on the characters and the enemies, but honestly the enviroments.... 
 well i expected more detailed buildings and you know what I mean.
  
  
  The blood details when you kill enemies are sweet, the darker spot of bloods i loved them.
  
 
  
  sounds:
  
  Slashes, slashes, screams... thats all, music? I can hear it... but not the best selections IMO 
 for me the best Music is Ninja Gaiden II The Dark Sword of Chaos for NES.
  
  Controls:
  
  Same as ninja gaiden black, so nothing new. the only bad thing is that DAMN CAMERA!
  
  
 really! they must fix it asap, i hope for a fixing patch to this problem : (
  
  
  any way, i liked it, and i only have like 3 hours playing.
  
  overall:
  
  Its a pretty 
 hard game, at the begining is easier, and then it gets pretty hard as NG Black, and i loved it.
 
  
  This is a kind of game that you love it for the gameplay or you hate it for the difficult level 
 :)
  
  PEACE!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArsenicA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  ok its been a while since i wrote a review so i think its time for a new one... Ninja Gaiden 2 
 is an amazing game... if u loved the first one u gonna love this one.
  
  Story: well i dont mean to spoil the story but its not as great as i tho it would be its just like 
 the first game i was expecting they would give this sequel a more deep story like capcom did with 
 DMC3. but its ok.. i mean to sum it up the baddies took something from u and its your job to get 
 it back n kill anyone stupid enough to get in yout way... fair enough i guess.
  
  Graphics: well the graphics arent as great as we would expect for a 2008 360 game... but that is 
 not a bad thing cuz Ninja Gaiden games is not about graphics but Game play n thats where this game 
 excels.
  
  Gameplay: the game play has been improven a lil bit u have many combos at your disposal, as well 
 as many many weapons (8 in total) and u can switch em on the fly. the action in the game is ultra 
 fast u leave yer guard down for a sec and you are done. in NG2 now u can charge yer Throwable weapons 
 yeah u can charge yer bow... just press b n keep pressing and u charge yer shoot up to 2 levels 
 when u are done u can unleash an UT finisher. in this game u can delimb your foes and man that 
 really never gets old cuz once u do that u can finish em with a pretty cool finisher called OT. 
 this game is ultra gory and bloody so might not be suitable for lil kids.
  
  Camera: ok the camera is kinda of an issue... cuz sometimes (specially when you are fighting flying 
 bosses) u running away and in a sec later the camera gives you another angle and instead of running 
 away u running toward the bosses and can be really annoying. or theres a lot of things happening 
 on screen and u have like no idea where u are and can be really annoying.
  
  FrameRate: this game has some serious Frame Rate Issues specially when u recording. but its not 
 like it makes the game unplayable.... only when u on chapter 10 where theres like 50 ninjas on 
 screen the FR drops really really bad.
  
  Difficulty: as you all know Itagakis games are hard... and NG2 is no exception... im not gonna 
 lie to you this game is hard... not the bosses they not that hard as the previous game... but to 
 make your way throu the levels u constantly outnumbered and u surrounded and theres some other 
 ninjas with rocket launchers blowing yer ass so its kinda hard to deal with 10 bloodthirst ninjas 
 while u try not to be blown to lil pieces.
  
  Replay Value: this game is hella fun u have tons of weapons, u gotta find Cristal Skulls and Life 
 of the gods jewels so u gonna have to play this game more then twice to find em all plus theres 
 archivements for beating the game with just one weapon like beat the game with the dragon sword 
 or the tonfas or the lunar staff... so if u an archivement whore u gonna be busy for a while harvesting 
 all the archivements...
  
  Closing Comments: this is an amazing game, a must have for action game fans. u cant go wrong with 
 this game dont let the difficulty level of this game keep you from enjoying this incredible game. 
 if u have the cash go for it u wont regreat it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdeuce222001
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of Ninja Gaiden Black and still like to play it on my 360. I'm pretty disappointed 
 in the sequel. While the controls are solid the AI and the camera control are VERY DISAPPOINTING 
 and somehow the graphics have taken a step back. One of the main attractions to NG: Black was the 
 difficulty, however the sequel is just cheap not hard. Bad guys unload endless rockets, bullets, 
 and combos on you and if you get caught in the wrong spot you're screwed. That doesn't even include 
 the bosses who take half your life if you get near them. Again the game is hard, which is good 
 but it relies on cheap enemy damage instead of actually being difficult. 
  
  The biggest complaint is the camera!!! In NG: Black the camera wasn't a detriment but it didn't 
 help things sometimes. NG 2 takes a step back. The camera is for whatever reason at a lower angle 
 and I think relies on the player to correct the view way too often (when you have to think about 
 adding the camera button to an already long combo it gets annoying) Most if not all the bosses 
 in the game are well over twice your size yet the camera doesn't really like to pan up. I'm on 
 the end guy (or one of them) right now. The monster is seriously a couple stories high, the camera 
 won't pan up to look at him, everything he barfs, shoots or throws at you is from above so thanks 
 to the camera its even more difficult to avoid (oh and if you get hit a thrid or half your life 
 is gone-enjoy that) . 
  
  I like this series but NG 2 is a lesser game than Ninja Gaiden Black. Go buy that and it'll play 
 fine on your 360. Plus the graphics are better for that game than the sequel. Sad but true 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damiam
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up the day it came out, really looking forward to playing it, knowing that I 
 might be let down with the hype.. but I wasn't. This game lived up to the hype!
  Its really fun to play. Even though I progressed though the game, I found it fun to go back to 
 the first chapter and master the techniques with the weapons. Think Ive played the 1st chapter 
 4 times and each time was better as I got better with performing moves. 
  Visually, this game is spectacular with the quick menu, switching between items / weapons is a 
 breeze. Im very much immersed in the game while playing.
  Cons ----
  There is a bit of loading that occurs during game play. Yes, between game play and a cinema clip 
 it loads, however right in the middle of attacking an enemy sometimes the game play stops and it 
 has to load some scenes. 
  Overall ----
  I really want to see this game keep going and not reach the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esidle
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  First, I gave the difficulty "just right" ... why? Not becuase I like to brag about being good 
 but because Ninja Gaiden games are supposed to be hard. This one is no different. I find that it's 
 no harder than Ninja Gaiden Black. Although I'm only on Chapter 7, I've only died a few times against 
 the bosses so far. They bash the environment and textures a bit. Again, there's some levels I've 
 not seen yet, but so far I think it's very good. Not a "leap forward" from the last game, but I'd 
 rather keep the high speed action then get a slower game with cutting edge graphics. The venice-like 
 city was amazing. I give it a 9.0 becuase there's few games I've liked better. 
  
  Drawbacks: They changed the blocking-roll move from NG Black.. which is disappointing. I don't 
 like the new one as much. I stop more now whereas I kept moving before. I agree with Gamespot's 
 criticism of the camera. It's not as bad as they say but the 'zoom in' feature can get annoying 
 at times.
  
  Plusses: Techniques are easier to charge, and faster, you can move the camera when you do, and 
 even now take some damage w/out it being disrupted. Most weapons are new and great.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagri7
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  Amazing gore and delimbing.
  Great sounds of blood and gore.
  Great weaponry.
  Graphics of the enemies and characters are awesome.
  Grab you story.
  
  Cons:
  Some parts 
 are just way too difficult for people who have never played an NG game.
  Boss fights seem cheap and recycled.
  The environment could be improved on.
  
  Let me say 
 before anything else. I have never played an NG game, perhaps i should have before playing this 
 one but anyway.
  The game offers some good graphics, great sound and imaginative weapons and a great story. Perhaps 
 the main thing that NG2 offers is the amazing level of gore present. You can slash the enemies 
 limbs off sending them flying over the environment causing the enemies to fall over and crawl or 
 only use one weapon. However you may think doing this will weaken them, instead it does the opposite, 
 the enemies crawling will lunge at you and become a suicide bomber planting a explosive shuriken 
 in you. While the enemies will one arm get more aggressive slashing at you with ferocity. However 
 the aggresiveness can be countered with a quick thumb pressing Y next to a wounded enemy will kill 
 them instantly in a flurry of steel sending more limbs flying.
  The weapons you get and use vary wildly for the uses. The first weapon you have is a normal sword 
 useful for chopping up enemys and spreading gore, the second is a stave with weights at each end, 
 used for pummeling opponents to death. The third is a set of gauntlets and greaves, very very similar 
 to Gilgamesh found in DMC4 without the addition of rockets. The fourth is a set of two swords similar 
 to just using one except slower, the fifth is a Kusari Gama, a flail with blade attached. There 
 are also amazing scythes, bladed tonfas and a nunchuck/flail/axe. You are not restricted to melee 
 however, there are bows, a gatling spear gun and various shurikens. And also magic or Ninpo. The 
 melee weapons are upgradable unlocking different looks and moves and each is suited for a specific 
 task. The scythe is able to mow down enemies with ease where the staff and Kusari gama is used 
 for taking out multiple opponents.
  Now, the most annoying part of the game, no its not the camera. I can cope with that. It is the 
 level of difficulty in the game. As soon as you start, you are faced with around 6 enemies who 
 do not let up on you just because you are new. And the difficulty just gets worse. The first boss 
 is relatively easy, when you see it. But it gets worse. The third chapters boss is just insane 
 if you dont know what you are doing. It took me around 20 goes to actually figure out how to do 
 it. It gets worse. All the bosses have special grabs which are unblockable and hard to dodge for 
 a beginner. If you think you have killed a boss, well think again, they come back twice, or even 
 for a third time. But you can think again if you think they come back with different things to 
 do. All thath as changed is they do more damage. No new attacks or abilities. Just damage. This 
 is where the game lacks a lot. The difficulty makes it annoying to play, and the lack of variety 
 makes it just boring.
  
  The game would be worth of a score of 10 easily, if it wasnt so hard for people never played the 
 series before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thtoneguy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  ninja Gaiden has no online play. it is a reaaaaaaaaal fun game but it has no online play it is 
 fun its brutal some stratrigic stragity like resident evil or zelda. the boss battles are fun but 
 sometimes there just too easy. if ure looking for a brutal game get this. if ure looking for a some 
 wat of a stragity game get this. if ure at least getting a game on to waste time on then get this! even 
 trying to get number 1 on leader borad its fun. this/halo 3 is one of the only reasons to get xbox 
 360. i think gamespot should have at least givin ninja gaiden 2 a 8.5 but everyone has there opinion 
 and i have myn. if u read this review and dont have ninja gaiden 2 try the demo but i dont think 
 u will have to cause its so good. if u like 3rd person game i highly reccomend this game. if u like 
 online games more then i dont really reccomend this otherwise get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: centruroides
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Is absolutely stupid drop points on this excelent game because is "too hard", all Mature ranked 
 games SHOULD be like this, besides, is a test that any1 can pass: 
  why is this game a little harder?
  1.- U usually deal with several enemies, sometimes 8-12 same 
 time (if 4 are trying to stab you, the others are throwing something)
  2.- Enemies are pretty resistent, even without 1 arm or leg, they will try to bring you down
 
  3.- Good AI
  4.- Bosses usually will kill you until you find a way to deal with em.
  
  Why all that make this a good game?
  1.- You have the weapons and if you dont, the character 
 (ryu) do , have the skills to kill all em
  2.- you are MORE resistant than them
  3.- Its supposed that you are more intelligent than the game, dont you?
  4.- no boss is unbeatable
 
  
  The game is a little dificult indeed, THATS WHY is great!!!, if you consider yourself a simple 
 average gamer, you will love it also.
  Interesting story, good gameplay.
  NINJA GAIDEN II is:
  MANY WEAPONS + MANY MOVEMENTS + MANY ENEMIES + GORE
  and unnesesary to 
 say that are qualities of a very good title 
  
  maybe the camera issues is a problem, suddenly freezes to load and the "floating blood" are details 
 that dont make this an excelent game.
  
  minor details... u better get it.
  gl hf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drgr33nthumb818
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  The story to the game is pretty much just kill the bad guys and simple revenge that you forget 
 as the story goes on. Ninja Gaiden 2's action is a type of action that will rock your mind and 
 won't let go, it's top of the line high quality intense action. All the weapons are awesome with 
 cool kills. This is the bloodiest game I've ever period. A**, blood, and guts fly everywhere, limbs 
 torn apart; legless as they may be they will kamikaze them selves if they have to. Although it 
 pops in my head does Team Ninja wonder "would the player enjoy loosing to the same boss 39 times 
 until the point were they smash their control against the wall." (That actually happened and I'm 
 a very calm person.) The good thing is when you pass it what you were stuck on it's very rewarding. 
 It's the best action game of '08, but if you have anger management step away before you break your 
 console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilbongo22
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Let me say for the record, that NG for the xbox is my favorite game of all time, any system, bar 
 none. I have been waiting for a year for NG2 and even bought my 360 MOSTLY to be able to play it.
 
  
  I read a lot of reviews/first looks/previews and heard people complaining about the camera problems. 
 I found the camera to take a little bit of adjustment, but no real annoyance.
  
  The game has amazing sound, crisp graphics, and gore, Gore, GORE. The number of flying limbs is 
 staggering.
  
  The game delivered on almost all fronts. I really only have 4 complaints;
  
  # 1 - The level with the river... nice idea but the sheer number of guys nuking you with missile 
 launchers is dumb. It took me several attempts just to get to the first guy and down him. Cutting 
 the number of guys here by 1/2 would still make it challenging and not so annoying. This part was 
 not even fun, just super frustrating.
  
  #2 - If you die at a boss, you come back right at the encounter. Very nice. I HATE all the clicking 
 and all of the load screens/wait time for this. I know this is petty, but getting owned by a boss 
 then having to wait 2 min to re start the battle sucks. 
  
  #3 - The bosses are complete pansies. There were only 2 bosses I could not beat by button mashing. 
 Simply stand toe to toe with a boss and spam yellow - ESPECIALLY with the scythe. That thing does 
 a 5 hit combo by spamming yellow that takes off 1/5 of the bosses life and sort of stuns them so 
 you can start it all over again. It does not work every time on the first encounter, but for the 
 most part get yourself close and start taping yellow. No need to heal, no need to ninpo, nada. 
 The train guy was an exception but you just need patience. The 2 dragons was same - patience. The 
 blood chick was just the quick dash that we used on the last boss of NG1 over and over.
  
  #4 - The last boss. SERIOUSLY? You go through the whole game HSWTFPWNING every boss and then you 
 get to this guy who is dang near impossible (yes you are thinking "Man this guy JUST complained 
 about the fact there was no challenge to the bosses and now he is complaining the last boss is 
 way to hard." Ironic, no?) . I am thinking a balance would have better. It's not that he is super 
 hard I guess, it just sucks that if you die on phase 3 you have to go all the way back to phase 
 1.
  
  In summary, I would say this game is worth the money. Just perfecting the combos of all of the 
 different weapons will give TONS of replay. I am thinking/hoping all of the stuff i complained 
 about can be fixed with patches. Then again, since the team lead for Team ninja quit on the eve 
 of the launch and is now suing, I am thinking they have a lot of witness coaching and document 
 shredding to do... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystoksor
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I consider myself quite the hardcore gamer, but I have played none of Itagaki's other heralded 
 games; neither of the xbox NG titles (not even sigma) , and none of the dead or alive games. I do, 
 however, have a profound love of action games and consider myself a worthy critic for a game like 
 this.
  
  
  Something that's a pure stroke of genius on Team Ninja's part is the brilliant anachronism this 
 game proves to be. Even as an American (albeit one who has studied and traveled to Japan on several 
 occasions) I feel a great deal of contempt for the widespread Japanese xenophilia (Americanized 
 sushi, samurai/ninja obsession, Japanese pornography) . They must have felt this too, and realized 
 they didn't want their brainchild being at the top of these examples. And it's nothing short of 
 brilliant how they solved this problem: mixing the two. I can't really assert how well this mixing 
 worked but, I sure am not ashamed to play.
  
  For a genre that seems so stereotypically American, it's hard to believe what a seemingly uniquely 
 Japanese tradition fighting games have come to be (ninja gaiden, street fighter, tekken, devil 
 may cry, dead or alive, virtua fighter) . One of the constant wars in my head is that of this game 
 and devil may cry 4. How I'd love a hybrid of the two! The bimbo Nero replaced by the more intelligent 
 and reserved Ryu, the confusing levels and pointless puzzles replaced of DMC4 replaced by the straightforward, 
 almost nonstop action in the less papery environments of NG2... and the all-flash-no-substance 
 action of NG2 replaced by the more challenging and rewarding combos (though maybe with the cooler 
 enemies and animations of NG2) . One of the biggest problems is how close this game comes to pushing 
 one button and seeing Ryu do more than enough sword moves to give a seizure to someone prone to 
 them.
  
  
  If that sounds completely negative so far, let me stress some of the good points of this game. 
 There are three primary weapons, each with a distinctive feel. Buying upgrades doesn't mean hunting 
 for demon blood inside of pews or urns. There's a surplus of moves and combos, and a few moments 
 where you feel like a true ninja, not some prototype soldier. The combat can also be gratifying 
 when it's not brutally impossible. When I say impossible, I MEAN it. I was stuck for hours on the 
 second boss battle (though at least it was against an awesome-looking spider ape) with limited 
 health, and nowhere to go beforehand to spend my "money" on upgrades.
  
  Despite the occasionally jejune combat, lame environments, and (I neglected to mention) weak and 
 confusing story, this is a great game for a skilled gamer with a penchant for some good chopping. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrPharmacist
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Ryu Hayabusa returns! And now at 60 frames per second! So far it looks like a beauty as well as 
 just a fun and exciting gameIve played the game for about 8 hours now, and i have to say that is 
 one of the better games of this year. I have been actually looking forward to this games release 
 since it was first discussed back after Ninja Gaiden black was released. This game follows right 
 in the footsteps of the previous game. Although the story line may not be as compelling, it does 
 not distract from the overall quality of the game. The new obliteration techniques are a great 
 additon that add an extra flare to the whole combat system. Also the new tpes of ninpo adds to 
 the fun. The new weapons are perhaps on of the better aspects of the game. The new weapons along 
 with the return of old favorites is a great addition. Plus the upgraded versions of those old favorites 
 are pretty bad ass. The only disappoinment was the whole crystal skulls bit. They do absolutely 
 nothing except for achievements. I had expected them to be the same as the scarabs in the last 
 game, which was a great feature and extra task to do. I guess they just wanted to keep it simple. 
 And hey it worked. Team Ninja did another great job. Crazy visuals, killer new moves and techniques, 
 it almost just what a die hard Ninja fan is looking for. Way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden II is a adventure-action game.
  Ryu come back with new trick and going to kick ass of those other ninja. The game is like the one 
 on Xbox, it's the same gameplay except the "finisher" and the ninpo system, that's good because 
 this game is so hard than I certanly trow it away if those japanese did another gameplay system. 
 The story is cool, nothing great really but it's cool ^^. Beside, we don't see Rachel in this one 
 : ( that's too bad, but you meet this other sexy girl named Sonia (She look like Rachel at the first 
 view but well, she don't get the same equipement.) . Beside the big disapoinment for me is that the 
 game don't offer a lot of weapons and projectile (Where's the Kotetsu!!???) . Well here my check 
 list :
  
  Story : 8/10
  kill ninja and demon, that's typicaly japanese story ^.^
  
  Gameplay : 9.5/10
  Very good and give a lot of pain for yours little fingers (even at easy!)
 
  
  graphics : 9/10 
  Wow!! Those boobs look so real! XD
  
  Positive of this game : 8/10
  -new weapons
  -Kick ass technique
  -great boss fight (ho yeah, 
 there's a little bit too Great for me ^^')
  -Nice characters design
  
  Negative of this game : 4/10
  -Many weapons of the first ninja gaiden (Xbox) don't appear in 
 this one : (
  -The game is riddiculusly hard
  -After clean the story mode, nothing to do 
  -Shorter than the first
  -Where is Rachel!!???
  -Ryu is annoying in battle with is : "haaaa!" 
 "yaaaa!" (He could say something like : I'll kick your ***** ass!" ^.^)
  
  If you play the Ninja Gaiden on Xbox, you will sertanly love it, but rent it first if it's the 
 first time you play a Ninja Gaiden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L1qu1dSword
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Most people upon opening and reading this are going to automatically wonder how I love this game 
 so much despite certain "shortcomings" cited by "official" reviewers. Just another 360 or NG fanboy 
 who desperately wanted to love this game despite it being "broken." I don't believe this is the 
 case because this game is truly awesome to me. 
  Generally people dislike the difficulty called "unfair" and the camera. I've detirmined, however, 
 that it is simply a steep learning curve that turns people off. The reason for this is that NG 
 veterans who were allready used to this game's overall system love the game and are not bothered 
 by the camera or the difficulty in the least. These individuals in fact don't find the game cheap 
 at all but incredibly fun.
  
  First all talk about the gameplay. The meat and potatoes of any game are found in whether the proper 
 play yields entertainment. NG does in an incredible way. Ordinarily I would be getting furious 
 at a game that made me die 100 times when im barely a quarter through it ( that was me on warriror 
 :) . Thing is I wasn't mad because the gameplay is so fun I was not put off by dying and playing 
 again. The combat is SOOO fun that the game has reduced me in a way to being the defensive girlfriend 
 in an abusive relationship. The game constantly punishes me but is so good that I find myself blaming 
 myself and not the game!" I am aware of this and not minding because it is simply that good. I 
 was at first skeptical about being able to do obliteration techniques or ultimate techniques without 
 essence but the ramped up speed, quantity of enemies, brutal AI and overall difficulty serves as 
 a completely fitting justification. Not to mention also the joy of seeing all of this unfold on 
 screen as your super powerful ninja lays waste to legions of smart, deadly adversaries.
  
  The story was remaniscant to me of Diablo 2. *slight spoiler* it involves the protaganist chasing 
 an enemy who is traveling the world waking sleeping demons and confronting challenges found allong 
 the way. The story is unduly criticized. First off this is because the joy in this game is found 
 in the momment not in the realization of world events in the game. You are too busy trying to stay 
 alive to mind yourself with cutscenes and backstory. That being said the cutscenes are still really 
 good. Just not Hollywood material. That's OK because Hollywood expects the viewer to be simply 
 that. A viewer. If you are sitting still for half an hour and a half then the story better be imaculate. 
 If you are participating in epic standoffs the entire time its the action itself that takes center 
 stage. So while the story was not the greatest I feel the context of this game's style makes the 
 story far less neccessary then say Metal Gear which relies on story because it lacks decent action.
 
  
  The environments are somtimes terrific and occasionally not that good. This never mattered to me 
 that much again because even if they are only slightly better then NGB I remember that game being 
 way ahead of it's time.
  
  The sound is decent. A little more variation in the score would be apreciated, however, the music 
 available is good enough to where this is not a major drawback.
  
  The weapons are VERY fun and a good incentive to scour every corner of the environment so you don't 
 miss out on the dismemberment!
  
  If you are a fan of NG you will likely immediately hail this a worthy sequel and amazing game. 
 If you are new you will likely die lots of times before getting to the goods and this may turn 
 you off before you get good enough. For that and the environments I give it 9.5 instead of 10.0
 
  
  Bottom line is that if you are a NGB veteran and especially one that played the original NES games 
 you are likely to apreciate this game as a 9.5 - 10.0. Thing is these games even since their early 
 counterparts are classically difficult games. Let's just say it's no Wii title that will be easily 
 picked up, loved and just as quickly forgotten. NG takes work to learn but once you are past that 
 difficulty you will find fun that lasts a long time. Most reviewers make a mainstream slant to 
 their reviews so that they may be alligned with the least common denominator and therefore deamed 
 credible by the most ammount of people. Because of this they will allways take points away for 
 games that are insanely difficult to learn. This, however, does not make this game any less of 
 a masterpiece. It was made to satisfy fans and it does what it intended beatifully!
  
  So I guess the question we all want to ask here is whether a sequel ought to be made for new fans 
 or for the original ones. Itagaki's so-called mistake was in making something that the older fans 
 would adapt more quickly too and new fans would be turned off.
  
  From the gamer's perspective obviously a game ought to be somehow true to it's roots. What I mean 
 by that is that while inovation is paramount there still needs to be certain things present to 
 make it feel like this game is a part of the same family that it's predececors came from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  Hey GS,
  
  Id like to put down how I Score games (this is important if you want to understand why my score 
 is so 'low') :
  1 - Utter rubbish
  2 - Utter rubbish
  3 - rubbish
  4 - average
  5 - Good
  6 - Pretty good
  7 - Great
  8 - Greater than 7
  9 - Awesome
  10 - so great 
 ill never review a game that's this good... period.
  
  As some of you may know, i recently Reviewed Ninja Gaiden Black and gave it a 7.5 which is great 
 (as seen by the score reference above) . I was pretty happy when i pre ordered my copy and got it 
 1 day before release, and now that iv finished it and explored the game to its fullest extent (well... almost) 
 i get to review it.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  NGII has good graphics. Not great, not fantastic but not terrible either. There is a lot of detail 
 in the character models, Ryu's clothing has clearly had a lot of time spent on it as there is often 
 close ups him and it looks fantastic. The same can be said of all the characters as well. Animation 
 is also really well done. Everything moves smoothly, and of course super fast. Every move preformed 
 by every ninja looks like its been practiced to perfection and they move in a way that shows this. 
 Whilst the Demons move differently, either lumbering about trying to rip you in half or moving 
 super fast to get behind you mid combo to do major damage. It all looks impressive and adds to 
 the gameplay. Some of you may be wondering "Does it look better than Sigma on the PS3?" My answer 
 is yes. You may have noticed in Sigma you could'nt decapitate your enemies whilst on the Original 
 on the Xbox you could... well Tecmo have put decapitations back in (wont go into much detail just 
 yet) as well as the possibility of limb removal, torso seperation and total annihilation. All of 
 the removed body parts STAY on the battleground, this apply to the remainder of the body and all 
 the blood that come gushing out to there wounds. This looks great when you finish a intense battle 
 as you can see the carnage you have just wrecked on your foes. Very satisfying. 
  
  However, there are some downsides to the graphics. The environments look good in some places but 
 pretty poor in others. There are some blurry textures and some downright ugly ones such as the 
 Green Cave. They are however very varied ranging from Hell, ninja villages, sky ships and a few 
 major real world cities. Another let down is the slow down. When the game is running at its best 
 its fast and furious but when it slows down, you can tell STRAIGHT away. Everything just slows 
 down and it really hurts the overall look and feel of the game. Ninja Gaiden Black and Sigma suffered 
 no such problems which makes me wonder why Ninja Gaiden II suffers from this especially when it 
 can slow down when nothing is around. 
  
  SOUND
  
  Has really good voice acting, and a great sound track. However there are some small pieces of bad 
 acting and the track is rather forgettable. Overall however, its a plus on the sound side. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Ninja Gaiden has always been terrifyingly difficult and this installment keeps 
 up that trend and in some ways makes it even harder. For one, there are more enemies to fight in 
 this installment making you constantly dodge block and unleashing expertly timed attacks otherwise 
 you find out just how fragile your character is. The game also has great AI, which means all the 
 enemies react to how you attack and defend. If you are constantly attacking with little movement 
 they will out maneuver you and get in some back attacks, if you are guarding to much they will 
 grapple you, if you dodge in predictable ways, they will wait for you to move and strike once you 
 finish (theres a brief opening in your defense) . As well as the harder gameplay you also have a 
 plethora of new moves, weapons and Nimpo. Ryu can now, as mentioned earlier, cut off, crush, rip 
 off, kick off and smash off opponents body parts... including there body. This looks cool, and changes 
 how enemies attack you. If you cut off a leg of a ninja, they will slowly crawl towards you and 
 suicide grapple bomb you, or if you cut off an arm they will attack more cautiously, unless there 
 a demon then they will actually become more violent which means being much more deadly. As well 
 as bodily seperation, you can also use Obliteration Techniques which you can perform if a enemy 
 is missing a body part. These cause instant death by a variety of cool looking fatality moves which 
 vary depending on the weapon you use, the enemy your fighting and what they are missing. This is 
 really satisfying and is even cooler because even bosses can be victims of Ryu's Obliteration. 
 There is 4 nimpo like the past games including the classic Fire Ball, the Dark Void (mini black 
 hole) , whirlwind death thing and a phoenix shield thing. All of them have there uses and can get 
 you out of a tight spot. Of course there are new weapons as well. Unlike the previous games where 
 all the weapons were really bad in comparison to the Dragon Sword, in NGII all the weapons are 
 balanced and are GREAT to use. You have the following weapons (including story upgrades) :
  .Dragon Sword 
  .True Dragon Sword
  .Dual Katanas (cant remember the name)
  .Dragon Sword 
 and Archfiends Blade combo 
  .Vigorian Flail
  .Tompas 
  .Eclipse Scythe
  .Blade and weight thing (sorry for not memorizing there names)
  .Lunar Staff
  .Falcons Claws
 
  .Fiends Bane Bow
  .Windmill Shuriken 
  .Incendiary Shuriken
  .Shuriken
  .Harpoon Gatling Gun 
  
  And maybe some others i cannot remember.
  
  All of the weapons 
 feel different and have unique obliteration and ultimate techniques and combos. Each weapon apart 
 from the Dragon Sword and the Dragon Sword Combo have 3 levels of power (the former 2 have 4 levels) . 
 Each level adds new combat moves, and most weapons change in physical appearance making them look 
 even cooler. 
  
  Platforming comes back to NGII but not as much. This game is much more combat based, but there 
 is still some pretty cool platforming sections and of course you can still do ALL the cool moves 
 from the previous games... apart from dodge roll... but thats been replaced by a different animation.
 
  
  Now for the down sides. The Camera. It works most of the time, but it can really get in the way. 
 You may find your self getting hit by enemies you can seen because the camera is being stubborn. 
 It can be easily fixed with a pull of a trigger, but it can be rather annoying and does not help 
 when you are fighting bosses. No biggie really though. I personally didnt find the game to difficult 
 because i finished Black on Master Ninja Mode... so this was about the same difficulty, but to most 
 gamers, this can be a VERY hard game. Bosses can kill you in 2 combo's... so watch out. 
  
  Finally, some final points. They have changed the Health system. you regain lost health after a 
 battle, but you become wounded because a red bar starts fulling your health that cant be healed 
 by the regaining health system. You need to use items or a Save Point. Speaking of save points 
 there are LOADS more, making the game slightly more forgiving. Still on save points, you can use 
 Ninja Cinema to record from when you start a level until you next save. This is cool because it 
 lets you show off to your friends, see where you went wrong and other things. The problem with 
 it is its pretty basic. You cant fast forward and you cant edit the video. NGII is LOADED with 
 unlockables. You of course have the achievements which are well picked and arent to hard, or to 
 difficult. You have the New Game + where you start again using all the weapons and stats you had 
 when you finished the game, plus 2 unlockables difficulties and different costumes. There are also 
 Tests of Valor which are challenging side missions.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Not without its flaws, but it builds and improves on the NG formula and delivers a fast paced, 
 high intense action game that everyone who has a Xbox should buy... just be prepared for some pretty 
 hard moments... ie the entire game.
  
  7.5/10 GREAT
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  
  
  I'd like to start by saying I'm a huge fan of the franchise and I have been for years, dating back 
 to the old stand up arcade version, the original 8bit NES versions, regular xbox, and now the 360. 
 I love these types of games.... Devil May Cry, God of War, Conan, Gaiden.... all offer different 
 hack-n-slash combat but all seem to give you a fairly similar experience when its all said and 
 done.
  
  This particular game has some framrate issues. I've experienced quite a bit of lag, chug, and slowdown, 
 particularly during sections where you seem to outnumbered by 5 or 6 enemies and you try to pull 
 off a flying swallow sword slash. I wouldnt say its a deal breaker, but it is definitely annoying. 
 I've also noticed that the story is as cheesy as any Japanese game out there, which is why I tend 
 to avoid Japanese games for the most part anyway. Again, not a deal breaker, but the story is eerily 
 similar from the last game, which leads me to believe that Itagaki-san is kinda out of ideas.
 
  
  The difiiculty on this game can be stifling in spots, but that's to be expected in NG. If you take 
 the time and level up weapons and figure out some of the moves at your disposal, this game can 
 ofer deep and rewarding battle despite some framerate chop. Above all else, Ninja Gaiden is a frustrating 
 pain in the neck that is as addictive as it is aggravating, so if you loved the last one, you'll 
 probably love this one too, just don't expect a complete re-invention of the genre. Feels more 
 like a 4 year old expansion rather than an all new slashfest, which isnt bad considering teh last 
 game was far ahead of itself anyway. If you wanna curse and swear, buy this one. Its no less than 
 a Must Play.... whether bought or rented.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cashpiles
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  Many reviewers are saying the graphics aren't that great. Actually they're damn beautiful. The 
 first two levels alone can make your jaw drop. I found myself stopping in between the action to 
 go into first person mode so I could just look at all the awesome scenery.
  
  I think the reviewers were too hard on this game as it deserves an 8.7/10. The gameplay owns; and 
 isn't that what games are all about?
  I love games with some difficulty. It reminds me of old school NES games where you may have to 
 redo a level a few times until you can master it. The second level boss has a certain pattern that 
 you must learn. Once learned, you can begin to dismantle who you once thought was nearly impossible. 
 It's a very satisfying feeling.
  
  It feels nice chopping the enemies up into several pieces. Use the dragon sword for ninjas. Use 
 claws on dogs and smaller beasts. Use the lunar staff on big mofos.
  
  Definitely pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartancarver2
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 8, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is the definition of the term "mixed bag". No other game I have ever played manages 
 to combine heart-stoppingly fun and impressive melee gameplay with immensely frustrating and sometimes 
 plain awful design. This is one of those experiences where you have to take the good with the bad 
 and just enjoy it for what it is: a gory, action filled romp around the world.
  
  I'm not going to lie. Ninja Gaiden 2 has flaws. Lots of them. If any other game had the flaws this 
 one has, it would be receiving much less than a 7 out of 10. Why am I being forgiving? Because 
 Ninja Gaiden 2 accomplishes something that few other games manage: It's just fun. Incredibly fun. 
 Addictively fun.  fun. It's like 
 the little blurb on the back of a bag of Lays potato chips : You can't have just one. I dare you 
 to play the game and then put the controller down after killing just one enemy. You can't. There's 
 something ironically therapeutic about sending all manner of limbs, fluids, tissues, and other 
 viscera flying through the air. However, this fact makes all of the other flaws of the game that 
 much more painful. Ninja Gaiden 2 could have been so much more. It's tragic.
  
  First up on the chopping block are the game's technical issues. Somehow, someway, Ninja Gaiden 
 2 manages to combine subpar graphics with an inconsistent and unstable frame rate. This is especially 
 damning because all 3 of NG2's predecessors maintained a silky smooth 60 frames per second throughout 
 the entire adventure. NG2 attempts to maintain 60 fps, but the framerate regularly drops until 
 you're seeing Ryu combo in slow motion. Which is cool at first, but quickly becomes irritating 
 and distracting as your controls become less and less responsive. Many times you'll find yourself 
 staring at the game's many bland, repetitive environments in agonizing slo-mo as the game struggles 
 to maintain it's frame rate. 
  
  Inconsistent frame rate is common in console games, but really should not be found in a game like 
 NG2. NG2 is in the same class of game as Devil May Cry 3 and 4, God of War, and the like. These 
 games require consistent and accurate timing to produce effective, stylish, and powerful combos. 
 This is incredibly hard to do when the game can't decide how fast it wants to run. Easily the most 
 notable example of this issue is found in Chapter 10, where the player must traverse a staircase 
 that is loaded, and I do mean loaded, with hordes upon hordes of ninjas. This could easily have 
 been the most fun, satisfying fight in the entire 12+ hour game, but the frame rate immediately 
 fell into the single digits and stayed that way for the duration of the fight. It felt as though 
 Ryu and the enemy ninjas were swimming through a wave pool of stale molasses. The lengthy fight 
 instantly became tedious and boring. This is the most severe instance of frame rate loss, but the 
 frame rate regularly drops during other, less intense fights as well, in spite of the game's lackluster 
 graphics. It doesn't look much better than Ninja Gaiden Sigma on the PS3, which was released quite 
 a while back. The animations are smoother and the character models may be slightly more detailed 
 (although they now inexplicably lack the self-shadowing found in Sigma) , but most of the environments 
 are extremely bland and repetitive, as if the developers simply copy-pasted the same stretch of 
 forest / snowy land / hellish landscape / castle hallway over and over again until the level was 
 finished. Along with the game's plain graphics and inconsistent frame rate, you will find the dreaded 
 mid-combat loading pauses. These can easily throw you out of the flow of combat and commonly interrupt 
 combos. This is yet another technical issue that has absolutely no place in a fast paced action 
 game such as NG2.
  
  The other chief complaint is the game's difficulty. Don't get me wrong. I love a challenge. I played 
 the hell out of the previous NG games. I love games that aren't afraid to kick my ass. But sometimes, 
 it feels as if the game's difficulty is more cheap than legitimate. It's as if the wonky, schizophrenic 
 camera and the jittery frame rate are artificially making the game harder than it should be. Add 
 to that the enemies that love using their unblockable grapple attacks over and over again while 
 their buddies spam you with range attacks from off screen, and you have a game that many times 
 feels more frustrating than challenging. 
  
  I have to make a point here that some of you may not agree with. Fighting against enemy ninjas 
 is way, way, way more fun than fighting the fairy-tale-creature-gone-wrong Fiend enemies. I wish 
 Team Ninja would make a Ninja Gaiden game that completely got rid of the Fiends and just threw 
 waves of human enemies at me. I would dearly love that. The Fiends just aren't as fun to fight 
 as the human enemies. The centerpiece of this game is the extraordinarily deep and enjoyable melee 
 combo system. This system is greatly nullified by the fact that Fiends cannot be thrown, juggled, 
 or launched. You end up using the same basic combos over and over again to whittle your way though 
 them. It can get tedious. 
  
  The game's numerous bosses are another mixed bag. There are plenty of them, and it seems that the 
 developers went for quantity over quality with regards to the boss fight. There are a few that 
 are genuinely enjoyable, exciting, challenging, and rewarding. These are the one on one ground 
 battles that play out like intense action movies, with plenty of throwing, dodging, parrying, close 
 melee combat tempered with powerful ranged attacks and a strategic balance of defense and offense. 
 
  
  Unfortunately, there are many boss fights that are completely the opposite. These boss fights utilize 
 the game's unreliable water combat and archery systems. These fights quickly devolve into tedious, 
 boring, and frustratingly trial-and-error grinds. And some of them are just plain unfair. You will 
 clip through bosses, take massive damage, get hit from off screen, and much more. For every fantastic, 
 rewarding boss fight, there's one that makes you want to try your own ninja moves on the game disk. 
 Quick example: There's a boss that explodes after you defeat it. The explosion kills you instantly 
 unless you know what to do to protect yourself. There's really no logical reason that the developers 
 would throw that in there. The boss explodes without warning and basically guarantees that you 
 have to repeat the same annoying boss fight several times unless you know about the explosion beforehand. 
 This is a prime example of the game simply being cheap rather than challenging. 
  
  The other complaints about the game aren't so important. The game's story, surprise surprise, is 
 completely shallow and generic. There's a new busty blonde chick for Ryu to fight the forces of 
 evil with, and it seems her main purpose is to distract male gamers from the hilarious dialogue 
 and absurd situations. The story, much like her clothing, isn't really there. If you want to see 
 a futuristic helicopter fly into a Roman-esque coliseum and bomb a crowd of feral werewolves into 
 pieces, this is the game for you. Of course, this is Ninja Gaiden, so the story is just about as 
 important as the supporting character's undergarments. You have weapons, there are bad guys, the 
 bad guys need to be dead. Go. 
  
  The weapons, like the combat, are completely wonderful. You are given a diverse arrangement of 
 tools of death with which to bludgeon, slice, and utterly obliterate your opponents. The weapons, 
 both ranged and melee, are varied and unique. Each melee weapon has different characteristics and 
 combos, and each one is a blast to use. I won't go into detail because the weapons are the essence 
 of NG 2 and I don't want to spoil anything. Like I said before, NG2 does combat extremely well. 
 It's just a shame that the other aspects of the game aren't as refined. The melee combat single 
 handedly saves this game from it's flaws and makes it worthwhile to play.
  
  Pick up NG2 for the combat. Play it for the chance to reduce enemies to squirming, limb-less torsos. 
 Just be prepared to put up with some frustrations as you go along your bloody journey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan_sundberg
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden II is an awesome game, as Itagaki said, he put his heart and soul in to this last 
 NG title... Its fun to slay the fiends and the ninjas, the environments look good... not INCREDIBLE... 
 as in "I just had an epiphany" like in Gears of War... but they do look good. The blood splattering 
 is just brilliant (except with the green blood which seems slightly faker... as in cartoon fake) . 
 And the enemies, gosh... are they smart or what???.... perhaps too smart... it would almost seem 
 like he AI can actually team up to kill you. Some ninjas will shoot rockets at you, and other ones 
 will slay you... at the same time! its 2 HARD!!!...2 FREAKING HARD!... I almost got mad at the 
 game becuz of the super high level. I mean there are some games... like Re4 which are hard but if 
 you get good enough you'll go through them... this game is hard as in impossible.... invisible enemies 
 waiting 4 you on every single room you walk in, unblockable attacks, and SUPER unpredictable boss 
 fights... its almost like its a matter of luck to do good in this game. HOWEVER!!!!..... the game 
 is a lot of fun, even though the enemies are so hard... (even those new fiend-bats that don't die 
 with just one hit) ... the game makes it up for you, becuz you cut them to pieces.... pure good old-fashioned 
 ninja sadist style VENGEANCE! and also the auto-regenering system is a "tap on the shoulder" from 
 God. If you're looking for a challenge, fun and blood... buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duran_gabriel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 12:04 am PT
Review:  It like this game, is interesting. It wasn`t atractive like other games, but the graphyc ... is 
 doing everithing, even if the game is not the best. We can`t compare the gameplay with other games, 
 but we can say that this is almost one of them.
  Another thing that I like is the complex move, combos are fun to perform, the violence in that 
 moves makes you fell goog :) . Also the level of difficult for one level I think is easy and for 
 another is Hard, or something like that.
  Where can i find that ninja costume?
  "You can also record sections of gameplay and upload them for other players to watch, but though 
 this feature is neat, it isn't implemented very well. You're stuck recording entire swaths of gameplay, 
 and the frame rate takes a bit of a hit when you turn the option on". This feature gives a bad 
 note to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Yes, "Ninja Gaiden II" is a bit hard to review. It's good, but doesn't live up to expectations. 
 "Devil May Cry 2" didn't live up to expectations, but it also sucked. However, NG II doesn't have 
 the grandness of the original game which was rivaled and arguably surpassed by Sony's "God of War" 
 games. "God of War II" perfected the formula of its predecessor and as a result became the best 
 combo-driven action-adventure game on the PS2. Most of the adventure elements of NG has been taken 
 out of this big sequel and replaced with lots of bloody action. It's epic, but a bad camera, an 
 easier challenge, and cheap gaming moments, takes out alot of the finesse and tension the first 
 "Ninja Gaiden" had. In essence, the game doesn't live up to the hype.
  
  However, the action is good. Even very good at times, but it can also be rather cheap. The first 
 NG is the kind of game you'd play until you were blue in the face. I cannot say the same for the 
 sequel. You'll play it through once and maybe a second time. If you're a ninja fan, you'll love 
 it. But if you're an action-adventure game, you'll like it and wonder why it couldn't have been 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skiggy80
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I played the Ninja HGaiden for the original xbox and that game was fantastic. The I bought the 
 PS3 version and that version sucked. It was the same damn game on the Xbox and to be honest with 
 you, the original xbox game looked and played so much better. Now I have Ninjs Gaiden 2 for the 
 360 and I am in love!! The fast pace and special effects are amazing!!! I couldnt ask for a better 
 game. It totally took me off GTA4 and Halo. I have been playing this game for about 2 days straight 
 and thank God I had off from work. I would have had to call out. This game is absolutely amazing. 
 GREAT job Team Ninja. Thank you Microsoft for getting exclusives on this game. PS3 owners can no 
 salivate over it. I cant believe how much Microsoft improved on their game line up. I mean, I have 
 about 30 outstanding games on my 360 and about 3 mediocre games on my PS3. Actually Resistance 
 is my favorite game on PS3. I may get Haze once I see a review. But Ninja Gaiden is a game I will 
 be playing for a while and I cant wait to try the harder dificulti. Thank you Team Ninja and Microsoft!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lawndart07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Bad camera! Bad! No! Get back! Damn! 
  Ninja Gaiden, one of the most challenging games on the market, has finally come out with another 
 sequel. Sadly, most reviews have it right. The challenge in the game has gone from rewarding the 
 frustratingly difficulty with something that makes you say "cool," to insanely cheap and frustrating 
 areas that do not reward your stress and hard work quite so well.
  Tecmo, who released the over-rated Dead or Alive game series, once again resorts to tricks that 
 they may think are good ways to challenge you, but are really just extremely cheap. Examples? How 
 about hitting an enemy with a strong attack and immediately being grabbed by said enemy (who is 
 completely unfazed) and getting nailed by an attack that take away twice as much energy as your 
 attack? Enemy reading your mind? Yep, it'll happen here too. Worse, enemy's three times bigger 
 that you seem to move twice as fast as you and smaller enemies when dodging. Not enough? Two words: 
 Ghost Fish.
  Boss fights are not nearly as tense now so much as ridiculously difficult. Luck and spells have 
 taken over skill and patience. You will NOT want to fight some of these bosses again, as you come 
 to realize that if you made it through by the skin of your teeth, riding lady luck, that you will 
 probably have your ass served to you, cooked well done on harder difficulties.
  Don't get me wrong, dismembering is so much cooler now, and to be honest, the most satisfying enemies 
 to fight are the regular ninjas in the beggining. Not because they're easy, but because they seem 
 to be the most balanced and not basically, not cheap! The bigger the enemies become, the less they 
 respond to attacks, and in groups, this lack of response to damage keeps you running more than 
 attacking. 
  These are a lot of complaints, but like anyone who enjoyed the last game, I can't stop playing 
 it. It hurts me and laughs at my attempts to come out on top. I want to prove it wrong, and, yes, 
 I have cursed at my tv in victory, in an attempt to mock it in return when I get passed a part 
 that was giving me hard time. I just wish it was more often a victory due to skill and not a victory 
 of luck. AS if the game LET me win. The bastard.
  The new weapons are cool, but sadly, they look best while fighting ninjas, who don't seem to have 
 a bigger part after a certain level. Bigger enemies won't react as much or at all until they're 
 dead.
  So, if you loved the first game, you probably already have it. Yeah, it's okay. If you didn't like 
 it, you won't get it. And if you haven't played it, try the first one (Ninja Gaiden Black) . The 
 graphics are marginally better this time, but the challenge is a little more even (as in HARD ALL 
 THE TIME compared to HARD sometimes but other times IMPOSSIBLE AND CHEAP!!) 
  Alright, that's enough. I want to play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kozzy1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  This game isnt for everyone, let me get that out of the way right away.
  Let me also say that this review is MY PERSONAL OPINION.
  
  The game is very hard and will 
 not be everyones cup of tea so to speak. 
  The bosses are tough, there are some hard puzzles and the action is very bloody. If you want to 
 challenge yourself this is the game for you most definatly.
  
  I personally love the difficulty as it pushes my gaming skills to the limits and really makes you 
 think while playing it. The graphics are very nice, the sound and music is well done and the gameplay 
 is some of the best ever in a action game. Alot of people i see complaining about the camera and 
 the difficulty being to high, well for me I LOVE the camera, what you must remember is that you 
 must press the "right trigger" to CENTER the camera. Meaning if you are ever going around a corner 
 or what ever, you should press the right trigger to set the camera up. I rarely have any problems 
 with the camera if any, i just use the right trigger often which isnt much of a problem for me 
 at all. And as for hte difficulty its perfect for me, i would rather be challenged then beat a 
 game in 5 hours (ala COD4, etc..) . Each boss in the game has a weakness and sometimes it takes 
 awhile to find out that weakness. But once you finally beat a boss (after 20-50 trys sometimes) , 
 you feel so good about your accomplishment of beating the boss finally after alot of trys. Some 
 call the difficulty "Cheap" but i totally dissagree, its hard and thats how i like some of my games.
 
  There are great weapons in this game that you can upgrade throughout the game as well. 
  The game does get alot harder after level 6, but thats how games should be in my opinion.
  
 
  This is one the best (if not he best) singleplayer game on the 360 and my personal favorite action 
 game of all time. I enjoy it more then the first NG or NG: sigma aswell. The problems that people 
 had with this game are there OPINION, i personally dont have any problems with the camera or difficulty, 
 and i wouldnt change either if i could.
  
  In the end this is an epic game with some awesome monsters, fighting and action!
  The only part 
 of NG2 that i would improve is the story, its not a great story, but then again when you are having 
 so much fun fighting its not really that big of a deal. I need a great story in my RPGS and FPS 
 games but not games like Ninja Gaiden.
  
  9.5/10 and i recocmend it to anyone that is patient and likes a hard challenge in a videogame!
 
  
  Go pick this up 360 owners! Its a very underrated game and a masterpeice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2_fan391
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The is mainly an adventure game that is very simialr to the regular NG but with more 
 weapons, and overall just a whole new feel that succeeds in every way. This game is way more brutal 
 than the first NG and has a lot more combos and ways to simply @%$& other ninjas and fiends up! 
 There are new weapons such as the falcons talons and the dual swords (forget name) and they're 
 all very fun to use. You can level up your weapons and Ninpo powers which all adds to the RPG feel. 
 There are multiple costumes you can unlock, and a few dificulties for replay value. The Ninja cinema 
 is a new thing where you can record videos of where you owned and then upload them so others can 
 see them on xbox live. Overall this game is so underated and is just a must-play game. As for the 
 camera everyone is complaing about I don't have a problem with it I think it's a little better 
 but once in a while it does screw up a little but not too much.
  
  Graphics: OMFG they are sooo good, I was very surprised at first, the frame-rate is awsome and 
 the cut-scenes are intense. The voice acting is very good as well.
  
  Sound: Very good, I think there's a new voice actor for Ryu.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZimpanX
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  The Good: If the core combat wasn't perfected before it certainly has been now, some of the best 
 animations in the business, finally features real successive play , longer than the first game, 
 improved interface, great boss fights, great new weapon additions, amazing cutscenes, incredibly 
 brutal.
  
  The Bad: Water combat is more frustrating than fun, suffers from some performance issues, no stand 
 alone challenge mode, some boring levels, the Ninja Cinema feature doesn't work very well.
  
  Since I had beaten Ninja Gaiden for the original Xbox 4 years ago a game that I hold as one 
 of my absolute favorites ever I've been highly anticipating the sequel, I've even played trough 
 the remakes Black and Sigma and even Dragon Sword for the Nintendo DS to try to make the wait a 
 little bit easier. 
  Now that sequel is finally here but when I saw the review scores coming in I thought I was gonna 
 be disappointed, and I was... but only very slightly. 
  Ninja Gaiden II is an amazing action/adventure title and definitely a worthy sequel to the original.
 
  
  The core gameplay structure of Ninja Gaiden for the original Xbox remains the same but for most 
 the time everything ramped up to eleven. 
  The combat which is the major strongpoint of this series is where most of the improvements lies 
 which is impressive since I thought the combat in the previous game was as perfect it ever could 
 be, well I was wrong.
  The combat in Ninja Gaiden II is way more brutal and faster then ever and it sticks more closely 
 of the ninja way of being able to take your foe out with very few attacking moves.
  Most of this is thanks to the new so called Obliberation Techniques, almost every attack you'll 
 make will result in the enemy loosing a limb and after that you can take them out right away with 
 an incredibly stylish finishing move. Be warned though, enemies will become more aggressive and 
 suicidal after they have lost a limb knowing they cannot return home, and all they can do is to 
 simply take you out with them. So I would advice you to always try to pay attention to your enemies 
 as in the last game actually all of them oppose a real threat.
  There has been a few new weapons added in this game and they all are very fun to use and feel very 
 well balanced too. And all the older weapons that make their return now much more fun to use aswell 
 as they now have more combos and some have been reworked. There is only really only one weapon 
 that I miss from the last game and that is the sword called Keitsu, it would have been very nice 
 to see it here but I can live without it.
  The use of Ninpo aka ninja magic has been greatly improved as well. Not only does it look way more 
 impressive when you use them but you can now aim your attack a bit more precisely to deal most 
 of the damage out on a more powerful foe rather to the one that is standing closest to you. They 
 also work better now to make you get trough some really though and intense situations than before 
 and it's definitely worth it to upgrade your magic aswell for even greater effect. 
  You can also now change your equipment on the fly thanks to the improved interface. By simply using 
 the d-pad you can directly take a potion or change your weapon or ninpo without taking you out 
 of the experience and having to remember where all the enemies are positioned. 
  There was a similar system in Sigma though but you could only pretty much use potions and since 
 the game did not stop you would much rather use the Start Button Menu as you simply don't often 
 have the time to look trough and use your what you have with the d-pad while in the middle of a 
 fight.
  The previous game also had some frustrating sections when platforming as you often had to line 
 up your jumps with the camera. The platforming is still here but it's lighter and most of it is 
 optional to find hidden items within the environment compared to the first game where you had to 
 pass some of these frustrating sections to be able to progress.
  The puzzles are lighter aswell but sometimes a bit too light. For example you find a look door 
 only to find out the key is in the next room meaning it will sometimes only take you less than 
 a minute to unlock that door sure, but it's an unnecessary way to break off the pace.
  Before you also ran into these so called Fiend Challenges without really knowing it and you ended 
 up fighting enemies in a room for a time that would seem like forever. These have been made optional 
 aswell by finding portals that will take you to an arena like environment.
  The last game had some free-roaming elements but this game is more straighforward with branching 
 paths mostly leading the hidden items.
  This isn't too bad though as it feels a bit more like the old-school Ninja Gaiden games and you'll 
 travel to many different places around the world too.
  Besides the free-roaming aspects was pretty much fake as you always had to go to a certain place 
 to progress, while it was cool to see how some environments changed over time there was sometimes 
 confusion on where you had to go next and this game has less of that. Sure it would have been cool 
 if this game had featured some real free-roaming but I personally don't mind this design.
  The Ninja Gaiden games has always had very responsive controls and they even feel even a bit more 
 responsive here, at least the movements with the analog sticks making some special moves easier 
 to nail. 
  There was only one thing about the controls that took a while getting used to for me personally. 
 And that is that the first person camera view is now entered by holding the left bumper instead 
 of clicking the right analog stick and to be honest I prefer the old way and having the Karma score 
 mapped on the left bumper which in this game has to be enabled in the options menu by hitting the 
 back button.
  
  The camera of this series is something that is often brought up for discussion, some hate it and 
 some don't.
  The camera in this game mostly remains the same with some improvements here and there but there 
 are also things about it that aren't as good as before.
  For example you can tweak it some in the option menu, in bossfights you can change to camera to 
 not be locked on the boss which it always was in previous games, the camera view when using your 
 bow is way better and you can now a lot easier aim your ninpo as mentioned before, you also now 
 control the camera when charging up an ultimate attack with the left analog stick as your right 
 hand is busy but for some reason you can't change the vertical angle.
  Also when you try to change vertical angle otherwise the camera now autocenters when you let go 
 of the analog stick but it does not do it for some reason when the game it self gives you a bit 
 odd vertical angle.
  Ryu and his enemies also now moves faster than before so you will have to recenter it a bit more 
 now with the right trigger on your controller.
  So it's pretty much the same thing as before meaning the camera certainly isn't great but not horrible 
 either, it simply takes a while getting used to.
  
  The difficulty is something that is often discussed as well. 
  The level of difficulty of this 
 game is for the most of the time improved. The easier difficulty setting is easier than before 
 and the harder ones are harder to both please newcomers and hardcore players.
  Ultimate techniques won't be interrupted by weaker enemy attacks, you now always get back a bit 
 of your health back after each fight reducing the use of potions that brakes of the pace a bit 
 and the save points are more frequent than ever before and they will also fully restore your health. 
 The game also often auto saves before a major boss fight to ease of some even more frustration. 
 
  You also start off a lot more powerful which is a big improvement over the previous game and health 
 upgrades can strategically be used as health potions as your health bar will not only get longer 
 now but fully restored. 
  Don't get me wrong though this game is as challenging as ever so you will have to try to pay attention 
 as much as possible to the enemy movements and attacks. There are very many bossfights in this 
 game and most of them are really great but the trade-off for them being so many is that they can 
 vary in difficulty. Some of them along with some enemies can even be a bit cheap. 
  For example there are enemies that will constantly spam you with rockets meaning you have to constantly 
 evade and all the explosions make it a bit harder to see what is going on and there is even a boss 
 at the end of chapter 7 that will explode upon death taking you down with it. As enemies has been 
 exploding trough out that chapter already ( an amazing chapter by the way ) you can pretty much 
 see it happening. What is annoying though is to figure out on how to avoid it and I will tell you 
 this know to save some frustration, you simply stand still and hold down the block button.
  The combat on water can be pretty frustrating as well as you have to tap the A button all the time 
 to keep moving and in Sigma you only had to move the analog stick to accomplish the same thing.
 
  But for the most part this game provides the right amount of challenge.
  
  The story in this game isn't really all that interesting and it never has been for the most part 
 when it comes to this series. However the cutscenes using the in-game engine can be pretty amazing 
 so you can actually end up paying attention to what's going on anyways even though the plot isn't 
 very deep and fairly predictable. The voice work isn't too bad either, I especially like the voice 
 of the Greater Fiend under the name of Volf.
  
  The graphics in this game are great especially the effects with blood going everywhere and using 
 Ultimate Techniques can be very cool to watch not to mention the animations ranks upon with the 
 best I've seen in all of gaming.
  The graphics unfortunately tend to be pretty uneven though. 
  Sometimes the lighting can look 
 really flat and basic, some environments look completely bland and lifeless, the art direction 
 is sometimes off with things looking completely bizarre or even silly and blood can end up floating 
 in the air stuck on nothing. 
  There are also some performance issues, in chapter 2 for example the game sometimes started to 
 load or freeze in the middle of a fight even give me a completely white screen for a couple of 
 seconds or started to go in to slowmotion. 
  This almost wanted be to stop playing the game as it felt so unfinished but after that I did not 
 experience anymore problems except for maybe a screen tear here and there until the later chapters 
 where there would be some some short slowdown again but then there was also a ton lot more going 
 on screen so that was more acceptable but still an annoyance. 
  This surprised me as games from Team Ninja always bring you game that are very well polished, and 
 I did fear this a little bit as they did not delay it as they often do with their games. 
  If this had to do with the games' producer Itagaki leaving the company or pressure from Microsoft 
 I do not know but hopefully this will be fixed later with a patch or something.
  There are times though when everything completely works though including the art, great looking 
 environments, textures and lightning with a rock solid framerate and some bodies will stay on the 
 ground even after you have left there area which is very impressive ( try backtracking sometime 
 to see it yourself ) . When this occurs it can be a completely mindblowing game to look at. 
  Because of these issues though the game barely looks any better than Ninja Gaiden Sigma for the 
 Playstation 3. Meaning it still looks great but I did except it to look a bit better.
  
  The sound is very good, I really like the sound effects of the weapons and when they connect to 
 the enemies hearing skulls crack and such and also the music is well composed fits really well 
 with the action on screen.
  
  As far as value goes this game is actually longer than the original and longer games are always 
 welcome. The trade-off here is that there are some levels that are a bit boring for example there 
 is a part in chapter 9 where you run around in a tight cave that looks bad, is not very fun to 
 be in, the camera is annoying, it's hard to tell which direction is the right one and there is 
 also a glitchy worm boss. Thankfully the majority of the chapters are really amazing.
  After you have beaten the game you unlock two more difficulty settings and these games are always 
 fun to play again on a harder difficulty settings if you can handle the challenge as things will 
 change as you go trough it. 
  You can also play trough the game again on the setting you have beaten it on keeping all your upgraded 
 equipment. This is a great addition to the game that I always felt was missing from previous games, 
 there are even achievements for playing trough the while game with a certain weapon. The only thing 
 I could complain about this feature is that you can not choose the chapter you want to play right 
 away.
  There is also a new feature called Ninja Cinema which will let you record your progress and upload 
 it to share with others. This sounds better in theory though than it is in practice as compared 
 to the replay system in Halo 3 for example you can not pause, rewind, fast forward, change the 
 camera angle or even remove the bloody heads up display. The only thing you can do basically is 
 to add a black/white filter that will make it look a bit like and old Japanese ninja splatter movie. 
 
  The framerate will also take a noticeably hit while you record. In the end this features only really 
 serves the purpose of showing others how to get trough a certain chapter or beat a certain boss.
 
  The game also lacks a stand alone challenge mode. Ninja Gaiden Black has a mode called Mission 
 Mode where you right away could jump into a fight or challenge a boss. It was great as it was something 
 you could just play for a couple of minutes before leaving for work for example and improving your 
 highscore was pretty addicting aswell. Sigma also had this mode and some other modes available 
 as downloadable content.
  I'm sure this game will get modes like this downloadable aswell later on but it would have been 
 nice to have had something like this on the disc.
  
  In the end Ninja Gaiden II is a truly amazing game only lacking the same level of polish as the 
 original along with a few extra modes for added value.
  Despite these drawbacks the game still manages to be barely superb and it delivers some of the 
 very best action found on the system and is a must have for fans and others should try/rent or 
 download the demo found on the Xbox Marketplace to see if they're up for the challenge that awaits.
 
  
  //ZimpanX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakerunner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off I don't own the game. And I havent played it much, but I am still in love with it. 
 The day Gamestop got Ninja Gaiden II in I drove my friend down over there and he picked up this 
 copy and then we went back to his house and for like 8 hours or more in just the one day, I sat 
 there and watched him play. This game is brutal, just flat out insane. I watched him get all the 
 way to chapter 6 in that one day playing on "Warrior" difficultly. Its fun to watch him hack lesser 
 ninja's in half, and just watch as their bodies go flying, along with random limbs. It was a really 
 cool game. Also with the fact that it is amazing, its brutally hard to beat. We is better than 
 me and it still took him a few like 20, or so times to beat a boss. Not to mention some of them 
 seem impossible... cough flaming cough cough armadillo thing cough... I hated that fight! Expectally 
 right after another guy who was hard.
  
  All in all amazingly awesome, probably one of the most fun games ever or an insane and challenging 
 gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: egboiani
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Normally I find myself agreeing with Gamespot's scoring of games, but I have to argue with giving 
 this game a measely 8.0. Granted the story is a bit shaky, the difficulty isn't consistent, and 
 the camera will bother you from time to time, Ninja Gaiden II is filled with amazing visuals, sharp 
 control, and best of all, incredible action. No other game gives the player as much of a "Yeah, 
 I'm a badass" feel. 
  Too often are sequels scrutinized heavily because of the success of their predecessors. A game 
 should be judged on its own, not compared to the original. I feel that this is why Gamespot and 
 other respectable gaming sites scored the game an average of 83/100. That being said, Ninja Gaiden 
 II is definitely a worthy sequel. The game improved on its more annoying features by adding more 
 save spots, recharging health, and more effective finishing moves. These features made the game 
 less difficult, which was one of the first game's turn-offs.
  I don't know about the rest of the original Ninja Gaiden fanbase, but I didn't want to see much 
 of the game change, and thankfully it didn't. I am a firm believer in the "if it's not broke, don't 
 fix it" mentality.
  So if you're a fan of the first, or you wanted to play the first but couldn't get past Murai at 
 the beginning of the game, Ninja Gaiden II is worth the $60 and worth a few playthroughs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darobinson67
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is a nice change of pace and its nostalgic because i remember playing the first ninja 
 gaiden on the nintendo, this game does make some minor refrences to this generation but this game 
 is a bloody good action game. It also has some nice visuals, i like the thunder clap of catastrophe 
 chapter. the combos are also mega fun. not one for the kids but i think the best mature action 
 game available on the 360. love the vast choice of weapons to slaughter enemies with. the boss 
 battles are kind of tough but if you die the game lets you start over right at the beginning of 
 the battle, so you dont lose any ground in the game. decsent achievements, you get them fast at 
 the beginning of the game but they are only 5 points a piece, once you get later on in the game 
 you start getting some meatier hunks of achievement points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  If you played the first Ninja Gaiden then you already know what you're in store for mostly, even 
 in the gaming world though sequel doesn't mean better. A typically weak story and mediocre voice 
 acting are definitely not the back bone of the game, in fact you get the feeling rather quickly 
 that they were more of an after thought that a from start to finish objective. 
  Past the story design though we move to combat, just as the first combat is screamingly fast and 
 more violent than ever. Matching that to a great four button combat system and it churns out beautifully. 
 The drastically enhanced gore though isn't just 100% cosmetic, as you start to realize it gives 
 you a slight tell sign to enemies. Mainly you might believe cutting an enemies leg or arm off would 
 end their threat to you but in reality you'd find that for most of the enemies it just makes them 
 more vicious. Werewolves and ninjas alike will come at you harder and more persistently till you 
 put them down or vice versa. The wounds though also let you know a enemies damage level, limbs 
 rarely come off with a single strike (unless that strike does a lot of damage like the scythe) 
 and this lets you know that the enemy can be taken out with a special. Specials are just a quick 
 end execution to wounded enemies, which comes in really handy against packs of werewolves and such.
 
  While the core combat is great as you progress through the game you'll come realize you're spending 
 about half your time fighting with the camera as well. Especially in tight areas like corners in 
 hallways or rooms with large objects in the center. This wouldn't be such a large issue if the 
 enemies had some sort of turn based team attack system, instead though enemy attacks are relentless 
 and without order. Just as one enemy ends his attack another begins, or maybe three or four at 
 the same time. This could be countered though by blocking, only to a point though. Again as you 
 deepen into the game you'll come to notice that block becomes a relatively useless skill as most 
 enemies begin to use unblockable attacks.
  Beyond the issues of camera controls there is the general difficulty; my issue isn't with the challenge 
 of the actual combat but more or less the pace. Without question Ninja Gaiden is a poster child 
 for intense difficulty the real challenge lies outside of skills and falls into the dumb luck area. 
 A many of the bosses are simply a trial and error style combat, you will lose one or two times 
 till you figure out how to even hurt some of the enemies. Namely a lava armadillo and some worm 
 like creature in green caves. These enemies require little skill compared to just trial and error 
 replay. Not to mention the complete lack of consistency with bosses, while one may be near impossible 
 to beat the one right after it may pose no challenge. For instance one of the early bosses, a metallic 
 serpent like creature was rather a challenge to defeat, later bosses such as Alexei, Volf and the 
 Greater Fiend of fire posed very little challenge. In fact the big bosses, the Greater Fiends tend 
 to be the easiest of bosses while the sub bosses and more challenging groups of enemies seem to 
 pose the real test in skill. 
  Overall the game has a lot going for it, it just tends to go straight into a wall. The increased 
 gore and beautiful fighting system tend to be shorted rather well by the poor camera and later 
 enemies in the game. It becomes tiresome and over all aggravating later in the game when you need 
 to constantly block and dodge fluidly but am constantly defeated by poor automated camera shifts. 
 Many a time you'll find yourself so tightly shoved into Ryu's back that you can't see much else 
 until you've been grabbed or beaten to the ground. So with that all said the final round up.
  
  The good
  +Great combat system when you can see your enemies. The four button combat with 
 context sensitive specials really makes the combat feel intricate while being rather simple to 
 understand.
  +Characters are beautifully rendered, more or less to focus on the violence. Some how lopping off 
 a ninjas leg is that much more satisfying if it's lopped off in HD with high res textures and blood 
 sprays every where.
  +Wide weapon array. While this may seem trivial the fact that every weapon works slightly different 
 and every weapon has a unique execution for every enemy. It gives you a lot of breathing room for 
 finding a weapon and style you enjoy most. 
  +The games length is actually quite decent for its genre. Most of the time these things are over 
 so quickly but the game tends to keep going longer than you'd expect. While this may be to the 
 fact that you die and must replay certain parts so much or that you must re beat a many bosses 
 it remains a fact none the less.
  
  The bad
  -Unforgiving enemies, while normally they would be great and add a wonderful challenge the coupling 
 of this with bad camera angles and unblockable attacks merely leads to a lot of instances where 
 after one baddy breaks your block everyone around you comes at your all at once.
  -Dead buttons. Of course many will deny that this even happens but it does. You're supposed to 
 be a ninja, yet there are a many moments (mostly boss fights) where after a combo I repeatedly 
 press jump only to watch in awe as not only does Ryu stand still but always gets grabbed or combo 
 hit by the assailing boss. I really want the buttons to do what I press, where are those ninja 
 reflexes?
  -Story. Of course not a major dropping of the ball, for those who require a story to really enjoy 
 and get into the game just walk by this one. The 'heard it all before' story line not only feels 
 bland but it seems it was attempted to make it 'zesty' by cutting the dialogue and story up making 
 it more confusing with only partial delivery.
  
  The really bad
  -Lights and action, but where is the camera? I know many will say it's not the game it's the player. 
 "Part of the challenge is using the camera" or "It's noob to blame the camera". Not so, if the 
 camera wasn't about four feet behind Ryu then yes the camera is you're fault. But when you spend 
 a part of the game with a camera embedded into Ryu's intestines it's no longer the player. The 
 funny thing is its obvious Team Ninja made the camera poor on purpose because all of the boss battles 
 take place in very large open areas, even where you don't expect large areas to be they seem to 
 just appear. I've seen this a lot, too make a game more difficult a company will skew the camera 
 and claim it intensifies the game instead of just admitting they couldn't figure a way to make 
 the game harder without cheating and just screwing up the camera.
  -Rockets and Exploding daggers. I really thought for the most part they finally got rid of those 
 annoying and aggravating ninjas with explosives. But I was wrong. The best part of these guys is 
 they hang back and pump you full of rockets while five guys hack you to pieces. Every time you 
 block a sword swipe you get hit by a rocket and it breaks your block so just in time the guy close 
 to you can combo you. It's a relentless perma-combo of swords and rockets, passing these areas 
 generally require exploiting some small part of the AI. Best of all it seems that the rocket launchers 
 go to full auto as you get closer, don't bother timing your assault on the rocket ninjas cause 
 they only fire faster as you get closer. 
  
  Overall I would highly recommend renting before buying and make sure you get to chapter 6 or 7 
 before you seriously make a choice. The first few chapters are a blast and so are the ending ones 
 but the middle could seriously alter your opinion of the game. It's good, but has some serious 
 issues that should have been though through before release.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Walker34
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I'm giving this game a 10 because I think the scores it's getting are too low in comparison to 
 other games. What's up with the scores in the 8's? SUre it has some minor glitches but what game 
 doesn't? this game is more refined than a lot of games that get higher scores. People are nitpicking. 
 On fun factor alone NG2 deserves a 10. It's an amazing game. I can't believe how much depth they 
 have put in an action title. 14 levels of nonstop action, challenging boss battles, great weopons 
 and power ups, and upgrades. It is a classic action title and it has more depth than it should. 
 The fighting is done so well. So many combos and moves and it's extremely brutal. You also have 
 to figure out certain things as you go. It's addictive and i can't put it down. The graphics of 
 the characters are done very well. The environments are not always the best but they are decent 
 The camera can be horky at times but it's not a big deal once you get the hang of things. The story 
 can be cheesy but i dont really care. It's probably more around a 9 but i'm giving it a 10. This 
 is the type of game that has been lost on a lot of developers. It's fun and addictive and that 
 is what matters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I have very fond memories of the Xbox Ninja Gaiden. It carried over the essence of old-school action 
 games in a way that even Devil May Cry could envy. The action was fast, fierce, and tough, but 
 rarely seemed cheap or arbitrarily difficult. Sure, we all cried a few times fighting Alma or running 
 from those ghost piranhas, but between those brief bouts of frustration we were treated to some 
 of the most exhilarating, badass ninja fights known to man. Needless to say, expectations were 
 high, and Team Ninja did an admirable job of improving and diversifying the combat, but to whoever 
 is responsible for the camera system; I WANT TO BASH IN YOUR FACE.
  
  Ninja Gaiden II opens up with a CIA agent looking around a sort of neo-Tokyo for none other than 
 Ryu Hayabusa. Obviously, some sort of naughtiness is happening, and Mr. Hayabusa is needed to deliver 
 a spanking of epic proportions. She finds him after he saves her from a squad of rival ninjas, 
 and thus the gameplay begins.
  
  The first thing you'll notice is the graphics. Not a huge leap past the first NG, but considering 
 how far ahead of its time it was, that's not bad. They have a clean, vibrant look to them, noticeable 
 on the glow of the cherry blossom trees and pools of blood lying around. Character models are also 
 detailed nicely, and Ryu himself looks fantastic. All the animations are fluid and a pleasure to 
 watch, and there are some great elemental effects like water, fire, and electricity. Despite some 
 bland caves and subway tunnels, the game is work of art, especially the arenas for the Tests of 
 Valor.
  
  The game plays just as smoothly as it always has, although it might just be me, but counter-attacks 
 seem much more difficult to pul off this time around. You'll get the hang of them eventually, and 
 the Obliteration techniques are an especially brutal complement to them. Once you've managed to 
 hack off an enemies' limb, pressing Y near him will make Ryu dispatch of him in a fast, gory manner, 
 such as slicing off his leg before decapitating him. These new finishers are a joy to behold, and 
 reinforce the idea that the kid gloves are off in the sequel. There are several new weapons, including 
 the Dragon's Claw and Tiger's Fang (Dual Katanas) , the Falcon's Talons (Bladed Gauntlets and boots) , 
 and the unique Kusari-gama, which is really fun to use when you get used to it. The weapons at 
 your disposal are varied and each offer their own strengths. The Lunar Staff, for example, is particularly 
 useful against large, hulking enemies, as it easily knocks them around. However, against smaller, 
 quicker enemies, the Talons can hack them to pieces in no time. All the weapons seem to be designed 
 around fighting a certain type of enemy, yet they can all be used effectively against any enemy, 
 when mastered. This flexibility in the fighting really shines as each player finds his own style, 
 and adds to the feeling of satisfaction when you master your technique.
  
  Speaking of satisfaction, there's the bosses. A hallmark of the first, boss fights return with 
 a vengeance. However, this time they seem less like battles of observation and skillful playing 
 and more like contests of dumb luck. The level three boss is a perfect example. He's a giant metallic 
 fish who has a ton of either hard to dodge or unblockable attacks, any of which will drain your 
 life in seconds. His most frustrating move is spewing a swarm of miniature versions of himself, 
 who kamikaze into Ryu and explode. This is more or less impossible to dodge, and there's a 50/50 
 chance that the Lunar Staff spinning attack can block it. There's a rapid-fire attack involving 
 balls of electicity that spray everywhere, and dodging them is pretty much a matter of luck. Then 
 there's an attack where he fires a ghost face at you. It moves slowly, but is an instant killer. 
 It in itself isn't hard to avoid, but when he uses it, and then fires those mini-fish at you, they 
 hit you, knock you down, stun you, and you get up just in time to get instantly killed by that 
 ghost face killer (no pun intended) . it's times like this where NG ii is at it's worst, where battles 
 rely more than chance than skill, and the odds are incredibly unfairly stacked against you. Granted, 
 it increases the joy you get when you finally kill the boss, but in the original, once you knew 
 how and when to attack, you could more or less beat any boss at will, as long as you were skilled 
 enough.
  
  Like I said though, the greatest adversary here is a wonky, unreliable, and completely unpredictable 
 camera. It pans and zooms apparently at random, gets hung up in corners, and even goes inside enemies 
 and levels. It makes performing combos way harder than it needs to be, and I would honestly have 
 liked a fixed camera like Devil May Cry much more. It becomes infuriating when your sick 50-some 
 hit combo is ended by a shuriken thrown by an off-screen enemy. Oh yes, off-screen enemies do not 
 hesitate to pepper you with countless cheap shots as you fiddle with the camera. It isn't all too 
 unbearable, as the new auto-healing system is a godsend. Whatever damage you take in a battle, 
 only a portion of it is permanent. Only the red parts of your life bar need either a Blue Essence 
 orb, healing item, or one-time heal and save from a Dragon Statue to recover. Everything else will 
 regenerate once a fight is ended. It makes the game way more tolerable, and I probably wouldn't 
 give this game such a favorable score had this feature not been included.
  
  Despite these criticisms, Ninja Gaiden II is a worthy successor to the greatest action game on 
 the original Xbox, and if you're willing to take a beating, you may just fall in love. The action 
 is unequaled, the gameplay smooth (mostly) , and the fights rewarding. And to whoever develops the 
 next one, fix the camera, please? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii_dude101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Ok well first off, the action in this game is so freakin fast! Ok well I'm gonna start with the 
 goods and the bads. first......
  
  
  The Goods: Ok well like I said the action is so fast! the character design is really nice, voice 
 acting is pretty good, a lot of weapons will keep you going through the game, to tell the truth 
 it's a very long game, and your gonna wanna play through it again.....
  
  
  
  The Bads: The character design might be good but the level design really isn't that good, if your 
 a huge fan of NG then this might be alittle easy until you beat it and unlock the two other harder 
 settings, if your not a fan of NG this is gonna be really really Hard! It really doesn't have a 
 good story......
  
  
  
  Now it might seem like I'm gettin down on this game alittle but I'm not, the gameplay makes this 
 game worth 60$ maybe more. All in All the game is really good, if your a fan of NG then go buy 
 this game right now, if your not then at least rent it.
  
  All in all I give this game a 9.5
  Gameplay 10
  Graphics 9.6
  story 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SDMF_TrueBlue
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden II is the highly anticipated sequal to one of the Xbox's best games. After over three 
 years in development, does it live up to the franchise legacy? Absolutely.
  
  Graphically, this game is among the best on the 360 to date. Environments are huge with effects 
 ranging from lightning strikes in the background to blood waterfalls. There is a nice variety to 
 the levels. Players travel from a futuristic Tokyo to the United States to the depths of hell, 
 which makes for some engaging scenery that satisfies both aesthetically and artistically. Enemies 
 are richly detailed, well animated, and there is a nice variety. Everything from your basic ninja 
 to Fiends that would make the devil himself blush are accounted for. Hero Ryu Hayabusa has quite 
 the impressive animations that will be rivaled in terms of detail and depth for quite some time. 
 Watching Ryu in motion truly makes the combat more engaging. The only problem is the frame-rate. 
 When there are numerous smaller enemies or several larger enemies on screen at once the fluidity 
 takes a hit. Sometimes it is minor, other times it causes the game to chug. That said, the chug 
 can allow for players to truly appreciate the animations of the game, as well as allow some precious 
 seconds to react to what's happening on screen.
  
  The audio is also improved. Some stages have high-tempo electric guitar resonating, while other 
 stages have some music that sets the mood for felling some of the games tougher areas and bosses. 
 Enemies sound great, from guttural snarls to death shrieks as you obliterate them. Ryu Hayabusa 
 sounds as vicious as ever. Fans who loved his voice work from previous versions will be pleased 
 to hear the original voice-overs, along with new clips. My advice is to turn on the Japanese voices.
 
  
  The game controls as fluidly as ever. Veterans will instantly be able to pick up right where they 
 left off. New additions such as the dash and Obliteration Techniques are welcome additions that 
 add even more speed and control to combat. With the variety of weapons finishing moves you will 
 almost always find it easy to pull of some new and slick combo. The camera has been improved upon 
 since Ninja Gaiden Black, but still isn't perfect. You need to be able to know how to work the 
 camera, or you will take hits from enemies that are just off-screen, a lot.
  
  This is Ninja Gaiden, so this is one hard game. This game will throw enemies at you in droves, 
 and they will not stand around and wait to be butchered. Bosses almost always have unblockable 
 moves and are sometimes accompanied by other enemies. The regenerating health bar and healing at 
 save points are welcome boons, but you overall cannot carry as many healing items, so every fight 
 should be fought as intelligently as possible. If you want a challenge, this is your game. Disregard 
 what Itagaki said, this game is not for casual players. This game will beat you to a pulp, laugh, 
 and taunt you to come back for more with its incredible combat and sense of satisfaction that comes 
 from killing everything on screen. My overall game time for completing one playthrough on Path 
 of the Warrior was about fifteen hours. After all is said and done, this game could have used a 
 bit more polish to improve the frame-rate, but it is otherwise an amazing title.
  
  Overall, fans of the series will love this game. It is mostly more of the same, with some new additions 
 to sweeten the deal. It won't do much to attract new fans unless they're looking for a game with 
 challenge. The ability to start a new game using the save file from a completed file adds replay 
 value. Starting anew with all remaining essence, non-quest items, Ninpo, and weapons makes a second 
 playthrough even more fun than the first. Just take a deep breath before you sit down with this 
 one. It's going to be a hard, yet satisfying, ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akatsuki398
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden is an action adventure franchise that makes us blow our eyes out with suprise. You 
 are obviously Ryu Hayabusa, a ninja of the infamous Hayabusa clan who promised to put an end to 
 the Fiend. The aspect about this game is not only you can hack and slash, but you can execute a variety 
 of acrobatic moves such as the wall run, and my favorite the bird flip. The graphics are a just right, two 
 thumbs up that go well with the Xbox 360. Although the game is a little too difficult, is either 
 because of the boss battles or the enemies that gang up on you without thinking. But that's the 
 fun of the game, you don't want it to be too easy, you want it normal, Heroic, or Legendary (similar 
 to Halo) . The techniques you perform with your weapons are just awesome, if you press the right buttons, Ryu 
 will slice off the enemie's head, limb, or arm. The concept of hack and slash is really fun and creative 
 with all moves you can perform. Later on as you progress through the game, you will find some weapons 
 like the Dragon Sword, Lunar Staff, Falcon's Talons, Tonfa, and the Dragon's Claw and Tiger's Fang. The 
 weapon I really want is the Tonfa, the pair of sticks that look like nightsticks. The environments 
 in this game is a little lacking such as that long, dark green tube filled with discusting insects. Now 
 people have been complaining about the camera system, now don't get me wrong, but what's the bad 
 in the camera, well I don't know, that one was a little hard to figure out. Okay to be honest with 
 you, maybe the camera is a little buggy because of the no zoom in when an object is an your way 
 of view. Although this is a pretty good game, and a must play if you'r unfamiliar with the Ninja 
 Gaiden Universe. The Ultimate Technique is fun to look at, it looks like you'r powering up Bankai 
 or something. But that's just the beggining of the awesome-ness, there are two colors which show 
 the strength of this technique, red and blue, unleashing a crazy combo move on your enemy after releasing 
 the Y button. Almost everything in the game is spectacular except for the camera that's all. You 
 have to thank Itagaki for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herfalas
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden II es un juego excesivamente ultra-violento, si lo que te gusta es destazar a tus 
 oponentes, la sangre y el desmembramiento este es tu juego, en cuestin de combate sobrepasa realmente 
 a su antecesor llevando su accin rpida como caracterstica de NG I a niveles jamas vistos, animaciones 
 brutales, destructivas y hermosas :) , en aspectos de combate logra su objetivo ( Impactar al jugador 
 al igual q a la audiencia ) , en cuestiones de ambientes concuerdo con gamespot les falto trabajar 
 ms en eso aunque no del todo ya que las estructuras de la jungla y el templo en ruinas del captulo 
 9 (creo) fueron bien trabajadas aunque el agua no mucho... la caverna verde rectilnea de este 
 mismo captulo realmente deja mucho que desear no solo por lo poco trabajada que fue en su estructura 
 si no por el Boss (un gusano) al que te enfrentas aqu, esta sper bugeado y glicheado realmente 
 no s como hice para acabar con l pero esta seccin del juego realmente estuvo de mas, lo mismo 
 digo del armadillo de fuego despus del chapter en el avin de los ninja araa negra, un jefe demencialmente 
 difcil que aparece de la nada y cuando muere sin aviso alguno se autodestruye eliminandote completamente 
 ( a no ser que te cubras en el momento pero como dije es un ataque sin previo aviso ) , estos dos 
 aspectos en mi opinion personal yo los veo de mas (no debieron ser incluidos en el juego ) otra 
 queja es una seccin del captulo 10 en donde te enfrentas a un ejrcito en unas escaleras (ms 
 de 100 creo) de ninjas de bajo rango Black Spider, que ocurre aqu? el juego se ralentiza ENORMEMENTE 
 viendo todo en accin lenta aqui es donde el software cae completamente, tuve que contenerme las 
 ganas de masacrarlos a todos para huir de la escena ya que la lentitud era frustrante.
  
  Pero Basta de quejas sigamos con los aspectos fuertes del Juego, el reparto de personajes es de 
 lo mejor, sobretodo la sexy Elizebet, Genshin, Zedonius y los demas demonios fueron excelentemente 
 diseados, no solo eso si no TODOS los enemigos y mini bosses cuentan con diseos espectaculares, 
 escenas atrapantes, el sistema de Finishers lo adoro y creo que ustedes tambin lo adoraran, las 
 nuevas armas SON EXTREMADAMENTE BRUTALES sobretodo las garras de halcn y el Eclipse Scythe.
  
  En conclusin Ninja Gaiden es un juego para el amante de la extrema Dificultad ( se equipara 
 perfectamente con la dificultad de NG I ) y amante de la accin rpida y fluida, si no cuentas 
 con estos requisitos simplemente pasa de largo NG sin criticarlo por su dificultad porque creeme 
 este juego no es para cualquier jugador casual, tienes sus bajos como los antes mencionados pero 
 realmente no es para recibir la calificacin de 8.0 (oficial de Gamespot) pero bueno lo hecho, 
 hecho esta....
  
  Personalmente amo este juego y me atrevo a decir que sera el juego de accin mas impactante y mejor 
 del XBOX 360, Saludos desde Venezuela :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Black was my first foray into the Ninja Gaiden games. Loved it, and have played thru 
 several times. Ninja Gaiden II is more or less of the same, and that's not a bad thing. I've read 
 many reviews panning the lack of innovation. Here's my take: the graphics (cutscenes especially) 
 look better, the fighting is at a non-stop blistering pace, and the difficulty on the hardest setting 
 is slightly easier. 
  Like NG Black don't look for a wonderful drawn out sense making story here. The story is just an 
 excuse to show off the graphics power, and move along the levels. Ninja Gaiden II is all about 
 gameplay, fighting and tons of blood. After playing GTAIV for weeks, its a nice change of pace 
 to just play a straight up action game, no major thought involved other than planning on bosses 
 and learning the best moves. The gameplay is very well done, the controll scheme works perfectly, 
 and the in game graphics are fantastic. The camera is a problem, I'm constantly resetting it to 
 get behind me, but other than that there are no complaints. If you've played Black, try the hardest 
 setting, I think you'll get more out of the game.
  In closing Ninja Gaiden II is exactally what I wanted it to be, fast paced, bloody, fun, edge of 
 your seat action. If you want a big story get GTAIV or MGS4 next week. As I will. But take this 
 for what it is, a great action game in it's own right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SplitxXxSkulls
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  I think that this is a great game. It's alot like the previous Ninja Gaiden game, but Intensified 
 obviously. I love everything about it except the camera angle at times. All too often you will 
 not be able to see who you're attacking because of the camera. When you can see everything perfectly, 
 it is awesome. I think one of the reasons this game didn't get better reviews was because of how 
 good the first game was. Either way this is a beautiful game, but there probobly won't be another 
 since the creator quit and is suing Team Ninja and Tecmo. The combat in this game is........ Great. 
 Cutting off an enemies leg and watching him hop around on one leg to attack you is funny. The combat 
 is just perfect, the attacks are amazing as well. The best addition is defenately the gore, and 
 for good reason too. As far as I know, razor sharp blades cut off limbs, especailly when your Ryu 
 Hayabusa. It's a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deingerous
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  Ok down to bussiness, since im a big fan of the series (NES/Arcade versions included) im going 
 to speak about the few bad parts first before i tell you why you need to own this game.
  
  The Camera: WTF happened?!?! ok its not terrible but it cant keep up with ryu's speed and consider 
 hes much faster now its just a bit difficult to rely on without recentering it all the time (for 
 people who've never played NGB or NGS anyway) .
  
  Virgins be damned !: They said it was easier, It's Not. Personally i dont care about this because 
 the difficulty is what attrarted me to this game in the first place. ok the easier difficulty is 
 there and it works for like the first two chapters but any time after that your in for a ruff time, 
 any difficulty above easy will batter you senseless if you dont take the time to learn what youre 
 doing but if you do make the time to get good at this you'll find the most rewarding experience 
 ever in any game reguardless of genre!
  
  Gameplay: OMG, for me this is as good as gaming gets the combat is amazing and without doubt the 
 most fluid amimations ive seen in a game, the A. I is smart, vicious and relentless, you have to 
 keep focused or you'll die and die and die. There is some platforming but not anything interesting 
 that really sticks out but my two gripes with gameplay; Framerate issues (shame on you team ninja) 
 and the few uninteresting water levels leave this from bieng perfect.
  
  Graphics: They're good but not the quality i expect from the geniuses at team ninja its obvious 
 some things (exspecially the environments) were scaled back to accomodate the more interesting 
 features of NG 2, its even more obvious because everything looks pale in comparison to the georgious 
 character models which is shame but at least the get the job done.
  
  Closing Statements: NG2 is a fantastic game that some very memmorable momments and the best combat 
 i've ever seen but as much as i hate to say it, its not perfect. Peace and Happy Gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike_Foxx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  Buy an extra controller and send the kids out of the room, because Ninja Gaiden, the ultra-hard 
 hack&slash from Tecmo and brilliant dirtector, Itagaki, is back; and will have you cursing so loud 
 the neighbors will hear, and flinging your controller harder than a Wii-mote when the wristband 
 breaks.
  
  Ninja Gaiden II takes all the good things from the first game, polishes them, adds some nice graphics, 
 and serves it all up. Now, all the good things are to include the punishingly-difficult level of 
 hardness in this game. Really hard. REALLY hard. As in, try not to think of dying as an inconvenience, 
 but just part of the game. This is the main point of the game to address, even before basic things 
 like storyline, because after a short lull to break you into the game, it comes down like a hammer. 
 And even the 'tutorial' phase of the game plays like most other games on hard. Any gamer who played 
 the first will be familiar with NG's awful level of diffculty; probably the only game to beat out 
 Devil May Cry 3 in that sense. But even those who have played the previous iterations (and I have 
 played 2 out of 3 of the original's versions) need to be prepared for an even tougher challenge, 
 if such a thing is possible. There are a few things to ease your burden, however; which will be 
 touched on in a moment.
  
  To cover the gist of the game, NG2's storyline is about as important as the original's, which is 
 to say, it's there to give you a reason why there are demons everywhere. In fact, that's pretty 
 much THE storyline; there are demons, make them dead. Not that this is a BAD thing; it harkens 
 back to days of games like Contra. Old-school style games, where the storyline didn't matter, it 
 was just getting from point A to point B, and everything that happened in between. In fact, NG2 
 has a 'classic' feel to it in general, in the sense that the game hinges on your own skills and 
 ability to adapt as the game goes on. If you're dying, you're going to need to figure out a new 
 way to come at your opponent.
  
  Which brings up the subject of combat, which is what this game is all about. Big weapons, and bigger 
 enemies. There are the general moves of jump, slash, etc., but you'll be given more movesets as 
 the game goes on. Also, there will be Ninpos, or magic, to help. You'll be guiding Ryu, the main 
 character, from battle to battle, with few breaks in between to heal, save, or go squeeze a stress 
 ball. Combat is fluid to the point of breath-taking art, and can take minutes to learn, but hours 
 to master. Every enemy will require a different tactic; and luckily, your bag of tricks is bottomless. 
 In addition to the hack&slash gameplay now are finishing moves, which can be executed on injured 
 enemies (which will be easy to spot, as they'll be the ones missing limbs) . And, returning, is 
 the power-up move by absorbing souls of downed enemies into your weapon and unleashing a fury of 
 devestating stabs and slashes. The catch to the finishers, however, is that wounded enemies are 
 almost more dangerous than the other ones; they will attack more violently, and pull off 'finishers' 
 of there own, including sticking Ryu with explosive kunai, or executing vicious grapple moves. 
 In the end, however, the combat is as satisfying, and bloody, as ever. 
  
  A major help in combat, however, is that NG2 implements the health regen system so many games have 
 become fond of in recent years. The two catches, however is that the area must be completely clear 
 of enemies, and not all health can always regenerate. With every critical hit, some of the bar 
 will turn red, and that segment can only be restored with items or a save point. With the new system, 
 save points also seem to be a bit more liberally scattered across the maps. The only thing throughout 
 the game that really is a hinderence to combat is the camera, which will occasionally get stuck 
 on a wall, in a corner, or leave you facing the wrong direction.
  
  The graphics have had a step-up from NG1. Bright lights, fantastic backgrounds, detailed character 
 models, and well-designed enemies all make the game a pleasure on the eyes. Some areas can become 
 repetitious; interiors of castles, subterranean levels, etc. The levels were clearly designed with 
 a sense of reality in mind (most of the levels actually being real-world locations, such as Liberty 
 Island) . Sewers, tunnels, and the like aren't the most varied locations in reality, so some of 
 the monotony can be forgiven. And the action is so intense and showcased, you'll hardly be stopping 
 to admire the scenery, anyway. Rounding all of it out is a great soundtrack and superb voiceacting, 
 which finishes setting the tone and mood for the game.
  
  NG2 is a very hard game, but one that gamers with patience and looking for a challenge will find 
 rewarding. There is an 'easy' setting, which is quite a bit more forgiving, so most gamers should 
 find something here to enjoy if they're a fan of action/adventure, or a good-old hack&slash. And 
 anyone truly looking for a masochistic gaming challenge, there are two unlockable harder difficulty 
 levels. Tallying in at over 10 hours, with plenty to see and really master, this is a solid addition 
 to any action gamer's collection. 
  
  Pros:
  +Vivid graphics, music, and voice acting
  +Fluid combat system
  +Addition of combat elements such as regen
  
  Cons:
  -Punishing, 
 often daunting, difficulty
  -Camera can sometimes work more against you in combat
  -Some levels can get on the bland side 
::::::

::::::
UserName: butteman12
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I cant believe the reviews this game is getting!! Its so fun and addicting! the combat is the best 
 i have ever seen in an action game. Its so fluid and quickpaced! A great addicition to this game 
 is that there is a lot of gore and blood and violence! it feels much more satisfying when you do 
 an oblieteration technique (fatality after an enemy loses leg or hand or head) . Much better than 
 God of war 1/2 and DMC1/2/3/4 lol. The graphics are also great but it could have been a little 
 better. The voice acting is great for the japanese voices! The sound is also very realistic like 
 when you clash swords with someone. The story though people say its confusing is better this time. 
 I understood it perfectly and though it was pretty epic! The camera is fine is you know how to 
 use the right trigger. The difficulty is hard because of the very smart AI. THIS GAME IS NOT CHEAP 
 IT TAKES SKILL NOT LUCK. So what u waiting for? go buy it NAO!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djmrgnom
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Blood is ok, but not in that much.
  I meen first game was amazing in that way... in ALL ways!
  If they just add function "No blood" 
 it will become legend like Ninja Gaiden / Ninja Gaiden Black.
  
  They need to do some thing with it. Every thing els is fantastic.
  
  P. S. So iam kinda disappointing, 
 but i diside "Almost, but not quite"
  
  Blood is ok, but not in that much.
  I meen first game was amazing in that way... in ALL ways!
  If they just add function "No blood" 
 it will become legend like Ninja Gaiden / Ninja Gaiden Black.
  
  They need to do some thing with it. Every thing els is fantastic.
  
  P. S. So iam kinda disappointing, 
 but i diside "Almost, but not quite"
  
  Blood is ok, but not in that much.
  I meen first game was amazing in that way... in ALL ways!
  If they just add function "No blood" 
 it will become legend like Ninja Gaiden / Ninja Gaiden Black.
  
  They need to do some thing with it. Every thing els is fantastic.
  
  P. S. So iam kinda disappointing, 
 but i diside "Almost, but not quite"
  
  Blood is ok, but not in that much.
  I meen first game was amazing in that way... in ALL ways!
  If they just add function "No blood" 
 it will become legend like Ninja Gaiden / Ninja Gaiden Black.
  
  They need to do some thing with it. Every thing els is fantastic.
  
  P. S. So iam kinda disappointing, 
 but i diside "Almost, but not quite" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkspartan1992
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is the sequel to the classic Ninja Gaiden on xbox 3 years ago.
  It has aproved in all ways possible, except the camera, this is why this game gets a 9.5, cuase 
 everything else is perfect.
  The new weapons are also great, first, when you play it, you might think you'll miss the big sword, 
 Dabliahro, but the sythe makes you forget about it, this game is the best hack in slash ever. The 
 camera angles gets frustrating only if you have to fight in wall to wall combat and stair case 
 areas. If you are a NG veteran this would not really be a concern, because when you are use to hearing 
 foot steps you know someone is behind you. This game will also give you a challenge , the A. I is 
 smarter and more determined to kill you. Even if they have to fight with one hand or hoping on one 
 foot. If you are looking for a good time , blood , guts and a challenge you need to pick up this 
 game. This makes GOD OF WAR looks like a day in the park. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tobias81
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  They could have given this game a 1 and I would've still bought it. Anyone who complains about 
 the difficulty being too hard is a **** and doesn't deserve to play it in the first place. We need 
 games like this to remind us that we are all still hardcore gamers! This is an instant classic 
 and I think its better than the last game. I thought they should of gave this game a 9.0. This 
 game is suppose to be hard, this is a ninja game. If i hear people complaining because its to hard, 
 you need to invest in a Nintendo W. If i hear people complaining because its to hard, you need 
 to invest in a Nintendo W. If i hear people complaining because its to hard, you need to invest 
 in a Nintendo W. I'll say it again, If i hear people complaining because its to hard, you need 
 to invest in a Nintendo W. Yup 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scherman71
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I must say that im impressed so far by this game, i have seen only one freeze in the game and it 
 was short about 2 sec and after that .. super smooth.
  personally i have no problem with the camera its a part of the action actually and adds to the 
 control .
  
  i have only played to chapter 4 so i might change my opinion later,
  but i dont think so i just sit there in my sofa with a smile on my face and my heart is pounding 
 extra fast and hard when im playing ,
  and that means that i just love this game.
  
  this game is like perfect arcade hack and slash ninja combat.
  so if you are one of those who 
 seen a really good arcade machine displaying a great game and you think for you self what if i 
 could own a game like that..
  well look no more this is that great game , the search is over ,let the fun begin
  and yes the 
 game will be hard later on but so what ! you can make so many tries you want .
  And when you have beaten it play it again with youre favorite weapon maxed up read to go.
  remember 
 some are talking about bow whielding ninjas with super aim hitting you over and over ,
  soon in the game you get a bow as well then take them out and the problem is solved..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bernie_weiss
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite game genres, having fallen in love with Onimusha for the PS2 and then 
 of course the original Ninja Gaiden on XBox.
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2 doesn't do anything revolutionary, for which it seems to be getting less-than-enthusiastic 
 reviews from the critics. But I love the refinement in NG2, and the overall atmosphere of the gameplay 
 is what really draws me in. The gameplay is excellent of course, but the fantastic art and sound 
 really make this game pack a punch. I'm enjoying every minute and can't wait to see what foes and 
 settings are around the next corner.
  
  The negatives that people have been citing about this game do not bother me enough to detract from 
 the overall experience. Yes, the camera sometimes seems to find strange positions - but the rear-view 
 reset button is just another aspect of the fighting that needs to be mastered.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mizukagebushin
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Ninja Gaiden and videos games since I was a kid, back to nintendo. It's awesome 
 to see how far this series has come. Coming from playing Ninja Gaiden/Black so many years ago, its 
 good to see that they kept it mainly original. They basically just made it even sicker! I feel 
 the game has become much quicker and more fluent. The combos have become even more complex since 
 there is not as much combo lag as the last NG. They also, thank God, made the Dragon Sword's combos 
 faster and better. I've only beaten the first three levels and it seems to have kept its original 
 style difficulty, which is great. I would definitely say that this is a Hardcore Gamer's type game! 
 I do have to say though it is unfortunate that the camera is still a little bit of a pain in the 
 @$$, along with some of the "cheating" the villains (particularly the arrow guys) but oh well. 
 I think it's an awesome game and they did the series great justice with it. Also, the claws are 
 freakin sick! Wolverine b####!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erostad01eb
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  After much anticipation, it's finally here! 
  
  Before I get into this I'll start by saying that while I'm not a "fan boy" I do love this franchise 
 and made sure it was on my "MUST HAVE" list. I'm also Xbox biased but that's only becaues Sony 
 has yet to impress my with their operating software, online support and game library for the PS3. 
 Given all that, I promise I will do my best to remain neutral and provide my honest opinion of 
 the game. At age 40 and having played PC games since text adventures on a TRS80, and console gaming 
 since a release week purchase of an Atari 2600 (Thanks Dad!!) I'm hoping my experience will temper 
 my bias and provide a fair and objective review.
  
  I'm going to write this as I play through it in hopes that it will convey the true game from a 
 gamers view. My scoring will reflect my opinion of the game up to the current point of progress.
 
  
  Right off the bat, I noticed that the graphics seemed a little "dated". The anti aliasing in the 
 opening scenes was very 2002'ish and at times I felt that this was not much of a jump to a next 
 gen platform. The character models in Masumura's shop were pretty good though and it seemed to 
 clean up when after the first encounter with the spider ninjas.
  
  Control during combat was quite good and if I were to have just finished playing the first game 
 or Black, I think the switch to NG2 would be seamless except for now having to use the RB to open 
 chests instead of the X button, which caused me some grief the first couple of times.
  
  One thing about combat that I found frustrating was that I "lost" Ryu at times. Here I am thinking 
 I'm going to town on a bad guy and I was actually following a spider ninja. I'm not sure if this 
 was due to the wild camera swings but one cause was definately the camera being too close to the 
 action. I would have much preferred if Team Ninja had given us the choice of 2 or 3 view angles 
 rather than shoving us so close. Something along the lines of any current driving game.
  
  While launching myself up the well shaft via the Flying Bird Flip, the game did something that 
 amazed me. It lagged then froze. At this time in gaming NO SINGLE PLAYER GAME SHOULD STAGGER/LAG 
 OR FREEZE... PERIOD. After an approximate 3 second freeze, I was able to continue up the shaft 
 to the cherry blossom courtyard. I thought perhaps it was a first time load problem. You know what 
 I mean, where sometimes the first time though an area, the machine needs to cache the content and 
 it causes a slight hitch. I proceeded across the bridge and dispatched the baddies. And now my 
 second major complaint. After heading down the stairs and taking on another group of foes, I encounted 
 the "flaming arrow dudes". While NG and Black were hard, I never considered the game "cheap". The 
 flaming arrow dudes, who stand on a walkway overlooking your path and fire projectiles that have 
 a knock back/stun effect on Ryu cannot be killed and have fantastic aim, so they hit you quite 
 often. So you think you'd simply run by them and head around the corner and be done with them. 
 This is not the case. Not only do their bionic eyes assist in hitting you, they have bionic arms 
 which allow them to hit you from an increadible distance.
  
  And now the part where I grow really frustrated. As I rounded the corner, I'm presented with a 
 group of spider ninjas swinging across a pit and heading my way. Normally, this isn't a big deal. 
 I'm a baller with the Dragon Sword and dispatching these guys shouldn't be any problem. The game 
 disagrees. Not only am I being hammered by the flaming arrow dudes from behind (with no lube I 
 might add,) but now the game decides it wants to start lagging on me again and I experience a hitch 
 that makes me miss the swing pole. I fall down to the next level and am joined by previously mentioned 
 spider ninjas. The game is chugging along at about 3/4 speed. I'm reminded of Max Payne bullet 
 time gaming. Except this isn't Max Payne and frankly I don't recall seeing bullet time anywhere 
 in the game run down. I'm not a happy ninja. I was so amazed by this lagging that I actually quit 
 the game and restarted from the last save point (just prior to shaft leading to the cherry blossom 
 courtyard,) and to my utter disappointment the game froze again while flipping up the shaft. Granted, 
 it wasn't for as long but it still happened. Additionally, the game also played at a reduced frame 
 rate in the same area mentioned above.
  
  After dispatching these guys I head back up, dodge what flaming projectiles I can and proceed. 
 Another fight with mulitple spider ninjas and I win the Lunar Staff. During this fight, I again 
 experience "losing" Ryu. Another frustrating aspect I'm starting to notice is that even though 
 I'm holding the directional twards an enemy, if that enemy gets knocked out of my immediate range 
 Ryu will no longer move twards that foe but will instead flop to the next closest enemy. This irritating 
 feature only prolonged the fight as I could not stay on a single target unless i hopped after him 
 and broke my routine. It also added to the "losing my ninja" aspect by sometimes flipping 180 degrees 
 to a new enemy.
  
  As of the time of this review I'm giving the game a 4.0. Sketchy graphics, FREEZING and LAGGING, 
 poor control aspects and cheap enemies.
  
  *UPDATE*
  
  And I'm done! And honestly, it was a chore. The same problems I mentioned above i. e. less than 
 expected graphics (Is that Ryu's arm or playdough?) laggy game play, cheap opponents, uninspiring 
 areas still persisted. But, so did the action and that was enough to keep my playing to the finish. 
 Unlike NG1 where I finished because I was involved and wanted to enjoy the game, NG2 made me simply 
 want to end the torture. 
  At least I can download NGBlack while I run to the store to trade NG2.
  
  Final Review Score: 
 7.0 Not a horrible game but you'll be better off renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame-Sama
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 6, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  I've been heavily awaiting this game since it was announced, but on June 3rd, I picked up another 
 action game. This isn't Ninja Gaiden...
  
  I started this game's first chapter and slipped back into my NG style pretty quickly, but the game 
 changes after a while. Not because of new weapons or attacks, but because you realize that the 
 quality is much lower.
  
  After completing the first chapter, I gave the game a rough nine in terms of rating, but I started 
 hacking away at that score. 
  
  In NGI, where you would be battling one enemy, you would be battling two in NGII. The enemy and 
 the camera. Zooming in at bad times, getting stuck behind walls, changing randomly causing you 
 to lose platform wrongly, etc... I was battling a giant armilidillio (no, I'm not making this up) . 
 I was trying to attack him, which you had to do from close range, and he'd disappear. Not because 
 he actually moved, the camera was inside of him, making him appear transparent. The score changed 
 to eight point five
  
  The mini-boss, bugs. Bugs are less frequent than camera issues, but when it rains it pours. After 
 beating the boss Alexei, I earned an achievement that I almost didn't get because the game randomly 
 told me my hard drive was disconnected when it wasn't, the only time I ever was told that.
  
  I was playing chapter five, which is like a Venice rip-off (telling you the building are surrounded 
 by water) , and you get attacked by wolf fiends. I was pinned down by one on a staircase, so I broke 
 out of his hold by mashing X, Y, A, B, and tapping the left thumbstick. I broke out and then fell 
 through the solid staircase into water BELOW the building. I looked up and saw the buildings above 
 my head, so confused, I swam to the surface of the water, and then began running along the water's 
 surface. I accidently ran back into the building I started from by running THROUGH the wall from 
 the outside. Rating was an eight after that. (Side note: MANUALLY SAVE, you might regret it later)
 
  
  And during a boss battle with a giant worm (yes, they return) . You're in a tunnel and you have 
 to hide in little side caves so the worm dosen't crush you. After a while, mini worms spawn in 
 the side caves. Well, on many occassions, I'd turn to face the tunnel and instead of the worm coming 
 up in the caves like they were supposed to, it would appear as a flickering enemy coming up through 
 the solid floor. This boss fight alone lowered the review a whole point.
  
  You're fighting a giant worm in a dark cave, filled with those pesky pillbug beetles from NGI and 
 mini worms that can spawn through the floor. You have eggs to break open for essence in each little 
 side caves that mysteriously stop giving you essence after the big worm appears. That leads me 
 to two more problems, crappy level design and difficulty. Cluttered fuster-clucked levels such 
 as chapter nine. Chapter nine you fight rocket launcher-wielding enemies. You fight them while 
 trying to navigate a series of wooden huts connected to each other, in the dark, WHILE you're getting 
 shot at. Yeah, it was as fun as it sounds. The game has dark, colorless, close quarters areas that 
 would be fine IF the camera allowed you to find where you were. The dark worm cave later that level 
 is another shining example of poor level design. That's where you can't say they didn't just remake 
 the monastery or the caves under the monastery, or reuse level ideas. Seriously, look really hard 
 and you'll see NGI levels slighly redesigned.
  
  And then there's difficulty. No, shut up, I don't totally suck at Ninja Gaiden, I beat the game 
 on Normal and beat some missions on Master Ninja. But this game is difficult like the ghost fish 
 in NGI. Not hard, cheap. Genshin backed up by Black Spider ninjas comes to mind. And those ever 
 respawning jellyfish. One Muramasa statue (on, you guessed it, chapter nine) took about ten minutes 
 of straight killing jellyfish to unlock.
  
  And minor things like the change from stylish to ACTIONY. Lines like "That wasn't in my history 
 book" need to stay in Die Hard movies. Oh, and Ninja Cinema is stupid.
  
  There are good things like easier pillbugs and ghost fish and new weapons. If you like action games, 
 odds are you'd like this a little bit, but over all the game is disappointing. Rent it first.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360ru13r
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  After playing both Ninja Gaiden 2 and Devil May Cry 4. It is very hard to tell which one is better.
 
  
  Gameplay: Think about it what can ninjas do. No not what Naruto can do but actual ninjas? Yes that 
 swing sword or and weapon with a sharp tip. Run on walls, jump on walls, and run on water. Yes 
 in this game they do just about everything you would think a ninja would do. The controls in this 
 game are very fluid and creative. Alot of the combos you want to perform there like a piledrive, 
 or two sword that can cut through everything as if it were made of bittle wood. Trust me it's there.
 
  
  Technicals: Ok first off the camera can be annoying but to an extent it can make the game better. 
 But how you may say? Well see it will force you to quit being so offense and learn to balance you 
 attack and defence, but for my person prefence it's funner. 
  Next is the story and well no on Team Ninja said they were going for gaming story of the year. 
 Trust me there are worst.
  As for difficult if you get fustrated with this one on easy or normal. Don't, I repeat DON'T play 
 DMC of god of war or normal or above trust me. I mean you do get the recharging health so that 
 can help offset the difficulty a little.
  For last is the graphics and they look beautiful. From destroyed New York to futuristic Tokyo. 
 It's all good.
  
  Overall: Ask yourself this one question: Are you ready to paint everything red and watch limbs 
 fly while everyone treats you like you stole an old lady purse with the swat team behind you? 
 
  If hell yeah, go get right now. 
  If yes, rent it or wait for the demo on XMB.
  If no, don't bother it just might be too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iLiveBy2words
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  This game clearly was not influenced by the current gen. Rather than building a one-dimensional 
 fixation around multiplayer or storyline, Ninja Gaiden 2 stays true to its roots and provides an 
 old school challenge which is rarely seen now-a-days. This game is not trying to be another mindless 
 shooter, nor is it trying to be Metal Gear Solid. Instead, Ninja Gaiden 2 delivers an intense, 
 albeit, hardcore experience which will not only satisfy your blood lust, it will keep your fingers 
 throbbing and your heart pounding. Ninja Gaiden 2 sets a bold new standard for action games, in 
 that the gameplay system is nothing short of spectacular. This game is beautiful on every level, 
 and even the gore was implemented artistically. The voice acting is very good, and there are no 
 apparent weaknesses to the presentation, aside from a slight lack of focus on the story. However, 
 no game can be completely perfect. There are a few very minor issues which will inevitably cause 
 some newcomers to the already challenging NInja Gaiden franchise to struggle. The fact is, the 
 camera is sometimes placed too close to the battlefield and does require a bit of adjustment to 
 be used effectively in some instances. This camera issue should not be considered a significant 
 problem, however, it's merely something to keep in mind during combat. In addition, there are minor 
 hiccups in the framerate and infrequent loading-time issues. These are the only technical flaws 
 with Ninja Gaiden 2, and they are very insignificant ones at that. Do not let the camera angels 
 or minor technical problems scare you. As with previous Ninja Gaiden games, the free-flow combinations 
 are incredibly smooth and require a certain degree of skill to execute properly. Even battling 
 low level warriors will have you on the edge of your seat, but you'll be facing off against hordes 
 of deadly enemies as the difficulty level increases. Some of the boss battles are reminiscent of 
 Shadow of Collosus enemies, because you must supplement your conventional style of battling with 
 a more specific stratagem in order to defeat them. On a final note, you'll find that you're never 
 forced to perform anything remotely similar to what you've experienced in the past. There's no 
 redundancy here. It's sword slicing after staff twirling, and you're in for one hell of a journey. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  So I will start my review with the usual. I intend to bring you a detailed review that helps decide 
 whether or not you should buy this game. I have completed it, and plays enough hours to go into 
 detail. If you have ANY questions or comments, as well as feedback on my review, don't hesitate 
 to send me a message. Have a question about the game? Send a message. Thanks for checking out this 
 review, I hope it helps you decide where to spend your money, and if you're looking into more games 
 I have 75+ written reviews on my profile.
  
  I will first go over the Pros/Cons, then Gameplay, Graphics/Sound, Value, and finally a section 
 for Achievement Junkies.
  
  Pros
  -Fluid combat with a variety of combos.
  -Slick presentation.
  -Character models are excellent.
  -Cinematics are impressive to watch.
 
  
  Cons
  -Chest physics, no woman needs a chest that big nor with physics.
  -Storyline is convoluted, confusing, and throw-away.
  -Environments need more work.
  -Achievements 
 are unjust, and take a lot of time.
  
  Gameplay: As Ryu, a ninja of course, in a storyline that doesn't matter, you're going to kill a 
 lot of enemies. Over my span of an 8 hour game on the lowest difficulty, I killed 1,800 enemies 
 and died 50 times. Don't be turned-off, though, as most of those deaths were at the final bosses. 
 To begin with, you have 4 difficulties (2 unlocked when you begin) . Being a ninja, you have at 
 your disposal a variety of skills, magic, and weapons. You can run along walls, kill enemies with 
 grace, and walk on water. Your magic, Ninpo, can assist in a hasty defeat of your enemies. And 
 you have an assortment of 8 weapons, which you find throughout the game, ranging from claws, to 
 a Lunar Staff, to nunchaku with a blade attached. With each weapons you have different combos, 
 and can upgrade these weapons to present you with more combos. 
  
  All of this may seem pretty confusing, but you only attack with X and Y, using B for projectile 
 weapons like bows and shuriken. In maybe half-an-hour you will think you are the greatest Ninja 
 Gaiden player ever. But no, you'll get beat down ruthlessly. With good reason, this game wants 
 you to use skill, and a bit of simple reasoning. For instance, you can block attacks, and consequently 
 counter them. Also, you can chop off their limbs and Obliterate them by pressing the Y button to 
 instantly kill them. With the game consisting of 14 chapters, each chapter spanning 30-45 minutes, 
 you have a hefty amount of game to fight your way through.
  
  Graphics/Sound: The sound is very slick. You'll consistently hear your weapons cutting through 
 air, and the thuds of an enemy carcass getting beat down. The musical score is fine, although something 
 that gets your blood rushing would have been better. The graphics are awesome as far as character 
 models go. The cinematics as well as in-game graphics are very nice. The gore is intense, it's 
 not surprising to see a head rolling down a set of stairs or a ramp. The terrain and environments, 
 though, definitely deserves an improvement. Too often I was questioning where all the effort was 
 put.
  
  Value: An 8 hour playthrough on the easiest difficulty, which doesn't count the numerous deaths 
 (which I think tacks on another 4 hours of attempts) . Then 2 unlockable difficulties, and an option 
 to continue your completed game with a New Game+ and play with all your previous weapons and items 
 starting from Chapter 1. Complete with 60 achievements, leaderboards, and the possibility of downloadable 
 content and you have yourself quite a package. I recommend a buy, as a rent won't get you through 
 the wealth of content.
  
  Achievement Junkies: All 60 achievements seem easy from a glance. But there are collectibles achievements 
 (Crystal Skulls) , difficulty achievements (a 100 pointer demands you beat this game on the hardest 
 difficulty) , and achievements to beat the game once with each weapon. That means you have to beat 
 the game over 8 times to get all the achievements. Make sure you don't have anything scheduled 
 for summer. Of course, even with the rough achievements, it's worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r0cky12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  For the Tecmo - Team Ninja - Ninja Gaiden fans out there.... Its going to be another hit!
  
  As for the game play. Few new moves and a few old moves for Ryu that we have seen from Ninja 
 Gaiden Black. Smooth transitions in game play, fast paced, bit bump in levels. The action of Ryu 
 hacking his was through countless Demons and Ninjas with the all familiar weapons we all love is 
 great but, at some points in the game you find the increase in level difficulty is a bit lacking. 
 New additions are far more save areas, auto save features, more weapon shop encounters, items and 
 health drops are more plentiful. 
  
  Love the animation! the body parts playing off when you hack a Spider Clan Ninja up and the green 
 ooze splattering on walls from De, mons! The game is a buy for the Gaiden fan - rental for the non 
 fan / hardcore gamer - a collector for the intermediate gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randlsa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Halo brought me back to gaming, but Ninja Gaiden hooked me. Of course, NG Black got an instant 
 sale from me too with the added content. It's one of the rare games I've played through more than 
 once. This next installment doesn't disappoint. I was so nervous that the complaints about the 
 first game being too difficult would adversely impact this installment, but I'm happy to report 
 that they did not! While graphically, this game is gorgeous, we've come to expect that from games 
 in this console generation. So this time around, it's not head and shoulders above other games 
 in this respect. However, no other game I've ever played resembles the intensely fun game play 
 mechanics seen in these NG games developed by Team Ninja. It's fun to be Master Chief in Halo, 
 or Marcus Fenix in Gears of War for certain, but taking control of Ryu Hyabusa is unlike any other 
 gaming experience. The quick action really allows me to become immersed in the character... Plus 
 Ninja's are really cool anyway. I'm still not quite sure how I feel about those silly breast physics 
 though! Team Ninja tends to take their femal characters a bit over the top. Excellent work from 
 Team Ninja on this game. I hope the rumors are wrong, and that we will see future installments 
 from this development team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toshirouhitsuga
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden 2 is the true sequel to ninja gaiden. The story of ninja gaiden 2 is as you'd expect 
 "Very generic" Ryu hyabusa returns to save the world yet again when he crosses paths with sonia 
 a mysterious women looking for ryu to tell him about evil forces trying to ressurect the archfiend... 
 "What? you looking for more?" well sadly there is no more. Well the story is suffecient enough 
 anyway but thats not what were all here for is it, nope we're here for the brutal, bloodthirsty, 
 limbs flying gameplay and believe me it has it, almost every attack that ryu does sends a head 
 or an arm flying of the enemy and then to finish it of you can slice the rest of their limbs off 
 by pressing the attack button to do an absolutely brutal finishing move. Now we can get to the 
 big flaw in gameplay, the difficulty, this sentence best describes it" This game is going to kick 
 your ass so hard you are going to litteraly be on the floor begging for the game to end" this game 
 is going to have your neighbors come to your knocking on the door of your house asking about where 
 all the screaming is coming from, yeah it's that hard no exaggerating. I'm going to leave the score 
 for you to figure out when you go to the store and are stupid enough to by this ridicously hard 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke_Ninja21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Being a sequel to Ninja Gaiden or Ninja Gaiden black most would say, this lives up to the reputation.... atleast 
 thats what it only achieves, Ninja Gaiden is the exact same blood spilling, head splitting, controller 
 slamming game we all love... or hate.
  
  Ninja Gaiden 2's story is more of a push over... its not great and it dosent really achieve much 
 in the end, Of course you play the role as Ryu Hyabusa a ninja from the Hyabusa clan and as well 
 as the son as Joe Hyabusa (seems like they ran out of japanesse names.. like seriously.. joe?) The 
 Spider clan or the shadow clan or really the 4 Greater Fiends are looking for a demon head which 
 can open a portal and alot of nasties will come out and destroy the world and its up to you to 
 get it back from their evil hands... pretty simple and almost no orginal characters come back to 
 help ( WTH!?! No Ayame!?!?!) Calm down fan boys... theirs a Hot Blonde haired agent.... that does 
 what all girls made by japanesse creaters do... you know it... i know its not like we havent seen 
 it.
  
  When it comes to the story it wont really suck you into the game its just there to show off some 
 cool things and a couple of cool new characters but really that is all.
  
  Now as we know gameplay in NInja Gaiden is grusome, it is in fact the bloodiest game that has come 
 to the Xbox 360 for a while now. Among the Dragon Sword that you will get from the gekko you will 
 eventually get a staff, claws, a sythe, dual swords ect. All these weapons have different attributes 
 especially when it comes to power technique and speed. The Lunar staff being very long and powerful 
 is also slow and is open to attack often especially from fast opponents. The claws on the other 
 hand are very fast good against agille oppoents as well as slow ones but when faced by many eneimes 
 around you, you may have some trouble taking care of them
  
  Each weapon as their own execution techinques, when you wound a opponent (wounding an opponent 
 is basically taking off a piece of their body being their head arms legs) You may perform a execution 
 technique that will rip opponents to shreds or cut of their head and let them die on the ground.
 
  
  Ultimate attacks are really the same thing ripping your opponents to shreads but with a stronger 
 effect the longer you hold the Y button, Unleashing these techniques can be mostly fatal to any 
 enemy as well as others around the enemy.
  
  Bosses are more varitized in Ninja Gaiden, some bosses may be huge when some may be small but overall... some 
 can be pretty cheap... and some may have glitches.... some may be easier then others all in all they 
 are fun to fight if it wasent for... the difficulty..
  
  The difficulty you could say might have gotten worse even at the lowest setting, enenimes come 
 in numbers as well as some invisible enenimes that you cant see mabey from the camera problems 
 or just invisible overall, but the gruling difficulty can be punishing especially to new comers 
 to the series as well as veterans on the high difficulties.
  
  This is a pretty game to look at as well as Ryu Having a voice actor which sounds good but not 
 the greatest, Ryu looks great as well as the blood effects from enenimes but some of the level 
 designs look just plain and done in a 3D paint option
  
  Overall this is a game that you will either really enjoy or be completly frustrated with it and 
 hate it, this is the bloodiest game on the Xbox 360 now and will be satisfying for those wanna 
 be ninjas and cerial killers. You will be playing this game for a while and deserves a rent just 
 to see how to kill somone in the funnest way 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bclagrange
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best in the series. The graphics are beautiful and the gameplay is outstanding. 
 The storyline seems fine to me, but people don't play ninja gaiden for the story they play it for 
 the action. There is plenty of blood letting action in this game. Stop reading this and pick this 
 up. The developers totally redid the kills and they are wonderful to watch and begin to make your 
 heart speed up. The sound for the most part is top notch even with the japanese game developers. 
 I feel this is alot better than gta, but its our media in the US and europe who tries to put down 
 these great japanese games. Give me a break on GTA being such a great game. If they say ninja gaiden 
 gameplay is the same. What about GTA its the same througout the series, but somehow it got a 10. 
 I yell conspiracy! I think they do get paid more by american and european developers! Eat your 
 heart out PS3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3AD-SH0T
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Thins game is one of the best game from this year so far, but it is also by far is the most frustrating 
 game of the year. There are time were you just want to throw your controller across the room, but 
 there are also time where it makes you feel really good. The best part of this game in my opinoin 
 is all the different weapons, and all the different moves you can do with them. And to watch the 
 bad guys limbs go flying off... awsome. There are tons of bosses and different evil little minions. 
 The story however is quite choppy. At first your in a large city and then all of a sudden your 
 in a small little village. Then again, there are many games like that and they are still some of 
 the greatest games ever. So anyway, I would recomend for people to play this game but only if there 
 ready for a challenge. If your looking for a game thats just to pass the time and a game to not 
 really challenge yourself this game is not for you. So go out there and have fun guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: INFAMOUSHAVOC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I'D ADMIT THIS IS A HARD GAME BUT ME IM TRIED OF ALL THESE WATER DOWN GAMES THAT WERE ONCE HARD 
 SO THEY CAN MAKE IT EASY FOR THESE KIDS THESE DAYS . GAMES ARE SUPPOSE TO BE HARD I LOVE GETTING 
 JUMPED IN THIS GAME MAKES MAKE STEP UP MY GAMING. SURE THERE LITTLE THING THAT PEOPLE MAY FIND 
 ANNOY LIKE THE CAMERA BUT IN MY OPINION IT NOT THAT BAD I SEEN WORSER I JUST DON'T THINK IT IS 
 IN THERE OPTION MENU THEY GIVE YOU THE CHOICE TO SPEED IT UP OR SLOW DOWN THE CAMERA WHAT MORE 
 CAN WANT. AS FOR THE GAME WELL I CAN JUST SAY ONE WORD FOR IT BRUTAL WOW ALL THE BLOOD IT SO COOL 
 HOW THE ENEMIES KEEP COMING AFTER YOU WITH ONE LEG OR ONE ARM. The VISUAL ARE THERE I MEAN IF YOU 
 PLAYED SIGMA IT RIGHT THERE WITH NOTHING NEW I WAS EXPECTING TOO MUCH FROM GRAPHIC AS LONG AS IT 
 DON'T HAVE HALO 3 GRAPHIC LOL BUT IN THE FIRST STAGE IT DOES HAVE A BEAUTIFUL VIEW OF THE CITY 
 WHEN YOUR ON THE ROOF LOOKS NICE ALL TOGETHER ITS A GOOD GAME IN MY OPINION 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh-Fu
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  When creating a great action came there is much to consider and implement correctly. Team Ninja 
 did a fine job of incorporating most of these things in Ninja Gaiden 2.
  
  First off don't expect a great story; Ninja Gaiden 2 basically weaves a tale of four main bad guys 
 trying to resurrect a bigger more powerful bad guy. Ryu Hayabusa and his new sidekick Sonita are 
 simply not going to let that happen.
  
  So what ensues from the premise is a lengthy blood bath of an adventure that doesn't really do 
 much to mix up the action. Except for Ninja Gaiden 2 the action is so fluid, brutal and enjoyable 
 there isn't too much need to mess with an already exceptional formula of combos and rewards. You 
 will fight through 14 chapters in a variety of locations with several weapons and ways to use them. 
 You will occasionally come across Skulls that merit achievement points and nothing else. 
  
  Simply put it you enjoy a challenge and a good action game you owe it to yourself to pick up 
 this title as it is worth the sixty dollar asking price. However if you are just a fan of action 
 games and frustrate easily you may want to pick up Viva Piata instead. Let it be known Rye's foes 
 and unrelenting and the game is consistently difficult and the difficulty only climbs as you progress 
 through the game. While the game generally progresses with its challenge it can feel inconsistent 
 sometimes with certain boss battles having to trial and error your deaths to find a good strategy 
 while others simply require you to be fast with your fingers. 
  
  There is Online Leader boards a good variety between difficulty levels and it is worth playing 
 through as many times as your ninja skills will allow.
  
  GAMEPLAY 9: The controls are super slick and responsive in NG2. When you die in battle you often 
 don't feel that you have been cheated. Some of the games scenarios and bosses will be cheap, don't 
 get me wrong, however you will often look back and say, "I just have to do better." You may have 
 never felt cheated if the camera was just simply implemented better. It takes a while to get used 
 to the new way the camera is handled, but too often is the camera not showing you enemies coming 
 in for the kill. The game moves along at a slick pace rarely taking you out of the action. 
  
  PRODUCTION 8: NG2 doesn't feel like an exceptional game like the original. While it is still 
 an awesome action title and fans will truly enjoy it, you will often say, why did this game get 
 released prematurely? You will encounter occasional frame rate issues, hitching, and a rare freeze 
 every now and then if your are unlucky. I hope a patch will come along soon to fix these bugs. 
 One thing you may notice as well is some environments aren't as god as others. The original was 
 great about making every level fell and play very well. NG2 has a bad habit of making you feel 
 that you are simply slashing monsters to get the next big open room of monsters. All these qualms 
 aside Ninja Gaiden runs very well and has great looking cutscenes and a great amount of content 
 once you complete the game.
  
  GRAPHICS 9: Ryu and his foes look fantastic. The geometry of the enemies are also very good indeed 
 as limbs go flying and blood splatters it rarely looks and reacts to the game world on realistically. 
 The environments for the most part look great, some drab textures occasionally as well as some 
 uninspired environments keep this game from its true potential.
  
  SOUND 9: Sound effects and music suite the game very well. While nothing really leaps out at you 
 from the audio department they do a good job of keeping you pumped up.
  
  REPLAY 9: If you are hardcore about your action games NG2 has a lot to offer in terms of different 
 difficulties that do just more than add more enemies and take more life away per hit. The is also 
 some tangible DLC in NG2's future in the form of Missions. All this with leader boards and stats 
 you got yourself a pretty weighty title if you enjoy the context of the main game.
  
  OVERALL 8.8: I would give this game a solid 9 If it wisent for some technical issues. NG2 delivers 
 great action and a great challenge. The game looks and sounds great and is worth every penny especially 
 if you're a fan of the original. If you loved the first game I would be lying to say that you won't 
 be a little disappointed at some of the levels and boss fights as they simply aren't as memorable. 
 However you will be very excited about the little tweaks in controls and game flow mechanics, oh 
 yes and the pools of blood and body parts. Don't let cheat yourself out of a great experience, 
 you owe it to yourself to get slaughtered over and over again, it's a hell of a lot of fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFrieden0928
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  The Original Gaiden game is dubbed as the best Action game for the Xbox, and a wide range of gamers 
 and Terrific reviews give it a backbone, it was everything you asked for in action game and still 
 holds its ground today. In some ways, Ninja Gaiden 2 improves the core gameplay, but in other aspects 
 its two steps back, the new gaiden is much more bloodier and gorey, lightning fast and the controls 
 are fluid, but its way too arcade like to bring it to the next level, its a game that use last 
 gen concepts but it doesnt utliize the best from last gen. Elements such as exploration, puzzling, 
 an noticable story, and technical aspects that are way ahead of its time, are entirely missing. 
 Games like Devil May Cry and God of war has perfected this formula and we've seen where it took 
 the genre and these two particular titles, great sucess. Ninja Gaiden 2 has the combat down pat, 
 (which is probaly the fastest and most fluid out of the three series, as well as the most developed.) 
 but it doesnt have the sauce to make it epic, yes it has its jaw-dropping moments but that isnt 
 enought to make the experiene totally worth while. But putting those problems to the side, Ninja 
 Gaiden still delivers a bloody good time.
  
  The combat is excellent, built soley on speed, you'll hack n slash you'll way through hordes of 
 enemies in badass fashion. Gore is used in many games but this is out of this world, limbs, arms 
 etc, fly across the screen and everything is left in a bloody mess, you though devil may cry and 
 god of war basic combat was intense, well guess again. The attacks and comboes are much more brutal 
 than the first game, just because of its finishers and ultimate attacks, Ryu is lighting fast ignoring 
 the guidelines of a basic ninja and thinks stealth and honor is for bums, which is a perfect excuse 
 for this much intensity in an action game. The dragon sword was mainly used in the first game but 
 this time your other weapons are equally as useful, the ninpo magics are also very cool, and i 
 get a kick out the development of set of skills, Ryu can basicly do anything a ninja can, no place 
 is of reach, he can bounce of ways, perform aerial flips, grab poles, and ledges, all in super 
 fast motions . The first ninja gaiden was hard, but this is almost as punishing but its toned down 
 for "newer"players, features such as respawn and recharcgable health, has been added, but the AI 
 is still brutal and boss battles will make you see the gameover screen frequently, so you better 
 get used to it. Ninja Gaiden was hard, but it was barely cheap, NG2 on the otherhand, can be to 
 a certain extent, issues such as the new camera and a sometimes chuggy framerate bring down the 
 action and add a huge factor for your sucess, If you are the type of gamer that is easily offended 
 by losing, don't even bother to play this game, Ninja Gaiden is for the hardcore and for those 
 that love challenge. Be warned, this isn't for noobs. Even on the lowest difficulty I had some 
 problems with the game.
  
  As you should know or not unleastly expected, the story will not make any sense and is irrevelant, 
 epic stories in god of war, prince of persia, and devil may cry destroy what Ninja Gaiden offers, 
 but its safe to say that its not horrible, but its not good either, but luckily its still interesting 
 enough to keep you playing and the combat holds up to all the minor faults that the game may have, 
 such as the story. once again Ryu Hayabuse is intangled with troubles with the rival black spider 
 clan, but this time a new threat to the world has arised, something with the CIA, Dragons, The 
 Future, Archfiends, and ninjas.... WTF? enough said about that, the story shows no emotion and there 
 is no heartbreaking moments, but it has its share of cool fight scenes but no where near the best. 
 . Luckily the voice work is decent (could use a little more lip synch though..) and the music is 
 catchy. The game is broken up by levels, so any shock and awe in exploration is totally transparent. 
 This isn't a game for story by the way.
  
  The graphical aspect in the game is quite good, but its isnt as big og a leap foward as Ninja Gaiden 
 was for the Xbox, the game isn't ugly but its a little bit behind from todays best, and looks like 
 Dead or Alive 4 in some respects, and Sigma is a tad bit prettier. The game is surrounded with 
 HD lighting but suffers from poor anti-aliasing and not having bold lifelike images, the game ie 
 eyecandy for its great color giving its cartoon anime look, and Ryu and others are meaty and look 
 great in combat. The animation is spot on with a few minor annyonances like robotic movement and 
 graphical glitches like merging in walls and the framerate is a tad bit . choppy. The game looks 
 good in its Dead or Alive sense, but its not CG quality such as Grand theft Auto or Gears of War, 
 and Devil may cry is much better looking in its artistic direction and cutscenes. The style is 
 not dark or gritty, but friendly, badass, and bloody. Those still screenshots of the game are not 
 entirely true, it looks a bit worse, unless you got the HDTV is support it. The music adds a nice 
 indulgement to the battles, mixing with some rock and ninja classics, but it isnt mind blowing 
 such DMC or GOW.
  
  To sum things up, Ninja gaiden must be played minding its gigantic flaws and missing crucial elements 
 such as Exploration, puzzling, Grand story, elegant indulging music, and better graphics, its now 
 proven that the extra sauce is needed to make a game legendary and you can't have one without the 
 other. if those elements were implemented and fixing up the games flaws, including the games terrific 
 gameplay, we would of have the best action adventure game in the genre, or what Ninja Gaiden was 
 at least. I am kinda disapointed of how the game turned out, but the gameplay still feels fresh, 
 and the game is enjoyable. Its not revolutionary like Ninja Gaiden was, but its just a good time 
 that will take up a week or two, its just plain fun. This is the second best Action game behind 
 Devil May Cry 4 on the 360, but it should still be played by anyone who wants a challenge and loves 
 blood or the genre. and its a welcome addition to newcomers, who haven't played any of the NG titles.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  Not as awe shocking when your first saw ninja gaiden on the XBOX but still looks nice and runs 
 smooth for the most part. Rarely does the framerate act up, however I never really found framerate 
 something that I strongly disliked. 
  Gameplay- 
  Its easy to say that Ninja Gaiden II is funner than the first! With all the new weapons you can 
 unleash moves and rip off limbs, all in a very bloody proccess. You can also do finishing moves 
 now which is a cool new addition. The Camera is meh, but I didnt expect it to be great anyways.
 
  Sound-
  Voice overs are decent though I dont exactly understand the story. The Limb Slicing and the sword 
 slashing and the claw ripping all sounds kick ass, and the music is also well done. 
  Story-
  What!?!?!?!!?!
  Overall- 
  Ninja Gaiden II is alot of fun, and it never wears out 
 because of its new weapon additions and other features. But rarely do you think the difficulty 
 of this game is being cheap, with the exception of the boss that explodes after you kill him thus 
 taking you with him making you start ALL OVER again! I really dont know what they were thinking 
 for this 1 part but the rest of the game never feels cheap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Well let me start off to say that I never played the first one. wish I had though. This is truly 
 amazing. when I get home from work I have a hard time deciding weather I want to play this game 
 or GTA IV.. lol. The weapons are off the hookgameplay is crazycut scenes are bananas. I love 
 how blood and body parts are just every where after you kill a whole bunch a people. Not too many 
 games are worth $60 but this one is, you'll have a great time playing this game. its fast paced 
 and have a lot of action that keeps you coming back for more. Just imagine Devil May Cry 4 on steroidsthat 
 should describe the game at 
 
  
  Well let me start off to say that I never played the first one. wish I had though. This is truly 
 amazing. when I get home from work I have a hard time deciding weather I want to play this game 
 or GTA IV.. lol. The weapons are off the hookgameplay is crazycut scenes are bananas. I love 
 how blood and body parts are just every where after you kill a whole bunch a people. Not too many 
 games are worth $60 but this one is, you'll have a great time playing this game. its fast paced 
 and have a lot of action that keeps you coming back for more. Just imagine Devil May Cry 4 on steroidsthat 
 should describe the game at  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXMadManVII
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  I like my games with a fair amount of violence, and NG2 does not disappoint. Ryu Hayabusa leaves 
 a bloody mess of dismemberment everywhere he goes. The blood sprays from every wound inflected. 
 I love it. 
  After the story's brief intro, Ryu is thrust into combat. The first thing I noticed was the wonderfully 
 rendered graphics. The attention to detail is amazing. Limbs fly and blood gushes from wounds in 
 the most pristine of ways. The monster blood actually looks slimy. The characters look fantastic. 
 I have read some reviews that hated on the environments. I can honestly say I have no clue what 
 they are talking about. They are rich and wonderfully detailed as well (after further gameplay 
 I have noticed that sometimes the blood spatter will hang in mid air not really on any surface. 
 Not a big deal, but still) . The rain looked very good. I did not notice any clipping even in the 
 most heavy of combat either. 
  The second thing that grabbed my attention was the speed of combat. NG2 is way faster than Black. 
 Enemies attack faster, and move quicker. Ryu moves are fluid and he responds wonderfully to the 
 controller. 
  I didn't notice how annoying the camera was until the second boss fight. While you can rotate the 
 camera in the regular levels, boss fights have this weird two views that are changed by hitting 
 RB (x360) . Both are equally stupid. The chapter three boss was out of frame most of the time, and 
 I found that I was attacking where I thought he was, with no visual confirmation. 
  The core of the game is built around tried and true action/adventure architecture. Ryu collects 
 different colored orbs after defeating a bad guy. Different colors are for different things: Blue 
 is life, red is magic or "Ninpo" and they call it, and yellow is "essence" which you use to buy 
 weapon level ups and items at little stands throughout the levels. 
  As much of a button masher as it can be, NG2 has some really awesome combos that really tear through 
 the hordes of hostiles that are encountered . A quick thumb and knowledge of your weapons combos 
 are a must when you find yourself surrounded.
  I did find the difficulty a bit inconsistent. the first boss fell with hardly any effort, while 
 the second boss was a pain in the butt. The common bad guys can be either really effective or not 
 at all and everywhere in between. I'm glad I started out on the higher difficulty setting though, 
 it makes it more challenging.
  The replay value on this is one is going to be pretty high if you are a achievement junkie. Some 
 of them will come on the first time through, but multiple run throughs are necessary to get them 
 all.
  The only other thing I noticed as a negative was sometimes in heavy combat it will hang up and 
 take a second to load if you go into a building or go through a door way. But this only happened 
 2-3 times in the time I played. Not even once a level.
  I would recommend NG2 to any fan of the series or of the genre. Solid action/adventure game, and 
 one of the most viscerally eviscerating games that I have played in a long time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obarcelo
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  I can't get my hands off this game, its great. GameSpot gave it a low score at 8 but the game i 
 believe lived up to the hype. The story i admit is kind of bland but still pretty cool if anybody 
 ever played the 1st ninja gaiden for the NES would remember the demon statues. The action is fast 
 pace and challenging, the controls for the camera have been improved by allowing you to move the 
 camera around with the right thumb stick (the x-box version went into 1st person view when you 
 did that) . The graphics are great. As far as the frame rate and freezes i have not come across 
 any. I love the fact that you have to figure out wich weapon to use against certain enemies and 
 yes even though its fustrating 1 boss blows up and takes you with him. In conclusion this is a 
 must have with great replay value and an awesome challenge to gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnbird1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  The hack & slash and platforming gameplay of Ninja Gaiden Sigma is modified to give you the rush 
 you need in intense standoffs to fight against enemies that would have too much of unfair advantage 
 in Ninja Gaiden 1 thanks to obliteration techniques and and an abundance of fuel for your ninpo. 
 The story mode's locations look just beautiful in design all long with the high quality special 
 effects as a remarkable improvement over the first game even when your TV is covered blood. One 
 great improvement is that its easy mode, path of the Acolyte isn't as brutally hard as the medium 
 mode of NG1 (Xbox) but isn't as stupidly easy like Sigma's Ninja Dog mode. The gore comes in as 
 a great whipped creme on your deadly sundae. If you have played (any version) of NG1 or have a 
 360 and want something new, Ninja Gaiden II is a great pickup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptCommando92
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  So its been four years since Ryu last got upset, and you would think the fiends would have realized 
 its a bad idea to mess with Hayabusa Village. 
  But we are back again and while there are some changes, this game is true to its roots, and doesn't 
 stray too far off the beaten path.
  
  Good thing that beaten path is littered with broken bodies of your enemies. Obviously (if you've 
 seen even one screenshot) this game has kicked up the brutality of combat quite a bit. Blood litterally 
 flows everywhere and enemies don't really seem normal with all their limbs attached. This adds 
 a new dynamic of, what does that ninja with no legs do after he gets his new life as a para-palegic? 
 He doesn't stop trying to kill you that's for sure. Kill isn't even the right word, they really 
 want to cut off all your limbs and then string you up for thousand of ghost fish to eat you. 
 
  
  Yes they are that angry.
  
  The AI is very good this time around, instead of just simply attacking constantly, I had enemies 
 running off and coming at me from a different angle while a new one would jump in at me. Felt like 
 they were using gurriella tactics against me. In all fairness this could just be due to the sheer 
 amount of enemies you normally fight against, no the odds are never in your favor. However Ryu 
 is no pushover. If you're used to the combat you'll be right at home here, the videos made it look 
 like it was moving supersonic (could be just me) , but in motion when you're controlling Ryu feels 
 pretty natural. If you're not used to it the way the AI is aggressive and defensive ( if you use 
 the same attacks over and over they seem to adapt... to an extent) will take a bit to adjust to, 
 but you'll probably find smooth looking combos that work best for you. Something new they added 
 to combat is the Obliteration Tech. which basically allow you to finish off enemies that are weakened 
 or missing limbs. They are easy to pull off, you just press Y when near them, and normally result 
 in a sickening, but wonderful finishing move. Not a bad addition to combat, but a few quirks some 
 good some bad. You are invincible when using them, so I used them sometimes to avoid projectile 
 attacks, but it would be incredibly pointless if you could be hit while performing. Secondly you 
 can do the O. T. to a dead body, which still gives you the karma points for it, that'll come into 
 play if you're worried about the leaderboards. Enemies that are weakened can jump atop you and 
 blow you up with a suicide move, they do have to very close and at least of the Warrior Path do 
 not constantly jump around with they super-strong arms.
  
  Graphically it looks great. Turn on Ninja Gaiden, it looks great too. The character models look 
 awesome, limbs, blood all look fantastic. The enviroments suck. Because I'm a critic and the backgrounds 
 make or break games. Look the backgrounds, (I've seen New York, Hayabusa Village, Tower thing?) 
 are not incredibly detailed, that's definately a fact. Do they look like they could have been done 
 on a Xbox, I don't think so. There are some neat effects (like broken concrete) , and the Venice 
 setting is interesting, because you have a pristinely clean city that is being spoiled by Ryu's 
 Bloodletting Company, but you probably won't go around staring at the walls. To me, in an action 
 game that's not the point, I want to watch the action and have that be the focus. With the way 
 you can shred through enemies, and how they get shredded, that looks "next-gen" and that is what 
 I'm watching. 
  
  There is a new healing system designed to help you stay alive. As in every fight you take damage, 
 which will get healed after you have cleared all the enemies in the area. However some of the damage 
 won't be healed, so you can't just wantonly charge through areas. For me this worked great, there 
 have been times, even in boss fights where one more hit would have done me in, but I know that 
 if I can just take out those few enemies I'll get my whole life bar back. You can't hoard healing 
 items, because you can only carry 7 at a time, but you will get fully healed at every save point 
 (look around for these by the way, sometimes they are off the beaten path before boss fights, and 
 it'll be wise to get that boost) . Really I think this is the games greatest addition (although not 
 much has changed) in that it creates a kind of risk vs reward system when deciding whether you 
 should use that item or not. Sound effect overall are fun, all the weapons sound awesome, and the 
 Lunar especially makes you want to wince. 
  
  This is after less than 5 chapters of play time though, and I do love NG. It's not perfect and 
 if you didn't like it before it's very unlikely this will sway you. Bosses range from challenging, 
 to simple, to one that I thought was cheap however near the end of the fight I found out a technique 
 that would have been nice to know beforehand. Weapons to me are incredibly balanced, and I switch 
 whenever I bloodly well feel like it, and they all work great against all of the enemies. Hopefully 
 this gave you some idea of what to expect, without being too horribly skewed. 
  
  Happy Fiend Hunting.
  
  P. S. This is not Bioshock, there is a reason I didn't mention a story, 
 cut-scenes are fun... a. k. a. sometimes awesome, often funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dooku321
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  The game is a fun and fast paced hack and slash with easy to learn but fairly complex combo system. 
 But there are some major glitches. The camera at times seems almost completely broken and is not 
 easily righted even with the most concerted efforts. In some boss battles, also, the enemies seem 
 to get every advantage and appear to violate most video games normal rules. For the most part the 
 game is fun, but sometimes these issues are unavoidably in the forefront, especially the camera 
 issues. At times the camera causes even the simplest of actions to be needlessly difficult (pick 
 up items, just making visual contact with an enemy) I still like it (maybe because I spent 60$) 
 but i believe it could and should have been better. On the plus side, Ryu moves are vicious and 
 well animated. Learn how best and how quickly to take out the legions of enemies constantly attacking 
 is a blast. Taking out enemies with a finishing move once they have lost an arm or a leg is, for 
 some reason, very rewarding. All in all, it's a fun play, but with a little more work, could have 
 been a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Proziumz
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Im at chapter 8 (path of the warrior) atm. 
  
  I have experience MAJOR glitches a game of this caliber shouldnt have. For example, i have seen 
 a pixelated "mirror image of ryu" come up next to me for about 3 secs and disappearing. The game 
 sometimes goes into slow-mo for no apparent reason. As well as many lag spikes. Maybe its just 
 me?
  
  
  The graphics for ryu and the characters r tremendous i have to admit. However, what the hell is 
 up with the environment details and the MINES? have u seen the land mines in chapter 8? I couldnt 
 even tell they were mines. Their freakin 2D! They looked like something taken from half-life 1, 
 i thought they were man-holes at first. Stepped on it. AND BOOM -_-
  
  The difficulty is.. okay for the first missions and somehow i find the trash mobs much harder to 
 tackle than the bosses themselves. Especially on the chapter i am on now, chapter 8, its crazy 
 how many freakin rockets come at u (i know ur supposed to use ranged to takem out) . Going near is 
 totally screwed up, they can fire rockets right infront of their faces in CQB and u get blown up.. 
 and they take 0 dmg and no blowback/recoil.. So the easiest way is to shootem with the bow n arrow. 
 
  
  Alot of reviews say the story makes no sense. That is true, but what i cant really grasp is where 
 the HELL do some of the bosses appear from. For the chapter on the weird flying balloon thing, 
 after it crashed, some giant flaming armadillo came out.. i thought wtf did that come from.
  
  Kinda dissapointed.. expected more.. The combat is still uber tho :) love the obliteration 
 techniques and the "god of war" finishes on bosses if done properly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _JPH_
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  I don't want to write a big paragraph describing the game like other players' reviews. I just wanna 
 point the good points and the bad points.
  
  Good Points:
  NG2 is meant for its gameplay. It's silky smooth attacks and enemy slashing is simply amazing. 
 This game has the best action gameplay in any video game there is. Seeing those body parts flying 
 making you wanna use those ultimate attacks over and over. Lots of blood and gore that makes this 
 game's gameplay perfect.
  
  For the graphics, the graphics look really good. They are not next gen graphics (like gears of 
 war in its time, or NG1 in its time) , but they are great. Models are superbly made, the art is 
 fantastic. The environment looks good, but not that great. But still, all that matters is the graphics 
 of the models which make the characters look in the game realistic. But they could have added some 
 dynamic lights like in most games now, and the textures could have been normal mapped, which some 
 are not. The graphics could have needed a bit more work, but it doesn't matter. One more thing 
 for the blood splatter on the wall, sometimes you might notice that the blood in hanging in the 
 air. This is because the blood is a texture surfaced on the plane. One way to fix this is to have 
 a projection blood spallter on the plane.
  
  The animation is awesome. The way Ryu fights hordes of enemies and all of his attacks are superbly 
 generated and developed.
  
  Weapons are extremely unbelievable. It is not like NG1 where most of the time I used the Dragon 
 Sword. Here I rarely used it. I used all weapons and every weapon is great to use. There isn't 
 a single weapon that makes you say: "oh this is slow, or this weapon's damage is low". All weapons 
 are perfectly balanced.
  
  This is NOT a button mash game. I mean the attacks only consists of X and Y buttons which makes 
 it easy to use multiple attacks, but still not a button mash game. YOU WILL DIE IF YOU BUTTON MASH.
 
  
  I have finished 6 missions so far and it took me almost 6 hours to complete them. I am playing 
 every level and searching for all items (found 6 crystal skulls so far. I wonder if there are 13 
 in the game, like the new Indiana Jones movie which I didn't see) . So what I mean is that the game 
 is kinda long and not short.
  
  Before I go to the Bad Points, I didn't say anything about the storyline because frankly, this 
 is NG2. I don't care what the storyline is. It is just some bad guys wanna rule the world, and 
 Ryu is the only one who can stop them. I just wanna hack and slash enemies. I mean it is not like 
 some gigantic robot with a T-Rex voice makes you believe that the US government exists, but in 
 reality it is just an imagination living in the White House and censoring the internet. I mean 
 hello???? (refering to MGS2) .
  
  Bad Points:
  Camera might be frustrating. Actually, it is not frustrating to me. I can handle the camera in 
 NG2. I mean come on, have u seen a stable camera in an extremely fast action game? I mean fast 
 (don't think of assassin's creed or Prince of Persia or God of War) . They are not fast. You cannot 
 hit a 30 hit combo in 3 seconds like NG2. One thing that should have been corrected about the camera 
 is that when an object comes between you (Ryu) and the camera, they should have blended that object. 
 I mean this have been done in many games so far. When an object comes between Ryu and the camera, 
 I cannot see Ryu anymore.
  
  The game is HARD. First, there is the Path of Acolyte (easy) and the Path of the Warrior (Normal) . 
 I went to the Path of the Warrior. I repeat, the game is hard. You are going to die lots of times. 
 And I mean lots. This doesn't bother me too, because I love this difficulty since there is a big 
 challenge to the game unlike many games to far (I mean even a person who never touched a console 
 can finish any game now) . But this is for serious gamers. If you think you cannot handle this, 
 do not play the game. I don't like when people play the game and say it is impossible to beat. 
 I mean I have a friend who beat NG Black in Master Ninja difficulty earning Master Ninja rank in 
 all levels. 
  
  One thing that really bugs me in the game is that sometimes there is a frame rate drop. I mean 
 Team Ninja are known for their 60 frames per second, but sometimes it gets slow and you are fighting 
 those enemies in a dropped frame rate. That thing really bothers me a lot. This is more frustrating 
 than any camera and difficulty.
  
  Well enough for my review now. For my final result, I would give this game a 9.0. Although I would 
 have liked to see this game earn a 9.5, but still, it has some few problems, and it kinda costs 
 its score. So 9.0 is the best score for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killswitch127
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 4, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game requires a lot of skill.... as gamespot did the review this game is not 
 easy.. (even on the EASY difficulty) . The hardest parts are the boss and the fiends which are still 
 hard... if you think you have killed them (guess again) they are still alive and kicking and it 
 takes a few more whacks at them until they are down... The worst part is going on to the next screen 
 unable to see an opponent its a guarantee of a health drop immediately. 
  
  The 360 can not handle such a load on screen and it laggs.. YES it LAGGS... The most disturbing 
 part is the action.... lets say this you think your hitting them but your not... why don't they 
 have a lock on system... with the controls of the game is just push buttons until you get a result... 
 
  
  Alright, now my opinion... this game is insanely hard.. I beat the previous NG without any problems.... 
 and that was just on normal... but 2 is different.... I was on the 2nd chapter and I kept on dying 
 from the boss fight and continued about a couple of times.. it took me about 45min until I was 
 lucky enough to kill that boss... and the other thing that bothered the hell out of me was the 
 lagg of having too many on screen and I couldn't even tell myself apart from the bad guys... oh 
 this game really ticks me off, but I will beat it..
  
  To those who consider this game..... if your ready to get annoyed by continuing a dozen times and 
 having bad camera angles and horrible lagg... then I recommend you wait for someone to return this 
 game.. in a couple of weeks you will see a cheaper price on this game... and if you do get this 
 game then good luck!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolman437
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot reviews are very biased for easy games because the people who review the games suck at 
 playing them so they give harder games aka ninja gaiden lower reviews compared to easy over hyped 
 games i e gta4 halo 3 etc.
  this game is amazing and just right in difficulty i would strongly suggest to get this game
  
 
  
  Gamespot reviews are very biased for easy games because the people who review the games suck at 
 playing them so they give harder games aka ninja gaiden lower reviews compared to easy over hyped 
 games i e gta4 halo 3 etc.
  this game is amazing and just right in difficulty i would strongly suggest to get this game
  
 
  Gamespot reviews are very biased for easy games because the people who review the games suck at 
 playing them so they give harder games aka ninja gaiden lower reviews compared to easy over hyped 
 games i e gta4 halo 3 etc.
  this game is amazing and just right in difficulty i would strongly suggest to get this game
  
 
  Gamespot reviews are very biased for easy games because the people who review the games suck at 
 playing them so they give harder games aka ninja gaiden lower reviews compared to easy over hyped 
 games i e gta4 halo 3 etc.
  this game is amazing and just right in difficulty i would strongly suggest to get this game
  
 Gamespot reviews are very biased for easy games because the people who review the games suck at 
 playing them so they give harder games aka ninja gaiden lower reviews compared to easy over hyped 
 games i e gta4 halo 3 etc.
  this game is amazing and just right in difficulty i would strongly suggest to get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahmean187
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  so far critics have been ripping on ng2 for a couple of reasons. some say the camera is bad. others 
 say its not revolutionary. IMO this is a copycat sort of thing. ign gives it a 8.7 so every other 
 site gives it an 8-8.9. they love the game, but for some reason they just dont wanan give it a 
 higher score.
  
  ok so about the game. ninja gaiden 2 is a fast paced, bloody action, game. the camera has improved, 
 the action is faster, the graphics are much better. its strange bc they called the first a revolutionary 
 experience. the sequel has basically improved on every aspect and they give it a much lower score. 
 the one thing ng2 shines on the most though is that its just a blast to play. ur gonna have tons 
 of fun. ive played 30 hours of gta and ill tell u, ng2 is prbly just as fun or even better than 
 gta4. its just so fast paced and the combat is extremely deep.
  
  so overall if you want a great action game, id take ninja gaiden 2 over dmc4 or even god of war 
 on ps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pipchase
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  First off it's fun. I'll get that out of the way right now. Is it a jaw dropping experience I would 
 say no it isn't. It's more of a throwback to classic arcade style gameplay. 
  
  
  What they did get right here is the combat. It's fun bloody and every move you make is fluid and 
 deadly graceful. I've only unlocked a couple of weapons but already I can tell you that everyone 
 so far is just as satisfying to use as the next. Which makes for a bit more depth. 
  
  
  Which is a beef I feel for most folks me included. The game I think is a bit more shallow then 
 the first. The game story and gameplay is mainly setup to get you from one fight to the next. Simple 
 get this item here then take it here type puzzles are there simply to usher you into another bloody 
 fight. Which can leave you a bit letdown when it comes to wanting a meaty title. 
  
  I think alot of the issues reviewers are having with this game is that the devs did not seem to 
 try to push the limits of the 360 with this title. You can tell it's a "Enhanced Version" of the 
 original engine. If you've seen the visuals of Sigma then you've seen the visuals here. 
  
  I would say if they released this title at a bargain price maybe 45 or 50 dollars. Then this would 
 be rated a 10. For what it gives you Ninja Gaiden just doesn't have the content to really warrant 
 a classic status. Still if you dropped the 60 bucks on it I cant really say you can be completely 
 dissapointed. It's still fun to obliterate your enemies in blood soaked dance of death. Just dont 
 expect a ton of replayability or depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing games for a long time (and its about time that i get to write about something 
 other than a rythym game) and one of the first games i really loved was Ninja Gaiden for the NES. 
 Does that make me a fanboy... I dont think so, but i do hold the Ninja Gaiden series in very high 
 regard. 
  
  With that said Ninja Gaiden (the xbox version) blew me away. I literally remember being in awe 
 at the game. The graphics were awesome, the gameplay was challenging (not impossible) , and it really 
 felt like an entire package.
  
  Now comes Ninja Gaiden 2. I cant say that i was expecting for Team Ninja to re-invent the wheel, 
 but I was expecting something a little more. I know thats pretty vague, and i apologize, but that 
 is what i feel like.... its still a great game (better than a lot of games out there) i just expected 
 a lot.
  
  I belive its best to think of NG2 as a continuation of NG1... but the easy mode was made for the 
 masses.
  
  The Good - everything good from Ninja Gaiden 1! (big boss battles, challenging enemies, great gameplay 
 mechanic)
  
  The Bad - the camera is unbelievably frustrating, the graphics could have been better (BACKGROUNDS)
 
  
  The Ugly - all the save points and regenerating health take some of the challenge from the game 
 (on easy mode) , It's sad when the camera is so bad that you just start attacking off screen because 
 you know an enemy will be there sooner or later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  We all know what the revived Ninja Gaiden Series is, a stylish and immersive blood bath that at 
 times leaves players either wanting more from enjoying the game, or pulling their hair out at the 
 nearly unbeatable difficulty, and it's sequel, Ninja Gaiden II, is no different. 
  
  However, Ninja Gaiden II has taken much of what made the first game such a big hit and has improved 
 on it. The first area Gaiden II imporves over it's predicessor is the difficulty, while still increadibly 
 hard no matter what skill level you're playing at, the gamer is allowed to select his/her difficulty 
 level, where as in the first game the easier setting are only unlocked after completing a certain 
 requirment. Another feature of the game that has been improved, is it's combat system. Instead 
 of randomly decapitating enemy forces, this games has limbs and heads flying around like crazy, 
 and the moves Ryu preforms are nearly flawless in execution thanks to the game's graphics. 
  
  The 360s graphics also add a more realistic feel to this Ninja Gaiden II, with many charcters 
 are nearly life like in their appreance and costumes. 
  
  However, dispite all of it's improvements, Ninja Gaiden II still sufferes from it's fair share 
 of flaws. The first of these is the camera, at times the camera is very difficult to control and 
 can at times become just as much a challenge as the game's difficulty. Another fatal flaw that 
 the game has, is the introduction of a new control set up. In the first Ninja Gaiden, and it's 
 remakes, the player had to pause the game in order to change weapons, or use items, this time around 
 the player has to push down on the D-Pad in order to access the items, while this is a bit of an 
 improvement it can become a hinderence during intense battles. The final flaw Ninja Gaiden II has 
 is it's story line, which feels more like it was simply reused from the first Ninja Gaiden just 
 with different monsters and characters.
  
  Dispite it's flaws, Ninja Gaiden II is a extremely fun and addicting Action Adventure, and will 
 appeal to fans of stylish action adventure games, Dead or Alive, Mortal Kombat, and the original 
 NES Ninja Gaiden Trilogy. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rozenkrautz
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Just as I said. Lies. This game is the pinnacle of brilliance and brutality.
  This is probably my second favorite game on the 360, nothing can get ahead GTA IV. Everything is 
 fluid, the controls, the attacks, the stunts...
  Maybe this is the best hack 'n' slash we have ever experienced. The repertoire of tools is innumerable, 
 just look at the variety, Three katanas, a scythe, a staff, wolverine claws with matching boots... 
 there are more but I dont want to spoil it. there are a few flaws like the extreme difficulty and 
 eventual poor framerate and loading times. But I dont think you should be worried about that. If 
 there is one thing this game has is the extreme BRUTALITY. Its like an action adventure Mortal 
 Kombat. When you do your "final slash" to your opponent (sorry for the bad SSBB pun) you will have 
 to scream FATALITY!!!!! You will just love the corpse ripping action.
  Bottomline, if you want to play a gory, brutal or fatal game purchase Ninja Gaiden II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ntoremi
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 4, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The Ninja Gaiden 2 is the best possible continuation for the franchise or maybe not ?
  
  It has quality but needed more work.
  
  The minus:
  
  The camera isn't as good as we 
 except and after all of the bad comments about the camera in the previous NG and NGB it's not forgivable 
 mistake.
  The textures have very low quality and look very cheap.
  The sound isn't as good as we except from a title like that.
  It has too much blood.
  
  The 
 pros:
  
  It has excellent animation.
  It has right level design.
  It has advanced Artificial Intelligent (AI)
  It has sharp story line.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syrus4
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the hottest games I have played to this day... I definitely rank this game next to 
 Devil May Cry 4. I just love it! I just can not get enough of playing. I am taking a little break 
 from playing right now to eat but I am definitely going to start it back up a little bit. The last 
 time I played a Ninja Gaiden game was for nintendo, and yes say it go ahead... Wow I know but Ninja 
 Gaiden 2 is simply put.... Greatness. I can not get enough of the leg chopping and head slicing 
 fun. If you do not have this game yet.. all i can say is what are you waiting for? You are truly 
 missing out. I know I know it is expensive but it is worth every penny. I do not normally write 
 reviews but I am for this game and it is because this game is so hot! I am honestly running out 
 of good things to say about Ninja Gaiden and I really just want to get back to playing so I will 
 see everyone with ninja gaiden 2 on the leaderboard... New York here comes Ryu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyaHyabusa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I still remember the day I bought the original Ninja Gaiden on the xbox, and how it was so radically 
 different to anything I had played before. I was instantly hooked and couldn't get enough of the 
 insane super fast hack and slash action it presented
  
  Now fast forward to NGII and we have more of the same, except cranked up a notch. Now we have even 
 better gore, plus decapitations; meaning you can cut off legs, arms and heads, and watch the blood 
 paint the floor and walls red, literally. Decapitations aren't just for aesthetic purposes either, 
 because if an enemy is left with 1 arm or just 1 leg, it means you can press the Y button and pull 
 of a finishing move which is super cool and ultra brutal. For instance with the Lunar staff, Ryu 
 will smash the maced end in to the enemies face, literally making it explode in to a pool of blood 
 and guts
  
  The major improvement to me in NGII is the fact that ALL weapons are now useful. In NG you would 
 mainly use the Dragon sword, but now there's a good chance you will use a different weapon, or 
 completely mix them up just try them all out, as they are all so different and possess different 
 combo lists. Speaking of combos, you press start and look at each weapons list of moves, you will 
 be shocked at just how many you can pull off. It will take a long time to master this game
  
  On the subject of mastering the game, as you progress up the difficulties, the challenge increases 
 quite a lot. For example if you play on the easiest difficulty, then you will face off against 
 spider ninjas on the first stage. Now play on Path of the mentor (very hard) and you will be greeted 
 by completely new enemies (i won't spoil it) So unlike other games, enemies won't simply have increased 
 damage and health to simulate the added challenge. Instead you get new enemies, AND they are much 
 more aggressive and intelligent
  
  The camera is either a hit or miss. It is very possible to control the camera using the right analog 
 stick and right trigger buttons. If you invest the time in to learning how to control the camera, 
 it is more than adequate and does the job well.
  
  I could talk about NGII for much longer, but i think i have covered the best parts of the game, 
 which if you are a fan of action games, will probably have you drooling by now. But don't take 
 my word for it, go and experience it for yourself, you'll love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevelanders
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  Most reviews of this game echo the same issues: sub-par environment design, lacking originality 
 and ground-breaking updates, etc...
  
  For those of us that expected fresh originality from the series, let me try to explain something: 
 Ryu is a ninja. He cuts things. There's hacking, slashing, dicing, decapitation, and freakishly 
 large mammary glands. That's the series. There are new weapons, new enemies, new moves. and new 
 tactics. We're not going to jump into flight battles with F-16s, nor are we going to stop and play 
 Dr. Mario-style puzzle games to unlock doors. Ryu is a ninja... and he likes to do "Ninja things." 
 The game delivers this and delivers it well.
  
  There are some issues that keep this out of the 9.5+ category:
  - 2008 demands polished environments
 
  - Difficulty should be tweaked to limit having to replay a section 50 times.
  - Items are quite unimaginative.
  - Use of Ninpo still isn't encouraged, lest ye run out.
  
 - Multiplayer extensions
  
  As an action game, however, there are few, if any, that rival this game. Rate it for what it is: 
 an intense hack-n-slash ninja-oriented action game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I would like to start by saying that yesterday's news of Tomonobou Itagaki leaving Team Ninja and 
 Tecmo is very devistating. He was the heart and soul of the new Ninja Gaiden and even more so for 
 Dead or Alive. He will be missed in the franchises he guided.
  
  Ninja Gaiden II is an obvious sequel to Ninja Gaiden (black/sigma) on the Xbox. Now a days with 
 sequels people want all new gameplay and everything to be changed in order for them to consider 
 it good. I say that's a load of bull. Ninja Gaiden II hasn't changed much from it's first counterpart, 
 but the fact is it didn't really need to change. Invisible walls don't mean crap when the game 
 play is fun as hell. Ninja Gaiden II starts with the mysterious CIA agent (and typical cleavage 
 aficionado) Sonia talking with legendary blacksmith/swordsman Muramasa (who if you're a Team Ninja 
 fan will recognize not only from Ninja Gaiden and Dragon Sword, but also from Dead or Alive 4's 
 Bass cut scenes) about everyone's favorite badass ninja Ryu Hayabusa's whereabouts. It is then 
 when a ninja from the Black Spider Clan bursts through the shop only to get shot by Sonia, then 
 another one gets two bullets to the face (of which you see the remnants of his head in their full 
 glory, we'll talk about the gore later) and then Sonia gets captured, only to have Ryu come and 
 save the day by throwing shrikes into one guys face and cutting the other one's upper torso in 
 half. Sonia gets taken away by the clan again and brought to the Blood Queen Elizabet, who eventually 
 gives Sonia back to Ryu only to fly to the Hayabusa village to steal the demon statue in order 
 to resurrect the Archfiend. It is here where the Hayabusa village is attacked once again and you 
 see Ryu's father Joe Hayabusa wounded, and attacked by Genshin, an Overlord of the Black Spider 
 Clan. It's here where the story picks up, though it being a little farfetched. But to be brutally 
 honest, the story takes a back seat to the action.
  
  The gameplay in II pretty much remains unchanged from Ninja Gaiden Black. I say that meaning the 
 core of the gameplay. You go from point A to point B cutting up everything that moves in your path. 
 Aesthetic changes to the gameplay include a regenerating health bar that Itagaki admits being influenced 
 by his good friends at Bungie and their Halo games. That's not to say all your health will regenerate, 
 mortal wounds will remain red on the health bar and will not heal unless you get to a save point 
 or use an item. The second change is the obliteration techniques. If you de-limb any enemy, press 
 Y near them to pull off a technique that will absolutely destroy them into a mess of severed limbs 
 and other body parts.
  
  Obliteration techniques come in different flavors for all the different weapons as well. Along 
 with the classic Dragon Sword, lunar staff, and regular weapons Ryu's kept from Ninja Gaiden, new 
 ones like dual katanas (seen in Sigma,) a sythe, and my personal favorite, the falcon talons will 
 keep players experimenting with weapon types for playthroughs to come.
  
  Problems from past games in the series remain, that being the camera. While vets of series have 
 learned to work around the camera, it can be a little spastic for anyone else just coming into 
 the game. Also, the game is HARD. Now, this is no surprised, after all Itagaki has said that western 
 gamers are wusses (in a much more R rated way though) and have too easy games. This is very true, 
 but Team Ninja games some times go across the line. Not only is this game hard, it's cheap, which 
 is the real problem. There are some enemies that will just destroy you if they get you into one 
 of their combos. The best way to describe this is Alpha-152 from Dead or Alive 4. Yeah, remember 
 that Kasumi clone taking away 2/3 of your health bar in one combo? THAT KIND OF CHEAP. 
  
  Gameplay aside, Ninja Gaiden II is one BRUTAL game. Just know, the roman numeral for II on the 
 cover isn't in blood just to be cool, this game is BLOOOOOOOODY. I don't know how games like GTA 
 get all the bad press where this game shows so many worse things. As an example, when I first played 
 the demo I was amazed to see that after the first battle I left a floor full of limbs and bodies 
 on the ground with blood splattered EVERYWHERE. One thing I noticed was a body that was not only 
 missing its head but both its arms and legs as well. That is insane. With the lunar staff you can 
 literally bludgeon a person's upper body into nothing. I swear to you, I had one loner ninja left, 
 did a vertical strike with that, saw an explosion of body parts and could only find the legs left 
 of him afterwards. Don't even get my started on the awesome obliteration techniques; my favorite 
 happens to be with the falcon talons. Imagine if Wolverine from the X-men took his claws and jabbed 
 them into everyone's face, that's what Ninja Gaiden II does. 
  
  Finally, technically the game looks great. It would be nice to see some overhauls to Team Ninja's 
 game engine, but oh well. Screens do not do this game justice, it looks plastic in the screens, 
 but seeing this game in motion with your own eyes on your own TV will just make you appreciate 
 it so much more. With great colors (other than brown,) fluid animation, detailed characters and 
 environments, Ninja Gaiden II is definitely another piece of great Team Ninja eye candy.
  
  On a side note, a disappointment that I have with the game that doesn't amount to anything is the 
 lack of Dead or Alive cameos. With Ayane being a major player in the original Ninja Gaiden, I was 
 hoping to see at least a little more from her (she is in one short cut scene,) or even Hayate who 
 apparently is such good friends with Ryu yet you haven't seen them in a cut scene together since 
 Dead or Alive 3 it seems. It's been 3 years since Dead or Alive 4, I want to know what's going 
 on with them!
  
  Overall, Ninja Gaiden II is an amazing game. Yes, a lot of it remains unchanged from the first, 
 but if you're willing to set aside the stupid mentality that every sequel needs to be drastically 
 different, you will find an awesome, awesome game here. And for sure, if you like the first game, 
 you need this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliteman24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  -----Gameplay -------- 10/10
  First off, WOW! This game is like taking Ninja Gaiden (or Ninja Gaiden Black) and turning the knobs 
 all the way up to HARDCORE! The pure violence of it is insane. A slash from your blade could send 
 your foes heads WAAAAAY OFF! This game is insane to the max! 'Nuff said.
  
  ----------Graphics ----- 9/10
  
  The graphics are better and good looking, but I believe the 
 levels could of looked a tad bit more 360'ish and not like a re-vamped Xbox version backround. 
 Besides that, the game looks as amazing as it plays.
  
  
  ---------Bonus Stuff ------------- 10/10
  This game rewards you in so many ways. The achievements 
 are fun to unlock, and the costumes are a blast to get. The achievements really expand the difficulty 
 and overall fun of the game.
  
  
  ------Final Words -----
  I would give this a 10 to NG fans...... and a 9 to new players. Just be ready for the difficulty. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamaster32
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun note: i havent completed the game: D but the ninja gaiden 2 has good weapons 
 and excellent bombat the bosses are alittle weak sortof if your a beginner like me of ninja gaiden 
 this game is not that hard really it has a health system rehealth and you get most of the weapons 
 easily than the first and what i like about it is you can keep them when you want to start the 
 mission over again im stuck on chapter 3 the boss is really hard you cant touch it he exucutes 
 you so beaware and the 2nd boss but the weapons i got now are the dragon sword the lunar i dont 
 got the claws and the other weapons witch im hoping to get sometime but overall this is a must 
 buy game or rent. There are some diffculties in the game and some furstrating eneimes that didnt 
 really fit the plot like ninja dogs on chapter 3 yesh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerhardletterer
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  it have graphics , music , a very good gameplay , with that next gen touch that let almost anything 
 in the screen (the better games have it gta4 , assasins , gears , etc) only the game , it have 
 leader bords that make it great , the reality of the game make you let be inside of it that something 
 everybody loves , and have a good story but almost anybody realize it because the good graphics 
 and blood . almost all the people critize it and really i dont why it is a great game in almost 
 all aspects and they put leaderbords so nobody can say : is not good because it dont have any online. 
 I dont give it a 10 because it dont have that touch that thing that make you feel inside the story 
 ( it may let you feel inside the game but dont feel as ryu you feel as you were are a killer) if 
 they dont leave franchise after it is because the think this game would be the best of all and 
 they were wrong , the weapons are very good i play of the dead with his weapon , the customs that 
 will go out a few weeks out of the release but it leave you there an ( i cant say that word) that 
 dont have anything playing the same game in different difficulties , the should do like halo that 
 in the last difficulti you win more things , but this i my opinion a lot of people will critized 
 me for this so come on i am ready but i only sais that 9.5 they deserve it they end an legacy of 
 a good way but that 0.5 they dont deserve it because it wasnt the best game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjr074
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  While this game wasn't nearly as good as the Ninja Gaiden on the Xbox, it still was a great game. 
 In some ways the game is better than the original. They somehow actually made this one bloodier 
 and more violent than the first. They added the new finishing move technique in which Ryu almost 
 always chops the enemy's head off and they also made it possible to hack off limbs and watch the 
 enemy ninjas come after you while they are missing an arm. At one point in the game Werewolves 
 are actually throwing their fallen comrade's severed appendages at you. The graphics are much better 
 and the game runs much smoother than its predecessor. They added some new weapons and techniques 
 that are fun to play with and in my opinion the bow controls are much better. On the downside, 
 this game gets a little more repetitive than the first one and none of the levels seem as good. 
 There is no puzzle or problem solving in this one like there was in the first one. Every once in 
 a while you must shoot a target with an arrow or find a key to open a door, but they usually just 
 put the key in a corner somewhere and the tagets are all pretty much right in front of you and 
 extravagantly marked. I kind of miss wondering around wondering where the hell the key I need is 
 like I had to in the first one. Also, they somehow made the camera even harder to control than 
 in the first one. I can never manage to get in in the right spot and am constantly trying to readjust 
 it. Often I can't even see myself but am just swinging away blindly. Plus I am not fond of the 
 new health system that has you regenerate most of your health once a fight is over. While I am 
 only about half way through the game I will say that the difficulty to this point is pretty tough 
 but that's the way I prefer games. I'm not a fan of easy games that I can walk right through, plus 
 it makes you feel better when you defeat a part or make it through a tough spot. When I first played 
 I almost didn't like the game, but after getting used to it I'm liking it more and more. It's a 
 great game and I recommend getting it, but I will warn you that you will be a little let down if 
 you are a big fan of the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pooter18
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 3, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I must say I completely forgot about Ninja Gaiden II coming up until about a week ago when I saw 
 a ad for it on the tv. I quickly got excited and found out the release date. I must admit I was 
 surprised that the hype was not as much as I expected it to be being that Ninja Gaiden (Xbox) was 
 a truly amazing game. 
  Well maybe there wasn't all that much hype for a reason...
  Yes I will be the first to say that the action that we came to love from the previous Ninja Gaiden 
 games on Xbox is present and if anything has been built upon. That being said, the crappy camera 
 that makes it difficult to come out of these gut wrenching action sequences has also been built 
 upon i. e. the camera sucks. I've had the game for about 4 or 5 hours now and the camera has truly 
 infuriated me. More often than not, when engaged in combat, the camera angle will suddenly jump 
 so that you either lose the baddie you were fighting or lose track of the one you were running 
 towards. 
  Other than the camera, the game is very difficult. Now I'm no noob, but I'm sure people will think 
 of me as one after saying this; the game is extremely difficult, even on the lowest difficulty 
 level. Most of the time you can get by with a few cuts and bruises but from the beginning of the 
 game, you're thrown into some pretty difficult boss battles. The most infuriating part of these 
 boss battles is that the bosses can pull of attacks that drain your health by half way too easily. 
 Top that with the fact that more often than not the game programmers have left you without the 
 ability to freely replenish your secondary weapons and nimpo before the boss battles. 
  Besides the inconsistent difficulty, there's really only one other thing I have a beef with, and 
 that would be the graphics. Yes, I do think that the graphics are good, cutscenes especially, however 
 I don't think that they are as good as they should be for a next-gen console. Maybe it's been too 
 long since I've played Ninja Gaiden (Xbox) but the first thing I thought when I saw the in-game 
 graphics in Ninja Gaiden 2 was "This looks like Ninja Gaiden..."
  These are the three main things I feel bring the game down. I've played the game for a solid 3 
 hours or so, and I honestly don't think I'll want to finish it. I'm already getting bored with 
 it. By the end of the week I doubt I'll even think about playing it again. 
  I bought my copy of the game for $60 which from what I've heard is more than the game is going 
 for. My honest advice for someone who is interested in this game is to rent it first. I thought 
 that since Ninja Gaiden and Ninja Gaiden Black were so good, Ninja Gaiden 2 would be even better, 
 I was wrong and I made a mistake in buying it. Don't buy this game unless you're a true Ninja Gaiden 
 fan-boy. Rent it first. I hope this review helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekLStinson
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 3, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I've played ninja gaiden and ninja gaiden sigma. Both were steller action games. The games were 
 seaming to the pores with solid gameplay. But this one feels a little watered down. I am not just 
 talking about the story, but also the gameplay. Maybe it does have all the features of the original, 
 but it also pretty much feels like an xbox game. I've been playing next gen games since the xbox 
 360 came out, and I guess I kind of expected a little more from this game. At least the first one 
 was centralized and it seemed you leveled up with newer more powerful weapons. This one just seems 
 like you can pick up any weapon and start leveling it to the max as soon as you get the yellow 
 essence. I don't know just seems like its not living up to how the original made me feel for the 
 first time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Degon360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  it have graphics , music , a very good gameplay , with that next gen touch that let almost anything 
 in the screen (the better games have it gta4 , assasins , gears , etc) only the game , it have 
 leader bords that make it great , the reality of the game make you let be inside of it that something 
 everybody loves , and have a good story but almost anybody realize it because the good graphics 
 and blood . almost all the people critize it and really i dont why it is a great game in almost 
 all aspects and they put leaderbords so nobody can say : is not good because it dont have any online. 
 I dont give it a 10 because it dont have that touch that thing that make you feel inside the story 
 ( it may let you feel inside the game but dont feel as ryu you feel as you were are a killer) if 
 they dont leave franchise after it is because the think this game would be the best of all and 
 they were wrong , the weapons are very good i play of the dead with his weapon , the customs that 
 will go out a few weeks out of the release but it leave you there an ( i cant say that word) that 
 dont have anything playing the same game in different difficulties , the should do like halo that 
 in the last difficulti you win more things , but this i my opinion a lot of people will critized 
 me for this so come on i am ready but i only sais that 9.5 they deserve it they end an legacy of 
 a good way but that 0.5 they dont deserve it because it wasnt the best game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  If you've played Ninja Gaiden, Ninja Gaiden Black, and Ninja Gaiden Sigma for the PS3 than you 
 know exactly what you're getting yourself into. If you've a fan of the series you'll definitely 
 love this game. If you're a new comer prepare yourself for a brutal beating by the tough AI even 
 on the normal difficulty. In the past you never had a choice but for this Sequel you have a chance 
 to test your skills on both available difficulty. Once you've beating the game you'll be able to 
 unlock two harder difficulty levels. 
  
  I don't think this series will attract any new comers being that this game is not casual friendly 
 even with the normal difficult avaliable at first. One minute you're going through the level like 
 no problems. Next minute you're getting brutally beaten by the AI with one hit kills. I mean the 
 first couple of levels are a cake walk but as soon as you get deeper into the game you'll notice 
 the difficulty slowly creeping up on you. 
  
  The Graphics are not a big leap from the previous Ninja Gaiden game especially not from Sigma. 
 What you will notice is the blood and gore as been brought up a notch from previous installments. 
 Also the bodies will still be lying around after completely cutting them up in pieces around the 
 level. The combat has never been as good as it is right now. I'm telling you one of the things 
 you'll love about the Ninja Gaiden series is the combat. It's just so silk smooth to watch you 
 handle your enemies 6 at a time just cutting them up like swiss cheese. 
  
  There is no multi player but there are leaderbroads like in there were in Sigma. I have to say 
 I'm not completely amazed by the way this game looks since I've seen better looking games on the 
 system but again you're not buying this game for the beautiful graphics but for the game play and 
 combat. If you're a fan of the series you'll completely love this game regardless the rating it 
 gets and if you're a newcomer wondering if you use jump in I would doubt it you'll even get half 
 way done without breaking a controller or two before you give up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWholeFnGamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  The coming of Ryu Hayabusa to the 360 has been long awaited. With the title came promises of more 
 gore, limbs being sliced off, and the all around ninja antics we've come to know and love from 
 the title on the original Xbox. But they failed to mentioned a few things when it came to the rest 
 of the game. 
  
  
  First off, I'll say this as a disclaimer: I am a Ninja Gaiden fanboy. I've played the original, 
 the remake on Xbox, the remake of the remake on xbox... and the DS title. I think I'm well equipped 
 to review this game. 
  
  
  Ninja Gaiden II starts off with beautiful visuals, just as the previous title had. The combat system 
 is tweaked slightly, with minor changes being no longer rolling out of the block, instead just 
 gliding along nimbly on your toes to evade an attack. All the general attacks are still there, 
 Flying Swallow included... Enemies are tougher, and with removal of their limbs, will do anything 
 to make sure the dragon lineage ends with you. 
  
  
  That all being said, I have major gripes with some of this game. 
  
  
  What's with the stuttering 
 and frame rate problems? It seemed *perfect* in the original, so you would think in this title, 
 it would translate well. Well, it didn't. There are many times so far when there are large groupd 
 of enemies on the screen, the screen stutters and comes to a standstill. Although I can't report 
 a freeze, I *have* been stuck on the same frame for about 5 seconds. 
  
  
  Blood splatter. Who doesn't love it? Really, it's what makes Ninja Gaiden well... Ninja Gaiden. 
 
  
  The problem with this is that blood doesnt seem to splatter directly onto objects. It floats on 
 this invisible wall in front of the object, so when you turn the camera.... Wow... blood is *floating*. 
 Try getting some blood on objects in hayabusa village, and you'll see what I mean. 
  
  Enemies are hard... real hard. Deliciously, nutritiously hard. But what's the point if my lifebar 
 regenerates? seems that Items are in abundance on both difficultys available from the beginning, 
 and again, with the lifebar regenerating... who needs them? Save points are *way* too abundant 
 as well. Seems like every corner I turn, there's a save point. 
  
  
  Achievements are *real* easy to get in the beginning, as they basically hand them to you for learning 
 all your various techniques. 
  
  
  All in all... I mean ok, I like the game. I really do. But it's those little things that were perfect 
 before, that well.... aren't so perfect this time around. I'm a bit disappointed by the lack of 
 finishing touches on this title, as it could've been the best of the year hands down. For now though... 
 we wait for patches, and Ninja Gaiden III. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
