-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ninja Blade
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/ninjablade/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Riotous cinematic sequences.
 Fun, flashy-looking swordplay.
 Swift pacing moves things along at a nice clip.
 Great set-piece battles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Overly reliant on quick-time events.
 The combat isn't very deep or original.
 Some technical inconsistencies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  7, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 237 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: From Software
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Apr 7, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This derivative action game is a bunch of silly, stylish fun. 

  When an action game lets you dress up in pink pinstripes before carving up hordes of gruesome mutants, 
 you know it doesn't take itself seriously. Ninja Blade is such a game, but it's so ridiculously 
 over the top, so rambunctiously insane, that it's hard not to get a total kick out of it. It's 
 an uneven product, both technically inconsistent and derivative to the bone. And yet Ninja Blade 
 maintains a breakneck pace while throwing you into one preposterous scenario after another until 
 you need to catch your breath, simply because the onscreen action is so absurdly dazzling -- or because 
 you're laughing too hard. So don't expect deep combat, extreme visual prowess, or a finger-breaking 
 challenge. Instead, just prepare for a bunch of good, frivolous fun that will keep you entertained 
 in spite of some noticeable flaws.  

  You should also prepare for more memorable moments than you can shake a katana at. Ken, the star 
 of Ninja Blade, is so sensationally acrobatic that he makes Dante's antics in Devil May Cry seem 
 practically mundane. During the course of the game, he'll sky-surf on missiles, perform gravity-defying 
 stunts on a motorcycle, and ride a wrecking ball to glory, among many other gymnastic feats that 
 would make even Ninja Gaiden's Ryu green with envy. These glitzy, cinematic scenes are laughably 
 ludicrous, and yet they're an absolute hoot to watch and bound to get your pulse pounding. However, 
 you aren't relegated to being a simple observer. Most of this visual insanity is accompanied by 
 quick-time button events, which means that you'll need to keep your eyes glued to the screen even 
 when you'd rather than sit back for a breather. A close-up of Ken's keen eye signals these events, 
 so they'll never catch you off guard -- and should you miss a button press, the scene will rewind 
 (a cool-looking effect) and let you try again. Unfortunately, Ninja Blade's QTEs are all too frequent, 
 taking up a huge chunk of gameplay time. They are the best-looking ones you've seen since God of 
 War II, but as well-implemented as they are, the game relies on them so often that they become 
 tedious after a while.  

  You'll thankfully spend plenty of time wielding some powerful blades and wreaking havoc on the 
 rooftops of Tokyo. Using the titular single katana, a pair of fast-acting blades, or a heavy but 
 effective sword, you'll slice up a variety of mutated meanies as you seek to liberate Tokyo from 
 a nasty epidemic of demonic, symbiotic worm thingies. Ninja Blade is a fairly straightforward button 
 masher, so you can string your two main attacks, blocks, and jumps into various combos that you 
 unlock as the game progresses. The combat system isn't terribly deep; you won't perform Ninja Gaiden 
 II's wall-leaping slices or use Devil May Cry 4's numerous fighting styles. However, the action 
 delivers a nice feeling of impact and fills the screen with a lot of flashy visual effects. It 
 doesn't deliver much of a challenge, though, and you could finish the game without exploring some 
 of the more snazzy-looking moves. That doesn't mean you can choose a single weapon and mash your 
 way to triumph; some enemies need to be softened with your heavy blade, whereas the speedy dual 
 blades are more effective against certain foes (and helpful when trying to block oncoming projectiles 
 as well) . Nevertheless, if you want a decent challenge, you should crank the difficulty up to the 
 highest available setting from the get-go.  

  This kind of button mashing may seem par for the course, and it's derivative to the extreme, but 
 what Ninja Blade lacks in originality, it makes up for with its snappy, enthusiastic pace. The 
 action moves quickly from one scenario to the next, mixing in one boss fight after another and 
 reveling in its gleeful cinematic excess. You'll fend off winged demons in freefall, operate turrets 
 in a number of on-rails shooting sequences, and slice up ghastly fiends on the wings of a soaring 
 airplane (don't ask how Ken defies the laws of physics -- he just does) . It's all larger than life, 
 particularly when you face the various bosses liberally thrown your way. Many of these encounters 
 are fun, or at least they are the first time around; you'll battle a few of them several times 
 during the course of the game. Some of them, such as a beast-riding femme fatale, are even legitimately 
 challenging. Others aren't tough but require you to whittle away at their health, testing your 
 patience if not your skill.  

  There are other activities that help alleviate any potential tedium. You can run up or along certain 
 walls Prince of Persia-style, though these moments are highly scripted and can't be mixed into 
 battle. Nevertheless, they control pretty smoothly for the most part, and the minor bullet-time 
 effect makes it fun to watch Ken leap from one wall to another. In some places, you'll use a grapple 
 wire to zoom to your next location, or break through walls with your giant sword. You can also 
 enter ninja vision (yes, it sounds cheesy) , which slows down time and lets you inflict more damage 
 and see potential spots of interest in the area. More notably, you can unleash the wrath of three 
 different types of spinning blades: fire, wind, and electricity. You'll need them to solve certain 
 types of puzzles (for example, the wind shuriken douses flames) , though they can come in handy 
 during battle, if not always because you need them, but because they light up the screen with vibrant 
 special effects.  

  Ninja Blade's visual splendor comes from its boisterous special effects, fantastic in-engine cinematics, 
 and some sparkling city environments. The engine does a decent job of keeping up, though the frame 
 rate will take an occasional dip when there's a lot going on. That's not to say that the game is 
 a technical powerhouse. The repetitive environments aren't all that imaginative or detailed (and 
 are a bit jagged, for that matter) , and the animations are good but not as slick as in other similar 
 games. There are also some weird, jarring loading transitions in the middle of corridors, wherein 
 the newly loaded environment doesn't match the one you just left. Yet though the graphics engine 
 is attractive but inconsistent, the spirited sound effects make the action feel even livelier. 

           It's like a hot katana through tofu.      

  And then you have those unlockable costumes, a common extra found in these types of action games, 
 but delivered here in an uncommonly hysterical manner. You can dress Ken up as an evil ninja and 
 scowl while you play if you prefer, but for a curiously ridiculous treat, don the clown costume 
 and mess around with its color scheme. Such a look doesn't befit a proper ninja, of course, but 
 then again Ken does prefer to leap around Tokyo with flair, so unless you insist on high levels 
 of seriousness in your ninja games, you'll enjoy kicking bad-boy butt in purple paisley. But even 
 if you keep Ken looking prim and proper, you can upload your scores for each level to the online 
 leaderboards, which may give you a reason to return once you've vaulted your way through the eight 
 or nine hours it takes to complete Ninja Blade.  

  Even if the amount of content here doesn't rival what you can find in the best action games, Ninja 
 Blade still delivers plenty of boisterous entertainment. This is good old-fashioned fun, delivered 
 with panache and a touch of lunacy. Too derivative to be a classic and too simple to test your 
 virtual combat skills, Ninja Blade is just a blast to play.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Impaler0077
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 17, 2009 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Alright, i played the demo of this game and absolutely loved it. I was so stoked about this game 
 i checked online reviews everyday for a week before it came out. I saw review sites giving this 
 game 6's and 7's and i was upset because i felt this game deserved so much better. Then, I bought 
 it the day it came out for full 69.99 price, and thats when the regretting began. I really wanted 
 to love this game and give it a good review but i couldn't, so WHERE DO I BEGIN?!
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are decent relative to other games. The Tokyo background environment is 
 quite beautiful but there are much nicer games out there on the market.
  
  Sound
  The game music doesnt even exist. Its so quiet and bland it doesnt add any value to the game. Not 
 to mention every enemy sounds the same and theres no difference between their grunts... AT ALL
 
  
  Story
  Surprisingly the story wasnt that bad. It didnt really fit with the action but the twists made 
 things interesting.
  
  Gameplay
  Here is where ALL the problems reside. The stonerender sword should not have been put in the game. 
 Its way too powerful and made every boss fight and enemy encounter a joke. All you have to do is 
 jump and press Y and problem solved. The other weapons are completely useless.
  I play a lot of FromSoftware games, and i hate japanese game producers. It seems like they're just 
 lazy and want cash fast. The amount of recycling in Ninja Blade is ridiculous. Level 7 is identical 
 to a previous level in the game, beating it gives you an achievement called "Deja Vu." I fought 
 5 bosses 3 times throughout the game, and the stupid Snail Helicopter Mutant thing like 10 times. 
 
  The funny thing is, this game's selling point was the cinematic cut scenes, which is what actually 
 sold me. The only problem is the cut scenes are too played out, there are so many bland ones that 
 the "epicness" loses its quality. 
  "hey look, im gonna jump now, then attack, then jump again, then attack, now dodge, then jump, 
 then attack." Too much of the same goddamn cut scene actions. Now mind you, there are some funkin' 
 slick ass cut scenes within the game, just not enough.
  Not to mention, what game producer in their right mind makes a game thats ONLY story mode? What 
 year is this? 1982?!?! For funk sake, games which have only story modes and nothing other than 
 that are stupid games. At least some other game mode, or online mode, or theatre mode to replay 
 cool cutscenes, ANYTHING would be nice.
  
  Overall
  This game is weak and has so much potential. F$#@ FromSoftware and their lazy attitude and I hope 
 they go bankrupt for making such a bulls#%@ game.
  For the love of GOD do not buy this game, RENT IT FIRST!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bookeristhemac
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2009 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game would've been the better of Ninja Gaiden (if that makes sense) , but it turns 
 out it was just a rip off. The action sequences are awesome, but sometimes it gets a little annoying. 
 Especially when the camera goes like 20 miles away from the person you're playing with making it 
 hard to (1) determine which button will need to be pressed, and (2) it just gets annoying. Some 
 games are meant to be played, some games are meant to be rented; I believe Ninja Blade will be 
 in more of the category of renting. The different use of weapons are interesting, but what can 
 this guy do and or use that Ryu didn't do or use in Ninja Gaiden. This guy had a huge sword, but 
 didn't Ryu have the Dragon Sword as well (does anyone see the connection to a rip off here?) . In 
 conclusion, I think it's best to give Ninja Blade a little time before it can actually be up there 
 with the Ninja Gaiden. I'd recommend renting first. I keep saying Ninja Gaiden because this game 
 was so close to it, except you're in a city fighting huge monsters etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackBaldwin
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2009 10:08 am PT
Review:  I'll just keep this review short and sweet. In all reality even through this game isn't reinventing 
 the genre its still a pretty fun game to pick up for the weekend or for your personal libarey. 
 When I played through it I didn't really experence anything negative about it what so ever. Yes 
 theres lots and lots of real time button pushing but if you use your patience most gamers can get 
 through it pretty easy without much fret. Serious as rain I don't get to say this too often but 
 I fully enjoyed this game. The games mechiancs in itself reminded me of action movies where the 
 main character just seems immortal and can't die. Plus you had the chance to change the color of 
 his outfit and what type of outfit he could where for a mission... soo you have the ability to 
 make your character a badass looking dude or a bigger momma's boy. Soo yeah its a totally good 
 all around not game... Nice Job guys! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shottasoul86
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Ever since playing Shinobi and Ninja Gaiden as a kid growing up on the old school systems, I have 
 never really been a fan of the Ninja Vs. Alien / Monsters kind of games. And then even after growing 
 up, I still was definitely not into the newer versions of Ninja Gaiden because of their difficulties. 
 To me, those games were made retardedly hard for no reason, to the point where the fun was taken 
 out of the game because you had to worry about how hard the next boss battle was gonna be. This 
 game however hanged that. To me this game is like a mild cross between God Of War and Nona Gaiden. 
 The button sequences are fun, the combos are great, and the story is good. You can't really ask 
 for more. My only gripe with this game is that it is waaay to short. If they would have added a 
 few more levels to it, it would have gotten a 10 from me. But overall its a really good game, and 
 I would recommend that anyone into the Ninja Gaiden series should at least play it once before 
 saying its not good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fandango_Letho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 7:47 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i'm not going to flag this game as a copy of Ninja Gaiden 2. Simply because any game 
 is a direct copy of one from its style.
  
  Graphics : The game uses the unreal engine, wich I'm not very fond of. Loads of blurry textures, 
 pop in and such, and Ninja Blade isn't an exception. While the game looks reasonable, it has some 
 very, very bad artistic design. Everything is super bland, enemies are very uninspired and whenever 
 you do a platforming animation, your character gets blurred out with a blue aura, wich makes it 
 impossible to see the action he performs, you just see where he's headed to, even if the character 
 animates well on the ground.
  
  Gameplay : The game has loads of cool looking weapon fighting animations wich doesnt do justice 
 to the game itself. Everything is slightly jitterish and unpolished. See, its very hard to see 
 when to block, because of all the shiny particle effects when you hit an enemy, wich forces you 
 to turn the game into a button masher and cancels the use of the dual short-swords ( wich doesnt 
 knock the enemy's attack ) . The platforming is reasonable, yet unneeded. It's just an excuse to 
 go from a battle platform to another. The heavy emphasis on the QTE's is fun for a while, but it 
 quickly gets tedious, most likely due to the poor design of everything. You'll basicaly see Ken 
 stab, dodge and jump a lot. That's about it.
  
  Sound : Very uneven. While the game intro has a solid, serious and sad theme, and ironicaly the 
 game doesnt take itself seriously. The voice acting is a mixed bag between japanese and english, 
 wich can be confusing without subtitles.
  
  In the end, Ninja Blade could have been a lot more if the whole game wasnt as bland. Tokyo rooftops 
 or underground caves/subway stations is vastly uninspired, and the gigantic  
 you'll kill aren't very good looking or convincing. The whole thing is just brought down by the 
 game's design, wich is as good as the cover art and the character font. Bland. Wich describes the 
 game. While not a terrible game, it doesnt bring anything new to the genre.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jak_Napier
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Simply its like a mix of God of War meets Devil May cry and with a men in black feel to the game 
 with the big monsters.
  its like a Ninja gaiden wannabe.
  its got nice action somewhat smooth controls and pretty much the graphics that one can expect for 
 the Xbox 360. Its a simple hack and slash style game that is fun and entertaining for people who 
 like mediocre games.
  Theres nothing worth getting all excited over. or even replay value for that sense.
  If anything 
 it would be wisest to rent this game, just like all other game rentals you'll likely beat it in 
 8 hours or even a few days over a week depending on how you like to span your game play and maximize 
 your game time.
  despite all of the other bad reviews and with respect to gamespots review this game deserves the 
 rightful title as mediocre and doesnt belong with your collection of other games. 
  only unless you are truly a loyal fan or just want to get a few entertaining hours out of this 
 game.
  be my guest.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8berse6
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 10, 2009 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Man I have so many problems with this game I don't even know where to begin.
  
  1. Ninja Blade looks so much like Ninja Gaiden that Team Ninja should sue. Man, there were a lot 
 of ninjas in that sentence. Basically, if you have Ninja Gaiden 2 you should just replay it on 
 a lower difficulty and you'll get this game, but better.
  
  2. The quicktime events aren't actually quicktime. Ok, so this game was made with a crapload of 
 quicktime events instead of cut scenes because the developers decided that cut scenes are boring, 
 and that you should get to experience actually playing whatever is going on in the scene, sounds 
 like a good idea because i personally hate it when I'm playing a game, and there's a badass opening 
 cut scene, but then i get into the game and I can't actually do any of those moves. With this game 
 you can do all of the moves because you are playing the cut scene as a quick time event. The problem 
 with this was the execution. See the quicktime events don't actually challenge your reflexes and 
 don't make you pay more attention to the action the way you should, because before almost every 
 "quicktime event" you get a little animation that does a close up of the main character's eye. 
 This tells you that there is a quicktime event coming up and that you need to get ready. Also there 
 is no penalty for failing a quicktime event, if you fail it the game just lets you retry. While 
 this is nice at the beginning because no one likes cheap deaths by quicktime event after a while 
 you realize that it takes all of the challenge out of the game, making it really boring.
  
  3. Weapon selection sucks. In the game you carry 4 weapons at once, and you switch weapons using 
 the D-pad. I don't know about everyone else, but the weapon selection seemed really bugged to me. 
 I would push the down button to equip my twin blades and on the screen it would tell me that I 
 have selected the twin blades, but the moment I attacked anything my character would take out the 
 standard sword, or whatever sword he was last using instead of the sword I told him to take out. 
 Then I would have to select the twin swords again, at which point they would ACTUALLY be selected 
 and i would be able to use them. This is a huge problem because boss battles force you to use different 
 weapons to take down the boss, so in a single boss battle you could be using 3 or even all of your 
 swords, meaning that switching between them should be quick and precise and it just isn't.
  
  4. This may just be something that bugs me, but why is the main character white? He is a ninja, 
 all of the ninja in his squad are Japanese, his sensai is japanese, so why is he white? This seems 
 to be some poor attempt to get a bigger American demographic, but anyone who likes ninjas doesn't 
 care if their character is white or japanese and anyone who doesn't like ninjas wouldn't buy this 
 game, no matter what race the protagonist was.
  
  5. The environments are unremarkable. Ninja Gaiden had bright, colorful, interesting environments, 
 and even if they weren't particularly interesting to navigate at least they looked interesting, 
 but this game takes interesting to navigate environments, like running on the walls of a destroyed 
 skyscraper or running on the wings of an airplane in flight, and make it seem kind of boring and 
 mundane.
  
  6. The bosses in this game aren't particularly interesting to fight. Every time you see a boss 
 you are slightly awed by its size and looks, but that quickly fades away when you start playing. 
 The bosses are the standard affair where you predict their attacks based on clues that they give 
 you about what their attacks will be, and then you dodge to the best of your abilities. The bosses 
 are huge, but for the most part they are just a piece of the background with you only fighting 
 a particular appendage at a time, which takes everything interesting and awe inspiring about the 
 boss and makes it seem mundane. 
  
  7. Almost forgot the camera. The camera is freaking unforgivable, I mean seriously, I know it's 
 hard to make a good camera for a hack and slash but really. Ok, basically the way you are supposed 
 to play this game is just to continue moving straight ahead since it's almost impossible to make 
 the camera turn in close spaces, which almost all of the levels are. Basically this means that 
 if you are fighting a group of monsters and you get a little too far ahead you have to go backwards 
 to mop them up, but you can't really turn the camera well enough to see where you are going so 
 you have to pray not to run into something big and scary that will take your health down by 1/4 
 with one hit while you are running backwards blindly. 
  
  8. The inventory system in this game is completely useless. For some reason you have an inventory 
 system in this game. Why? I don't know. Apparently there are health potions or something in this 
 game (I assume because there are in every hack and slash) , but I never had to use them so I wouldn't 
 know. 
  
  There are some good things that I will say about this game, the controls, while not great do not 
 suck and do not hamper play (except for switching weapons) . The combat is fun and deep, mostly 
 because it is the same as Ninja Gaiden or Devil May Cry, and the bosses are impressive at first 
 glance.
  
  Basically this is a crippled version of Ninja Gaiden. If you like Ninja Gaiden but you thought 
 it was a bit too hard and should have had a lot more quicktime events then this is the game for 
 you. For anyone else I say avoid this game, and if you really need a Ninja fix then you need to 
 go replay Ninja Gaiden 2, or any of the iterations of Ninja Gaiden 
::::::

::::::
UserName: learcrew
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 12:11 pm PT
Review:  On a positive note, this game really shows just how good the Ninja Gaiden games actually are. *Unfortunately, 
 thats where the comparison ends, this game is a result of programmers with big ideas but not the 
 skills to back them up. One particular part of the game was so poorly programmed it refused to 
 let me go any further and left me running around straight through solid objects and then through 
 the (solid) floor to my death. After 4 attempts at working out what i actually had to do, i gave 
 up and checked online that other people had also had this problem and if the QTE didnt kick in, 
 the game would never go any further. This kind of bug is unforgivable in a retail version of the 
 game, it should be recalled and fixed. Up to this point, the game had been a poor imitation of 
 Ninja Gaiden with jerky graphics and boring QTE sections. I didnt like it at all and returned it 
 to the store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephilim83
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 7:13 am PT
Review:  Okay, where do i start??? I was looking forward to the stylistic, futuristic, high-flying ninja 
 adventures this game had written all over it. I was thinking something like Ninja Gaiden 2099 of 
 something of that sort. Boy was I let down. First, the graphics are very choppy and there's a frame-rate 
 problem (which can probably be fixed if you just install the disk to your HDD) . Next-gen games 
 shouldn't be having the kind of visual problems a lot are still coming out with!! 
  Anyway, the real problem here lies in the gameplay. Seriously, where does it start? When do I get 
 to play? A majority of it is a little cinematics that require you to hit a certain button at a 
 certain time. Miss the button? Guess what? You have to start the entire sequence over again!! I 
 wish developers would get out of this nasty habit! If I want me to jump from rooftop to rooftop 
 give me the ability to do so and get out of my way! Don't tell me to hit a button and just WATCH 
 it happen! That's not playing a game!!! If its a cinematic I want to watch that. If its a game 
 I want to play that. Lets not get the two mixed up, ok? Aside from the horrendous quick-time events 
 the actually hacking and slashing is terrible. Its basically just a button masher with no real 
 skill involved whatsoever. There's no real ninja action here at all. You want ninja? Go play through 
 Ninja Gaiden again and leave this crap on the shelf at Wal-mart. 
  Oh, yeah the story.... What story? Don't get me started. It's pretty bland and hard to follow at 
 the same time. Mostly cause its so bland and there's a lot of space between narrative and not much 
 is explained at all. I really felt no need to continue. It just didn't feel important anymore. 
 The gameplay definately didn't do anything to help the matter, but I've always felt on these next-gen 
 games that it should be the story's responsibility to keep us interested. There's nothing interesting 
 about a goofy-looking cyber ninja and his mission to... what exactly? BLAH!!!!!
  Don't waste your money. Rent this if you really must see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_by_kungfu
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 11:39 am PT
Review:  Ok first off, the action sequences. Personally; i may be a little bias here because i've always 
 enjoyed action sequences, and i know a lot of you don't for some reason. But i'd rather do something 
 during a cut scene than just sit and watch. But for this game, even if you don't like the action 
 sequences, the action is so DAMN EPIC it only adds to the excitement. And for all of you who say 
 "blah blah this is a ninja gaiden rip off" do me a favor. Shut the **** up. Besides it was created 
 by the same people as ninja gaiden, so yea it may seem similar but they are 2 totally different 
 games. Ninja gaiden had a very tight fighting system with challenging difficulty; granted. But 
 where as ninja blade may not be as challenging it's definately more exciting and just damn good 
 fun. It's combat is also nothing to laugh at. You can pull off some of the sickest moves i've seen 
 since god of war. The slight loading problems can be easily remedied by installing the game to 
 your harddrive which i might add is better on ALL your 360 games. But that didn't bother me even 
 before i saved it because it's just so entertaining. The customization is also a nice touch, i'm 
 an RPG geek at heart so its all about the customization :D The ONLY problem i had with this game 
 was it was a little too short, about 9-10 hours which for most people is super short for a beat-em-up. 
 But i'll definitely be replaying this over and over again. On the epic scale, it's definitely the 
 god of war for the 360 if not more epic, i just wish, like i said it were a bit longer *wishes 
 for DLC SOON!* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Max1363
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2009 9:25 am PT
Review:  The game is in good way but not great. story after mission one is some surprising but surprises 
 end there and there is no more in other missions. the story acts like all Japanese routine movies 
 one hero to challenge thousands and save the world. you may ask yourself Ninja Gaiden story was 
 something like this but i must say there is no connection in different parts of the game there 
 for story crashes end of any chapter and most important thing about story is the lack of characters 
 biography.
  Visuals are just ok but in some levels (specially level 2) there are unusual big bugs, actually if 
 u using HDTV set bugs will show them selves more and more. what kind of bugs? there are some places 
 that the screen will get amorphous and sometimes u can't see who are attacking u!
  frame rate is not bad (between 45~55 fps) but again sometimes it will drop under 30fps. generally 
 i think there are paradoxes in level design from technical visual aspect, some textures are really 
 clear and some others are terrible (specifically level ground textures) .
  actually there are not much music that u can hear in game but there are all impressive and they 
 harp u to fight more and more...
  sound effects (weapon smashes) are really enjoyable and fully effective but again the game has lack 
 of variety of sound effects like enemy sounds and weapons...
  the game play is something between GOD OF WAR and Ninja Gaiden which means a really action and 
 fun game play + Quick Events that force u to push the buttons in specific the time but quick events 
 lacks of originality and because developers used it in entire game and every time u failed to push 
 right button they game will rewind and repeat until u pass the event.
  all in all i offer u to rent it first and then buy it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
