-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Onechanbara: Bikini Samurai Squad
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/chambarabeautyx/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cute zombie minigame during loading times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Endlessly boring button mashing.
 Boss fights are either dumb, easy, or frustrating.
 Looks and sounds as ugly as sin.
 Environments are repeated ad nauseam.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 13, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.5
Critic Score: 4.3, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 5.4, 422 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: D3
Developer: Tamsoft
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Feb 10, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
How can a gory action game with women in bikinis fighting zombies go so wrong? 

  Brace yourself for a real shocker: Sex sells. If the title of Onechanbara: Bikini Samurai Squad 
 isn't enough to prepare you for the lascivious content lurking within, the barely dressed vixen 
 wielding swords on the cover will hammer the point home. These maidens aren't just half-naked, 
 however; they're half-naked and splattered with the blood of a thousand slain zombies. And zombies 
 are awesome, which makes you wonder: How could a game about beautiful women slashing up the undead 
 go so very, very wrong? You'd think it could at least have some cheesy B-movie charm to it, in 
 the vein of Earth Defense Force 2017 or The House of the Dead: Overkill. But no, Onechanbara isn't 
 a bunch of dumb fun -- it's just dumb. You can see sultry women in swimsuits for free on the Internet, 
 and you certainly shouldn't spend $40 on a gruesomely violent action game that won't titillate 
 you so much as it will numb your brain.  

           Splat.      

  How mind-numbing is it? Onechanbara elicits two basic reactions: boredom and frustration. The boredom 
 comes from taking control of one of three playable characters and mashing buttons through endless 
 hordes of the undead. On normal difficulty, the early levels aren't just easy -- they're yawners, 
 and you'll spend most of your time pounding on the X button while searching for keys to open new 
 areas. Even though it seems like theres a lot of variety, there isnt, because all the different 
 options really just boil down to hammering on buttons. For instance, as you progress through the 
 game's 20 missions, you'll encounter different foes, requiring you to change up your attacks a 
 bit. As Aya, you can switch from a single sword to dual swords, therefore switching your set of 
 moves. You'll also need to occasionally flick the blood off your weapon, since it becomes useless 
 and can get lodged in your undead target if fully soaked. You can lock on to zombies, tumble around, 
 enter rage mode, stun foes by kicking them, activate special attacks, and even activate a short 
 slow-motion attack if you dodge at the right time. But while you will need to mix up your attacks 
 for some enemies, for the most part you can just jam on buttons indiscriminately without too much 
 worry.  

  The frustration comes from a myriad of bad design elements, from controls to level layout to annoyingly 
 awful boss fights. Every attempt to leave the tedium of button mashing behind results in pure stupidity. 
 A level that requires you to outrun packs of zombie dogs while riding a motorcycle is so awful 
 it may be the worst bit of gameplay you'll experience all year. Its level of difficulty is so cheap, 
 the camera so bad, and the controls so unresponsive that the game's poor quality comes immediately 
 into focus. A long boss battle involving a screen full of evil beauties is just a sequence of cheap 
 attacks, and holding down the right bumper to maintain camera lock while juggling special moves 
 (which require you to press two face buttons at once) and normal attacks can lead to physical discomfort. 
 Other boss fights, including one against a killer zombie whale, are either so easy they're laughable 
 or so glitchy you can exploit them. If you like firing guns, you can take control of Annna (yes, 
 with three n's) and take aim, but her animations are stiff and the shooting is dull, so even the 
 endless gushers of blood can't rescue you from boredom.  

  Even the painfully easy levels are maddening, sometimes requiring you to trek through the same 
 sewers and city streets across several missions so you can activate the next scripted attack. This 
 usually involves fighting through crowds of lurching zombies or (more commonly) rushing past them 
 until a fence appears and forces you to mash mash mash until you beat all the enemies or a key 
 appears. Then you go unlock a new area and do it all again. This wouldn't be so bad if there were 
 some eye candy to gaze at, but even the titular samurai squad members aren't much to look at. They 
 animate stiffly and their robotic gyrations look so uncomfortable it's a wonder the gals haven't 
 needed hip surgery. Their prerendered counterparts in cutscenes look more lifelike, but the cinematics 
 are ugly and suffer from hideous screen tearing. Everything is a painfully low resolution, which 
 makes it hard to stomach the frequent loading times. At least Onechanbara throws you a bone here, 
 letting you play a little zombie-killing minigame during loading screens that exudes more charm 
 than the actual campaign.  

           Bang.      

  Perhaps you are a glutton for punishment, and if so, you'll be glad to know that Onechanbara offers 
 a fair amount of replay value. A so-called quest system will have you gunning to meet certain gameplay 
 requirements, like killing a certain number of zombies. You can fight endless gangs of the undead 
 in survival mode and unlock new costumes and accessories so you can view your seductresses in various 
 forms of undress. You'll also be leveling them up and spending points on attributes like vitality 
 and speed, which helps out if you want to explore the harder difficulty levels that you can unlock. 
 Or if you prefer suffering with a friend, you can take on the zombie apocalypse in split-screen 
 cooperative play, which makes the game a bit more enjoyable because you have someone to make fun 
 of it with, but causes the frame rate to take a bit of a hit. As for the annoyingly repetitive 
 sound effects and ear-splitting soundtrack, the less said about them the better.  

  For those who like the imagery but came for the story (are there such folks?) , you'll find one 
 buried in here, but it's hard to care about the walls of badly translated text and misspelled dialogue 
 that convey it. So what reason  is  there to play Onechanbara: Bikini Samurai Squad? There is none, 
 so suppress any morbid interest you may harbor and spend your money elsewhere, because neither 
 acrobatic temptresses nor legions of the lurching undead can make this game worth playing.     
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tesseract77
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2009 11:10 am PT
Review:  Sometimes, I really just do not understand GameSpot's rating philosophies. Yes, there are always 
 going to be games on which we all disagree on; it should be rather obvious that gaming is just 
 like any other hobby/interest: people are drawn to different aspects/genres in the gaming world. 
 In addition, with those differing preferences come differing opinions.
  
  What bothers me though is when a game is taken out of its own context and compared to other ones 
 that may or may not have set out to accomplish completely different things, even if they're technically 
 within the same genre.
  
  It's easy to see that Onechanbara: Bikini Samurai Squad fits the hack n' slash, action genre. Still 
 though, does this mean we need to be reviewing the game from a comparative standpoint? Just because 
 this is a gory, action game, does that mean it needs to be torn to pieces because it isn't God 
 of War?
  
  No, and that's exactly my point: video games, as with movies and really all forms of media should 
 be analyzed within their own context. In other words, does Onechanbara live up to its very minuscule, 
 practically nonexistent hype, lowered price point and blatant "B-movieish" vibe? Yes it does, and 
 quite nicely at that too. 
  
  I always go into a movie, game, whatever with expectations that are based off of precisely what 
 I'm getting myself into, not something else. This is especially true when it makes no claim or 
 attempt to be something it isn't. That would be like giving the recently released, on Xbox 360 
 and PlayStation 3, Genesis Collection huge point deductions because of its graphics.
  
  Anyway, I probably should get off my soapbox and say something specific about the game. Onechanbara 
 is a low-budget, straightforward zombie-chopper with a heart of gold. The graphics are not the 
 greatest, nowhere nearly as terrible as "Xbox/PS2" level that some people are claiming, nor is 
 the level design all that inventive. Still though, even though I bought Killzone 2 and this game 
 more or less at the exact same time, I've been playing Onechanbara nonstop and haven't even put 
 Killzone 2 into my PS3 yet. Unlike some other reviewers (*ahem* GameSpot) who completely missed 
 the mark in understanding what this game truly is, I find the combat completely fun, never stale 
 and only a tad repetitive during some of the longer missions.
  
  Look, it comes down to this: if you're looking for a game during which you can completely turn 
 your mind off for a change and enjoy both gratuitous violence and sexuality, then drop the $40 
 on this game. If not, you can always go and play your 1 millionth round of SF IV or Halo and keep 
 on telling yourself how great the "replay" value is of dumping hundreds of hours into the same 
 exact thing literally thousands and thousands of times over. Your choice. For me on the other hand, 
 I'm about to go and boot up Bikini Samurai Squad and work on covering my HDTV's screen in blood 
 in new and hilarious ways.
  
  (Note: I'm well aware I did not talk a whole lot about game specifics, and seeing as how this is 
 a review, I'll list a few more factual tidbits: Onechanbara is above-average in length for the 
 genre (10-12 hours on average on Normal difficulty your first time through. There is TONS of content 
 to unlock ranging from clothes and such for the girls (in fact, there is an entire, dedicated "Dress 
 Up" mode to doll your blood-thirsty killers up) to new difficulties and menu backgrounds. The game 
 has a decent amount of DLC including new costumes and characters to add to your standard three 
 girls. There are a good amount of collectibles, most importantly bracelets which unlock various 
 power-ups and such, but without giving anything away, only those with a good amount of skill will 
 be able to get them. 
  
  Those out there that call this a "stale button-masher" simply are admitting they do not understand 
 the combat system; each girl has at least two separate fighting styles and plenty of different 
 moves for each type. On top of that they each have a special "Ecstasy Attack" as well as a "Counter 
 Stance" move. The combination of the latter along with mastering lock-on dodging is the key to 
 getting out of many sticky situations as well as imperative to becoming skilled at combat. 
  
  Yes, you can button mash your way through most of Easy Mode and the first few missions on Normal, 
 but trust me when I say that without becoming proficient at the combat system, you will not get 
 past later missions on Normal, let alone getting anywhere at all on harder difficulties. You'd 
 also neither stand a chance at unlocking any of the bracelets nor meeting the requirements for 
 the few dozen "Quests" that coincide with the actual game. Said quests are tied to the vast majority 
 of the Accomplishment Points, so if you're a point-hoarder, beware.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 9:05 pm PT
Review:  The world faces an unprecedented zombie infestation, and its only hope rests in the hands of two 
 young women in bikinis and G-strings brandishing samurai swords. Sounds unbelievable? Well, believe 
 it. Onechanbara is such an experience, and it's a surprisingly fun and decent action game filled 
 to the brim with blood, zombies and the Sports Illustrated swimsuit centerfolds who are our only 
 chance for survival.
  
  Saki and Aya are two battle-hardened, badass sisters (or half-sisters as is according to the official 
 story) who serve as the central heroines of the game. In spite of their differences, the two are 
 skilled in the art of samurai swordsmanship, and they must put it to use in a world gone mad and 
 crawling with endless legions of undead zombies. It sounds similar to the likes of Dead Rising 
 and Dawn of the Dead, but to much more varied and outlandish effect here. The game is set up as 
 individual chapters, and you will control two characters with one on the field at a given time 
 (you can switch between the characters using shoulder buttons, and another character named Annna 
 can be unlocked as you play through the game) . From then on in, you will attack scores of zombies 
 and other wicked creatures using a variety of attacks such as sword slashes, kicks and even guns. 
 Make no mistake -- blood will fly, and quite often, and it even has an effect on your body and your 
 weapon. As you cut multiple enemies into bloody Slurpees, your blade will collectively be stained, 
 dulling its sharpness. If you try to attack a zombie with it, you'll only end up literally getting 
 your weapon stuck in its body and trying to pull it out. The solution to this problem is "cleaning" 
 your sword, which is rather quick yet somewhat leaves you vulnerable. 
  
  Both sisters have special attacks and abilities -- an Ecstasy Attack and a Rampage Mode. An Ecstasy 
 attack is a super powerful attack maneuver you can unleash when you fill up a yellow meter by performing 
 combo hits in succession, but you have to continue connecting your attacks before it swiftly drops 
 to zero. Rampage Mode occurs when your HUD portrait fills red to its capacity, and your character 
 goes completely apeshoot with increased attack power and speed as your life bar slowly ebbs away 
 (and you can die from this inherent ability if you let it prolong without visiting a statue or 
 using a statue fragment.) You can even develop your characters by customizing their individual 
 stats at the end of each level depending on how well you do.
  
  There are a number of game modes to fool around with as well, like Free Play mode, which lets you 
 replay any level you've completed any time you like and to your heart's consent. Survival Mode 
 pits you against waves of zombies and rewards you items for your endurance. Dress Up is perhaps 
 one of the more interesting aspects of the game. Be it downloads from the Marketplace or awards 
 in game, your girls can be retrofitted with a variety of skimpy (and mildly conservative) clothing 
 items so when they're out slashing zombies and fighting evil, they'll look damn good doing it. 
 Hairstyles, eye color and skin tones may also be changed.
  
  The sound quality is somewhat subdued but gets the job done nonetheless. The music is comprised 
 of some guitar riffs -- appropriate considering the overt nature of the game. Voice work is entirely 
 Japanese with subtitles.
  
  Onechanbara is one of those games that connects with varied audiences -- some may like it, others 
 may hate it, and the rest will probably just laugh off its ridiculous nature. For me, it was a 
 surprisingly decent and fun game that didn't feel like a waste of time. My best advice to you is 
 if you want to give this game a chance, rent it first before you make the decision to add it to 
 your library. The game may or may not connect with you as it did with me, but it all boils down 
 to when you take that first step.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsujido
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 10:41 am PT
Review:  Onechanbara showed up as a recommendation on amazon last year when I was ordering idolm@ster (both 
 NTSC-J) . Looked interesting at the time but much too expensive. Why it was grouped with idolm@ster, 
 I will never know.
  
  So, seeing a release in the states this year, I decided to pick it up.
  
  This review is based 
 on around 7.5 hours of playtime which netted me one achievement: Genocider
  
  Gameplay: Controls feel solid, and most combos can be executed simply by repeatedly pressing either 
 the X or Y button. If you're looking to do something a bit more flashy, try a few button combos 
 and you'll learn them with relative ease. The jump attacks often land you too far ahead or behind 
 your enemy to actually hit them. For me this is due to the dreadfully slow speed of the camera. 
 After playing for awhile, and learning your relative distance to the target, this becomes a non 
 issue.
  
  
  Sound: This is probably the worst aspect of the game, but does work in selling it as a mindless 
 arcade game. The constant / rhythmic looping of breathing while your character runs is awful. Really. 
 It's bad enough to make you want to turn down the volume. The music is better than expected, but 
 the voice acting is seriously lacking. The characters are extremely shallow, and this point is 
 sold by the voice over performances. The zombies don't really have much in the way of sound at 
 all. If they do, I've yet to hear it aside from some random sounds of pain when you've killed one 
 of the humanoid variety.
  
  
  Graphics: They're not up to par with current gen games, but aren't bad. Perhaps it's just me, but 
 I get 60 FPS in most areas unless there are LOTS of enemies onscreen. Even with that, I've yet 
 to see much of a hit in that area. The modeling and motion capture are really bad, and marred further 
 still by poor contrast giving the characters a plastic like look. The zombies look good, and slice 
 up quite satisfyingly.
  
  
  To summarize, I will give this a 5.5 overall simply because it's provided me with $40 worth of 
 zombie hacking fun in a relatively short time. It's definitely not for everyone, and likely would 
 have been better received if we'd had it back in 2006 (Japanese release) . If you like Japanese 
 games such as Bullet Witch or Ninja Gaiden*, chances are you'll find some enjoyment from Onechanbara.
 
  
  *To all Ninja Gaiden, DOA, and DOAX fans of which I am one, please forgive the grouping of Onechanbara 
 with these. However, the levels and film grain are reminiscent of those games, and are relevant 
 to the review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rethis
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 21, 2009 3:25 am PT
Review:  Graphics 5: textures are pretty good and the girls are pretty well rendered. Zombies look nice. 
 Too bad it's like two or three zombie textures (from what I can see) and re-used models. Re-used 
 levels no matter where you are make the graphics an all round average picture.
  MoCap is awful. I Don't think I have ever seen such poorly done Mocap. I know the chicks aren't 
 real but still.
  Physics is terrible. Yes I'm talking about the breast physics. Unless you are in it to be hypnotized 
 by the bouncing melons there is no value and you can tell they really tried.
  
  Gameplay 0: Once again. Levels and enemies are repeated. The unlockables don't tell you what they 
 are until you get there.
  The story is based on a game that the bulk of North America has not played with some Blood the 
 Last Vampire rip off character concepts. Even down to the outfit for one character.
  The language is in japanese with a long and droll introduction to every chapter.
  They really 
 think you are going to want to play this again?
  The above would put it in the negatives if it wasn't for the third character.
  Kind of fun filling 
 zombies with lead. Reminded me of Zombie revenge. A game where the super agents were not fumbling 
 morons. Dreamcast only and not with much longevity.
  
  Sound 0: Voice acting was flat. Sound effects were very unconvincing. The splat of cleaning you're 
 swords was decent but bad dialogue takes away any positive gained from weapon sounds.
  
  Save yourself. Don't rent it. Most certainly don't buy it. For those like me who have - try not 
 to get too mad when you see it at the local blockbuster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchuugaka
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2009 7:49 pm PT
Review:  You just don't get it. You can't. If you lived in Tokyo for 5 years like me, then this game makes 
 perfect nutty sense. It is fun, funny and simplistically base in its entertainment value.
  The humor will be extremely hard to appreciate unless you speak Japanese and have lived in and 
 loved Tokyo and its popular contemporary culture.
  
  The girls and the things they wear/don't wear and thing things they do and way they move are a 
 pure rendition of what otaku culture in japan loves. Everyone in Japan is secretly otaku anyway.
 
  
  Granted the game looks like a ps2 port and probably is, but it's campy and fun no less.
  If you cannot enjoy this, I can understand. If you have the right background, though, you will 
 not go home empty handed. It is a simple button masher, but one for dudes or chicks who dig chicks 
 and a few brews! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSylntChamber
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2009 10:00 am PT
Review:  This game isn't the best on graphics or revolutionary game play. It does however have some fun 
 and entertaining hours of play, just don't expect more than any other hack and slash.... oh except 
 the skimpy dressed women which definitely add a nice touch. Could the game play have been better? 
 Sure. Was it worth a play? Absolutely. Maybe some other game developers could take from it and 
 learn to be a little more risque. 
  
  One problem I found is that there is a severe lack of direction. There have been times when I have 
 to get online to look at a guide to find out what to do next. The cool combos on the blood mist 
 is one I would have never figured out.
  
  This game is a straight translation of a Jap game. The text is a bit awkward looking and can get 
 lost trying to read it with it's strange text and random spaces. All and all I would say rent the 
 game or get it used. Replay value isn't very high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Saigo-
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 17, 2009 2:46 pm PT
Review:  The onechanbara series, translated from the Japanese words on-chan = big sister, (but also 
 a slang term for a young adult woman) and chanbara = sword fighting, is a new hack and slash zombie 
 fest for the xbox 360. Having made it's release in Japan back in December of 2006, Onechanbara 
 is high action, rampant with blood and gore, "Beat em' Up" style title released by Tamsoft Stateside 
 February 10th, 2009. 
  
  Graphics / Presentation: (Rated 3/5) 
  
  Onechanbara looks good but not great. Cut scenes were well done graphically but more often than 
 not ran choppy. Animations were fluid with action sequences and combo's feeling right, but drops 
 in frame rates when opponents reached higher levels numerically is always frustrating and unacceptable. 
 Additionally, with enclosed environments (cages, fencing, random bamboo poles appearing randomly 
 from the earth) Onechanbara was more reminiscent of past millennial dreamcast titles than the free 
 flowing environments of the 360/PS3 generation.
  
  Music / Sound: ( Rated 2/5)
  
  Onechanbara sound effects were nothing extraordinary and the games soundtrack was fitting to the 
 "Beat em" Up" title stereotype: More suitable to the 80's. Overall the music and effects were uninspired 
 but never became overly annoying and served as a background distraction from the blood spatters 
 and sword swings. 
  
  Story / Writing: (Rated 2/5)
  
  Onechanbara is one title in a progressing series so naturally certain elements are going to be 
 left out. However, though the story at times was entertaining and border line engaging, the writing 
 and flow of the vernacular was atrocious. It's impossible to feel the mood of any story if you're 
 constantly hitting the speed bumps of poor writing, bad sentence structure, and incomplete thoughts. 
 The dialogue itself was pathetic at best, though comical at times with characters laughing expressed 
 as, "Fua wa ha wa" or, "Kwa ha ho". Overall, something has definitely been lost in translation.
 
  
  Creativity: (Rated 4/5)
  
  Onechanbara I felt brought some new ideas to a game genre that traditionally replaces creativity 
 and intuition with blood and gore. Among such ideas and concepts was a sword gauge that would gradually 
 fill red as the blood and guts of slain opponents accumulated on the weapon. Eventually the sword 
 will lose effectiveness to the point of being unable to cut clean and would actually get caught 
 in zombies until the weapon was cleansed with a button press and slight time delay. 
  
  Also, though not entirely unique, was a limit break type effect that would occur when the player 
 had killed too many zombies. Being bathed in the blood of fallen foes, the player would enter a 
 state of blood lust which increased damage and speed while constantly draining the individuals 
 health until a "goddess" item was consumed to break the berserk like state. 
  
  Fun Factor: (Rated 4/5)
  
  Onechanbara is a mindless, violent, unabashedly sexy samurai smack 
 down (In bikinis) that is both unapologetically high school and sadistically entertaining. Though 
 the game play can be repetitive with repeated venues and simplistic combo variations, Onechanbara 
 is filled with enough action and hidden content to keep the experience engaging and enjoyable.
 
  
  FINAL = 15/25 or 60% (Rated 6 out of 10)
  
  Final Thoughts: Onechanbara is exactly what it claims to be: A sexy, stylish, zombie genocide. 
 I don't understand how people can review it at a 1, or 2, as it's truly not a bad game -- It's not 
 great, but it's not bad either. If you're looking for a hack and slash title that's reminiscent 
 of the early Dynasty Warrior titles in confined spaces and with a lot more blood, Onechanbara isn't 
 a bad choice... just don't expect any nudity. 
  
  ~Saigo~
  "Intelligent reviews for Intelligent Gamers" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitalaspect
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is a sexed up little time-killer that may be worth picking up on the cheap.
  
  The combat, which comprises most of the game, presents a strangely engrossing mix of simplicity 
 and hidden depth. Button mashing will get you through 90% of the action, but pulling off the combos 
 and special maneuvers is tricky and rewarding. Lack of instructions in the manual leave you guessing 
 as to how to pull off the moves and recognize the item drops, so I suggest reading a web primer 
 to help get you through. Be warned, until you figure out the trick to completing some sections 
 you will get caught in the horribly frustrating trial and error re-spawn loops that typify B and 
 C grade action titles.
  
  The girls are pretty well animated pixelated cheesecake. It's just about enough to distract you 
 from the paper thin gameplay if you're enough of a perv. The pause features an option to clear 
 the menu so you can take a stop motion look at the gory details. The clear pause is a gem of cheesecake 
 gaming. Embrace the goodness.
  
  The story is strange and contrived in the classic anime style with genres getting moshed together 
 recklessly to form a pop-cool east/west confabulation akin to sushi with cream cheese. It's wacky 
 but it kind of works if you suspend your disbelief and just let the comic book silliness ride. 
 While the game falls a trifle short of the panache of Sudeki, it does up the ante on the graphic 
 girliness. While I am keen to support the copious and gratuitous exposition of female pulchritude, 
 I just wish the game itself sucked a little less. A good story, an open landscape, some interactive 
 plot points and explorable areas/items would be well placed. In the mean time, you can enjoy it 
 for what it is; bikini chicks that whack stuff with swords and make a big wet mess. Fun, if you 
 don't pay too much for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junkchaser
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 27, 2009 1:18 am PT
Review:  If you are a big fan of Prince Of Persia stop reading this review and know this game is totally 
 crap. If you liked DOA Beach and you like cheap repetitive games even more then you are going to 
 like this oneshabby-bananarababa game.
  
  Don't expect much from the 3D engine. It's like playing an old bullsh*t xbox game that's even more 
 crappy then 3D Pacman. Sorry for the Pacman lovers ...
  Anyway if you are looking for quality graphics you will be very disappointed. But it's not all 
 about the graphics, right ? We can try ignoring it and try to listen to the music? Oh god, I think 
 the music is made by a nine year old hobbit. Just trust me: it's horrible!
  
  Ok let's enjoy the gameplay? Yeah well if you are brain dead you will like this game killing your 
 joy pad by pressing your action-button repeatedly.
  Of course there are some good aspects. The multiplayer action can be chaotic and hilarious. If 
 you play this with friends you really can enjoy the stupid action, panty shots and your babes running 
 around slashing while talking about your workweek.
  
  Only buy this game if you really are into cheap eastern manga, having a bad taste of quality and 
 having friends who are brain dead. Enjoy if you can!
  
  www. junkchaser. dyns. be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatchamania
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 17, 2009 6:44 pm PT
Review:  If you played this and still go back for MORE, well,
  what do they say about chicks who keep going back to abusive relationships?
  They're not right 
 in the head, and neither are you. 
  
  The ONLY redeeming factor this game has going for it is Hot Chicks killing Zombies.
  If you can 
 get off on this factor alone, then this is the game for you.
  
  But if you require a game that actually has some of the more important qualities a game should 
 have, like game play and story, Well, just stop reading because there's noting to see here.
  
  No really.... what are you still reading for.... there's absolutely nothing right with this game.
 
  
  It is essentially a clone (a horribly disfigured clone) of the popular Onimusha series, only worse 
 graphics, smaller environments and a shallower attack system and with less enemies on screen at 
 once.
  
  The only thing that could have saved this game was utilising next Gen graphics..... but they didn't. 
 
  You could be forgiven if you thought the PS2 had better graphics, because quite frankly the game 
 looks like it was made on old hardware.
  
  You may think my review is a bit harsh, but then you probably haven't played the game yet.
  I'm 
 sure pre-pubescent boys around the world are rejoicing that they made a game like this... but they 
 will find out the hard way once they actually pay money for this and start to play.... 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kfjl
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit that when I saw previews for a game called "Onechanbara: Bikini Samurai Squad," I chuckled 
 and felt immediately compelled to buy the game out of morbid curiosity. The $39.99 price tag made 
 it even more of a sure thing that I would be adding this one, bad reviews be damned. 
  
  Well, after completing all 20 levels and fighting wave after mindless, monotonous wave of zombies, 
 I can say that my brain is fried and I'm wondering if buying this game was a mistake. 
  
  Bikini Samurai Squad is the latest in a series of games to carry the Onechanbara name, although 
 I never played any previous editions and never heard of it before discovering this game. The game, 
 much like D3's previous XBox 360 title "Earth Defense Force 2017," carries a B-movie flavor to 
 it. Whereas EDF 2017 was like an Ed Wood movie, Bikini Samurai Squad is trashy like a Troma movie, 
 complete with geysers of blood and body parts flying everywhere. But where EDF succeeded in creating 
 a fun, sometimes insane experience despite its warts, Bikini Samurai Squad leaves something to 
 be desired. 
  
  Your "Squad," despite its name, only consists of one girl in a bikini, Aya. She's joined by her 
 sister Saki, who looks all of 15 years old and is wearing a schoolgirl outfit, and the token female 
 cop with boobs too big for her shirt, Annna. Aya and Saki wield samurai swords, whereas Annna packs 
 two pistols, a shotgun, and an uzi (although strangely enough, her bullets don't do nearly as much 
 damage as a sword) . When Aya or Saki are on the screen, the combat might remind you some of Ninja 
 Gaiden (albeit not nearly as deep) , and Annna's gunslinging might remind you of when Dante takes 
 out Ebony and Ivory in Devil May Cry. Not suggesting they ripped off those games or anything... 
 just sayin'.
  
  The story mode spans over 20 chapters, some of which can be completed in less than five minutes 
 and others that will take quite a bit longer. The game runs around 10 hours or so with your first 
 playthrough but can be completed a lot quicker than that. There's also a survival mode and a "Dress 
 Up" mode where you can change your character's outfits, or just strip them down to their bra and 
 panties and play like that. Yes, you can even put schoolgirl Saki in her underwear, and yes, it 
 does feel 110 percent creepy. Dress Up mode actually doesn't seem to work properly as the characters 
 seem to fall off the screen despite you not even touching anything. There are also quests, each 
 of which can be completed for XBox 360 achievement points, although to be honest some of the quests 
 aren't very fun, and for whatever reason, you have to complete each one three times before getting 
 credit. 
  
  After you sit through the Austin Powers-inspired intro where Aya's body parts are conveniently/inconveniently 
 covered by whatever happens to get in the way, gameplay begins and you can tell right away that 
 you're playing a budget title. The graphics are hazy and dated, the sound is poor, the picture 
 stutters from time to time, and you pretty much can tell immediately what you're in for the rest 
 of the game -- wave after wave of zombies. The combat is fast and furious, and early on, I found 
 myself having a fun time with all the carnage on the screen. The move set is fairly basic and limited 
 -- many will surely label this game a button masher -- but if you enjoy action games, you will 
 likely enjoy this one for at least a little while. And if you're into guts and gore, the game gives 
 Ninja Gaiden II a run for its money in the violence department and may even surpass it as blood 
 shoots out Kill Bill-style with every kill and drips down your television screen. 
  
  The biggest problem with this game is the later levels, which is where the repetition starts to 
 set in. The level design is basic and dull, and you unfortunately find yourself backtracking a 
 bit later in the game. You will be faced more and more with what seems like neverending hordes 
 of zombies. Many of them you can run right past, but sometimes the game traps you in a cage and 
 forces you to slice through waves of zombies to continue. The zombies don't just die easily, either; 
 they stay alive unless you kill off every portion of their body. If you chop up the top half, the 
 legs will stay alive and will come after you (and yes, they will kick you and do damage if you're 
 not careful) . After taking a few minutes to hack through a group of zombies, the game very often 
 throws another wave at you, and then another. 
  
  Some zombies have different attacks and may shoot guns or throw grenades (which can be frustrating) , 
 but for the most part there's not much variety and the stuff you're doing on Chapter 1 is more 
 or less what you'll be doing for most of the game. There's one stage where you can ride a motorcycle 
 and plow through the zombies, but it unfortunately doesn't work too well as if you drive your motorcycle 
 too close to the fence on the sides of the road, you get stuck and have to wiggle your way out. 
 Many of the boss fights are also lackluster and can be completed using one particular strategy. 
 There are a couple interesting encounters, but most of them are nothing to write home about, and 
 some bosses make an appearance two or three times. 
  
  The story isn't horrible -- I've seen a lot worse in some AAA titles -- but it's not great either 
 as it's just a vehicle to carry the action along. The game is in Japanese with English subtitles, 
 so those who don't understand Japanese can skip over the voice acting and just read the text without 
 having to worry about listening to the acting. After completing the game, a new difficulty level 
 opens up. There are five difficulty levels in all, and if you don't tire of all the zombie slashing, 
 you can try to make it through all of them. 
  
  Onechanbara: Bikini Samurai Squad is not quite as bad as early reviews say -- it has some moments 
 (one of which is a little 8-bit minigame that plays during the loading screen -- a great way to 
 make load times pass quicker) , and the action isn't all bad. There's a reason why this one is $39.99 
 and not $59.99 though. It's got its share of issues, and it leaves you thinking that a lot more 
 could have been done to make the game better. D3 is onto something with their B-movie takes on 
 video games, but having a B-movie flavor isn't an excuse for the problems that the game has. You 
 might like what you find here if you are a fan of action games, but otherwise a rental should be 
 enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChemicalTaint
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 9:52 am PT
Review:  I'm going to get right through the negative so that you know what we're dealing with. The graphical 
 detail is almost null. The game has the detail of perhaps an Xbox 360 launch title. The levels 
 are pretty straight forward and only give you a couple of options for which way to reach your goal 
 for each level. The cinematics are often choppy with some visual scan lines showing up a good portion 
 of the time. If you can get beyond these facts, then everything else is gold.
  The gameplay is as if Ninja Gaiden and Dynasty Warriors had a love-child and put a bikini on it. 
 You can go into it as a very basic hack-n-slash type of game or you have a couple of options to 
 give your gameplay more variety. The main character Aya has the option of a single katana, or switching 
 over to dual swords for an often quicker and more flashy slashing. Aya's sister, Saki, has a single 
 katana with a much greater range, but it makes her slightly slower. Finally there is Annna, who 
 has dual pistols as her primary weapons but can switch over to an uzi/shotgun combo at any time. 
 Many of the levels give you the option to switch characters at any time, so you can switch to someone 
 better equipped for a certain battle, or if you simply get bored of playing as that one character. 
 Also, if you get sick of the hack-n-slash aspect of the game, you can simply run past a good majority 
 of the zombies! Although this is not a good way to build up your experience, it's great if you're 
 having trouble with one part of the game - you simply avoid it!
  The costume aspect of the game is a little strange in the fact that you wont actually unlock very 
 much until the end of the game, or even until you've played through it a few times. However it 
 is a nice option if you manage to get tired of staring at a girl in her bikini I suppose. 
  A complaint that I've heard from a couple of review sites is that every level has a loading screen 
 before the level starts. The loading screens are often very short and give you the option of playing 
 a little flash animation style mini-game! A feature that I really wish more games would incorporate!
 
  Take note that the user reviews rate this game much higher that the critics do. If you haven't 
 played this game yet, I encourage you to give it a try. The selling price the day of launch was 
 under forty dollars, and I've found it's been money well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irilthor
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 10:02 pm PT
Review:  after seeing alot of the reviews rating it around the 8
  i decided to write a review, before any more people get tricked into buying this game.
  
  let 
 me tell you a little bit about myself first, i love zombies, i 've seen about every zombie flick 
 out there and i've got EVERY zombie game on the xbox 360, plus i like violence, flying limbs, lots 
 of blood etc.
  
  so having said that, i was really looking forward to this game, after purchasing the game, i hurried 
 home and put the game in my xbox..
  
  it started off good, a nice shower scene and some girl on girl action..
  yeah they were washing 
 each other off good *drool*
  well not really... :P
  anyway after the opening video you're thrown into a level and that is where you will immediatly 
 notice the lack of level designing, the levels are just empty
  all you have is the floor, a wall on the left side and a wall on the right side and the streets 
 are filled with zombies and u go from point A to B hacking and slashing through the zombies.
  
  this really is a boring Beat'm up game, believe me i've Tried to like it playing several levels 
 before returning the game, but the game doesnt get better as you progress. the graphics were mediocre 
 too.
  
  anyway i would suggest renting this game first unless you know what you're getting into and love 
 a mindless button mashing beat'm up game.
  you have your sword attack and a kick attack + throwing shurikens.
  but the kick attack and shurikens 
 dont do nearly as much damage as the samurai sword, so you'll end up pressing X the entire game 
 long.
  
  sounds fun don't it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewasupkid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 9:52 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who have played EDF you know you loved it, and if you played EDF just go run and 
 pickup this game up its basically EDF with zombies. So basically you play as one of three scantly 
 clad chicks two katana fighters and one that uses machine guns and what not, you can pick two for 
 a mission and tag team between them with the right trigger. The campaign is extremely long lasting 
 over about 20 chapters including lots of zombies to kill and clothing choices to unlock. There 
 is also a pretty good leveling system very close to the one found in castle crashers for the xboxlive 
 arcade that lets you increase power and vitality. There is also local split screen co-op which 
 is loads of fun with a friend , and survivor and free mode survivor is a basic endless horde mode 
 you kill a certain number of waves and then it switches to another scene. Freemode Im not sure 
 of seeing that you unlock it after beating the game. One interesting mechanic is the blood rage 
 sort of mode its like devil may cry series devil form and you go all super sayan but it makes your 
 health drop quit rapidly and you can't just turn it on and of you have to find an item to do it 
 so you really have to think if that extra power is worth it some times. There should be more mission 
 and character DLC on the way seeing that the DLC is already out in japan. Overall all a great game 
 just don't come into it expecting any thing other than B movie sort of stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChuChiuxxTrain
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2009 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Well, I had been waiting to play this game ever since I saw it on Midnight Spank. Oooh, bikini 
 zombie slaying! Where could it go wrong? So, as you can imagine, I was excited for this game.
 
  
  
  Gameplay 5/5
  Although it does seem a bit devil may cryish, the gameplay doesn't seem to get repetetive as the 
 game is fairly short. It's not very challenging, and it's quite fun, and not very complex. It's 
 easy to adapt to, so you can start it up and just kill the crap out of things right away. It's 
 fun, entertaining to watch, and most of all, it works. The camera angles are a bit iffy sometimes, 
 but that's easy to work through.
  
  Story 3/5
  There's not much of a story, but what is told is fairly fascinating, and interesting. For a low 
 budget game, it does have a good story, but should've had way more cutscenes and such to make it 
 seem more exciting.
  
  Graphics 5/5
  It's a pretty game, with pretty girls. It's good on the outside, and on the inside. 
  The graphics 
 aren't neccessarily flawless, but they achieved the 'anime' look without going too far and losing 
 sex appeal. It's just a sexy, sexy fun game!
  
  Music 5/5
  The music is sometimes jazzy, sometimes upbeat, and sometimes peppy. It's got a nice soundtrack 
 that KEEPS YOU AWAKE, and it's fun to listen to the music.
  
  Characters 4/5
  They could've had a bit more substance, but they were entertaining. My only problem, really, was 
 that there was so much to be said and done that wasn't with these characters. And the fact that 
 'Annna's name has THREE N's. Ann na? I dunno. 
  
  Overall, if you're looking for a fun game to play with friends that'll hold your attention and 
 be worth playing later on to let out some agression, or whatever, this is the right game; try to 
 ignore the lack of story; after all, the game is still fun and interesting to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 14, 2009 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I didn't really have much expectations for Onechanbara Bikini Samurai Squad other that wanting 
 to see one of those weird Japanese import games focused on cute chicks fighting. In the intro cutscene 
 seeing the two sisters getting ready to fight zombies made be laugh out loud. Heh, the character 
 Aya got caught in the shower during this current zombie apocalypse and had to quickly don her cowboy 
 hat, feather boa, swords and sport thong!
  
  The game controls were pretty bad, graphics reminded me of a Playstation 2 game and I just didn't 
 have a lot of fun with the boring battles and confusing map to get from encounter to encounter. 
 Right off the bat I didn't clean my sword, guess in the game a clean sword is important and if 
 yours is too dirty it will get stuck in zombies? So I died a bit trying to figure that out and 
 the game manual is worthless trying to figure out any details about the game. If you are interested 
 IGN has a decent faq at
  
  http://faqs. ign. com/articles/756/756503p1. html
  
  I got in about 7 out of 20 chapters and just wasn't having any fun anymore, really you would think 
 scantily clad women fighting zombies would be a no-brainer and be some fun. I can't even really 
 say this would be a decent rental since I'm taking mine back for the next game. Hey, maybe the 
 video store will have X-Blades left! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 10:42 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you'll notice when you play the game is that the voices are all in Japanese. The 
 text is English and since there's not much voice acting in the game. Its not a big issue sine this 
 game has doesn't have much story anyway. Its a hack and slasher that's high point is that its characters 
 are three sexy vixens in bikinis. Each level consists of slashing hundreds of zombies and in several 
 areas the screen will be full of them. You get 3 attack types and the ability to jump with each 
 character. Two girls use swords while one uses guns. The levels are linear dungeons which you roam 
 through killing zombies to find keys to enable you to go to the next areas. Theres some backtracking 
 involved. The girls look great, however the rest of the characters and environments look a bit 
 unpolished. 
  
  One sour note is that this games most powerful combo called a cool combo is VERY I say almost impossible 
 to pull off consitently. You can beat the game without using it. Its necesary to learn to get some 
 of the games better rewards though.
  
  Onechanbara is lots of flash with little substance to keep it going. There are some rewards for 
 accomplishing certain feats or combos that will net you new outfits for your characters but that's 
 not allot of incentive to keep replaying the same levels over and over again. Many of the rewards 
 actually put more clothes on your character and why would we want that now? The camera is not very 
 good and blinds you at times. Thankfully most of the enemies aren't a big threat so it doesn't 
 make the game seem cheap. If you are looking for a story or something other than sexy babes killing 
 zombies and getting covered in blood this game isn't for you. Definitely worthy as a entertainment 
 rental not sure if I'd recommend you buy it even though its priced at $39.99. Expect about 10-12 
 hours to go through one play through.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psikorps
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 1:34 pm PT
Review:  First I have to mention that "some" copies of Onechanbara: Bikini Samurai Squad (here after referred 
 to as O: BSS) sold in Japan did in fact come with panties in alternate packages, not really a collectors 
 edition really, but panties were included. 
  
  Yet while in North America we are a little more reserved in what should or should not come in a 
 collectors edition. We will not see any panties coming with O: BSS, or a collectors edition for 
 that matter.
  
  But if Victoria's Secret makes a game... I demand panties!
  
  Moving on, the game itself is more or less a hack'n slash style along the lines of a cheap Resident 
 Evil or Dead Rising knockoff, you kill ALOT of zombies during the game and your swords are Very 
 sharp making it go just that much faster. 
  
  However....
  
  It does a good job for what it is. Its blood, guts, limbs with a hefty amount of T and A thrown 
 into the mix and lets be truthful with ourselves here, your only really interested in the game 
 for the latter as there are much better zombie games out there. But you can get away with buying 
 it and not have people think your a perv because of the zombie slaughtering. (I told myself the 
 same thing when I bought it, so its all good)
  
  The game will most likely receive poor reviews from sites such as Gamespot, however games like 
 Rumble Roses XX and Dead or Alive Extreme 2 while also receiving poor reviews from most sites, 
 have to some people become almost cult classics.
  
  These are the B movies of the game world (B referring to lots of Boobs in this case) low budget 
 and production value, yet still greatly entertaining with the right crowd.
  
  As screen shots and gameplay videos show the games graphics are sub par, along the lines of early 
 Xbox days before developers really had the hang of programing for the console. 
  
  You will get stuck in places you never thought possible, as well In instances there are frame rate 
 drops, which for the perverts who WILL be buying this game, sometimes they come at a moment that 
 in a near Matrix style slow down, will allow the perverse to squint and try and see a flash of 
 what they hope the developers added to the game. 
  
  O: BSS is a great game for the games sake, that of a B movie. Cheaper then normal retail price and 
 entertaining but you lose "quality".
  
  You get a poor story so full of holes you could find the body of Jimmy Hoffa in one, but the cut 
 scenes are, interesting. 
  
  If you liked games like Rumble Roses XX, considered to be one of the worst fighting/wresting games 
 out or Dead or Alive Extreme 2, considered to be nothing more then a T&A fest wrapped around a 
 poor game, you wont really be disappointed with O: BSS. But don't expect high res 1080i giggling 
 like in DOA-X2's case. 
  
  Its a good blood thirsty romp that the perverse will enjoy when they feel the need for a little 
 action containing scantly clad cuties performing ALOT of dismemberment's on Zombies... I know I 
 do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: org13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Onechanbara Vortex X is like an upgraded version of the predecessor which was a Simple 2000 title 
 on the PS2. It's a brainless slasher with tons of blood and gore. You mindlessly hack in slash 
 zombies. The gameplay is simple and tedious. The graphic is a PS2/Xbox level. The camera option 
 is pretty bad. And there's a story some where in there too.
  With all that negatives I just raised, I still had a blast with Onechanbara. Why? I'm not sure 
 but I think me being a pervert has a lot to do with it.
  First off, boobs. They're great. In this game they allocated the extra time to work on all the 
 jiggling parts of the human body. Thought it may look unnatural (too bouncy) who cares! In fact, 
 you're introduced to them when one is taking a shower with steamy mist strategically placed so 
 the game trains your right side of your brain. Who needs brain age? The camera angles in some action 
 move are spot on. 
  Second, blood and gore. You slice up the zombies like butter and all their body parts goes flying 
 everywhere. With those two it's a winning combo.
  If you're a perv like me I strongly suggest you right D3 an email asking them to bring it over 
 here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockislife321
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 31, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  This game is unlike any other action game in that the main protagonist is a female character.
 
  interesting as this may seem, it does not make up for poor game play and an overall lack of ingenuitity. 
 The game does not keep up to todays standerds graphicaly or in any other way and would better suit 
 an xbox release rather than for the 360. If you are looking for a game that may be able to keep 
 you occupied for about 3 hours than you might consitter getting it. Other wise you should probably 
 stick to great games such as gears of war for your violence intake. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
