-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Open Season
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/openseason/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Boog eventually gains a good variety of skills and weapons.
 Extras include minigames and art galleries.
 Achievements are easy to earn .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Game is nearly over by the time you have access to all of Boog's abilities.
 Too many inane fetch quests.
 Few levels make use of all of Boog's skills.
 Graphics and audio lack detail and personality.
 Dialogue scenes are lifeless and not funny.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 28, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.3
Critic Score: 5.9, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 253 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Sep 19, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This rendition of Open Season is a plodding adventure full of inane fetch quests and lifeless dialogue 
 scenes. 

  Ubisoft has produced a video game based on the  Open Season  animated film for every active game-playing 
 device under the sun. Although they're all action adventure games patterned after the movie and 
 share some aspects in common, the games are different from one another in terms of overall execution 
 and quality. Without question, the least interesting of the bunch is the multiplatform version 
 produced for the PC, Xbox, GameCube, PlayStation 2, and Xbox 360 platforms. It distills the movie 
 into a sequence of 25 mundane third-person levels, each involving one of the two main characters, 
 in which you fetch nonsensical items, sneak around, and toss skunks and rabbits at strategically 
 placed hunters. To add insult to injury, the character interactions from the film are depicted 
 in the game as lifeless dialogue segments put together with tepid in-game graphics and halfhearted 
 voice recordings. In light of all that, it's unlikely that fans of the movie, or anyone else, will 
 get a satisfactory amount of enjoyment out of this particular version of Open Season.  

          Open Season tells the story of a weakling deer and a tame bear that must journey through 
 the wilderness to find their way home.     

  Like most movie tie-ins, the overall level progression in the game's adventure mode follows and 
 expands on what happened in the film. The story concerns a tame grizzly bear named Boog who ends 
 up partnered with a weakling deer named Elliot after an unfortunate chain of events leaves the 
 pair stuck in the wilderness far away from Boog's otherwise cushy life as someone's pet in a small 
 town. To make their way back to town, Boog and Elliot must travel through the different parts of 
 the forest, enlist the other animals for help, and use Boog's wild abilities to scare off all of 
 the hunters that have come to participate in the newly opened hunting season. In each of the game's 
 25 levels, you will control either Boog or Elliot and find yourself fetching items for the other 
 animals while scaring off hunters using a combination of the heroic duo's own skills and the weaponlike 
 abilities of the animals that Boog has befriended. Some levels also incorporate action sequences 
 involving makeshift cannons or sprints down the mountain in contraptions such as a mine cart or 
 a raft made from an outhouse.  

  While it sounds like there's a lot to do in the game, the harsh reality is that the abundant fetch 
 quests all feel the same, and the portions involving the hunters rarely welcome the use of the 
 many skills that take so much time to gain access to. Being sent to collect things like grubs for 
 a mama skunk or a beaver's lunchbox is fine when you're asked to do so on occasion, but the game 
 is loaded with similarly dull fetch quests. Successfully completing these errands lets Boog pick 
 up and toss animals at the hunters. Initially, the only animal Boog can pick up is Elliot, who 
 is never far behind but isn't good for much except grabbing distant coin items and distracting 
 hunters. The other animals are more mischievous. Skunks can be lobbed at hunters and into houses 
 to stink up the joint, squirrels can be thrown into trees or atop hunters' heads to function as 
 nut-throwing turrets, and rabbits turn into kicking facehuggers when thrown in hunters' faces. 
 The animals also eventually teach Boog how to sniff for treats, swim, and steamroll over hunters. 
 Before Boog learns those skills, the only actions he can perform, apart from hurling Elliot, are 
 donning a disguise to hide, roaring to scare hunters, and picking up and tossing things.  

  Once you have access to all of Boog's skills and weapons, the game really gets going. Unfortunately, 
 by that point, the quest is nearly done. The first 20 levels tend to focus on isolated abilities 
 or emphasize the use of the sneak and roar abilities. It's only the last four or five levels that 
 incorporate everything. It's a shame the team producing this version of the game didn't borrow 
 a page from the PlayStation Portable version's playbook and make a single massive gameworld of 
 interconnected environments that you can wander back and forth between as new missions are revealed. 

          There are way too many fetch quests, and too few levels let you use all of Boog's skills. 
     

  Characters are introduced and the story is told through numerous dialogue scenes. These scenes 
 seem to be patterned after similar situations in the film, but they don't employ film footage or 
 any sort of prerendered video. Instead, they're put together from a combination of in-game graphics 
 and dialogue recorded specifically for the game. This poses a couple of problems. From a visual 
 standpoint, the characters and environments look crisp, but they're also extremely plain. The characters 
 aren't very detailed, their animations lack personality, and there's rarely anything going on in 
 the environment aside from streams flowing by or butterflies fluttering around. During dialogue 
 scenes, these plain-looking characters stand around and make modest face and hand gestures while 
 speaking their lines. Meanwhile, the voice performances turned in by the soundalike actors hired 
 to mimic Martin Lawrence, Ashton Kutcher, and the other film actors generally lack passion and 
 do a poor job of making situations seem humorous or tense. The only time a scene is portrayed with 
 sufficient energy is when it's handled within one of the action levels where you can actually control 
 Boog and Elliot as they shoot hunters with makeshift cannons or freefall down a portion of the 
 mountain aboard a rickety vehicle.  

  The graphics and audio merely get the job done and rarely tickle the senses. The levels are large 
 and have an almost cel-shaded look, and the characters move fluidly and resemble their film counterparts, 
 but there's not a whole lot of detail evident in either the environments or the characters. Boog 
 and Elliot move matter-of-factly, and all of the animals and enemies patrol their small patches 
 of territory without much fanfare. In the surrounding environment, the only sweet touches of note 
 are the blades of grass that move aside as you walk through them and the streams and lakes in some 
 levels that employ impressive reflection and wave motion effects. The sound effects weren't taken 
 from the film, but they're suitably upbeat. Background atmosphere comes mainly from the ambient 
 forest noise, since there isn't any music other than the riffs that play when Boog is spotted. 
 On the whole, Open Season looks and sounds like any other generic 3D adventure game featuring cute 
 characters and forest-themed environments.  

  Everything is just a little nicer in the PC, Xbox, and Xbox 360 versions of the game, compared 
 with the GameCube and PlayStation 2 versions. The graphics are crisper and exhibit a bit more detail, 
 thanks to the use of higher-resolution textures and the increased polygon and pixel counts afforded 
 by the beefier hardware. The frame rates are steadier too. Boog and the other animals aren't more 
 personable in these versions, but their fur and other body features are easier to make out. In 
 addition, the environments benefit from an increase in the amount of grass and other plant life, 
 as well as from better light sourcing and improved water effects. The audio in these versions also 
 trumps the audio in the PS2 and GameCube versions, if only slightly, due to the implementation 
 of surround sound and a greater variety of animal and atmospheric noises. Out of the five versions, 
 the Xbox 360 game looks the best. Its textures are cleaner and noticeably more detailed than those 
 in the Xbox and PC versions, especially when viewed on a high-definition TV. That's not to suggest 
 that the game looks impressive when compared with other Xbox 360 games, but it is a nice visual 
 upgrade over what the over versions of Open Season have on offer.  

  It's too bad that the main adventure mode is so weak, because the game also includes a number of 
 bonus features that would otherwise bring a fair amount of added value to a movie tie-in like this 
 one. The main story takes only about four hours to finish, but individual levels can be played 
 over and over again so that you can seek out any remaining forest badges and revisit your favorite 
 moments and dialogue scenes. Apart from the 25 main levels, there are seven competitive minigames 
 to enjoy, involving tasks such as log rolling and flower picking. You are limited to challenging 
 the CPU in the PC version, but the versions available for stand-alone consoles let as many as four 
 players hook up controllers and participate. The minigames are good for a few minutes of play here 
 and there, especially if you're able to recruit some friends to play with, though it would have 
 been nice if the developer had implemented online play for the platforms that support Internet 
 connectivity. Rounding out the list of bonus features is a large library of animal facts, concept 
 drawings, and movie stills that gradually builds as you collect the numerous badges hidden throughout 
 the adventure mode.  

          Action stages provide an energetic break from the boring fetch levels and tepid dialogue 
 scenes.     

  Xbox 360 owners may take additional solace in the way achievement points are doled out in that 
 particular version of the game. You're awarded on an almost continual basis just for completing 
 levels, befriending new animals, and redeeming coins to purchase better skills. Still more are 
 given for finishing the game, collecting all of the badges and coins in each level, and putting 
 together complete collections of the different ranger badge categories. Anyone remotely competent 
 at video games can probably satisfy all 46 achievements and rack up the full 1,000 points in five 
 or six hours.  

  Ultimately, it's hard to imagine anyone having a good time with this version of Open Season. The 
 action is repetitive and dull, almost to the point of coming across as patronizing, and it takes 
 forever for levels to come along that let you make use of all of Boog's abilities. Added to that, 
 the overall presentation falls so flat that the game never comes close to capturing one iota of 
 the whimsy that even the commercials promoting the film had.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Hello and thanks for reading my OPEN SEASON Xbox 360 Review.
  
  Alright lets start it up here.
  
  This is another very clean fun game for family and friends 
 to get together on its a easy but very funny and addicting game its not like most of the other 
 games out there you actually find your self laughing at times..
  
  
  Graphics 8/10 (for animation it was pretty good
  Sound 7/10 ( Decent sound could have been better)
 
  Controls 8/10 (Very easy to control not very glitch how ever its annoying when you have to run 
 with the bear and Jump with the deer)
  Achievements 10/10 ( for you achievement hunters out their this is an easy 1K yes that is right 
 1,000)
  
  Good Game all and all pretty fun but I wouldn't buy this game I would rent it because its only 
 about a 3-4 hour game if you play straight through it.
  
  Thanks for reading the review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  If you are like me then after having dealt with some of the more intense 360 games (Bioshock, Condemned 
 1 & 2) you need a bit of a breather. And that's exactly what Open Season is.
  
  It won't take you more than a couple of hours to complete, and there may not be a huge, if any 
 replay value, but as a fun game that requires little to no brainpower whatsoever, this will fill 
 the void till you can tackle another full on game.
  
  The story follows the movie exactly and has you spending most of your time scaring hunters and 
 doing random fetch missions.
  But it's colourful, mildly funny and will fill a Sunday afternoon.
  
  The minigames are nice, 
 especially if you have a second player and as for the achievement hunters, you couldn't get more 
 gamerpoints for your money than if you had just played TMNT.
  
  If you've got 5 ($10) or have kids then it may just be for you.
  
  Uninspired, short but strangley 
 playable.
  
  5.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 13, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  INTRO
  I know a lot of people say why Open Season. I enjoyed the movie and found this game on sale. There 
 are two reasons why I got this game, first off it was cheap and for the achievement points. The 
 story of this game is about a domesticated bear that finds himself back in the woods and helps 
 the other animals in the forest against hunters during hunting season .
  
  Game play:
  The game is more like a lot of solo mini games blended together to make a whole game. They range 
 from walking around and throwing things to finding objects. There is a form of driving involved 
 but nothing strays from the walking around part. There are some parts that are funny like shooting 
 squirrels at hunters.
  
  Graphics: Decent, not too many ways to draw trees in a forest or animals that reside there. It 
 is not choppy or blocky but not fluidly smooth either with wind blowing the hair like other games.
 
  
  Sound and Music:
  The music usually switches from mini game to mini game. The sounds are what animals make but nothing 
 that stand out.
  
  Difficulty:
  There is not difficulty setting. This makes the game very easy. If you finish a level and want 
 to redo to get all the hidden points it available after you finish it once. The games and or puzzles 
 are not that hard.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  This game is meant for younger players. If you looking for a long adventure this is not one of 
 them. Replay value is low, once finished I highly doubt you will want to play again. Also there 
 are no multi player or co-op options.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jollyroger78
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 28, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Open Season for the Xbox 360 is for two groups of people: kids and people trying to rack up their 
 gamerscores. For a movie tie-in, it's not a horrible game. But it's not something you're going 
 to want to spend more than a rental fee on either.
  
  Gameplay: Open Season puts you in the forest as Boog, a bear who has lived his entire life in the 
 home of Ranger Beth, and Elliott, his trusty sidekick who also happens to be a one-antlered deer. 
 Your mission is to save the forest from a ton of hunters led by the nasty Shaw, who has a bone 
 to pick with Boog.
  
  The game is broken into a series of scenes that coincide with the movie. You'll spend your time 
 roaming about, scaring the hunters away and assisting various woodland creatures in need. There 
 are usually a few (rarely more than five) badges to pick up in each stage which, while falling 
 into the "fetch quest" trap, are obvious enough that finding them is really no problem. There are 
 also four stages where you find yourself propelled along, controlling only whether or not you jump 
 and which direction you lean. These (especially "Snow Blitz") have the potential to get downright 
 frustrating.
  
  That said, the controls aren't difficult. They're responsive for the most part and easy to pick 
 up. Using the creatures you've made friends with as weapons is amusing and scaring the hunters 
 is fun. Unfortunately, the game is so simple that the fun wears off pretty quickly if you're over 
 the age of 8.
  
  Visuals-While they don't push the capabilities of the Xbox 360 in any way, Open Season's graphics 
 are quite passable. They stay true to the art style of the movie and there is little to know slowdown 
 or draw in. 
  
  Sound-Here's where the game falls off a bit. There are exactly two songs in the entire game and 
 only minimal background music. The voice acting for the main characters is a strange mix of cheesy 
 and mail-it-in flatness. The peripheral characters (specifically the woodland creatures) , however, 
 have a well done mix of stereotypical ethnic accents.
  
  Value-This can be summed up in one word... none. A competent gamer should be able to play this game, 
 start to finish, in around six hours. Once you finish it, that's it. There is a minigame compilation 
 tacked on in an attempt to add some replay value, but it doesn't work.
  
  If you are looking for a gamerscore boost or need to entertain a bored kid, you could do worse 
 than Open Season. Just don't expect to get your money's worth out of it. It's an extremely short, 
 shallow adventure best left as a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 7, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  Had the possibility to choose one multi-region game from a relative that's in the States, I picked 
 Open Season...
  There's a word the summarizes the game: fair. It doesn't do any thing horribly, neither it does 
 great.
  Regarding graphics..., well like almos everything in the game, there isn't really much to say. 
 It's the usual averageness that this animation movie-to-game transitions deliver. They're not bad 
 at all, but really, 360 can be so much more than this...
  Sound-wise I must admit that this kinda games are getting into mhy nerves, why do they, from a 
 whike ago, insist on placing Texas/deep-rural-America soundtracks on it ?, I'm not requesting for 
 hip/urban/cool soundtrack like, for instance, Crackdown..., but for someone's sake..., can it be 
 something less... rural ?
  Gameplay however, somehow, saves the game. It's fun. It has some good moments, and the not-so-good, 
 aren't never awfull.
  The atributes that Boog has, and evolve, are a nice addition to the traditional gameplay.
  It's 
 a very playable game. Yes it's short, but as far as I'm concern, it has the perfect size. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_bruschy
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 28, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  Its a nice friendly game with all those funny movie charecters, but it just aint fun for anyone 
 whos finished 2nd grade.
  
  The graphics are nice but not quite good comparing to the grown-ups games and well... you can pretty 
 much say the same about every other aspet of the game. While I tought it was quite stupid for a 
 bear to camouflage himself with a stick and some leaves my cousins seem to find it quite funny.
 
  
  The dificulty is nox existent for us and even my cousins who are 6 or 7 years old could beat the 
 game in about a day or two exept for the final boss wich I had to beat XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 13, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  Open Season, the game based on the movie from Sony Pictures Animation. The game is a very short 
 platformer for the movie. However, parents looking for a 360 game to play with their 5-8 year olds 
 can find comfort in this title.
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  
  Its good and simple. The gameplay revolves around very easy button presses and movements. You mainly 
 play as Boog (the bear) the entire game, but do have side missions with Elliot (the deer) . As Boog 
 , you mainly run around scaring hunters and collecting badges. As Elliot, you do jumping platforms. 
 Nothing in the game is really out of the blue. However, the ease of gameplay is very very positive.
 
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  Now, this is good as well. The graphics look pretty good compared to the movie's CGI. The characters 
 all have a nice detail to them. Overall, no complaints in the department, other than that its dated 
 graphics engine. Still, what did you expect from a game of this caliber?
  
  Sound: 6/10
  The voice acting is good, kids will dig it. The missing of Martin Lawrence as Boog is noticeable, 
 but not that noticeable. The sound effects are very good. The music is pretty sweet, but one thing 
 that bothers me is that the music seems to disappear in some levels, which isn't a good thing. 
 overall, this is another catagory to suffer the kiddie game syndrome since I can't really score 
 it higher, comapred to what other game's soundtracks are like.
  
  Value: 4/10
  
  Its hard to justify the game as a purchase since it is a very short game, and it does cost about 
 $40 bucks. however, that will go down, so I do say get it when it does get under $20. Also, the 
 achievements in the game are amazing simple to get, so achievement lovers take note. Nevertheless, 
 Rent the game if you ask me. You and your kids can have a blast with it, and complete it, in a 
 week's rental time. Tilt: 7/10
  This is a good children's game. The game is very simple, its not covered in bugs, and the characters 
 are neat. Boog is a lovable bear, and Elliot is such a goofy deer. Sony Pictures did a nice job 
 with this movie, and I would love to see a Open Season 2. Overall: 6.2/10.0
  Very easy, but very good game. Most will love the nice flow of the game and some be left wanting 
 more. As for me, I enjoyed my short time with the game. I will probably never play it again, but 
 I will remember the characters for quite sometime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gungopea
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  its not the best game ever made but it takes the stress and tenseness from games like gears of 
 war away with pure fun gameplay also you shold easily get 1000 gamescore on 1 play through
  
  Gameplay: solid gameplay full of fun and variety
  
  Graphics: suprisingly good for a game 
 in this catagory
  
  Sound: nice music especially a certain song that goes uh-oh
  
  Value: maybe worth a rentel the achievements defanitly giv it longer lifespan
  
  ah yeas ah 
 yeas ah yeas ah yeas ah yeas ah yeas ah yeas ah yeas aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 5.1
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Open Season... What is it with movie tie-ins? Every time a movie comes out with some popularity, 
 there is a game made about it. I'm not even going to tell you what the story is, because that would 
 basically ruin the film for you. Not that the film is going to be great, but I feel that the game 
 is just a cheap tie-in.
  
  The game does admittedly look fairly good. One would expect it to have rough edges and crappy visuals, 
 but it does look quite good, almost movie like. The audio is also above average for a movie game. 
 The bad thing is, this is one based on a film, and the dialogue usually spoils the film's jokes 
 by telling them in game. This is no exception.
  
  In terms of gameplay, its a no-brainer. Sneak up to a hunter, roar and repeat. Throwing certain 
 animals makes for mild amusement and throwing the deer at shields is useful, but apart from that, 
 thats it. There are mini-games involving rolling down a mountain in a snowball, or shooting porcupines 
 out of a bra-catapult at hunters. While the varied gameplay is kind of nice, there is one problem...
 
  
  Everything is just too easy. My brother rented this game purely for the gamerscore, and asked me 
 to play it, after saying it was kinda boring. 5 hours later, I obtained all 1000 Gamerscore, with 
 only minor difficulty on the snowballing route getting maximum wild points possible. It went back 
 today. There goes one day's worth of 1000 GS...
  
  So in closing, if you're a Gamerscore whore , then this is a really easy 1000 points. If you're 
 actually looking for a game to play, then look elsewhere... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtucker80
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 25, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Rentable, not terrible. Esp on Gamefly. Honestly, it's a cute game that is kinda fun to play in 
 other languages with a difficulty setting of not that hard. Like others have said it's definitely 
 a rental at best and it's great for achievement points. But the game play is simple enough even 
 a monkey (or child) could easily get into it. and if you're terrible at videogames, this is surely 
 the game to play to make you feel like a champion.
  
  LIke i said above, Check it out on Gamefly or an account like that, Play it through for the cuteness 
 factor and then just return it for something else. THis game shouldn't take you more than a few 
 hours to play all the way through and easily gives you a good 750 in achievement points minimum 
 through regular playthrough. The game is definitely not for everyone as it really is a simple game. 
 But parents with kids might even end up playing around when their kids rent it, as would older 
 siblings and gamers that are just that curious to play every game out there. So i say, pick up 
 a rental copy, play it, enjoy it, then return it for short satisfaction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shasam712
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  *DISCLAIMER! This game has been reviewed in Standard Definition. Any graphical issues suffered 
 during the game apply to SD only, and will not necessarily occur when playing the game in HD.*
 
  
  It seems that you cant go a week these days without some film/TV to game tie-in being released 
 somewhere in the world. Pretty much every major movie will have a game to go along with it, especially 
 with entertainment targeted at children. In general, theyre not very good, but an exception to 
 this rule might just be Open Season on the Xbox 360.
  
  Open Season is a game which relates to a film of the same name, in which a tame bear named Boog 
 is plunged back into the wild and has to help the animals during the hunting season. Of course 
 you have a big, bad nemesis and a wisecracking sidekick, along with all the other animals who are 
 typically typecast in certain roles. The storyline is all typical child film material.
  
  The game takes a few different approaches to game play. Most of your time will be spent playing 
 as Boog and going through a sneak and scare routine when you come across hunters. When you approach 
 a hunter you will start to sneak and a counter will appear. When this drains, the hunter turns 
 round for a second, meaning you have to hold a bumper to hide with some branches. When you get 
 close, you can roar and scare the hunter away, mission complete.
  
  This is one of only a few game mechanics in main bulk of the game, the rest of the time you will 
 be running around and picking up collectables. Open Season does have some short race style sections. 
 You will often be careering down rapids or rolling down a mountain, having to dodge obstacles when 
 they come at you. Its simple, but it breaks the monotony. There are also a few sections where 
 you play as the sidekick himself, Elliot, but these are few and far between.
  
  Despite this, theres a charm to the game that is undeniable. On paper it definitely sounds like 
 a throw away, cheap experience, but when you actually sit down and play the game it draws you in 
 ever so slightly making the game work on a level other than bare bones game play. In short, if 
 I were still 8 years old and had a chance to play this game, I would probably enjoy it and it might 
 just get me into playing games. Open Season definitely has that spark that makes it enjoyable and 
 could perhaps light the fire of gaming into a someones heart.
  
  The games short, a little shallow and an obvious cash horse tie-in with the film. Despite all 
 this, however, Open Season gets something right that many similar games dont, and that is making 
 you want to play it. The young-uns will want to play it for Elliots quick one liners and those 
 that are a little older might just be drawn by the lure of Achievement Points. Who knows, whatever 
 you motivation, you could do worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  this VERY EASY game makes you want to rent it just for the achievements
  
  story - I never got to see the movie so I don't know if it mirrors it or not, but you are a bear 
 at a wild life sanction when you run into a deer on the hood of a hunters car. you set him free 
 and from then on you get nothing but trouble from him. he frees you from the sanction to rob a 
 convenient store and you are sent into the wild life. play the game if you REALLY want to know 
 the rest
  
  game play - 3rd person view of a bear can be quite fun actually. not much but walk around and solve 
 very easy puzzles like finds skunks or get past crazy squirrels, or scare of hunters. not much 
 here and it won't take long.
  
  achievements points - bottom line, looking to get quick points fast this is the game. all you got 
 to do get gather all the eater eggs in the level (so easy) and your good to go. this is a MUST 
 RENT only for achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-PRIME90
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 17, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  I only rented this game because I heard you can beat it in about 6 hours and easily get all 1000 
 achievement points. I was only able to get 30 points out of that game before I gave up since I've 
 missed a lot of the things you have to collect in order to earn certain achievements.
  
  Maybe someone who is like 5-8 years old might actually enjoy this game, but I didn't enjoy this 
 game and only rented it for the achievements. Even though I knew this game was a kids game before 
 I rented it.
  
  So my advice is, rented it only if you want the achievements.
  Or if you want it for your kids, you should buy it since they will probably have alot of fun with 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 29, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Open Season is a platformer based off of the cutesy CG film of the same name. In it, you take control 
 of the films main characters  Boog, a domesticated grizzly bear, and Elliot, a hapless deer that 
 you free from captivity. You then run around a bunch of linear environments, engaging in watered-down 
 minigames that ape other popular genres and gathering up vast amounts of collectable trinkets. 
 The end result is about as fun as it sounds. In the end, Open Season is a competent but thoroughly 
 uninteresting game that will entertain young and fervent fans of the film but no one else.
  
  As the game begins, Boog, who lives in the garage of a human and essentially just enjoys the 
 easy life, meets up with Elliot. Elliot is a weak little deer whos been captured by a cruel local 
 hunter, which serves as the main villain, although he rarely is in the picture. Through an unfortunate 
 series of events, Boog and Elliot end up in the wild during a newly opened hunting season. Naturally, 
 Boog wants to find his way home, and quick. The game essentially takes the events of the film and 
 expands the time lapse to squeeze in lots of tasks for Boog and Elliot to tackle.
  
  Unfortunately, none of those events are particularly exciting, whether in the mechanics of the 
 gameplay or in the way theyre presented. Youll usually play as Boog, whose arsenal of moves more 
 or less consists of picking up and throwing items or using a roar technique to scare away the hunters 
 peppered around in the environments. Since many of the early environments are almost completely 
 devoid of enemies, youll mostly be picking up items and ferrying them elsewhere. Fun.
  
  Even when the hunters do factor more prominently into the picture, you dispose of them via a laughably 
 easy system of throwing up camouflage until you get close, then roaring to scare them off. Youll 
 need to exhibit some timing as you sneak up on them, but pronounced musical cues and overly forgiving 
 compensation really suck out the fun. When you occasionally play as Elliot, youll switch from 
 sneaking up behind hunters to luring them into traps, which is even easier. Evidently the hunters 
 cant see the fireplaces and bear traps not two feet in front of them.
  
  The sole interesting aspect of Open Season the film is the camaraderie between all the different 
 species of woodland creatures who band together against the human hunters. This is exhibited somewhat 
 in this game, insofar as youll need to do the same menial tasks you always do, but under the pretense 
 of a favor. For example, the skunks will ask you to pick up their wandering children and bring 
 them back to them early on. After completing these favors, youll befriend that species, which 
 essentially means that youll be able to use them to make slipping past enemies easier. Skunks 
 can spray hunters to make them easier to scare, rabbits can be shot like projectiles, and so on. 
 However, since youre mostly just going to be picking up and throwing the animals in the same, 
 manner this doesnt add much. To worsen matters, the racial stereotyping of the animals (the skunks 
 with their snooty French accents, squirrels with an inexplicably Irish accent) provides a lowbrow 
 feel to a lot of their supposedly humorous interactions.
  
  The only thing that saves Open Season from total damnation is the occasional minigame you stumble 
 across in the adventure. Every so often, Boog and Elliot will be confronted with a unique challenge 
 that breaks up the monotony of the core gameplay. These challenges run the gamut from things like 
 races to first-person sniping sequences where youll need to use improvised woodland weaponry to 
 take down hunters. None of these games are particularly deep or exciting; most just require the 
 left analog stick and a button press or two. These deviations from the core sneaking and item-ferrying 
 are much appreciated, though, and make Open Season a better game overall.
  
  Unfortunately, theres not much in the way of presentation thats going to make you forget the 
 faults in the gameplay. On the Xbox 360, Open Season supports wide screen, high-definition displays 
 which make it look cleaner but not necessarily that much better than the other versions. The characters 
 and environments look more or less as they should (based on the film) , but they lack polish. Environmental 
 details like tall grass come off looking rather ugly. The sound is slightly better than the visuals, 
 but have their share of counterpoints. For the most part, the sounds of nature ring throughout 
 the environments, but it can often come across sounding canned. The music captures the goofy nature 
 of childrens entertainment admirably, but repeats too much. Overall, its acceptable yet unremarkable, 
 especially in regards to the voice acting, which uses dry, unamused soundalikes that stumble over 
 the script.
  
  When its all said and done, its hard to imagine anyone taking more than four or five hours to 
 finish this one, since the levels are very linear and lack optional activities. The Xbox 360 versions 
 achievement points come mostly from collecting the badge trinkets throughout the levels. Since 
 these are always hidden in conspicuous places like on top of rocks, its likely youll finish 
 this game with most (if not all) 1000 points in hand. Even if youre completely hooked on achievements 
 or are a fanatical fan of the film, Open Season is a questionable rent at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixbadboy001
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 29, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  Open Season for the Xbox 360 is an excellent game. It is one of the few games available for this 
 system that is for kids. And has the father of a 5 year old, this game gave me the opportunity 
 to play a few levels and basically bound with my little one. The graphics look exactly like they 
 do in the movie, but the voices weren't done by the original actors. This is a minor shortcoming, 
 and does not have any effect on the overall game play. There are a lot of funny moments in the 
 game, and the characters are hilarious! I also like the way I can move the joy stick up and down 
 to answer yes , and side to side for no when questioned. And the Indiana Jones styled mine car 
 level is edge-of-your-seat fun!
  
  Ubisoft should be applauded for basically taking a time-out from their usual catalog of games to 
 create this jewel for the little ones. It is truly a treasure that all parents should have in their 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawk5eye
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 27, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people will use this game to obtain easy points for their gamerscore as it is extremely 
 easy to obtain achievement points from this game. Based on the animated film of the same name, 
 it is what you would expect from a follow up game. While it is mildy funny in places, just the 
 lack of anything that would keep you clinging to it sums the game up really. I feel very let down 
 by ubisoft from whom we expect so much better because of their reputation in the industry. Needless 
 to say it is targeting a younger audience but even they will lose interest because of the lack 
 of depth and excitement. If you want quick points on your gamerscore, rent this and get them in 
 the course of an afternoon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 8, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  I've had a great time so far playing this game with my nephew, he has really enjoyed it, although 
 most of the time he just wants to watch me do everything. It has pretty good graphics and sounds, 
 nothing amazing, but pretty good. Open Season is played in the third person perspective and for 
 the most part you will be controlling the big grizzly Boog. Although, Boog isn't your typical aggressive 
 Grizzly he has a talents which help you in your adventure. In a first for me, you have the ability 
 to smell out items and health berries, nose controls, is that next gen? Boog can also pick up and 
 throw items and he can utilize his lungs and burst out a vicious growl to scare any humans around. 
 These qualities help Boog survive in the wild and they are upgradeable during your game as well. 
 The controls on the game are very simple as is the entire game, hence why I say its a great kids 
 game. I haven't finished it yet, but I've heard that its fairly short, so thats a big negative 
 because I've really enjoyed the great bonding time with my nephew while playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 2, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Open Season is one of the first kids games to come to the xbox 360 and it isn't that much fun. 
 The gameplay is very, very basic, the graphics are pretty good looking and there isn't any framerate 
 issues, the sound gets kind of repeatitive but is pretty good, there isn't much replay value because 
 the achievements are so freakin easy i played the game for like 4 hours and got 500 points, and 
 finally i recomend this to anyone who has a younger brother or sister who is under 10 years old 
 i also recomend this to anyone who is an achievement point junkie.
  
  rent or buy?
  
  RENT!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
