-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Operation Darkness
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/strategy/operationdarkness/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cheesy-awesome story.
 Big maps with lots of strategic possibilities.
 Cover system is a unique, enjoyable mechanic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Awful camera.
 Ugly visuals.
 Missing basic features.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.0, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 160 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Developer: Success
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date: Jun 24, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This strategic RPG is ugly and frustrating -- but it can also be a lot of fun. 

  Operation Darkness has no business being as enjoyable as it is. It's got the worst camera ever 
 seen in a tactical role-playing game, some of the the worst visuals of any Xbox 360 title, and 
 a number of irritating design flaws that will make you cry out in frustration. But give it time: 
 Once you overcome the annoyances, you'll find some unique game mechanics and a rewarding succession 
 of large maps to conquer. No, Operation Darkness is not an RPG classic, though it's tempting to 
 assume that any game featuring Adolf Hitler and dragons (together at last!) is a must-play title. 
 Perseverance is rewarded, and if you make it through the first couple of levels you'll inevitably 
 feel the game crawling under your skin, pushing you -- against all odds -- to make another turn.  

 
           Werewolves were all the rage in 1940s Germany.      

  A lot of credit is due to the story, which is a cornball fantasy take on World War II. In this 
 alternate history, lurching, lumbering zombies take potshots at werewolves, and Jack the Ripper 
 slices up vampires with surprising speed and agility. These sights are commonplace for your adventuring 
 party, a British special forces unit made up of a few lycanthropes, a fire-wielding maiden, and 
 a nerdy scientist that can raise the dead, among others. You'll meet the most bizarre characters 
 and enemies, who are in turn woven even more bizarrely into true historical events. It's all quite 
 cheesy and cliched; we've heard the werewolf-versus-vampire legend a million times, and the supernatural 
 take on World War II's been done already. Nevertheless, Operation Darkness merrily tackles its 
 concept with melodramatic vigor, and the voice actors convincingly deliver the hilariously unrefined 
 dialogue without a hint of irony.  

  Once you take to the gameplay grid proper, you'll be taking aim at a variety of enemies, but your 
 greatest struggle in Operation Darkness isn't against magic-wielding vampires or pink-eyed demons -- it's 
 against the game's unwieldy, nausea-inducing camera. Its awfulness can't be put fully into words. 
 In an SRPG, you need full command of your battlefield; that's why isometric and top-down viewpoints 
 are so common in the genre. Here, the 3D camera is incapable of giving you any such helpful view. 
 It is interested in staying glued to the back of the character taking the current turn and giving 
 you as limited a view of the battlefield as possible. Trying to move it to a comfortable spot will 
 cause it to snap back into less useful positions, get stuck behind buildings and trees, or swim 
 about in the middle of the level geometry. All this, when all you want to do is choose the best 
 square to move your character to. When turns are playing out, the camera isn't just bad -- it rotates 
 and zooms with such ferocity that you might feel dizzy. It will move under the level grid, flip 
 the battlefield upside down, zoom directly up to a character's pixelated chest, or generally swoop 
 around until you're close to losing your lunch. The good news is that with some finesse, you can 
 tame the camera a bit, though this is more akin to taming a wild dingo than a Labrador retriever. 

  You'll also likely be taken aback by the game's terrible visuals. They have a few bright spots, 
 like a handful of funny and fantastic animations, and some interesting effects courtesy of the 
 semidestructible environments. But overall, Operation Darkness looks blurry and drab, featuring 
 environments consisting mainly of ugly greens and browns. Textures are crude and unsightly, and 
 most animations are jerky and look slightly unnatural. Character models are similarly odd; in some 
 cases, heads don't seem properly positioned on bodies, and outside of prerendered cutscenes, there 
 is no lip synching.  

  Basic gameplay is standard for most tactical RPGs: Each character in your party takes a turn, during 
 which he or she can move, attack, or perform special abilities. However, there are some nice additions 
 to the formula, the most obvious of which is the cover system. The most basic of these maneuvers 
 is the cover move, in which you can get a particular character to move further by tying his move 
 to that of a faster character. The more useful abilities, however, are cover attack and cover ambush. 
 When set for a cover attack, a character will assist other characters whenever they attack; in 
 cover ambush, your characters will shoot at enemies whenever an enemy in range takes a turn. All 
 three of these moves, when used intelligently, let you dream up large, sweeping strategies that 
 you wouldn't see in other SRPGs.  

  You'll also rely on a few other important moves. Each character has limited inventory space, though 
 you have separate inventories for weapons and items. Characters can use healing items automatically 
 when they die -- or are close to death -- and it's not uncommon for a party member to fall in a single 
 hit. Thankfully, you can loot fallen corpses on the field. This is an important feature, not just 
 because you will need healing items and ammo, but because the most effective weapons are found 
 on the bodies of your enemies. For example, should you run out of rockets for your bazookas and 
 you're cornered by two looming tanks, you can nab Panzerfaust antitank weaponry from your enemies' 
 lifeless husks.  

           Green, brown, and orange: the pinnacle of modern graphics.      

  These aspects can 
 make gameplay unexpectedly rewarding, particularly because your parties can get fairly large, often 
 including around a dozen characters at a time. You'll face legions of enemies -- some human, some 
 undead -- on massive maps that give you plenty of room to try out different tactics and test out 
 the various special powers (Fireballs! Shape-shifting!) at your disposal. The size of these battles 
 makes for intense matches, but they also lead to frustration, because if you're defeated, you have 
 to restart at the very beginning. That can be a heartbreaking development after spending close 
 to two hours on a level, only to make a simple mistake that costs you the battle. Other aspects 
 of the game design don't help matters. Unlike with most similar games, you don't have to confirm 
 your move, so if you choose the wrong option by mistake, you're stuck with it. Additionally, when 
 you highlight enemies for attack, they are not highlighted in the turn list, which removes an important 
 tactical consideration: You can't choose a target based on their order in the turn.  

  You play with up to three others on stand-alone maps via Xbox Live, though you will be controlling 
 fewer characters yourself when doing so. Online works just fine, though it isn't any more compelling 
 than the single-player, where the splendidly ridiculous story nicely glues the missions together. 
 Whether you should play Operation Darkness depends on your level of patience. The horrendous camera 
 and dingy graphics may turn you off, but if you stick with it, you'll find that there's a game 
 worth playing lurking underneath them. And Nazi vampires driving tanks.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jaden_Arbiter
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 10:39 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong I love turn-based strategy games more than conventional sports involving physical 
 labor -- but with tennis it's a close call -- and have seen many masterpieces in my day ranging from 
 go to shogi that I would truthfully love to become a recognized professional in when I have the 
 opportunity. But Altus' Operation Darkness shames the traditional challenge of turn-based strategy 
 games by reliving the relentless culture of titles such as Beast Wars from the PS1 -- titles that, 
 if you happen to screw up in, will punish you until the point of throwing the disc out of your 
 neighboring window in frustration and despair.
  
  In Operation Darkness your typical task is to move a set of Wolf Team members -- ranging from 10 
 to 20 original characters -- across a map against an array of Nazi soldiers, one problem being that 
 almost the entire time you have to combat against obstacles that are stringently superior -- such 
 as tanks -- that you can never recreate on your own playing field. Aside from the camera also having 
 its own noticeable faults it is impossible for you to retain a character's original position once 
 they are moved to a new spot on the map. 
  
  The weaponry at the disposal of the enemies are also quite ambiguous (ex: a shotgun may seem to 
 be the same as a rifle or carbine so the directive you choose for your characters' movement may 
 easily end in disastrous consequences without ever being aware of it before it actually happens) 
 and each time one of your characters attacks a foe there is a probability system of determining 
 how much damage the opponent will receive from your attack, and as that probability can only be 
 eliminated once your at a certain distance from your opponent you will be encouraged to be as close 
 as possible to your opponent, making it so that your entire unit will inevitably have to spread 
 out, ignoring an emphasis on organization. 
  
  Oh and did I mention that if one of your original characters is shot dead the entire mission will 
 have to be restarted without any intermediate checkpoints at all? Each mission takes at least one 
 hour so this wasn't exactly a smart emphasis by any means, or by any respective means mind you. 
 Even if you threw in an unoriginal character that is all the way to level 20 he will disappear 
 forever if he happens to be killed, meaning all that hardwork is gone for good unless you would 
 be willing to restart a hour or two into the past, both options almost being equivalent in loss.
 
  
  The graphics seem to have been taken straight from an Xbox port to the 360, for each character 
 doesn't have any mouth movement, texture on their model, they move without much fluency, their 
 movement seems quite choppy without differentiation, and the environments you take part in are 
 bland without much of any strategic element to them at all. At least one positive are the artwork 
 images of the original characters as they speak to one another before the beginning of each mission, 
 but that doesn't really constitute the overall graphics any more than an orange from an apple.
 
  
  We also see voice acting in each pre-mission briefing; the voice acting is usually acted by ordinary 
 people with too much stereotype and unnecessary story add-ons that don't contribute very well to 
 the overall plotline at all. Essentially what Atlus did here was amass characters together with 
 their own semi-original storyline for quality purposes but not explain the intricacies behind how 
 it would really make any difference whether their stories were explained and how far they would 
 be willing to realistically go for a mere special agency team against the entire German militia.
 
  
  I could have gone exceptionally further but you should have an understanding by now that this game 
 is even more worse than mediocre. I honestly wanted to enjoy this game very much but only resented 
 my decision to purchase it once I had realized how much cohesion and quality it lacked to the point 
 of being disgusting. 
  
  The bottomline is that games are not meant to severely reprimand you when small faults are made 
 that can't be always avoided in one situation to the next; if I wanted to be punished for stupid 
 irrational reasons than maybe I would have considered serving in the military again, but both variables 
 don't exactly denote 'fun' very well now do they? That's a problem since they are from entirely 
 separate universes but pretend to be exactly the same. 
  
  Atlus should have learned that if they really wanted realism the movement of a person's mouth would 
 pretty much have to come first since we all know the importance of language, maybe that or getting 
 frustrated over something you are not obligated to take part in at the first place that is meant 
 to be interpreted as seriously as the gap between life and death. This game had so much potential 
 too. If From Software could have been the lead developers instead of Atlus we would likely have 
 seen a great game instead of a quasi reality trip straight from the 20th century. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esman39
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2009 3:57 pm PT
Review:  The graphics leave something to be desired as they are not pretty, polished or exciting in the 
 least. These adjectives also describe the music.
  The dialogue between characters is all spoken and the voice actors do a great job.
  I've read 
 the complaints about the camera but I did not find the camera to be a hindrance to my play experience.
 
  The game play is very solid. Being a strategy RPG fan, I was able to jump right in and begin killing 
 Nazi's. There is nothing complicated or revolutionary here but I believe strategy fans will find 
 it satisfying and addicting.
  The story is awesome. You cannot beat the combination of a WWII theme and the fantasy elements 
 of werewolves, vampires, zombies and dragons thrown in! There are 12 unique characters with various 
 supernatural abilities to pick up during your adventure. You're also able to recruit generic soldiers 
 to fill in your ranks if you wish.
  Atlus put in a lot of real history and WWII footage to give the game a sense that the story's characters 
 actually fit into the real conflict. This was a cool idea but the effect doesn't exactly deliver.
 
  I want to be clear that the above comments are not complaints. I thoroughly enjoyed this game! 
 I truly hope that Atlus releases Operation Darkness 2 with NextGen graphics, video and sound.
 
  If you are a real fan of strategy RPG's then you will enjoy Operation Darkness. It is a great 
 game - well worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurohubby
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I'm not big on most turn based strategy rpg games the last one I like was Fire Emblem on the 
 gamecube and prior to that shining force 2 and cd. The graphics are not the cutting edge awesome 
 but consider how most tbs games still look like SNES, this is a real improvement. The story is 
 a really cool idea and not the same old WWII story as in almost every game now a days. the camera 
 can be a little tricky but what games camera doesn't have it's problems. The sound track is ok 
 not the greatest but I can't complain. The voice work is good and you end up like over half the 
 team. To any body that complians that it's to hard they must have never played tbs games before.
 
  I like the fact that it was swords and magic and wasn't a command and conquer. My only request 
 to this game is more weapon variety. this is good experience and I actually learn a little about 
 WWII un like most war games 
  (you just need to know what is real and made up for the story) this game is a true gem and under 
 rated as it gets if you like tbs rpg's this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: one11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  A game sole purpose is to be enjoyable. Decomposing the game in areas (graphics, sounds, mechanic) 
 is pointless IMO. It's about the sum of its part AND the core demographic the game is aimed at.
 
  
  Ever seen a rock&roll band playing in front of a tech crowd :)
  
  Peeps who gave this game horrible ratings are just not into this genre. No, it's not as goos as 
 X-COM was, but it's better than most cloen i've been playing on PC the last few years.
  
  If you enjoy the demo, you'll love the game. I know I do!
  
  In a nutshell: rough around the 
 edges but solid core that makes this game worthwhile to the right crowd.
  
  Wow, there is a minimum size to reviews... I guess i'll have to tell you the story of that boy who 
 went to see the barman about his loose teeth. It all started when Billy was 4y old and was wondering 
 about the methodology used by the tooth fairy to exchange a tooth for money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 11, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  i picked up this game because i was bored and i had 20 to waste. i should never have picked it 
 up. it sickened me to think what the devs were thinking when they made this game.
  the grusome reality of WW2 twisted into a JRPG fantasy?!?
  and one of the plot points is "the 
 holocaust covered up hitler's true intentions". at that point i was almost at the point of calling 
 the war crimes department. the holocaust was real and it sickens me to think that anyone would 
 even suggest that it was a cover up.
  i never got to play the game, so if you can get past the horrific storyline then look at other 
 people's reviews but if you have a trace of humanity in you, you will not buy this game.
  (and one of the girls is somehow part of the SAS? dream on... she's not even 18 and she somehow 
 got past Selection? the fact she's a girl sort of kills that character) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BillyAngst
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I'm a sucker for Atlus games (and shiny limited editions) , so regardless of how goofy this game 
 looked or the zero press i'd heard about it, i picked it up. And couldn't believe how awkward the 
 combat system was, or why i was still playing it seven hours later. 
  going it's own versus time-tested methods of strat rpgs, it forces the player to adopt to it's 
 cover system. not that too many modern games have a better system than x-com or jagged alliance, 
 it's just everyone does something different... and worse. but, in operation darkness, it at least 
 works. 
  i ignored the move system, despite the increase in movement you could achieve by linking movement 
 to an area or specified character. The other two option are geared for offense and your squads 
 very survival. You can key characters into an ambush mode, where any enemy wandering into their 
 field of fire is fired upon. You can also key them into attacking when another character attacks, 
 this having an entire squad attack at the same time on one enemy, without forfeiting the other 
 characters actions. Bonus attacks. Well positioned snipers on ambush keyed to attackers can win 
 a battle in a few turns versus weak opponents.
  The story is silly, for the most part. I'm not sure the game even takes itself that seriously, 
 despite tying in real life events to the events happening to the squad in the game. I'm kind of 
 interested if this was a game on the ps2 in japan brought over to NA for the 360, cause the graphics 
 suck, though load times are okay. i think probably not, because of the way you can spin the battlefield, 
 but who knows. When i first saw Hitler deflect a bullet with paranormal abilities, i thought he 
 was in his underwear, rather than german uniform. i couldn't tell. which is why i can't be sure 
 how serious this campy game takes itself.
  despite it all, the story, presentation, awkward gameplay mechanics, it is suprisingly involving. 
 i couldn't stop playing for the first couple of days i had it. For a strategy fan or SRPG fan, 
 worth getting used how it works to play through. For anyone else..... eh... you'll probably enjoy 
 something else....
  
  also, on difficulty note... losing and restarting from the beginning may result in broken controllers. 
 i'm used to (but barely tolerate) fire emblem style play, but randomly being run over by a tank 
 that hadn't moved for seven turns makes me lose interest in life itself. some levels (errr... sixty 
 percent, cough, most of the game) are extremely unforgiving and require multiple attempts... after 
 spending an hour or two... or three... in a level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 28, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  This tactical Role-Playing is a frustrating one and not exactly friendly to beginners but can be 
 really good for some. 
  
  Positive
  - Wonderful story
  - Strategy is decent
  - Add some interesting things in World War II
  
  Negative
  - Graphics aren't so good
  - 
 Some frustrating performances
  - Camera isn't placed so well
  
  Operation Darkness might seem a mess of turn-based strategy and World War 2 fiction but it's a 
 solid game which can turn out to be a fun game despite its major problems. The game has its flaws, 
 missing some of the most common basic features of turn-based strategy games, but still its worth 
 a look, well it isn't especially good to look at, the its story and unique gameplay are really 
 good.
  
  If you don't know about World War II, Operation Darkness won't help you so much. You can find fiction 
 things in the game such as zombies and werewolves. I haven't played the game so much and really 
 to write the story takes some time, so I won't tell the story yet. In Operation Darkness you can 
 cast spells of magic. That is something you will never see in a real war. But from what I've seen 
 the story seems good and engaging. Graphics seem like those of older PS2 games. Surely not XBOX 
 360 standard. Environments are pretty ugly too and not very colorful. Gameplay is fun and unique. 
 Gameplay is pretty detailed and interesting, though sometimes annoying. Some things in the game 
 are a pain. Like the camera. Camera is somehow hit to much in the game and you sometimes don't 
 get a good view of the battlefield. 
  
  Operation Darkness has its flaws, though it's still an enjoyable strategy game. It may not hold 
 to today's strategy game or those on the 360 but still worth checking out, mostly for its story 
 and unique gameplay. If you have patience, Operation Darkness can be tons of fun. The annoying 
 camera is hideous visuals might make the game seem horrendous but there will be something that 
 anyone can like in Operation Darkness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkeletalKnight
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  I'd been excited about Operation Darkness from the moment I saw the first preview of it. I'm a 
 big SRPG fan, and I'm also a fan of some of Atlus' other games. Now that I've actually played the 
 game, I can say that my interest was not misplaced. Atlus (to me) is a company that knows well 
 how to make games; they seem to create games with the same outlook as Nintendo, Gameplay over Graphics. 
 Operation Darkness is no exception.
  
  -Visuals+Sound-
  The graphics in this game are certainly not going to blow you away. The in-game characters look 
 good and move fairly realistically, although the look is somewhat anime-styled instead of realistic (once 
 again an Atlus staple.) . The guns all look very close to their real steel counterparts, and the 
 fire rate/sounds are pretty spot on as well. The full motion cinematics are actually less impressive 
 than the ingame graphics, which seems to be because they used the skins for the ingame characters 
 on differently shaped/moving models, causing the cinema characters to look a bit stiff and strange. 
 During briefings/ character interactions outside of the battlefield, there are nice hand drawn 
 2d images that I think should have been used instead of going with the 3d cinemas. The ingame camera 
 is also fairly problematic, but being able to swap back and forth between targets is nice and goes 
 a long way towards speeding up the game.
  
  -Gameplay-
  The gameplay will feel very similar to anyone familiar with Final Fantasy Tactics. The player's 
 characters and the enemies take turns moving and attacking, and characters actions can affect the 
 order others act in. Killing an enemy off will eliminate them from the move list, and depending 
 on timing can give you some extra moves before an enemy can react. There are a bunch of different 
 weapons and skills to combine between your characters, and the weapons even work realistically. 
 Line of sight is needed for direct line of fire, and if you're not careful you might end up hitting 
 your own guys. Grenades and bazooka shots will hit a wide area, and the closer the target is to 
 the center of the explosion the more damage it will do. Vehicles can punish your soldiers, but 
 you can make quick work of them with a couple bazookas. The transformation and cover aspects add 
 a lot of complexity to the game and give you more ways to mow down the zombies, and nazis, and 
 even zombie nazis! Multiplayer online is all co-op, similar to the optional AR missions. You pick 
 a few guys, your teammates pick a few guys, and together your team tries to eliminate all the nazis. 
 It's probably more fun with friends than random people, but an interesting take on online multi, 
 glad its not just standard deathmatch, although having the option to make a versus match would 
 have been welcome as well.
  
  -Final Though-
  I haven't completed the game, and I'm sure I'm only about 20% done with the game, but from what 
 I've experienced with the game so far this is the best way I could explain and describe this game. 
 Hopefully it helps people decide whether this game is right for them!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jase2005
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  Although crude by today's standards there is a very enjoyable game and entertaining story to be 
 found in Operation Darkness.
  
  I'll be straight to start out. This is a WWII era turn based strategy RPG with, what I feel, is 
 a realistic take on WWII battlefield strategy. What I mean by this is that the camera, although 
 finicky at points, was designed well. You can't always see everyone on the screen due to the size 
 of the map. 
  
  You can detach from your selected character and go overhead to see all the combatants and the layout 
 of the map. This may throw many people off, but, if you give it a two or three battles, you'll 
 become accustomed to it and realize that it adds another level of strategy to the game, a realistic 
 one. 
  
  The game play is solid as well. You start off with several main characters and the ability to 'recruit' 
 more. Each person can only hold so much weight, which figures into how often that person gets a 
 turn. Some characters can hold more weight than others, but that doesn't mean you should weigh 
 them down as you'll never get a turn with them.
  
  Every item in the game, weapons, ammo, med kits, etc. has a weight to it. Figuring out what items 
 to take into a battle is half the strategy. If you take to much you won't get very many turns. 
 If you take too little you run the risk of having to take time looting corpses. Don't get me wrong, 
 looting is good. The best weapons are on dead soldiers, but if you don't take enough to start with 
 you run the risk of becoming cannon fodder by getting to close to the enemy at the outset.
  
  The enemies range from tanks and armored cars to regular and elite soldiers. And let's not 
 forget Vampires, Zombies, and Skeletons. 
  
  Weapons range from handguns and swords for close combat to rifles and large caliber machine guns 
 for long range combat, to bazookas and grenades for medium range high damage combat. There are 
 even land mines if you want to use them.
  
  The basic strategy of the game is to move your characters close enough to get the first shot. When 
 you go into the attack menu you will get a percent chance of hit as well as an estimated damage 
 to be done for each enemy you select.
  
  Another aspect to the strategy in this game is the use of MS Attacks, or magic attacks. Only certain 
 characters in the game have them and they use up an entire turn. It really makes you think about 
 when you use them or how you move your characters around to make use of them.
  
  There is more to it but I don't want to ruin everything for you. Onto the not so great parts of 
 the game, that once you adjust, are ok but sometimes still frustrating.
  
  Unlike most turn based strategy games there is no confirm button except for attacks. This can be 
 frustrating because if you are moving through the menu to quickly you can sometimes select finish 
 which ends your turn. That really is the only one that causes an issue other then transform for 
 certain characters which can be bad if you are trying to save MS (magic power) . 
  
  If you have a good strategy these little frustrations won't hurt you too much apart from making 
 the battle take longer. If you are having trouble working your way out of a bad situation, which 
 happens from time to time as reinforcements arrive, it can be costly. 
  
  Overall this is great strategy game with a great story, longevity, replayability, music that fits 
 the game, dated graphics, and bad voice acting. If you enjoy turn based strategy I would highly 
 recommend this game. If you're not sure, get the demo from XBOX Live and try it out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nefarious13
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 13, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  Although I give credit to gamespot. They have come quite close in their review. It is spot on save 
 the gripes about the camera. It is not nearly as bad as they say. If you hit the Y button you get 
 a complete minimap of the battlefield. It is very easy to maneuver. Yes, the graphics are poor 
 and the music is bad, but man the gameplay is top notch. Remember XCom, Jagged Alliance etc. Well, 
 there you go. Character development and equipment are deep. It is a crying shame that the critics 
 honked on this baby. It is a very sweet game that gives a horrible first impression. Stick with 
 it and I guarantee you will not be disappointed  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Night_Frost
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Operation Darkness is the latest title from Atlus, the company behind Persona 3. Here you're a 
 member of the Wolf Pack, a British special forces group that at first appears as your everyday 
 unit fighting the Nazis in WWII. Yes, the game is set in WWII, but don't think for a second you'll 
 be dropping behind enemy lines via parachute or storming the beaches of Normandy, you start in 
 Africa and later end up in Europe. To carry the story you're treated to actual footage from the 
 battles being fought during the war and Wolf Pack does take part in many actual battles, even the 
 failed assassination of Hitler himself.
  
  About a good three or four hours into the game, the story shifts from your typical WWII for the 
 game's main focus... ready? You realize that two members of your unit are actually werewolves and 
 that you're fighting against vampire Nazis and the paranormal. But don't think this is a shooter, 
 it's actually a strategy RPG with a strange twist, one that may cause some to laugh and others 
 to become intrigued by the story as you follow Wolf Pack's battle against the Nazis' paranormal 
 threats. OD does have some flaws and the most noticeable one is the graphics, they're similar to 
 old Xbox/PS2 games, but despite not being the photo-realistic powerhouses like Gears and Call of 
 Duty 4, they're decent enough to pass, albeit barely. The second is the camera, but give the time 
 I played this game, the camera isn't as bad as many put it out to be, maybe the angles when the 
 characters take action are bad, but they're not as annoying as many say.
  
  The other is the difficulty, a little leveling up should solve that, though some of the requirements 
 to complete the missions may seem unfair, one mission asks that not a single member of Wolf Pack 
 dies, sounds unfair, but this is where using your head comes into play. This is where the game 
 actually brings its shining points, the interface is easy to learn and those familiar with Fire 
 Emblem will understand the grid-based system, each character can move a certain amount of distance 
 and depending on which character, you can move farther, plus the cover commands add more fun to 
 the game as you either set up ambushes or attack while covering, using this is crucial to victory 
 in OD. 
  
  The magic spells here are in the form of military spirit, each skill is linked to a member of your 
 squad. One character is the sniper character, her attack is sniper rain and is perfect for keeping 
 those Nazis at bay, two members of Wolf Pack can turn into werewolves and they have greater movement 
 range and use stronger attacks, but knowing when to use it is all about using your head.
  
  The game, like most RPGs, is filled with character development and that's another of OD's finer 
 points, each character with their own history and during the game, you learn more and more about 
 them, ultimately caring if they die and not just the character is packing the heat you need or 
 the man who can revive your allies.
  
  Audio in the game isn't game of the year material, but decent, the voice acting for the main characters 
 aren't as bad as some claim, though many voice actors/actresses may be familiar from previous Atlus 
 projects. the music isn't the epic, somber stuff from war games, it's generic but sometimes a little 
 catchy and for the weapons and explosions add to the battle, but don't expect uber-macho sounding 
 guns and explosions.
  
  Overall, Operation Darkness is addicting but has this unfinished aura about it, though after playing 
 four missions you'll be going for more afterwards, that is if you can overcome the flaws and see 
 the game's finer points. If you're a fan of Strategy RPGs or someone who is willing to give a badly 
 reviewed game a chance to shine, than Operation Darkness may suit your needs and desires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jariksolo
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  Greetings !
  
  I purchased Operation Darkness recently and put in about 30 hours of play, and I love it so far, 
 yes the Camera angle isn't great but from what I understand the Game Dev's never intended for us 
 to see to whole battlefield at once (unlike FF tactics) because enemy's do flank/ambush you in 
 the game ... which would be pointless if you could see them far in advance, Also if you just hit 
 the "Y" button you get a nice little bitmap of your current surroundings.
  
  I think this game is excellent and would recommend it to any SRPG fans, better still if your like 
 me and you Love WW2 games (COD ,1,2,3 & MOH) and Love Final Fantasy Tactics/ Ogre Batter / Fire 
 Emblem / Shining Force / Disagia etc... then get this game.
  
  A few PRO s
  
  -The tactics and strategy are deep, and the physics make sense. (cant shoot far with a pistol, 
 or targets must be in the line of site for most direct attacks for example, more stuff you carry 
 the slower you move)
  
  -The weapons have nice detail and are fun to collect everything from Tommy Guns to Luger's to M1 
 Grand's and some interesting mele weapons.
  
  
  -Looting is Fun, you never know what those crazy Nazi's have in their pockets 
  
  
  -Music 
 is ok, however a little bit funky for it being WW2
  
  
  -Game play was surprisingly easy to pick up on... if you have ever played a SRPG previously, if 
 not there will be a bit of a learning curve
  
  
  -Voice acting is ok for a Japan port (I have seen/heard far far worse on some PS2 & PC titles)
 
  
  
  -Long game, plenty of game play value, this game is not for your average ADD Emo-teen
  
  
 
  -Big Boobies, nothing says love like a little jiggle from the local Sniper taking aim or the Bondage 
 Nazi girl next door.
  
  
  A few Cons
  -Graphics are are only slightly better than the previous consol generation games at best. (think 
 PS2 - Xbox)
  -Skill sets and character development is a little shallow for the recruits.
  
  -Interface menu screen is a little clunky but forgivable
  
  -You cant rename recruits (more 
 of an annoyance than a Con)
  
  -Intentions aside, camera could have been better.
  
  -Limited Save option (cant save mid battle)
  
  Don't let the bad reviews scare you off, This 
 game does require an attention span and some patience but is very rewarding for any SRPG fan, next 
 to FF tactics this is my favorite SRPG.
  Bottom Line: If your in to WW2 stuff and SRPGs then this game is for you ! 
  
  Thanks for reading 
 my review.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
