-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Overlord
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/overlord/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good-looking high-fantasy setting.
 Watching minions wreak havoc is fun.
 Uniquely blends RPG and RTS conventions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Occasional objectives that require more speed and precision than the controls can muster.
 Could stand to be a little more evil.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 28, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.7, 56 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 3,801 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Triumph Studios
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Jun 26, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The pure joy of commanding a small army of malicious minions more than makes up for Overlord's minor 
 shortcomings. 

  While most genre-bending games are content to dissemble just one convention, Overlord takes on 
 two. Not only does it attempt to subvert how you perceive Tolkien-esque high fantasy by essentially 
 putting you in the role of the dark lord Sauron, but the game also plays like a real-time strategy 
 game masquerading as a third-person action RPG. It's all very promising, since real-time strategy 
 games can be such slaves to convention; and it's rare for a game to focus so exclusively on encouraging 
 you to explore your darker impulses. Though the game's controls take some getting used to, and 
 its exploration of evil could use a little more bite, it's generally pretty successful.  

           You know what they say, behind every successful overlord is a hideous pack of insane gremlins. 

  As the titular overlord, you begin the game having just been resurrected by your minions, and your 
 dark kingdom is in shambles. Your dark tower is a ruinous mess, you've got but a handful of subservient 
 followers, and the local villagers are cowering in fear of forces  other  than yourself. This simply 
 will not do. Powerful practitioner of might and magic that you are, you could go the hands-on route 
 in rebuilding your tower and crushing the wills of the peasants; but then, what's the point of 
 being the overlord if you've got to do everything yourself?  

  This is why you have minions, the scampering, mischievous little gremlins that are the heart and 
 soul of Overlord. Though the game presents itself as a third-person action RPG where you control 
 the overlord, it's more of a real-time strategy game. Either way, it's a very good-looking game, 
 with the kinds of soft lighting and quaint high-fantasy settings that characterized Fable, though 
 once you get past the aesthetics, it proves to have more in common with Nintendo's Pikmin games 
 for the GameCube. Though you can perform some basic magic and melee attacks as the overlord, it's 
 your minions that will be doing all your heavy lifting. The control scheme for Overlord is a little 
 unusual, since you'll be controlling the overlord's movement as well as the minions'. The PC version 
 offers both mouse-and-keyboard and dual-analog gamepad control schemes, and they're both totally 
 useable, but they've both got their fair share of quirks.  

  Thankfully, the minions are generally pretty smart. They'll follow you around diligently, and if 
 you take a route that they're unable to follow you on, they'll either stop in their tracks rather 
 than commit hara-kiri, or find an alternate route. You can control your minions' movement directly 
 by sweeping them around using either the right analog stick or the mouse, depending on which control 
 scheme you've chosen. Alternately, you can lock onto certain objects, or simply point in a general 
 direction, and your minions will head over there and perform the appropriate action. If the object 
 can be smashed, they'll smash it. If it's an enemy, they'll attack it. If it's something they can 
 use, such as a weapon or a piece of armor, they'll equip it. If it's gold, or a potion that restores 
 health or mana, they'll bring it back to you. You'll also find lots of quest-specific items that 
 require a team of minions to carry to specific locations, as well as various path-blocking obstacles. 
 You can also command your minions to stay in a specific position, effectively guarding it.  

  Death doesn't even seem to bother them too much -- nor should it, since they're pretty easy to 
 replace. Every time you kill something in Overlord, be it man or beast, it leaves behind a little 
 piece of life essence, which you can collect and store. For every piece of life essence you have, 
 you can summon another minion, though there's a limit to the number of minions you can have at 
 your command at one time. Simply watching the minions carry out your will can be fun, because you 
 get the sense that they really love their job. They scream and cackle gleefully as they latch onto 
 an enemy, and they beam with pride when they return to you with found treasure. Though you'll hear 
 many of the same exclamations from your minions over and over again, the voice work brings a lot 
 of personality to your swarming horde, and to the game in general. Watching your minions wreak 
 havoc can be so satisfying that it makes up for a lot of the problems that the game develops.  
 

  Overlord starts out strong, and the first few hours offer some light and easy fun as you sweep 
 your horde of minions across the countryside, slaughtering sheep and peasants and pillaging anything 
 that appears even remotely pillageable. There are some RPG trappings to the game, in that you can 
 upgrade or buy new weapons and armor, learn new spells, and increase your capacity for health and 
 mana, as well as the number of minions that you can control at once. Still, the story is pretty 
 linear. You might have more than one quest available to you at a time, but usually you'll find 
 that one of those quests cannot actually be started until you finish another quest. As the shadow 
 you cast over the land continues to grow, you'll face halflings, elves, bloodthirsty unicorns, 
 an undead horde, dwarves, and more. In addition to the all-purpose brown minions you start off 
 with, you'll earn the ability to summon more specialized types of minions. Red minions are fire 
 adept, green minions are impervious to poison and have some minor stealth abilities, and blue minions 
 can travel through water, are strong against magical enemies, and can revive fallen minions.  

 
  The game takes its time introducing the different types of minions, and you'll be several hours 
 into the game before the strategy elements of the game start getting complicated. The tightly designed 
 environments of Overlord are very deliberate in their layout, often requiring you to direct a single 
 type of minion. It's not difficult to alternate between controlling one type of minion and another 
 when you're not under the gun, but there are certainly moments where it'll feel like you're struggling 
 against the controls as you're juggling multiple groups of minions and trying to issue a series 
 of specific commands. Luckily it's not hard to toggle the camera from a behind-the-back third-person 
 perspective to a pulled-back overhead perspective, both of which prove useful in different situations. 
 It's certainly satisfying when you're able to get past one of the game's involved boss fights, 
 even if it's partially out of relief that you won't have to deal with that again.  

           To be fair, this is probably as evil as you can get in a T-rated game.      

  As much 
 as the game likes to cast your character as a ruthless and malevolent overlord who cares for nothing 
 but power and chaos, your capacity for true, genuine evil feels a little limited. Motivations aside, 
 the nature of the quests you take on aren't that different from what a high-fantasy hero would 
 be up to. Yes, you can choose whether certain characters live or die, and there are situations 
 that can be resolved with varying degrees of bloodshed, but the choices you make have little impact 
 on the course of the game. Good and evil are subjective concepts, and if there are no real negative 
 consequences, there's no way to determine if your actions qualify.  

  Overlord is an enjoyably mischievous experience that blends real-time strategy and RPG elements 
 to unique ends. The satisfaction of running amok with your legion of wickedly enthusiastic minions 
 is what makes Overlord worth playing, and it's plenty compensation for controls that you'll occasionally 
 struggle against and the limitations on just how evil you can really be.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (189 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2009 1:47 am PT
Review:  Overlord resembles a lot of Nintendo's Pikmin and it's a weird mixture of third person action game, 
 puzzle game and a real time strategy game. Unfortunately the save system, the lack of a map and 
 clunky controls make this experience a lot more frustrating than it should be. Here I will focus 
 only on the single player aspect of the game, but there's also co-op in split-screen and Xbox Live 
 plus a competitive multiplayer mode.
  
  You play as a defeated evil man in armor, who has been put in a coffin after doing some evil deeds. 
 Player is awakened by a group of small gremlins called minions and they take him to his ruined 
 tower. Minions serve their Overlord to the death and it's now your job to use them in order to 
 re-build your tower of evil. Game has a bright fantasy setting in it that resembles Lord of the 
 Rings and the story is told through short cutscenes, but mostly by using great voice acting with 
 subtitles.
  
  Graphics are bright and they have that fairy tale like feel in them. It's nice to see lots of colors, 
 although your goal is to be evil in that environment. Structures and buildings are mostly non-interactive 
 and there are distinctive rails in which you can move, but there are enough space for you to do 
 some exploration. Character models and animation are nicely done and especially your minions have 
 a ton of personality. There's not that much music in the game, but sound effects and voice acting 
 is plentiful. In the end audio visual presentation in Overlord is just what it should be.
  
  Overlord himself is not that great to control, but his minions are responsive and with a little 
 thinking there really is some strategy involved. Unfortunately micromanagement is done with the 
 right thumbstick and this means that you have very little control over the camera. Most of the 
 time this is not that big of a problem, but other times it can really be a pain. There are 4 different 
 types of minions: browns are good at fighting, reds can absorb heat and have a ranged attack, greens 
 can absorb poison and have a stealth attack, blues can swim. This brings a nice amount of variety, 
 but it's also too hard to handle in a tight situation. A system resembling Star Wars: Knights of 
 the Old Republic would have been nice, in which you can stop the action and then make your choices 
 in a pace as you see fit.
  
  Structure of Overlord is a lot like Nintendo's Pikmin, because in it you collected lost items of 
 a spaceship and in Overlord you collect pieces of your ruined tower. There's a big world separated 
 by loading screens and you can approach the objectives in any order. All of this is fine, but with 
 no map what so ever the navigation is a lot harder than it should be and you can't set a glowing 
 trail (GPS in GTAIV and Saints Row) to lead you to the right location like you can in Fable 2 for 
 example.
  
  Save system is awful and automatic. For some reason it saves almost only between different areas. 
 This means that if you die after playing for 30 minutes in a single area you need to do it all 
 over again. At times you can just leave the area every now and then to make the game to save your 
 game, but other times you'll notice that all of your progress has seized to exist after visiting 
 another area. Autosave is a good choice in linear shooters or driving games, but in a non-linear 
 adventure game with multiple steps in every task it's just a bad design choice.
  
  Overlord has its moments and it definitely has potential. Unfortunately there's no map, the save 
 system is awful and sometimes you need to fight with the controls rather than against your enemies. 
 Let's hope that future titles succeed a little better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:12 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those rare titles that tries to blend several different genres and actually does 
 a pretty good job of pulling it off. There are equal amounts of action, role playing, strategy 
 and even a touch of puzzle solving in the game and all are done well. It is weak in some areas 
 because of this broad aim, but the package as a whole is quite entertaining.
  
  While the basic gameplay isn't really anything new, the execution is unique. In the beginning, 
 you are resurrected as an evil overlord who commands an army of minions. At first, you can only 
 control five at a time, but this number can be increased to twenty five throughout the game. The 
 gameplay is viewed from an over-the-shoulder third person perspective, but can be switched to an 
 isometric, Diablo-style view. There are many situations where neither of these views really lets 
 you see the action the way you want, but the camera is passable. The controls for your character 
 are the basic fare; move around with the left joystick, press the attack repeatedly to chain together 
 strikes, one button jumps and another locks on to a target. There are also four basic magic spells 
 that can be unlocked through the game that keep things interesting. None of this really makes the 
 game stand out and if this were all there was, it would have been incredibly boring. The real fun 
 comes in when you begin ordering your minions around. The right joystick controls your minions 
 as a group in what is best described as a sweeping motion. They sweep across the level in which 
 ever direction you send them and interact with anything they come across. If a sword is on the 
 ground, one minion will stop to pick it up while the others continue on. Once he equips the weapon, 
 he will rush to catch up to the rest of the group. If an enemy is in their path, the minions will 
 stop to attack them and continue on once the foe is dead. Many items can only be carried by a group 
 of minions and several doors take minions working together to open. There is a countless number 
 of things for your minions to interact with and it is quite entertaining to simply stand back and 
 watch them destroy the environment. My personal favorite was after being sent into a pumpkin patch, 
 they destroy every pumpkin while laughing gleefully. Upon returning to you, you will find that 
 several of them crafted jack-o-lanterns and are now wearing them as helmets. Since the action is 
 always viewed from your character's perspective, it can be difficult to see exactly where your 
 minions are when they get too far away, and many puzzles force you to do this. The game can cater 
 to different play styles. If you like, you can send your minions in to do all the work while you 
 stand back and watch. This will cost you more minions in battle, but will keep you safe. If you 
 are more of the get-your-hands-dirty type, you can lead the charge into battle and less minions 
 will die. This will, naturally, put you in harms way and you must sacrifice minions at altars to 
 get your health back.
  
  While you are definitely and evil overlord, you get to actually choose how evil. You can help the 
 starving towns people in exchange for them praising you, or steal the food for yourself to feed 
 to your minions. Choices like this are throughout the game, allowing you to be a well liked ruler 
 or the feared dictator. The good news is that your minions will always love you either way.
  
  There are four types of minions available in the game. You begin with only one type; the Browns. 
 They are the strongest fighters but aren't good for much else. In a straight forward dungeon, a 
 group of these guys are your best choice. During the more puzzle oriented sections, they will be 
 of little use. They are the only ones that can equip most of the weapons and armour that is scattered 
 around the levels (which is all done automatically) . The Reds are much weaker fighters but have 
 a ranged fireball attack that comes in handy quite often. They also can put out fires to open up 
 blocked paths. The Greens can poison enemies. While they are also weaker than the Browns in fights, 
 if you manage to get them behind the opponent, they can be devastating. They have the ability to 
 absorb poison clouds that block your path, similar to the way the Reds clear fire. The final minion 
 group is the Blues. They are just about useless in a fight, but have the ability to resurrect fallen 
 minions. While all other minions will drown in any water more than waist deep, Blues can swim and 
 reach places other minions can't. Every minion type has very clear purposes and you will constantly 
 be switching around between each depending on the situation.
  
  More minions are recruited by gathering orbs from dead enemies. The type of enemy determines which 
 minion. Poison beetles supply greens. Succubus give you Reds. Giant frogs give Blues. Sheep supply 
 Browns (yes, I said sheep) . There are many more enemies in the game; these are only examples. While 
 the number of available minions increases with these orbs, you cannot add them to your army until 
 you find portals scattered around each level. Some areas have a portal for every minion, while 
 others only give you a chance to bring one or two different types into a level. If you run out 
 of minions, you can return to any previously visited area to kill more enemies (who respawn once 
 you leave the level) .
  
  The bosses can range from challenging to downright frustrating. One of the first ones required 
 me to corner the boss by ordering Reds to hold position on both sides of him and throw fire while 
 I used Browns to protect them from other enemies. This was a difficult battle, but was also fun 
 and gave me quite a sense of accomplishment once I won. Shortly after this battle, there was another 
 that was on the opposite end of the spectrum. The boss was next to a wheel that I had to order 
 my minions to turn in order to open a door that would allow me to fight the enemy up close. Since 
 the boss was so close to the wheel, half my minions would think they were supposed to attack him 
 and would almost instantly get killed. Also, in order for your minions to retreat, you have to 
 hold down a specific button for a couple of seconds. While waiting during these seconds, many minions 
 will get killed (this is also a problem in many other battles since there is no other way to quickly 
 order a retreat) . During this fight, I went through way too many minions than was necessary simply 
 because of the control scheme. There are also several bosses that can only be defeated by trail 
 and error. If you are defeated by a boss or run out of minions, you have to teleport back to your 
 tower and replay the level from the last checkpoint, which was almost never right before the boss. 
 I hoped that in this day and age, we had moved beyond games forcing us to replay easy parts over 
 and over just to make it back to the difficult battles.
  
  Your stronghold is not only the base of operations and save point; it also contains many activities 
 that make the game more entertaining. You will find gold while exploring dungeons that will be 
 piled up in your treasure room. Though it is fun to watch this pile grow, the gold can also be 
 used for other purposes. You can buy cosmetic improvements to both the exterior of your castle 
 and the throne room. I wish there were more options available for purchase since it didn't take 
 long for me to have bought everything that I could for the castle. The gold can also be spent in 
 the forge. Here you can make new weapons and armor. While the initial item is purchased with your 
 gold, any upgrades are added by sacrificing minions. Many weapons can take over a thousand minions 
 (which can be added over time) to become truly amazing weapons. Other materials are found throughout 
 the game, so you don't have access to the best stuff right away. The arena allows you to battle 
 any enemy that you have come across up to that point in the game. You can use this to gather orbs 
 if you don't want to wander levels that you have already completed, but don't think you can just 
 fight easy guys over and over to increase your army quickly. If you pick a weak enemy, a large 
 number will be in the arena and the battle will always be challenging. There are other areas to 
 go in the stronghold, but they are really just there to check out the scenery.
  
  The graphics look very good. The entire game keeps up the tongue-in-cheek humor that it is based 
 around. All the environments are believable but still maintain the cartoony feel of the game. Every 
 level was impressive to look at and each area has something new to see. Some of the levels are 
 fairly maze-like and the lack of any kind of map feature is puzzling. There were quite a few times 
 when I was wandering aimlessly because I couldn't remember how to get to my destination. The minions 
 are always performing hilarious actions. Anything from getting drunk and peeing on the ground to 
 laughing maniacally while destroying a field of sunflowers for no particular reason. While it certainly 
 isn't a game for children, the violence isn't bad at all. When being sacrificed at altars, you 
 minion cheerfully jumps into it and disappears in a puff of smoke. The main focus of the game was 
 definitely comedy. The first area is a complete copy of Hobbiton from Lord of the Rings, except 
 the Halflings are the bad guys and must be killed. Shortly after that, you come across the elves 
 who are solemn and depressing, which opens them up to constant ridicule from you smart ass minions. 
 The game can almost be considered a parody of the entire fantasy genre, be it in either games or 
 movies.
  
  The game is definitely a unique experience. Since it contains aspect from many different genres, 
 there were many times that I wished they had done more with each. Many of the boss battles hurt 
 the game due to their execution. The game is far from perfect, but it is a very entertaining fantasy 
 romp that contains tons of humor and puzzles that will keep you wanting to see what will happen 
 next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpmusterd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 4:20 pm PT
Review:  I was very interested in this game when I saw it so I decided to research it a bit before I bought 
 it. All the reviews told me is that it was buggy and should be worried about it ruining the game. 
 Well I have to say that is a bunch of lies because I have played this entire game and now going 
 to buy the expansion Raising Hell and beat it on Legendary and I have not encountered any slow 
 down or crashes ever. 
  Gameplay 9/10
  I thought the gameplay was very well done because there are a number of different ways of making 
 yourself more powerful and completing different missions. The difficulty was just right because 
 if you dont beat a certain part the first time chances are if you just go collect more minions 
 youll beat it the second time.
  Sound 8.5/10
  The sound was good but nothing was too spectacular. The minions voices I thought were hilarious 
 and very well done.
  Graphics 9/10 
  Reviews always talk about the framerate issues and blah blah blah, I personally never encountered 
 any of that. The Overlord looks really bad *** once you get the advanced armor and the minions, 
 bosses, and main enemies are very well animated.
  Story 8.5/10 
  The story was pretty straight forward in the beginning but it picks up and some twists and turns 
 happen, but overall if you dont expect it do be amazing it well be just fine.
  Conclusion
  I wasnt expecting that much out of the game and after playing it I am going to buy the downloadable 
 content and am looking forward to the sequel Overlord II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macheteman99
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 4:32 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game expecting a little excitement for a RTS/RPG but this surprised the heck outta 
 me. this game delivered so much unique flavor to a unique formula that i never played any other 
 game for quite a while, and this is while i have gears 2 and halo 3! great controls work amazingly, 
 and the diversity of the minions is godly. it is like each one of them have their own personalities! 
 i even named each one myself! not really. one you can do a lot around your castle, which gives 
 the game some flare that you wouldn't expect. you can kill any person or peasant you see, kill 
 sheep.. whatever any way it is fun. also you can search around lands and you can find objects to 
 improve your minion count or health, so if you like to wander around aimlessly then this is definitely 
 for you. no matter who you are if you are a fan of this fusion of genres then there is practically 
 no question. this game should get more recognition, because it is just so great and amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2009 10:26 pm PT
Review:  I loved Pikmin and Pikmin 2. So, when I played the Overlord demo, and saw that it was pretty much 
 the same concept I got really excited. Overlord is a hardcore gamer friendly fantasy version of 
 Pikmin that has your character taking the role of a savior or a tyrant. 
  
  The game play is built around your overlord character using different colored minions to perform 
 everything from heavy lifting to attacking enemies. Each minion color has a different skill set 
 with the most of them being super useful. However the Blue minions are about friggin' pointless. 
 If you've played Pikmin, then you see how this is identical to the premise of that game. Just like 
 in Pikmin, it is very easy to lose to boat load of minions very quickly if you don't know how to 
 fight a certain enemy. What bothers me is that this Minions are stupidly helpless, they will go 
 out of their way to pick up armor or a weapon to fight with but not think twice about parking themselves 
 under an enemy that is obviously going to squash them. 
  
  Also, the functions of the minions don't match the actions that the minions actually take. IE, 
 Blue minions are poor (and by poor I mean worthless) fighters, but they can heal dead minions. 
 If you sweep (move) a group of blue minions into an area with both fallen minions and enemies, 
 their first instinct is going to be to fight the enemies and abandon the dead even though that 
 is not what they are best suited for. 
  
  Small things like that make Overlord harder than it has to be. Also, the game is super glitchy, 
 and buggy. Numerous times, I found my minions getting stuck behind fallen rocks or fences. This 
 renders them unusable and if you are running short on minions this poses a huge problem (having 
 8 stuck in a wall and what not) . 
  
  The smelting to upgrade your shields, minion count and weapons is a very annoying process. Not 
 only do you have to have a massive amount of cash, but you also have to have a massive amount of 
 minions (upwards of thousands.) Anyone willing to put that much time into gathering minions just 
 to upgrade your weapons really needs to go back to the game store and find something else to play. 
 
  
  The good news is that the game is genuinely funny and really long with a good amount of bonus content. 
 Many of the achievements are unrealistic, but satisfying and the facelessness of the main character 
 makes the focus on the minions and side characters much stronger. I liked Overlord but there are 
 many things that need to be fixed before Overlord 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generalparrish
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game after it's price droped from $60 dollars to $30 dollars. I did play the demo 
 first so I kinda knew what to expect, but I was actually surprised with the final product. This 
 game was alot better then I expected. 
  
  Graphics: Very good. The animations in this game really are good too. Your Minions have pretty 
 realistic movements as well as almost all of your enemys. Water, sky etc. they all look rather good.
 
  
  Gameplay (what matters) : Very Unique which is why I really liked this game. You can smack your 
 enemys around a little yourself but really most fighting will be done by the minions you can control. 
 There are 4 kinds which are all unique in some way. the actual game is not very difficult to get 
 through, but if you want a really difficult challenge the Collisuem is very very hard to finish. 
 I personally never got through it. The Colliseum is more of an add-on then a real part of the game 
 though. Also while going through the game you can pick your route to be either very evil or not 
 so much, but really this kinda felt a litle off as you don't always have a choice. 
  
  Replayability: In order to get all the achievments you would have to play through the story mode 
 atleast 2 times, but really it dosnt feel worth it. None of your items carry over to your 2nd playthrough. 
 Your 1st playthrough will likely take long enough that by the time it's over you will be satisfied 
 with your purchase and wanna move on to another game. Don't go trading it in though. I did this 
 and now I miss the game. It's one of those games that leaves a lasting impression and at some point 
 you will wanna play it again.
  
  Multiplayer: This didnt really catch on to me. This game is much better in 1 player story mode 
 then in Multiplayer. 
  
  Bottom Line: at $30 this game is a steal. At it's original price of $60 it would have been an ok 
 purchase. Luckaly if your reading this it probably means you havnt yet purchased the game and are 
 considering it. My advice is go for it. It's one game that is unlike any other for the XBOX 360 
 and wont let you down if you want a fresh style of gameplay. 
  
  P. S. There is a 2nd Overlord Game in the Makings right now. It is suppose to be released some time 
 this year (2009) and I hope it buuilds on this Games design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lalocupra68
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 12:02 pm PT
Review:  muy buen juego, muy divertido...
  
  este juego te pone en el papel del Overlord que es un seor del mar rencarnado este juego es muy 
 divertido ya que te cambia la manera total de ver las cosas dentro del juego ya que en ves de ser 
 el bueno ahora eres el malo y aparte de todo tienes a tus hordas de esbirros para que te hagan 
 caso y hagan lo que te plasca las graficas de este juego no seran las mejores pero son buenas la 
 jugabilidad es buena las traducciones al espaol es buena tambien es un juego con el cual pasaras 
 un buen rato destruyendo aldeas saqueando casas y mejorando tu torre, tus armas y tu armadura que 
 por cierto desde que empiezas la armadura se ve muy bien
  
  bueno en conclucion si tienes la oportunidad de jugar Overlord juegalo en mi opinion es un buen 
 juego gamespot debio haber calificado por lo menos con un 8 u 8.5 ya que quieran o no la calificacion 
 de gamespot afecta a muchos para decidir que juego comprarce y que juego no (bueno al menos asi 
 me a pasado) pero en este caso es un bueno juego lo recomiendo ampliamente
  
  Saludos... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Overall, Overlord was a fun game. I liked how they mixed elements of Pikmin with elements of Fable. 
 The puzzles were fun, I loved exploring. The combat was fun. The game was just a blast to play 
 through, but there was alot of non-gameplay related things I hated about it. I WISH the storyline 
 was good, but it was down right awful. There wasn't enough humor and the voice acting is some of 
 the worst I've heard in a long time. 
  
  If you can look past those flaws, this is still a pretty damn fun game. 
  
  ----------Battle 
 System ----------
  Overlord is a basic Action RPG with some Pikmin style RTS elements thrown in. The RTS elements 
 actually outweight the action you control over as your avatar in the game, just like Pikmin. You 
 play as an Overlord, that controls overr various kinds of minions. These minions follow you around 
 and you can send them off to do certain tasks or into battle, just like Pikmin. So yeah, this is 
 a basic Pikmin rip off with some RPG elements thrown in to make a rather deep and fun game. 
  
  You can control between 5 to 50 Minions in the game. There are four types of Minions that can 
 do various tasks. The Brown Minions are your tanks, they're strong and can equip weapons they find 
 on the ground, but they're weak against fire and magic. The Blue Minions can walk in water, they 
 can heal any fallen Minion, and they can fight magical beings, but they're weak fighters and can 
 be killed easily. The Red Minions shoot fireballs, they can walk in fire, and put out fires. The 
 Green Minions can consume poison fields, they're decent fights that can ambush enemies by jumping 
 on their backs. 
  
  Each Minion have their on skills in battle, so fighting some monsters do require you to switch 
 between them, but switching Minions is a task. You can select All Minions by pressing the R Trigger, 
 or hold down to pop up a menu to only select a single race. You can put your minions in "Guard" 
 mode by pressing the Y button too. This is good for strategic moments for your Red and Green Minions. 
 Guarding is easy to do, but switch between racing is HARD and barely worth attempting. I would 
 rather let my minions die off than switch around.
  
  Kinda like in Fable, when you kill an enemy, they drop an orb. So for example, when you kill a 
 sheep, it will drop a Brown orb, or if you kill a water bug it will drop a Blue orb. Each orb you 
 collect means you can harvest more Minions. Within the world map, you will find portals where you 
 can gather more Minions or to send your Minions back to the castle. This is kinda like the Flower 
 buds in Pikmin, except they're scattered across the world in various spots. 
  
  Once you gather a ton of orbs, you can go into your basement of your castle to upgrade your items 
 with them. It costs a few thousand gold to make a new weapon or piece of armor, but to strengthen 
 them you need to forge them with your minions by sacrificing them. Each Minion color has a special 
 attribute. This is another thing very similar to Fable I think. In Fable you have to go to your 
 original castle, that's where you distribute your orbs to your various skills. It's the same item 
 but with your weapons. A Brown orb will make your Sword stronger, but a Green orb can give you 
 a higher critical attack. There's a cap of how many minions you can upgrade with, so you have to 
 choose wisely. 
  
  The game revolves around alot of puzzle solving, well, like Pikmin. You don't actually pick things 
 up, but your Minions do. So there's alot of times that requires you to send your Minions off by 
 themselves to pick up a heavy item that requires 10 or so Minions, while you send the rest off 
 to defend the carrying Minions. They have to then drop it off at a warp point. There are moments 
 where you have to send a Minion to pick up a bomb to blow up some rocks. I can't stress this enough, 
 it's ALOT like Pikmin. 
  
  The way you max out your HP and MP is by collecting statues that boost your stats. This is a bit 
 like Zelda in a way. The controls remind me of Zelda as well. The way you control the camera is 
 very much Zelda, there is no true 360 analog camera control, as the right stick is used for your 
 Minions, so you have to use the L trigger for the camera, which can get out of the way at times. 
 There's also the Z-Targeting element of the game, which is straight out of the Zelda text book.
 
  
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  You play as the... Overlord. You play as a silent protagonist.. or should I say antagonist? Either 
 way, you was awaken by your minions to reclaim your castle and to over take the land. 
  
  This was all fine and good on paper, but overall the story stinks! Kinda like Fable, you can choose 
 a good or evil path. In the good path, you can save towns and people, but you still rule over the 
 land side. In the evil path you can just rule everything with an iron fist. It's much a huge difference, 
 as the story and (lack of) characters almost ruin the game. You're given plenty of choices to determine 
 the outcome of the game. I went with the good path, so maybe that's why I hated the game so much? 
 Even going with the good path, you still rule over everything, yet, you're still fighting evil 
 and thieves. It makes no sense. The ending also made no sense. I won't hint at it, or spoil it, 
 but it is seriously one of the worst endings to a game I've seen since Summoner 2. 
  
  One thing I was expecting about of this game was ALOT of humor. It wasn't there to be honest. There 
 was a couple times when I chuckled, like when your minions would wear a pumpkin hat or pee after 
 drinking, but that was about it. 
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  The overall style of the game reminds me of Fable or Enclave for the Xbox. The artstyle has a very 
 very "British" look to it. The lands are lush, the castles are dark. The people are deformed and 
 ugly. 
  
  I think the Overlord looks cool, and so does your castle and minions. I like the layout of the 
 world, some of the enemies look cool, especially the boss fights. I HATE the cutscenes. The cutscenes 
 are an ugly mess, if you played any WRPG within the last 5 years then you'll know what I'm talking 
 about. Terrible edit sequences between camera angles, sometimes the screen will even go black between 
 shots, heck, in the very last cutscene the music even stops between camera switches. The character 
 models are UGLY as sin. Their mouths don't match the words they're saying. Its just a mess and 
 I haven't played a single WRPG with a good stylish cutscene.
  
  I only ran into a few annoying glitches. There was a few framerate drops when you send out a ton 
 of minions after a ton of enemies. There is alot of bad clipping. I hate the save function in this 
 game. Everything is autosave, but only when you reach a new area. It's just a little note that 
 flashes that it saves too. I was always worried if it saved or not when I shut the game down. I 
 don't want to worry about that. 
  
  
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  I liked the music, which is a rarity for me in WRPGs. It's pretty generic Lord of the Rings inspired 
 music, but it fits the game. There are a few moments where the music felt out of place (the cutscenes 
 at the end of the game) , otherwise it was good stuff. 
  
  The voice work is a huge pet peeve with me. While I liked the minions voices, and even the main 
 minion that guides you through the game. I HATE the human or elf voices. It sounds like they pulled 
 a few bums off of the street to do the voice overs. The voices don't even match the mouth movements 
 either. 
  
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  The world map progresses kinda similar to Fable. You start off in a castle, which you can then 
 warp to a starting gate. From this gate, you can move around the country side, find a town and 
 various linking dungeons. This original gate will link to you various other gates. Once you find 
 more gates, the easier it is to move across the game. 
  
  Overall I liked the map, but it does have it's faults. I love that you can slowly open up each 
 new map with your minions and powers. This brings me to mind of Zelda. You will be teased with 
 a bunch of shortcuts and locked gates, then you'll slowly unlock them along the way making traveling 
 easier as you go, while expanding the world. The roads are fairly small though. There are a few 
 big open spaces in the game, but you'll mostly be traveling through small roads after small road. 
 
  
  The towns are practically worthless. There's no one worth chatting with, there's never a sidequest 
 to unlock. The towns might as well be part of the field or dungeon. 
  
  Your castle is basically your hub. Within it you can go to a dungeon and fight previously killed 
 monsters. You can upgrade your weapons. You can even change the look of your castle and build it 
 up. This is kinda like Suikoden in a way. 
  
  I should also say, this game doesn't feature a Mini-map or any overview map. Alot of people complained 
 about this, but it didn't bug me at all. The areas aren't very big, so it's not easy to get lost 
 or confused. I never onced thought that a minimap was needed while playing this.
  
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ----------
  32:19
  
  Overlord could be beaten in a much shorter 
 time frame, but I made sure I did all the sidequests possible, and I harvested a TON of minions 
 before the final battle. The ending was ridiculous, like most of the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittau
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  If you liked Bard's Tale or Fable you will like this, that is if you don't mind having the minions 
 do everything for you. I did like it but I thought it could have been better. I origionally tried 
 the game because someone said it was like Dungeon Keeper, but that was way wrong. This game seems 
 to be lacking a few things most of us gamers take for granted like a camera control, which left 
 me contantly moving minions when I wanted to move the camera. There were times when I really wished 
 there was a way to check where I was, oh I don't know, a map maybe? Not even a mini-map or a compass, 
 combined with the fact that minions are a bit buggy, and alot of "where do I go now?" moments give 
 this game a 7.0 for me. Maybe next time they will add a bit more variety in the weapons, armor, 
 and minions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacethereaper
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  I love this game its funny, hard at some points... and all around fun because nothing is more fun 
 then having little minions to go and die for you so you can laugh all about it, or having them 
 say all the funny stuff that they do for you... the all mighty overlord! I have played this game 
 alot since it came out and its my most favorite single player game for the xbox 360. I mean you 
 get to pick either the evil or good side, the funny sex thing was good in the game, beat up those 
 heros that are alaways fun to hear cry or to smash time and time again. The only hard guys I think 
 are those stupid dwarves especially the flame thrower ones other then that... I think this game 
 is easy till you play it on the dlc mode then its really hard... because everything owns you really 
 easily. I'm going to play this again after Fable 2 and all my other new games I'm never getting 
 rid of this game and I can't wait for Overlord 2... it'll be great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jambajuice95
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 13, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Overlord in essentially a knock off of Pikmin! Fricken Pikmin! Who the hell would want to knock 
 off Pickmin? A jerk. That who, a jerk. If you don't know what Pikmin is, then you live under a 
 rock. Pikmin is a game about you being on a spaceship, it gets hit by an asteroid and you go down 
 to a distant planet and you find pikmin and you have to find all your ship parts and get off the 
 planet. Now Overlord is about you, the overlord being revived by your minions and you must rebuild 
 your castle. You do this by venturing through the land and get all the parts to your castle while 
 reaking havoc on the poor people of the land. You find different kinds of minions each a different 
 elements. But in the end its a complete knock off and is basically a waste of human resourses. 
 To make it worse they thought it was so great that they should even clusterf*** the PS3 and PC 
 with this abomination. Raising Hell? Hell yeah it's raising hell. Raising hell and corrupting the 
 whole world with this game. Why god oh why!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordNightwolf
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is a great game if you are on a tight bugget! I bought it used for $17 at my local game 
 trader. You can get it NEW at Circit City for $20. And with a sequal comming out TBA 2009 you can't 
 be to stupid not to own it. It is addicting game (I think) but at some parts it is fusterating 
 at some parts. And it is kinda short. You get to command an army of minions and you get to use 
 magic and level up the spells. . There are 4 diffrent types. Browns the warriors. Reds the fire 
 prof/ranger dudes. Greens the assassins/anti-toxic guys. And blues the the healers/mage peeps. 
 It is kinda like Pikmin except more evil and dark. Insted of cute and cuddaly YUCK!!! It dose have 
 an Xbox Live Cappability (I havent tried yet) . All I know is that there is two events pillage and 
 slather. You get like 20 gamescore total for trying both events and an extra 20 for winning 1, 
 10, and 50 in each event. The game play is simmlar to the gameplay of Fable but eather way you 
 still are "Evil" eather way. Its always fun to do some evil stuff sometimes. During the game you 
 will have to decide to do diffrent things example. . . At one part you chouse which mistress you 
 want to have. Or take the gold or save the elven race. Its like a chouse your own adventure book 
 exept 100 times better. There is tons of costomization avalible from decorating your Dark Tower 
 to Chousing the weppon or amour you want. But id dose has its flaws that hold it back for the perfect 
 5 out of 5. At some times it seams to be a little dry and the jester at the tower is sooo f***ing 
 anoying he folows you around all the time on the main floor. And you can only be so evil since 
 it is rated T. And the characters say the same crap over and over agian but it is funny what the 
 minnons and other evil characters say but the pestnets there a different story, when ever you walk 
 past them the same guy says the same crap over and over agian. This is a solid game that is capable 
 of being a great series. This is definitly a series to own! Overlord get a: 
  
  9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRook2020
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Be an OverLord while waiting for Fable II.
  
  I recently put a deposit on Fable II and figured while I was there I'd look around when a used 
 copy of OverLord caught my eye. I picked it up cheap and figured what the heck.
  It may not be Fable, but it is easy to play and burns up time fast controlling minions, making 
 your armor, and weapons. I've enjoyed playing it although I know once I get Fable II I won't pick 
 up again unless someone asks to try it. All and all it would make a great rental and a good buy. 
 Give it a chance and you have a lot of fun kill sheep, harassing village folk, and playing HGTV 
 with your tower of darkness. This game is just plain and fun easy to play and even though it got 
 some goofy characters I don't think you want the kiddies playing it. Want something that plays 
 like Fable wait for Fable two. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fubulu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  Overlord makes a different approach to the fantasy action games and comes out as a decent and quite 
 fun game. Think something along the lines of pikmin turned bad, and you have a basic idea of what 
 to expect when you play this game.
  
  
  As overlord, you have control over various goblin-like creatures known as your minions. You will 
 use the minions throughout the game and are what you will rely on to do your dirty work most of 
 the time. There are four types of minions, but you only start off with browns, who are the back-bone 
 of your fighting force. You control your minions with the right analogue stick, allowing you to 
 freely move them about the the place.
  
  But your not limited to just using your minions. The overlord has a few simple attacks he can use 
 by tapping the A button, and he also has access to a number of spells that you can earn by finding 
 certain items in the game.
  
  The controls are pretty simple, but they do the job quite well, and your minions are quite smart. 
 They wont simply run into water when following you or when being guided along by you. They will 
 try to fine the best way along, most likely taking paths that are too small for you if it means 
 they can follow you. They will also pick up items when they get close enough to them, whether its 
 souls and gold for you, weapons and armour for themselves or quest items and special items that 
 will allow you to become stronger or progress further into the game.
  
  While the graphics aren't the best out there compared to some big games, they fit the fantasy setting 
 quite well. While the people may not look the best (more ugly then badly made) , the surrounding 
 areas that you go through looks quite outstanding. It also loads up fairly large areas in one go, 
 allowing you to travel quite far in some places without a loading screen coming up all of a sudden 
 like in Oblivion, then only time it needs to load is when you travel between areas or dungeons.
 
  
  The sound effects fit the game nicely, the large scuffle of feet as your minions follow you, the 
 sounds of their attacks connecting sound like what you'd expect, and fire that actually sounds 
 like its burning something when launched into a field of hay.
  
  The game has some possible replayability, as certain choices can affect things, like returning 
 food to villagers or not, depending on if you want to become corrupt or not. There are also plenty 
 of artifacts to find in the game that should keep people busy for a while if they want to get absolutely 
 everything.
  
  It may not be something for everyone, but has enough to keep you playing to the end if you can 
 get into it.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarbandu
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 25, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  In general, I shy away from RTS games on consoles. There tend to be too many control problems, 
 or the inability to save mid-mission (the 'Kingdom Under Fire' series on XBox and 360 comes readily 
 to mind as a series of real controller-tossing turkeys) .
  
  But when I saw 'Overlord' was getting some good reviews, and it was available for just $20, I decided 
 to pick it up.
  
  Most of the other reviews go over the game in detail, so I'll just add my two cents about what 
 Overlord does well, and where it might be frustrating.
  
  The good:
  
  -Decent graphics, with no slowdown despite having a lot of onscreen action. Some popup and draw-in, 
 but never so bad as to take you out of the game world. Good spell and environmental effects. Visually 
 appealing artwork and character design.
  
  -A sarcastic, humor-driven approach that will appeal to those players getting a bit tired of the 
 standard-issue heroic fantasy storyline. If you like the idea of butchering Ewoks, then the chance 
 to set fire to a wheat field full of Halflings, and listening to their screams of agony as the 
 fire sweeps over them, is a hoot and a joy.
  
  -Varied level design, with interior and outdoor environments.
  
  -At least for the first 80% 
 of the game, the Boss battles  while sometimes tedious- are winnable with two or three tries. 
 With a bit of strategic thinking, you may triumph the very first time.
  
  
  -provided you do all the side quests, plus regular forays to recharge the Soul Depot mediating 
 your quantities of summoned Minions, there is a good 30 hr of gameplay to be had. 
  
  The bad:
  
  -A checkpoint save system that can be frustrating at times, like when I had a Minion 
 stuck behind an obstacle and my screen froze, forcing a reboot and a replay of a large chunk of 
 a mission. It's also no fun to be forced to find a checkpoint save station sequestered somewhere 
 in the level in order to save progress mid-mission. C'mon developers ! If the Bethesda 'Oblivion' 
 dev team could provide save-anywhere capacity (even on 360's without a hard drive attachment) , 
 surely you can do as much with a game with less content.
  
  - Camera issues. The main POV is over the shoulder of your Overlord (the only other POV is a quasi-isometric 
 zoom-out focused on the Overlord) . The left joystick controls both the camera and the movement 
 of your Overlord, so as a consequence, you have to move the Overlord to move the camera (the right 
 joystick is reserved exclusively for moving Minions) . As a consequence, there is a large blind 
 spot directly behind the Overlord. Too many times I had to send my Overlord off on 360  degree 
 runarounds in order to see who or what was chewing up my hapless Minions from my 'blind spot'.
 
  
  -Control issues. Selecting and ordering flavors of Minion in the heat of combat can be tricky, 
 involving manipulation of several buttons in close sequence. Too often you can wind up with lots 
 of dead Minions in a shockingly short time simply because you're otherwise preoccupied with pressing 
 buttons. There is a need for better AI, and less baby-sitting, on the part of the Minions.
  
  -Poor placement of Minion spawn pits and mana / health recharge altars, forcing the player 
 to do too much backtracking and level  wandering.
  
  -gameplay becomes more than a little repetitive after the first 10  12 hr. The dev team tries 
 to introduce some novelty by requiring the player to use minions to deliver bombs, bird or insect 
 eggs, or requiring the player to selectively use different types of minions in sequence in order 
 to reach otherwise unobtainable objectives. But these actions really don't free up the gameplay. 
 The absence of a save-anywhere function tends to deter the player from experimenting too much; 
 replaying big chunks of a level, with enemies respawned, is a drag
  
  -The final two Boss Battles (Khan and the Wizard) are an exercise in frustration due to the presence 
 of too many (constantly spawning) enemies and the lack of any mid-mission save function. All the 
 camera and control defects come into particular prominence here and cripple your ability to respond 
 effectively to being attacked by multiple enemies at once. The missions quickly devolve into joyless 
 repetition, where you fumble through the levels multiple times, with increasingly lengthy restarts, 
 until you figure out the exact sequence of maneuvers you are required to employ in order to defeat 
 the Bosses. Even more so than in the earlier segments of the game, improvisation on the part of 
 the player is doomed by restrictive level design.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Ah the villian, the one element of any film or video game that is garentied to be remembered for 
 it's their villians, be it Darth Vader in Star Wars, the Joker in Batman and the Dark Knight, or 
 Sauron in Lord of the Rings. However, it's very rare for a gamer to actually take on the role of 
 the bad guy, Overlord however is one of those games that allows you to play as the villian and 
 it does so in style.
  
  Overlord takes place in a nameless Tolken-Style Fantasy world, with the player assuming the role 
 of a namless Sauron esque character known only as the Overlord, who after being reserected by the 
 Minion Gnall is given command of a horde of Minions, with one goal: Conqure the world and kill 
 the Seven Heroes who had destroyed him. 
  
  Over all the game is extremely well executed, with one of it's best features being the in game 
 humor. Another feature that Overlord pulls of extremely well is it's graphics and controls. The 
 graphics engine in this game is extremely well put together, offering a wide variety of detail 
 and color. The controls are very responsive, however they can prove to be difficult to master. 
 
  
  Another feature Overlord does fairly well with is it's wide variety of enemies, ranging from bugs 
 to Demons, each of which provides a wide variety of challenges. However the best feature of the 
 game is the ability to chose to be just regular evil or super evil, which affects the outcome of 
 the game. 
  
  Like every game, Overlord is not perfect. One of the game's major flaws is that it's gameplay can 
 become repetitive over time. The other major flaw the game has is a lack of units and spells. Through 
 out the game, as the Overlord takes control of the world the player would expect to also be able 
 to draw units from the conquered kingdom's population, however the game limits you to your four 
 minion types (Red, Brown, Green, and Blue) . You are also very limited when it comes to spells, 
 while most RPG and RTS games set in fantasy worlds offer a wide variety of spells, drawn from the 
 four basic elements (Earth, Fire, Wind, and Water) which can be used for offensive or defensive 
 purproses. However Overlord limits you to offensive fire based magic only.
  
  Over all Overlord is one of the better titles on the Xbox 360, it's addictive and fun game play 
 makes this title a must have for fans of fantasy roleplaying and casual Xbox 360 gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XylonEvilPrince
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Alright so I saw this game on the shelf, and I saw that you had a choice..... to be evil, or be 
 REALLY evil. In this game you spend much of your time stealing from the rich and giving to.... yourself? 
 WTF? Oh wait you steal from the poor as well. but anyways this game is very entertaining. You are 
 the Overlord and your job is to rule over a small army of little gremlin-like creatures called 
 Minions. With them you pillage towns, kill the helpless, storm the halflings, kill the bosses and 
 of course, : ( solve the puzzles. I was enjoying casting death upon the village of Spree, stealing 
 women to be my maids, and of course destroying the beloved home of the elfs. When once again i 
 had that feeling of Deja-Vu. I quickly figured out why. A few years before i was very into the 
 game Pikmin. Overlord is much like Pikmin. the Minions = Pikmin, Overlord = Olimar, everyone else 
 = the bulborbs. Oh and right...... The Tower = Olimar's Ship. You use your minions to carry the 
 missing parts of your castle back to the castle. You use them to kill the people and enemies. You 
 command them. And on top of that you still move them around with the right joystick, and you still 
 call them back to you by pressing a button and sounding a call (in this case a battle horn, instead 
 of a whistle. thank Jebus!) and yes I said Jebus. Not Jesus. cause duuuh. I'm not religious. I'd 
 rather pimp-slap Bush than pray and that's a risk. (your hand will disintegrate and his alien guards 
 will slap you back so that he doesn't take the blame.) Anyways the time you don't spend pillaging 
 is the time you spend in the smelter and the dungeon. In the smelter you sacrifice your minions 
 into your weapon to add different attributes to it, and in the dungeon you waste time fighting 
 your past enemies. So taking all that into hand, I give this game a 10 out of 10. Simply because 
 I like being evil. If you don't like it then **** OFF!!!
  
  This is Phil, self-procalimed video game review. Add me as a friend for more of my reviews and 
 hilarious blogs. XylonEvilPrince. EVIL prince!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fightgarr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Overlord has something that most games nowadays have very little of, and that's a new concept. 
 Now the setting, races and overall progression of the game are very run-of-the-mill but it gets 
 innovative with its idea. The game is the opposite of every single western fantasy RPG. Its a sort 
 of 10 years after look at the baddie of your old game.
  In my case I nicknamed my hero/supervillain Mouldybottom. Now Mouldybottom had his ass handed to 
 him by a group of adventures which all follow gaming stereotypes (the unlikely halfling, the elf 
 god-wizard, the self-righteous paladin, the blood-mongering barbarian and the greedy *sshole thief) . 
 So Mouldybottom has come back to his old tower to find it broken to pieces and all his sh*t got 
 looted and minions are nowhere to be found. HYou have to find all the heroes now (in their 10 years 
 after state) and kill them while retrieving your crap and building up your empire again) .
  The game function like a really basic action RPG but with the addition of these retarded, alcoholic 
 goblin-monkeys called minions, who you control with a rather bad and slightly unintuitive system. 
 Those of you who like real strategy probably won't like this game (or maybe you just need to figure 
 it out and I'm f*cking retarded) .
  Anyway, you bring Mouldybottom around the fantasy stereotypes and can either go back to being a 
 complete *sshole or be kinda nice to everyone so they leave you alone. But you're a villain so 
 chances are you want to be a complete dick.
  I feel like the controls are definitely meant for a PC though, so altogether the game suffers from 
 console disorder and so doesn't live up to its true innovative potential. But on the other hand 
 its not a completely unoriginal game and makes good fun of fantasy stereotypes (like Fable) and 
 is a fun and different experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  Overlord is a very interesting game. It doesn't really fit into any one genre of game. It blends 
 a bit of RPG, strategy, adventure, & action all while trying to make you laugh at the same time. 
 Yes you get to be an evil tyrant, but the game is geared toward amusing you while you are slaughtering 
 helpless peasants. That may not sound like it makes much sense, but it all comes together in Overlord.
 
  
  The game isn't perfect, however. The visuals aren't that great, to be kind. There is lots of pop-up, 
 draw-in and the graphics have a serious lack-of-polish feel to them. The camera can be very irritating 
 at times, even though I didn't have as many problems with it as some reviews have stated. The A. I. 
 of your minions is usually quite good, but when it comes to avoiding water or fire, they seem to 
 have crap for brains. This is quite important since only one of your minion types can swim and 
 only one can deal with fire. It's annoying to have some of your minions die to stupidity on the 
 A. I.'s part. While the controls feel funky at first, you quickly get used to them due to the excellent 
 in-game tutorial. And the storyline isn't the most interesting in the world, but that didn't really 
 bother me since I was having so much fun causing chaos with my minions, capturing wenches, torturing 
 peasants, and courting an empress. There are so many fun things to do in this game that the problems 
 really don't get to be too much. 
  
  Most games that try to be the 'jack-of-all trades' usually fall flat on their face. Most of the 
 time it's wise to stick to one type of genre and go with it. But Overlord blends all of what I 
 mentioned before and the game not only doesn't stumble, but it succeeds where some others have 
 failed. The game certainly has it's problems, but I think it's a game that everyone should at least 
 try once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is an interesting game. It is an RPG where you take control of the Overlord, and evil 
 master of chaos who, starting out as a rookie, goes about the lands with a horde of minions, burning 
 and pillaging on a quest to rid the world of heros. You'll encounter a number of heros which are 
 essentially bosses, and in between there is plenty of killing, hobbit bashing and burning. 
  The controls are rather hard to get the hang of. Starting out you control your character, this 
 overlord, and a small horde of 5 minions. One joystick controls man, the other the minions. In 
 this case, it takes a while to get accustomed to sweeping your minions around the place as you 
 sit back and watch. Once you've got the hang of it, it is great fun. The minions are cheeky, cheery 
 and playful in an evil and sinister kind of way. They enjoy killing things, especially sheep and 
 villagers. Saying that makes the game sound incredibly horrible, however this is not the case. 
 The game is cartoony, quite charming and very funny. The worlds you explore vary from forests to 
 swamps and deserts and when controlling your minions and yourself through these lands you will 
 encounter different enemies and puzzles. As you progress through the game you will unlock new features 
 you can add to you castle, slowly building an enormous tower of darkness to which all peasants 
 will fear by the end of the game. You can customise your castle tower, buy and upgrade new weapons 
 and armour and do most of what you expect from the most basic of RPGs. You can't enter houses; 
 go into shops and such like. All that is left to the minions who plunder all, bringing you back 
 all the gold and goodies they can find. 
  The game is however quite confusing at times. With no map, its easy to get lost in a level, wandering 
 in circles looking for an objective. The combat is also very basic, restricted to the "X" button 
 alone. This is not such a problem though since most combat is done by your minions, of which you 
 have 4 different species, all special in different ways of fighting or healing. 
  The game does have multiplayer. In this, you are mainly stuck up against other players with their 
 minions and have to accomplish a number of tasks faster or better than the others. Some modes will 
 have you collecting gold and bringing it to base, while others will have you simply chasing each 
 other with hordes of minions. All the modes are fun, but quite hard. Its is entertaining flocking 
 your minions at an opponent and watching him sink into the ground as your minions clutter his body 
 with strikes. Not so much when it happens to you. 
  That is all there really is to this game. Its a good lark to play, being funny and silly. People 
 may have issues with the controls and lack of a helpful map or guide and also may be deterred by 
 its linearity. Other than that, its worth a playthrough once. The Download Content, Raising Hell 
 is also worth the money, being both fun and long. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  Well going into this there was a lot of hope and promises that they hype had to live up to. To 
 be honest it did. Normally I start with a joke but im just going to dive right in....... (No point 
 intended) 
  
  From the start the game introduces you to a lucious world with beautiful color and animation. The 
 story captures you and throws you spiraling into a world of eeevvviiillll!. You play as a demon 
 lord whom is betrayed and must rebuild your kingdom and empire of eeevvviiiiilllll!. okay ill stop 
 doing that. 
  
  As you progress you learn that you truly are the boss as you spend as little time as possible getting 
 your own hands dirty. Why bother when you have an army of minions at your disposal. The comic relief 
 from the minions to the seriousness of the battles sheds light onto this beautiful title. 
  
  The story is looping and allows you to pretty much be good or evil, however it is much more 
 fun to just kill everyone and burn downt the villages, but if your a jedi knight and not a sith 
 lord then you can play as that as well. The game will take between 8 to 12 hours to beat depending 
 on how quick you pick up on the little puzzles.
  
  The game is definitely worth adding to your collecion and it will be a good addition to any repitua 
 of evil based gaming. Thankyou overlord for fulfilling my lust for evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  Long ago, in a peaceful land emerged a dark force of Minions leading by a greedy, vicious Overlord. 
 His conquest left scars in the whole kingdom and bedevil its people. 7 heroes of different race: 
 Human, Hafling, Dwarf and Elf decided to join force and swept out the dark government. Time elapses 
 until the day you, an anonymous person, are revived by the remaining Minions right on the remains 
 of what used to be the former Overlord's tower. And then, fate has decided that you are the new 
 Overlord with the termless allegiance of the Minions, on the long quest of regaining power.
  
  with such a story line, it is not hard to recognize the motif used in Dungeon Keeper in which 
 the main character is inclined to be a villain. You can give command to attack the gardens, the 
 grain fields, the sheep herds ..., watching the evil pleasure of your Minions. However, in some 
 episodes, game offers the 2 options to solve the quest: good or evil. It's good to see Overlord 
 does not only deal in the absolute, but allow players to join in as a factor of the story. For 
 example, after recover the food stock of the village robbed by Melvin, you can keep it for yourself 
 or return it to villagers. Of course, your actions will alter your reputation and the sequent events 
 in the story, leading to different awards at the end of the game. Anyway, the main objective is 
 still rebuilding the empire and revenge your predecessor. It is a relief to know that the 7 heroes 
 have already been corrupted by their own power and become the things they used to stand against, 
 so what you have to kill is also some villains.
  
  What really brings vitality and attractiveness to Overlord is its units: the Minions. There are 
 four types of them. Brown Minions is basic melee units that equip themselves with all types of 
 weapons and armours to increase power, they are critical in battles. Red Minions have fire globe 
 attacks from distance, fire immunity and can remove burning obstacles. With their ability to become 
 invisible and immunity to all types of poison, Green Minions specialize in assassination, stealthy 
 attack, and removing poisonous obstacles. And finally, Blue Minions are not only medics on battlefield, 
 they are also immune to magic, able to move under water, but vulnerable to physical attacks. With 
 such a force, you can solve every quest from attacking, making way to escorting treasures to your 
 lair. With enough treasure, you can restore the tower to its original beauty. Starting with a modest 
 force of 5 Brown Minions, later the Overlord can control up to 50 units of all 4 types. Anyone 
 having played Pikmin series will certainly feels familiar with this.
  
  Your Minions are not only useful but also very good-looking with active, queer appearance. Command 
 them to attack a party, they will soon gulp down the wine and make a fuss while drunken; in another 
 case, they can make quite a mess out of a pumpkin field while running out in all direction... Controlling 
 your troops is easy, thanks to the proper arrangement of functions on X360 gamepad. Although game 
 contains both RPG and strategy factors, the second seems to be dominant when you usually stay behind 
 to give commands and rarely take part in the fight. Even when you do, your attacks are not quite 
 powerful, so it's better to stay out and use supportive magics to aid your troops. Normal groups 
 of soldiers can hardly challenge you but some special opponents require you to have proper strategy 
 if you want to save your force. Another strong point of Overlord is the AI of the Minions. After 
 defeating enemies they can automatically equip themselves with weapons and armours left to become 
 stronger. Soon you will find all kind of junk in corps.
  
  Graphics of Overlord can easily satisfy most players. Both the main character and his units looks 
 lively, active and hilarious. Imagine 50 units of Minions, each with its own outfits and weapons, 
 could make such a scene. The frame rate is still stable even in the most intense fight with over 
 1 hundred of units. The surroundings is also designed in detail: the yellow stretching wheat fields, 
 the immense swamps, the castle flooded in fire... But sound part is even better than graphics. 
 Although the background track is not too good, sound effects are plenty and vivid, and the standout 
 is the voice play that is perfectly fit to personality: the emotional narrative voice by Gnarl, 
 a normal villager, the rasping voice of the Minion Jesper, always use the most florid words whenever 
 you return to the tower... With slightly different endings depending on your choices through the 
 game, Overlord really stimulates you replaying. And if the single player mode is not enough, you 
 can try Co-Op Survival and Versus mode through XBox live.
  
  However, there are still some flaws that may spoil the joyful moment with Overlord. Despite the 
 complicated and large environment in the campaign, Overlord does not offer any piece of maps, making 
 players easily to lose direction, especially in some corners of a big building. It also neglect 
 the need for direction in quests, leaving the players alone after assign some duties. Puzzles are 
 generally simple. As for the camera, there are still some trouble when opponents suddenly attack 
 because you can not have a comprehensive view of your squad. Besides, game automatically saves 
 whenever you move to a new area or return to your tower, wasting a lot of time. Perhaps, this should 
 be replaced with a more flexible check point system. Some bugs exist, like a dead character is 
 still there when you return to the area, or sometimes a Minion disappears with no reason.
  
  So as I have covered, Overlord succeeds in building an interesting game play based on the villain 
 motif. It could probably conquer the most fastidious gamer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: holy_terr0r
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is a great game, no doubt about it. There is lots to do, the storyline is fun and goofy, 
 and you'll want to know what happens next, which definitely keeps you playing.
  Overlord's combat system is very fun to play around with, as, not only you, but your army of minions 
 can inflict big damage on enemies. You can use special abilities, like fire bolts, or giving your 
 minions a fury rush, as they tear up everything in their way. It's also fun to watch your minions 
 in action, as they jump all over the enemy you sent them to kill. Overlord definitely brings a 
 new fun type of combat to consoles. Flawless combat system, as well as the graphics and glitches, 
 I have come by a single glitch in overlord.
  The only flaw to Overlord is the map. There's a lot of quests to do, and places to explore, but 
 there's no map! so, you have to wander around aimlessly until by fluke you run into your objective. 
 
  Another great thing they added to Overlord is the evil/good system. depending on your actions, 
 people will be terrified of you and bow to your evil supremeness, or they will think of you as 
 a god for you good deeds. It's all up to you to decide how you want the game to play out. two thumbs 
 up for overlord. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirf
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  i saw this game on sale somewhere and thought it might be a spot of fun, turned out to be much 
 more. the game begins in a dungeon with overgrown flora and fauna everywhere, this area was suprisingly 
 extremely lush, and as i kept progressing through the game i realised what amazing sound, lighting, 
 and other visual effects it has.
  
  the game is very original with its story and type of gameplay, its a sort of action rpg cross a 
 strategy game which really works, you control these minions which are like darklings from the darkness 
 but less, dark, well any way they are your main way of attacking something and they are very usefull, 
 you can upgrade them as you can yourself by finding weapons and armour throughout the world which 
 your minions can use. there are four types of minions, each with its own abilities and weaknesses, 
 which is where the strategy comes in and you have to think about which minions you will use or 
 if you will use a mixture of them.
  
  what is also original is that you are evil, and only capable of being evil, your level of evilness 
 though, can be distorted. your main goal in this game is to rebuild your fortress and seek revenge 
 on those who have wronged you, which is dumb but fun.
  
  overall this is a must buy but its not perfect thus me giving it a 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 14, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Overlord is a nice fresh relief. Theres not much on the market like it, and anything in the same 
 criteria hasn't been done quite as well as this. 
  
  THE GRAPHICS are beautiful. The fantasy world is beautiful in every aspect, with its lush and vibrant 
 colors, to its darkest corners of your evil tower. It all looks great. The character models look 
 good, but not as good as the environment. However, with the fantasy look of the world around you, 
 they look to be in place.
  
  THE STORY is not really much. All I can say is that you are an evil king that was ressurected by 
 your trusty minions and now it is time to rebuild your kingdom. You will need to put people in 
 their place, and teach the so-called heroes of the world who's in charge.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is of course the game's greatest aspect. Like I said, you are a resuurected king, 
 an Overlord, that controls hordes of minions to do your bidding. During the game while traversing 
 the beautfiul landscape you will help villages with their problems or destroy them. If you want 
 to be straight evil, you can do so by murdering any village you come across. You can have your 
 minions pillage and slaughter, or you can beat the hell outta them yourself with some trusty hack 
 n slash moves. The main objective here is to find all the pieces of your torn kingdom and rebuild 
 it, and along the way claim more and more loyal minions to help you. Using them is the best part. 
 You can just send them forth to do as they please (destruction of course) or you can control them 
 with the right analog stick. Either way it works extremely well. Add in the fact that you can conquer 
 the world with a buddy and you got yourself a great piece of work. The only real flaw here lies 
 with that I would've liked to have more control over the game's camera, and the game gets just 
 a tad repetative after a little while. But all in all, that shouldn't be too much of an issue. 
 
  
  THE SOUND is fantastic. The music fits this fantasy world perfectly, and the voiceovers of the 
 minions are hilarious. 
  
  OVERALL Overlord is overlooked by too many. So much so that the game already dropped down to $19.99. 
 Its a fun as hell game, and a fresh new face. Definately worth your time, and now that its only 
 $19.99, there is no reason not to give this game a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grotlan2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 1:18 am PT
Review:  this highly addictive and very cute game has moments of humour when your little companion will 
 say something off the cuff and then your minions will say a wide variety of quick puns as they 
 roam around the map and the very involving game-play has just the right amount of strategy and 
 there is very few times when you can get completely lost or just need a bit of a hand. there as\re 
 times when the game gets very frustrating as the game just starts to get interesting the randomness 
 of direction that you can take can become very annoying but once the 4 types of minions have been 
 found the game becomes far easier. As the minion proceed to collect their armour and weapons, the 
 wide variety of looks that they become can be quite funny and when some enemies kill/eat/hurt then 
 it can break your heart to watch your favourite or even most armoured be killed and if you haven't 
 got the ability to use a blue or no blues minions there then all you can do is watch as the life 
 force drifts away, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of these games that make you want to play over and over becouse of its amazing 
 aspects to the game. The thing I like about this game is the fack that you can control little goblins 
 so that you can terrorize other peoples areas, and destroy property of everybodys house.
  The game is very fun except for a few minor glitches that can get in the way when you are in the 
 middle of a boss fight or what not.
  If you are a fan of these types of games go out and buy it, but if you are not, then dont bother 
 to buy this game, it is a fun game, except it can get old after awhile, I rented it, and I am glad 
 I did. i know I am bashing it more than loving it, the story, the graphics, and the controls are 
 very good, so if you want to go out and buy this game, go out, because I am not gonna stop you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bush66
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is a game based more off of style than difficult game play, but its interesting story 
 line is able to make you want to play more. Basically it is an evil version of Pikman, so you control 
 four different kinds of minions. The minions are what make this game so interesting, because their 
 unending enthusiasm for killing sheep or bringing you treasure is very enjoyable to watch. However, 
 sometimes they are sort of difficult to keep track of. Like when you send them chasing after townspeople 
 and a couple of them go randomly missing, or when you are trying to get them to stay in one spot 
 and one decides to follow you into the water and drown. But this is a minor detail since you typically 
 end up with enough replacement minions that this is a minor death. The combat in this game is mainly 
 hack n' slash and no very hard, but it is still fun even after hours of playing it. One thing that 
 I dislike in this game is the complete lack of control over the camera. It is pretty annoying when 
 you are surrounded by enemies and you can't turn the camera around to see who your hitting. Besides 
 this Overlord is tons of fun and has a very sense of humor to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 29, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Hey GS
  
  Overlord is a in a very long drawn out named way a: Hack n' Slash RPG real time strategy game... with 
 some evil stuff thrown in for kicks. And, the game is exactly what it says on the tin... metaphorically 
 speaking of course... there is no tin encase your wondering...
  
  Now, unfortunately, the worst thing happened when i played this game, it made me turn it off to 
 play a better, yet similar game. You will come to understand why in this review.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Overlords graphics are very nice, detailed and slightly cartoonist. In fact, it 
 looks a lot like Fable, which all gamers who like RPG's must have played at some point. If not, 
 its basically funny graphics and animations that have surprising amounts of detail. 
  
  SOUND
  
  This games strong point is definatly its humor. Every few words is a insult of something, 
 like roughly quoted: Sheep... bleh i hate those wretched things, i think they were meant for killing, 
 go slaughter them. Ok, it may not sound funny but it is in a sick maniacal way.. and if your playing 
 overlord, you MUST have an evil side. The voice acting is good on everything but the things that 
 arent main characters... in other words... most things are just repeated over, and over, and over 
 again. Very tiresome. The sound effects are ok, and the music is forgettable. 
  
  CONTROLS
  
  The controls are good enough for most of the game, however, they can get a tad 
 unwieldy in some scenarios where you have to command all your minions (4 types) with perfect timing 
 to kill a boss, whilst getting attacked by minor enemies... who have constant respawn. This makes 
 playing the game more of a chore in some areas than anything else. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The game lasts between 10-20 hours, which is a good length for a game as... shallow as this. Basically 
 you are a Overlord (i know... who could have guessed) who controls minions (like most overlords) 
 and your goal is to rebuild your dark domain and enslave all of man kind (which is the reason for 
 an overlords existence any way) . You also get to choose how you complete your objectives, in a 
 an EVIL way, or a ULTRA EVIL WAY! otherwise known as a Corrupted way. This adds a bit of replay 
 value. By doing some exploring you find hidden items that increase health, magic, minion count 
 and spells. These all make you stronger but are rather tedious to collect as it can take AGES for 
 your minions to carry back. This does however add a RPG side to the game making it a bit less shallow, 
 but over all, a bit more pointless. Like all GOOD RPG's you can get new Armour and weapons. This 
 costs a lot of money and for decent items even costs you your minions lives. Considering all the 
 armours look nearly identical, and most weapons suck in the game, it makes this rather pointless 
 as well. One of the good points however is how you can customize your dark tower... unfortunately 
 this is then turned into a bad point as your towers only ever come out with one look, and just 
 gives the impression you can personalizes it. The worst point though, is the fact playing it made 
 me want to load up Pikmin 2. Which is better in every way. 
  
  OVERALL
  
  Overlord is not a BAD game... its just not a very GOOD game by my standards and i would recommend 
 it to those who want a game where you can be evil just cause you want to be. HOWEVER! Pikmin2 is 
 the game to buy... (if you can find it...) .
  
  4/10
  
  P. S. Id like to put down how I Score games (this is important if you want to understand why my 
 score is so 'low':
  1 - Utter rubbish
  2 - Utter rubbish
  3 - rubbish
  4 - average
  5 - Good
  6 - Pretty good
  7 - Great
  8 - Greater than 7
  9 - Awesome
  10 - so great 
 ill never review a game thats this good... period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is a fun game that puts you in charge of a character called the Overlord who controls 
 little warriors called minions. You have the option of playing a good or an evil character. Whether 
 you slaughter the peasants or help them is up to you. Most things you kill give you life force 
 which is used to summon minions. The minions are controlled by pointing and pulling the right & 
 left trigger or using the control stick to move them where you want them to go. You start with 
 only fighting minions then you'll acquire minions that throw fire, a group that heals and another 
 set for ambushing. The controls are pretty solid and the minions do a good job of performing your 
 commands. They happily destroy everything in their paths. There's stuff to destroy at almost every 
 corner. The game contains several puzzles where you'll need to guide your minions on specific paths 
 to open a door or grab an object to lure an enemy to an ambush. There are many ways to play. You 
 can attack with your overlord or send a horde to attack enemies or you can plan ahead and use the 
 environments for ambushes. Using strategy is to your advantage unless you want to lose a lot of 
 minions. 
  
  This is a great twist to a hack n slash game. The minions are entertaining and fun to control. 
 The puzzles aren't overbearing and the free roam environments are fun to go through. The environments 
 are well done and it doesn't feel linear as you go through the quest. The only issues I found are 
 that the camera angle is always behind you so you can get blinded at times and when there are a 
 lot of enemies on the screen its hard to target a specific enemy or item. All in all this is a 
 fun humorous game. 
  
  Good 
  25+ hours per play through
  Minions are fun to control
  Multiple ways to play 
  
  Bad
  Some farming of life force required to get upgrades for weapons 
 and armor
  Camera angles can blind you at times
  Hard to select specific targets when multiple items on screen
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  You are the new overlord out to reclaim your kingdom and destroy the six heroes who have destroyed 
 your tower. You will not be in your quest alone, you'll learn magic and have the aid of your loyal 
 minions who will gladly put their lives on the line for you. The choice shall be yours, will you 
 heal the land and be a loved ruler or a black hearted overlord who'd kill and destroy anything 
 in his path?
  
  I've had this game ever since it's been out but when I was about to make my review for it, I heard 
 of a expansion with more quests. So I thought it would be best to wait. The world of Overlord is 
 a amazing and beautiful world, filled with lots of places to explore and creatures to kill. Your 
 Overlord will have to make some tough choices along the way which will effect your tower and your 
 appearance . The more good you do, your armor will look like a hero knight of some kind. If you 
 chose to be evil, you'll get armor similar to Sauron from the Lord of the Rings films. You'll come 
 face to face with many fantasy creatures like Hobbits (half lings) , Trolls, Elves , Dwarfs and 
 Unicorns just to name a few. Overlord is all about your minion horde, no matter how powerful you 
 will get, you will die without your minions! Minions equal strength and power. One of the best 
 charms about Overlord is it's humor. It's just too funny and will keep you wondering what Gnarl 
 will say next. The controls will be a hard at first since the right stick controls your minions 
 and not the camera, you'll get the hang of it in less than five mins.
  
  The music is very fair tale / fantasy depending on where you are. If your a fan of fable, you will 
 have a great time with Overlord. Along the way you'll get up grades for your weapons, magic and 
 armor to making the later stages easier. You'll even get a chance to custom your tower to fit the 
 type of Overlord you are. Now for the Expansions, Raising Hell adds five new worlds to Overlord 
 if you already beaten the game. To get it, just re-load your finished game and kill the final boss 
 once more, after the normal ending it'll start you back in your tower and you'll be ready for the 
 new quests. If you haven't beaten the game , I think they will open up once you beat a hero, but 
 I not for sure. These new worlds are like personal Hells for the fallen heroes, with trickier puzzles 
 than found in the normal game. You might have to stop and think for a few mins but nothing that 
 should be to hard. The new worlds are nicely done, but I found the lack of music a little disappointing. 
 Was it worth it? You bet, a new story to play through along with brand new enemies, challenges 
 in the tower and ending. Is there a down side to this? Sadly yes, it is short, took me about six 
 hours to beat the expansion. Could have been a little longer but this does help with the wait for 
 Fable 2 or any news of the next Overlord game.
  
  The other expansion adds a Legendary mode for single player along with more pillaging/slaughter 
 modes for co op. Is this worth it? Only if your a die hard fan of the game. I'm not even to the 
 first boss, it's that hard! The easiest enemies of the game (Hobbits) will kill you in just packs 
 of two. Yeah, just packs of two, so stock up on minions early!. The new multi player maps are nice 
 but only if you can find someone else to play with. So would I recommend this expansion? Only if 
 you must have those new Achievements or up to the challenge of Legendary mode.
  
  All in all, Overlord is a funny and great game that should not be passed up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thibbledorfP
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2008 3:05 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game. Games that do something different, and that focus on delivering 
 pure joy as this game does, garner my appreciation. The statement that it has similarities to the 
 great Dungeon Keeper series also piqued my interest. It is a good game, but the gameplay is not 
 as enjoyable as it should be.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics are creative and well-designed. Technically they are proficient, but not great. There 
 are well designed animations such as when your minions smash open chests and pumpkins, and use 
 miscellaneous objects to protect themselves. The landscapes you explore are colourful and bright, 
 and it is obvious the game does not take itself too seriously. 
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound is really very good, with no significant flaws. Interesting music, good fx... the only 
 flaw is that jester minion who constantly shouts titles at you during your stay in your keep. But 
 then again, he does serve the purpose of acknowledging the choices and achievements you have made 
 in the game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  You play the role of the evil Overlord, the master of the goblin-like minions. You have been raised 
 from death by your minions, and your fearsome anti-hero or villain rises and rebuilds his keep 
 over time. Peasants and sheep beware! Your character controls minions, they can be moved using 
 the control stick, and given orders. They can be used to move wheels, moved to attack enemies, 
 or just smash objects open to arm themselves. Your minion can also launch his own attacks and spells. 
 Over time you gain access to more types of minions, and more spells. With the different kinds of 
 minions including fighter minions, fire throwing minions and thief minions, there is a solid albeit 
 basic, strategy involved in fighting the enemies. Interestingly, the enemies are all reversed fantasy 
 archetypes, and the approach they took to the game is really quite funny. The combat can be fun, 
 but most of the time it falls quite flat. It is just too simple, and there is no real strategy. 
 Controlling the minions is time-consuming, especially the stand-ground option. To compensate, battles 
 are very simple. Enemies rush or attack from a distance, and you send minions in. There are different 
 strategies that work best for different minions, but it is more a matter of memorization than strategy. 
 
  
  There is a clever roleplaying aspect, where you can choose whether your Overlord is truly evil 
 or merely greedy and power-hungry. Quests can be solved in different ways, and peasants will react 
 to you differently in regards to this. However, there are no dialogue choices or complex quests 
 and exploration. Variety is the name of this game, as there are many different things to be done 
 while you aim to turn the land into a place of despair. You may improve your keep, court a wicked 
 mistress, and forge weapons and armour. One main failing is that the game has many features, but 
 the underlying combat system is very simple. Controlling four types of minions is just too much 
 of a hassle with a real-time console game. The ability to lock minions into formations may have 
 helped. In any case, the control scheme and level design were lacking in challenge or strategy. 
 Rent it first, if you enjoy the combat system, then it is worth a buy. One thing that is not lacking 
 was the charm, the hilarious dialogue and the many well-implemented features. There is true replayability, 
 as long as you can stand the main core of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The concept of a medieval warrior roaming about & conquering people is not an original concept 
 but through in a horde of little goblins or 'minions' who are prepared to do his bidding in order 
 to create a glorious evil empire & you have something very different indeed. The control of these 
 minions is neither unique or complex but it is really good fun. The missions are challenging so 
 as to make sure you employ strategy in the deployment of your minions but not so that you have 
 to fret about this at every twist & turn. Yes there are some minor issues mostly with camera angles 
 & parts of the game are to ambitious for what it wants to achieve but the are nothing more than 
 minor annoyances that you encounter from time to time. However one big problem would be the repetitiveness 
 of the game. yes you are placed in varying surroundings & multiple different scenarios but after 
 a while you do realise that you are just sending minions to do this & then do that time & time 
 again. The game also has a comic element to both visually & in its demeanor - but a stumbling block 
 of which is that it simply tries to hard to be funny trotting out jokes which are pretty obvious 
 & on occasion a bit childish. Visually pleasing with bright colours but it is textured beautifully 
 as well, interaction with other characters is none existent almost but they do make for rather 
 interesting side notes. All in all a really good play & it does not get as much credit as it deserves, 
 genuine fun coupled with pleasing visuals and plain originality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: takaetun
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Renting, thy name is Overlord. When first picked up, this game seems like a gem. A chance to unleash 
 my inner evil and rampage across a verdant land, hordes of fanged monstrosities at my command? 
 Do you even need to ask? When you first get it to your Xbox, the illusion still holds. Waking up 
 from a deep slumber, your silent protaganist discovers that he is the evil Overlord, the rightful 
 successor to a Dark Tower and realm of evil. Five minutes later, and you're gallivanting across 
 the country side slaying Halflings and retrieving relics. Truly, at the beginning, this game looks 
 like a piece of alright.
  
  Then the problems start.
  
  In the beginning, you control a limited number of Minions, the small demon like creatures that 
 are so fun when terrorising the neighbourhood, and it takes some vague sense of tactical nuance 
 to avoid being flattened by gibbering obese Halflings, but when you start upgrading your armour 
 and returning lost relics to your tower, many of which increase the number of Minions you control, 
 it becomes almost insultingly easy. For a large chunk of the game, you may not even need to use 
 your Overlord at all. And if you do, you have to be very careful not to accidentally belt one of 
 your Minions in the ruckus - or set them on fire with a poorly aimed Fireball spell. 
  
  Whilst Overlord's controls handle more than well enough to send your Minions about painting the 
 town red with the blood of the innocent, unfortunately there isn't a "call back Minions because 
 they've decided to become stuck behind a haystack" button  although there is a "call back every 
 minion not lost in a paddock" button. When you've lost five or six Minions for the fifth time in 
 a row, this oversight starts to get very annoying.
  
  Foresight isn't the only problem that seems to be afflicting Overlord, however. After retrieving 
 a few slaves for my Dark Tower, I decided to have a little chat to them. All ten of them. With 
 three responses they repeated ad infinitum. After only a minute or so of this parrot like behaviour, 
 I started to regret not using them to stoke my smeltery. The same problem plague the Minions and 
 other townsfolk as well. In the end, I began using my creatures to kill everyone around, just to 
 shut them up.
  
  Insultingly easy difficulty, lack of ability to use your character in combat, irritating Minions 
 and repetitive phraseology aside, however, there is one glaring flaw which takes Overlord away 
 from the realm of annoying and into the barren land of "broken".
  
  Imagine, if you will: Oblivion, where the only quest you got was "Defeat Mehrunes Dagon." Who is 
 this strangely named creature? You aren't told.
  
  Or a Knights of the Old Republic where your mission is "Stop the Star Forge", right from the word 
 go. Spend a lot of time looking for what the hell this was online, wouldn't you?
  
  Mass Effect: "Save the Galaxy."
  
  World of Warcraft: "Defeat Illidan."
  
  Overlord: "Find 
 the Red/Green/Blue Minions." "Get into Heaven's Gate." "Find a Mistress for your Tower."
  
  The game abandons you just as it begins to get interesting. There isn't even a map in-game to help 
 you on your way. There is one packaged with the 360 version of the game but it would've been more 
 useful if it had just told me what order the quests were supposed to be completed in. This doesn't 
 sound to bad at first, but when you spend half an hour trying to get at the Blue Minions' "nest", 
 but can't because of some strange green mist, and then have to go online to discover you need the 
 GREEN Minions to get the BLUE Minions  but the only way you can find to get the Green Minions 
 requires Blue Minions to get across a stream of water Well, you get the idea. This is a badly, 
 badly broken mechanic  or lack thereof.
  
  On the plus side, however, the game looks and sounds great  at least when it isn't talking. The 
 landscapes and characters are crisp and well drawn within their slightly caricaturesque style, 
 and the soundtrack is relaxing and melodramatic when it needs to be. When not parroting themselves 
 repeatedly, the characters are amusing and well thought out, and the smelting, allowing you to 
 upgrade or forge your own items, dungeon, allowing you to battle creatures you've already defeated 
 once for precious 'life force' and the Tower upgrade mechanics all work well, and are actually 
 enjoyable. The plot twist at the end is interesting, and each of the bosses you face are well rounded 
 (literally, in one case) and serve as little parables of how easy it is for a Hero to slip into 
 the 'evil' espoused in the game.
  
  Unfortunately, however, constant irritations began to take their toll, and, again, the lack of 
 any form of 'tell you what to do' system is truly, truly game breaking. Rent this game, but stay 
 far, far away from it in any store.
  
  Although, slaughtering sheep with Minions was possibly the most therapeutic thing included in any 
 game to date.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smashfanatic
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  now, this was my first game for that console but that doesnt mean i dont know what the 360 is like. 
 i played demos that were better than this. granted, it does have that certain kill for no reason 
 element you want in every gfame, but if you take 1 wrong turn you have to go back to the beggining 
 of the game. now if you unlock dungeon mode thats kinda fun but it doesnt let you get very many 
 minions and quite francly its stupid. nowif you just pklay adventure til the dungeon is open, fine. 
 but thats the only good thing about that game. oh, but if your an xbox live freak, unlike me. BUY 
 THIS GAME. xbox live multiplayer is awsome but once again if thats all you do. overall for the 
 average player, SUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUcks. now excuse me while i type random letters, thanks for 
 reading.
  
  hnfjhndshfvdhbskjvhkjld hvdsxhefwehldfc hjdhfeshfwldoes hcfheiofehf hcjdashfdsjhgv hndhfws 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite a bit of fun considering it had little to no hype. That being said, I couldn't 
 rate it very high without lying to myself about parts of the game clearly take from others. The 
 game play is taken right out of Pikmin, but I personally find it to be more enjoyable than Pikmin, 
 just as other will like Pikmin more than this. In my opinion the controls are more streamlined 
 and easier to use than those from Pikmin, making the game a whole lot more enjoyable. As for the 
 visuals and Audio, it all looks and sounds like it was ripped right from Fable for the original 
 Xbox. Although the graphics are a bit shinier than those of Fable's, with a stronger frame rate. 
 The twist to this game that I find refreshing is that you're evil, you can't choose sides between 
 good and evil, you're just plain evil. The goblins that do your bidding are fantastic, and its 
 fun just to watch them run through a town destroying everything in sight, then bringing you treasure 
 and exclaiming "For you! My lord!". The humor is off and on, sometimes I found it to be pretty 
 funny, and at other times I was wondering if it was written by toddlers. Overall I would say at 
 least give the game a try, you may have an enjoyable time with it. Just don't expect anything truly 
 innovative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 30, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  With games like Overlord, being critical is utterly pointless. No doubt, if you've spent the money 
 and feel the need to rip into a game that was so close to doing everything right, knock yourself 
 out. In the mean time, try not to miss out on a solid adventure game that takes place in a wonderfully 
 comedic fantasy world that offers hours of delightful entertainment.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  When starting up, the first thing that really jumps out is the major similarities to other games 
 that Overlord makes no effort to hide. That could be a turn off to some, but as you continue to 
 explore the various caverns and landscapes you quickly realize what helps seperate this game from 
 others. Destruction! Nothing highlights a fantasy world better than a little scanvenger hunting. 
 With Overlord, you have the joy of not only wiggling into numerous hidden areas but you can also 
 bust into homes, pillage entire villages, solve minor environment puzzles, and slaughter one of 
 the many colorful creatures for life force. With this precious stuff, you aquire the ability to 
 summon 4 types of small minions who have various talents. One of their best being the unspoken 
 willingness to do your bidding. Depending on your play style, you can easily destroy everything 
 in sight by mashing the attack button to perfom simple combos or utilize magic. Not extremely deep, 
 but good enough to get the job done. To add some flavor, you can forge and upgrade new weapons 
 within your sanctuary or simply allow the minions to earn their keep. Controlling the little monsters 
 is surprisingly easy, and even with minor gripes about how the camera acts up from time to time, 
 minion Ai is pretty smart!
  
  VISUALS
  Reffering back to similarities, Overlord at first glance looks just like anyother 3rd person adventure 
 game surrounded by lively environments and characters. For gamers who experienced their fair share 
 of these vibrant worlds, don't expect to see much else here. The art style and animation is a saving 
 grace for Overlord, but due to occasional hiccups in graphics and characters blipping from one 
 place to another, the line of displeasure becomes somewhat blurred. Besides nit-picking, level 
 design is pretty straight forward which is like a double edged sword. Some areas are dark, which 
 sets a nice gloomy tone for some locations while others are really bright allowing you see everything 
 from foreground to background, flaws included.
  
  AUDIO
  It may seem like a silly thing to expect from modern adventure games, but actual spoken dialogue 
 between characters really helps hold the fantasy together. Voice work ranging from your advisor; 
 a elder minion who instructs you on where to go and what to do, all the way to peasant's and bosses 
 all help the cast flourish. A majority of it is cheesy to say the least, but enjoyable none the 
 less. While exploring the various outdoor and indoor locations, you hear a decent plethora of sounds 
 like minions ripping through homes, battle clashes of weapons and magic, and tons of ambient jargin 
 from surrounding characters. With quiet and unintrusive music to top it all off, everything gels 
 together very well making for hours of good times.
  
  EXTRAS
  Having a decent single player experience to enjoy is a must for any adventure game, yet Overlord 
 really pushes the bill by offering online gaming. Its not the most revolutionary bit of the genre, 
 but it does serve as a nice distraction for anyone who enjoys the game a great deal. While connected, 
 you have competitive modes such as Slaughter, Pillage and Survivor which pit you against another 
 or you can team up in co-op. Like the regular game, these modes basically mock what you do in single 
 player and tallies scores. The few achievements available are some what easy, but finding another 
 player online may be the complete opposite. If you prefer the lone wolf approach, rest assured 
 you can scoop up half the points and achievements simply playing throughly the first time out. 
 Some task require a little extra effort like defeating all foes in a arena setting, finding all 
 castle collectibles, fully upgrading gear, and pimping out your minions.
  
  OVERALL
  Overlord is the perfect game for the 360 in my opinion, simply because it takes what others of 
 the various genre's have done and niched its own groove. With a decent single player game that 
 offers a healthy amount of exploration and discovery, plus conceivable and fun acheivements with 
 online gameplay, Overlord is alone until others take notice. Codemasters and Triumph Studios may 
 have hit the hammer on the nail with a solid game, but sadly, not enough noise was made to show 
 the 360 is a machine capable of variety. Hopefully, future endeavors by other developers show signs 
 of progress, because the adventure genre is in desperate need of spotlight. If you can rent this 
 game for a weekend or even pick it up for 20 bucks, look forward to an enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoqGor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  Overlord is a game that takes the fantasy genre in good humour. It has obvious influences, the 
 evil Overlord rebuilding his tower... Baradur much? It has some really great ideas, and for the 
 most part they work, but I still have a few issues with it.
  I assume you know the basic setup, but for those who havn't read anything on it you are the Overlord. 
 You must go out into what at first seems a generic fantasy kingdom and assert your will upon the 
 people. Joining you in this endeavour are your loyal minions. These little guys bring in the RTS 
 element (there are four types with various abilities, but I'll talk more on this later) . 
  I'll start with the bad, just to get it out the way. My one problem was that, although the game 
 is fun, I felt as though I'd been playing for less time than I had. Yes, I know, usually I'd say 
 that a game that pulls you in is good, but the problem is I play it for say, an hour, and in that 
 time I feel as though I've achieved very little. It's slightly disillusioning, but it doesn't get 
 in the way to much (it's more of a personal gripe really) . I suppose if you want to compare it 
 to other games it isn't the prettiest on the market, but I don't really want a game that looks 
 real when I'm being tracked by demonic minions and hunting halflings. What I'm trying to say is 
 it has enough charm in it's visuals, and anyway, anyone that buys a game for visuals over gameplay 
 (or story) is stupid. I suppose the storyline is a little slim to. In fact, knowing your the Overlord 
 is probably enough, and you won't mind to much that it lacks any epic flavour.
  No then, onto the good. The minions are the real stars of Overlord, and as I mentioned they come 
 in four varieties (suitably coloured as the four buttons on the 360 controller) . Browns are what 
 you start with, and they are your fighters. Reds are ranged, hurling fire but they can also put 
 out flames so you can pass. Greens are stealthy assassins who can survive toxic fumes and Blues 
 are spell casters who can swim and ressurect dead minions. It should be clear already that this 
 provides enough strategic option that you must customize your horde for certain occasions, and 
 the puzzles in the game take full advantage of the various abilities of your minions. Aside from 
 their abilities you can command your minions with the right stick, and that is where you will fall 
 in love with them. Using the stick, you can command them to loot everything from barrels to houses, 
 and when they return to you wide eyed with bags of gold they look like little demonic children 
 wishing to gain a parent's approval. They can also equip weapons and armour they find, making themselves 
 more effective (even if it happens to be a pumpkin or rat which they will joyfully wear as a helmet) .
 
  As Overlord you can also deal out some damage, having various spells and weapons to choose from 
 (and customize to an extent in the forge) . The controls take some getting used to, but once you 
 get the hang of it you'll be fine. There are some moral choices in the game, which ultimately determine 
 how evil you are, and the multiplayer is pretty fun for what it is (usually some form of survival) .
 
  So all in all Overlord is worth a look. Rent it first if your not sure, but you may find yourself 
 losing sleep thanks to the promise of shinies.
  
  Good:
  Charming characters
  Surprisingly deep gameplay
  Good length
  Funny
  Easy to learn
  Fun (I know thats a shocking 
 idea now gaming has become a series of grinds and gun violence... see WoW and generic shooter 3)
 
  
  Bad:
  A little dated
  Controls take getting used to
  A little to easy
  Some glitches (just get a patch) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartharel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  The good
  
  I dont get the reasons behind saying the control system is hard. alright i agree its hard to learn 
 but i never found myself fighting agaisnt them after a learnt how to play properly (Problems may 
 arise when commanding multiple minion types for the first time, though)
  
  Excellent humour that wouldnt be quite so funny if not for the semi-evil Goblin voices. also the 
 fact that it inverts fantasy stereotypes like hobbits being evil. also slapstick like bouncing 
 sheep is hillarious
  
  It is in my opinion the first successful strategy game to grace a console. others like BFME and 
 CaC3 are frustrating in comparison due to the controler. Its also a free roaming RTS. not something 
 you see every day eh?
  
  Option to become good (ish) or bad allows you to change armour and play style. also how peasnats 
 etc interact with you.
  
  A huge array of enemy types, far greater than expected.
  
  Incredable play length from start to finish and it has good replay value. To put in perspective, 
 after about 20 hours (When most games are ending or finished) , i had killed only 1/6 bosses. perhaps 
 im just slow but that really is something isnt it?
  
  I must have been playing this now for about 45 hours and still have only killed Melvin and Oberon 
 (2/6 Bosses)
  
  
  The bad
  
  Scenery Graphics dont look entirley up to date when compared with other Xbox 360 games such as 
 oblivion. nothing to big to ignore though.
  
  The story line isnt particuarly clear. EG why would the humans of spree agree to open their gates? 
 are halflings not enough for them to deal with? why does everyone think that this opposing overlord 
 and his band of miscreants are arriving to aid them rather than murder them?
  
  It has a learning curve that lasts about 10 hours until u learn about all of the minions.
  
 
  The game is too easy. even if u die theres not much to worry about.
  
  The fact that townsfolk respawn when you leave a level means that you dont have to worry about 
 harvesting souls, when you should.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkelKordoth
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 29, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Renting, thy name is Overlord. When first picked up, this game seems like a gem. A chance to unleash 
 my inner evil and rampage across a verdant land, hordes of fanged monstrosities at my command? 
 Do you even need to ask? When you first get it to your Xbox, the illusion still holds. Waking up 
 from a deep slumber, your silent protaganist discovers that he is the evil Overlord, the rightful 
 successor to a Dark Tower and realm of evil. Five minutes later, and you're gallivanting across 
 the country side slaying Halflings and retrieving relics. Truly, at the beginning, this game looks 
 like a piece of alright.
  
  Then the problems start.
  
  In the beginning, you control a limited number of Minions, the small demon like creatures that 
 are so fun when terrorising the neighbourhood, and it takes some vague sense of tactical nuance 
 to avoid being flattened by gibbering obese Halflings, but when you start upgrading your armour 
 and returning lost relics to your tower, many of which increase the number of Minions you control, 
 it becomes almost insultingly easy. For a large chunk of the game, you may not even need to use 
 your Overlord at all. And if you do, you have to be very careful not to accidentally belt one of 
 your Minions in the ruckus - or set them on fire with a poorly aimed Fireball spell. 
  
  Whilst Overlord's controls handle more than well enough to send your Minions about painting the 
 town red with the blood of the innocent, unfortunately there isn't a "call back Minions because 
 they've decided to become stuck behind a haystack" button  although there is a "call back every 
 minion not lost in a paddock" button. When you've lost five or six Minions for the fifth time in 
 a row, this oversight starts to get very annoying.
  
  Foresight isn't the only problem that seems to be afflicting Overlord, however. After retrieving 
 a few slaves for my Dark Tower, I decided to have a little chat to them. All ten of them. With 
 three responses they repeated ad infinitum. After only a minute or so of this parrot like behaviour, 
 I started to regret not using them to stoke my smeltery. The same problem plague the Minions and 
 other townsfolk as well. In the end, I began using my creatures to kill everyone around, just to 
 shut them up.
  
  Insultingly easy difficulty, lack of ability to use your character in combat, irritating Minions 
 and repetitive phraseology aside, however, there is one glaring flaw which takes Overlord away 
 from the realm of annoying and into the barren land of "broken".
  
  Imagine, if you will: Oblivion, where the only quest you got was "Defeat Mehrunes Dagon." Who is 
 this strangely named creature? You aren't told.
  
  Or a Knights of the Old Republic where your mission is "Stop the Star Forge", right from the word 
 go. Spend a lot of time looking for what the hell this was online, wouldn't you?
  
  Mass Effect: "Save the Galaxy."
  
  World of Warcraft: "Defeat Illidan."
  
  Overlord: "Find 
 the Red/Green/Blue Minions." "Get into Heaven's Gate." "Find a Mistress for your Tower."
  
  The game abandons you just as it begins to get interesting. There isn't even a map in-game to help 
 you on your way. There is one packaged with the 360 version of the game but it would've been more 
 useful if it had just told me what order the quests were supposed to be completed in. This doesn't 
 sound to bad at first, but when you spend half an hour trying to get at the Blue Minions' "nest", 
 but can't because of some strange green mist, and then have to go online to discover you need the 
 GREEN Minions to get the BLUE Minions  but the only way you can find to get the Green Minions 
 requires Blue Minions to get across a stream of water Well, you get the idea. This is a badly, 
 badly broken mechanic  or lack thereof.
  
  On the plus side, however, the game looks and sounds great  at least when it isn't talking. The 
 landscapes and characters are crisp and well drawn within their slightly caricaturesque style, 
 and the soundtrack is relaxing and melodramatic when it needs to be. When not parroting themselves 
 repeatedly, the characters are amusing and well thought out, and the smelting, allowing you to 
 upgrade or forge your own items, dungeon, allowing you to battle creatures you've already defeated 
 once for precious 'life force' and the Tower upgrade mechanics all work well, and are actually 
 enjoyable. The plot twist at the end is interesting, and each of the bosses you face are well rounded 
 (literally, in one case) and serve as little parables of how easy it is for a Hero to slip into 
 the 'evil' espoused in the game.
  
  Unfortunately, however, constant irritations began to take their toll, and, again, the lack of 
 any form of 'tell you what to do' system is truly, truly game breaking. Rent this game, but stay 
 far, far away from it in any store.
  
  Although, slaughtering sheep with Minions was possibly the most therapeutic idea included in any 
 game to date.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StuBHoney
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  First off this has a sense of humor that is just priceless. Are you Evil or Really Evil? The Jester 
 always giving you titles form the way you played the game. Sweeping your Minions around had a unique 
 pleasing feel to, and watching your minions equip all the junk laying around was priceless.
  
  Pros:
  
  A Sense of humor
  Fun controls
  Unique story
  
  Second I have the flaws. 
 No Map anywere. You will get lost. It always wind up spend time going in circles looking for how 
 to go to the next area. That was a major pain. Controls don't always work the way you want them 
 to. I mean their workable just sometimes you have to fight them a bit.
  
  Cons:
  
  No Map at all
  Controls can be complex or restrictive
  
  What is a fun game? Yes with lots 
 of chuckles, and a general don't mess with me attitude. The cons can really edge out the fun, but 
 if you stick to it is worth it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  come on friends, lets play and laugh simultaneously; at once be a good master and at afalsh second 
 turn to an evil;
  a game that make you and force you to be free from everythings; you are overlord, you can do the 
 worst and the best; creatures are so funny and enemies are fool and made to be your funny foes;
 
  when you start the game at first and at the begining of the tuterial the older minion make you 
 to push th jester (the funniest minion in the game) ;
  levels have good design and do not freeze you in one place; objects are in right place too, and enemies 
 are in the best place of the maps; fightings are so great and funny; control the minions are easy 
 and handy; take it in mind that you are greater than everyone in the world of the game; look to a 
 minon for a 2 or 3 m make you laugh whole day;
  fantastic world with funny minions and a lot to play, fight and search brings you OVERLORD; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegame1274
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Overlord has to be one of my favorite games if only for the reason of the minions and the amazing 
 characteristics. The reason that this game shines so brightly is the minions and the satisfaction 
 of being evil and sending others to do work for you. I do think though that the game could have 
 used an easier control system and that it could have also used some more polish and better level 
 design.
  
  Now knowing this you might as well also know that this game very well could be the begining of 
 a genre and is really that good. People are calling it an RPG but it really isnt. I would say that 
 this game is more of an RTS (Real Time Strategy) than RPG (Role Playing Game) . Overlord does have 
 a few Role Playing Game like traits but not enough to call it a full fledged RPG. 
  
  In conclusion this game is not for everyone and by no means will everyone like it. I think that 
 this will aspire more to those with a taste for small cult classics and those willing to play another 
 game made by this fantastic developer (codemasters for those who dont know) . See you next time 
 guys and Im hoping for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fanta_Man
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Overlord for the Xbox 360 places you in the role of the new overlord recently resurrected to rule 
 over a fantasy kingdom. You are dug out of the ground by gremlin-like creatures known as minions, 
 which you will end up controlling throughout the rest of the game as the main gameplay mechanic. 
 The game's motto is for you to be evil or be very evil. Simple enough so far.
  
  After being brought to life, you are gradually introduced to the different game mechanics through 
 a series of tutorials. When you start, you'll notice many buttons do not perform any actions yet. 
 As you progress through the early missions, you are given more options with your controls. You 
 also upgrade your minion horde size, health, magic, and minions throughout the game. This feels 
 like it takes longer than it should but I guarantee there would mass confusion and frustration 
 if all of the controls were explained at once. This becomes obvious to the player as well once 
 all four minion types are unlocked and large battles take place. You must position your blues (healers/magic 
 users) , greens (stealthy ambush units) , reds (fire throwers) , and browns (brawlers) in a way to 
 defeat tougher enemies in a timely manner. This can be difficult because of the hidden complexity 
 in the seemingly simple controls.
  
  The game starts very basic. You learn that the last overlord was killed by seven heroes that banded 
 together to end his tyranny over the land. However, the heroes have become corrupt and, dare I 
 say it, evil. Your goal is to destroy these characters and mark your stance as the new ruler of 
 the land. You are given a tower as your base of operations with more options for customization 
 later in the game for yourself, the tower, minions, and even battle tactics. For yourself, you'll 
 unlock a smelting area to forge and upgrade weapons and armor. The tower can receive numerous aesthetic 
 changes once you unlock a mistress and even more later. Specific minion types can be upgraded depending 
 on your choice made in a specific mission midway through the game. A dungeon is provided to fight 
 any creatures that you have killed once already in the game, allowing you to try new tactics and 
 weapons/armor to test effectiveness. The fantasy realm you explore in the game is of decent size, 
 but level design choices make it so that you have to revisit some locations after unlocking new 
 minion types and numbers making more use out of its compact structure. Although not completely 
 linear, there are series of missions you must do before being able to do others.
  
  The art direction of the game works well with the humor it portrays. Some characters have a comically 
 goofy appearance while others have an intimidating or even grotesque appearance (in a good way) . 
 Everything has a certain charm to it that keeps you playing and entertained from glowing fields 
 with sheep to dark caves with slugs and spiders. It isn't graphically superior by any means and 
 in fact has some dull looking spots in it, but it gets the job done and draws you into the world.
 
  
  Perhaps the games biggest disappointment is its controls. It is a good thing that they are introduced 
 slowly and in little bits because they can be very difficult to manage at times. This is because 
 you have two controls sets: the overlord and the minions. You move the overlord with the left thumbstick 
 and you move your minions with the right thumbstick. Minions automatically follow close behind 
 the overlord and the camera does a decent job of staying behind the overlord. To manually move 
 the camera you must hold the left bumper and use the right thumbstick. This makes you unable to 
 control the camera and move your minions at the same time, and the camera automatically returns 
 to its default position when you release the bumper. Besides moving your minions with the right 
 stick, you can send one at a time with the right trigger and you can lock onto objects and enemies 
 with the left trigger. To change the minion type currently selected you must hold the right bumper 
 and press A, B, X, or Y (the corresponding minion types are clearly shown in the lower right corner 
 of the screen) or just tap the right bumper to select all minions. For the overlord, A button attacks 
 with your weapon, X fire currently selected magic (changeable with D-pad) , B recalls minions (hold 
 to recall all) , and Y places a guard marker at the current location of your selected minion type (s) . 
 Although useful, the guard markers are the most complicated of all the controls. Once at a guard 
 marker, minions are no longer under your control. If you've placed multiple guard markers you must 
 lock onto the marker you want to recall minions from (and you must have the type you want to recall 
 selected with the right bumper) or you are forced to recall all minions from all of the guard markers 
 placed. However, tapping B will recall one minion at a time of the selected type from the nearest 
 guard marker. Since placing guard markers is essential for defeating stronger enemies, you'll either 
 be moving your fingers frantically across the controller and pulling everything off just in time 
 or you'll end up with a lot of dead minions. The HUD works well and shows all relevant information 
 when necessary. Pressing the Back button shows all other information you may need except for a 
 map, which is only provided physically inside the game case for you to manually track yourself 
 on. Given the number of controls that must be handled in the game, you can understand that they 
 were probably done the best that they could be even though it feels like they should have a much 
 better layout and be easier to manage.
  
  Audio is fairly straightforward. Not many characters have unique voices, but the heroes and your 
 minion guide provide good quality acting. The writing is very average but occasionally it warrants 
 a grin to some of the humor it presents. Sound effects range from noticeably repetitive to unnoticeably 
 repetitive. Clanks and clacks from the overlord's weapons and from the overlord receiving damage 
 become obviously repetitive soon in the game. Magic sound effects also have little variation along 
 with minion type selection. You'll also notice that even though your minion guide has the most 
 lines of dialogue he mentions the word "evil" many, many times Less noticeably repetitive are 
 the sounds of your minions breaking objects, drinking ale (and urinating afterwards) , and letting 
 out their mischievous chuckles and shouts. There are still little variations in these sounds, but 
 they are so well done you don't notice it so much. Sometimes during combat you may receive a small 
 period of lapse from sounds effects, but the audio usually returns quickly and it is not a frequent 
 issue. Overall the audio provides better than average quality with some repetitiveness and the 
 rare malfunction.
  
  Story is not this games biggest strong point but then again it was never really intended to be. 
 It's a straightforward revenge plot with few side interests. This isn't really a bad thing for 
 the game experience but it does keep the game from setting itself apart more than it could by leaving 
 out an extra layer of uniqueness. Very mediocre.
  
  The game perform well technically as it has very little framerate hitches and glitches aren't crippling 
 either. Everything runs very smooth unless you have many minions pitted against many enemies while 
 you are using magic and fighting at the same time. Glitches are thankfully minor for the most part 
 such as a minion not being able to pick up an item right in front of him and remaining there until 
 you call him back. However, some players have reported serious glitches such as essential objects 
 getting stuck while minions are carrying them to portal gates. The best way to solve such problems 
 is for you to leave the area and come back or save and quit then return. Autosaves are frequent 
 but it's a good idea to occasionally create another autosave slot in case you make a mistake while 
 trying to achieve maximum or minimum "corruption" in the game.
  
  For fun factor, the game gives better than average results thanks to clever achievements and a 
 multiplayer mode as well as future downloadable content. While very enjoyable overall, the single 
 player game does have some pacing problems since you have to walk through areas that are clear 
 of enemies at times. You also have to do backtracking a few times once you've unlocked more minions. 
 These aspects were obviously design choices though because they extend play time and allow you 
 to act with evil intentions towards the local peasants and wildlife (poor sheepies) as well as 
 smash objects for gold, health, and magic for you and equipment for your minions. Multiplayer potentially 
 extends replay value quite a bit, but a low number of base players holds it back.
  
  This game isn't for everybody, but it has an undeniable charm to it. If you have room on your shelf 
 and money in your pocket, then it's worth a look. If the art direction doesn't quite strike your 
 fancy and you need a game with some more blood and violence, then maybe you should avoid this one. 
 Charm goes a long way though, and the game is well suited for younger gamers and for adults. If 
 you're a hardcore gamer who has enough time to sit down and finish the game within a few days, 
 then the game warrants a rent at least. For all other players I recommend this as a buy, if only 
 to break yourself away from your usual regiment of games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleLev
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  When I first laid eyes on screen shots of Overlord nearly a year ago, I knew I wanted the game. 
 I must admit that I am a complete sucker for nice environments and worlds and the pictures I saw 
 of Overlord resembled Fable a great deal so I knew I'd have to get it.
  
  Now it's out and I have finally played and completed it. While it wasn't everything I had hoped 
 it would be, it at least has a bit of appeal which might keep you interested for a while, if you 
 can get over all its constant quirks and bugs.
  
  In Overlord, you take the role of, you guessed it, an Overlord. You control minions who do your 
 evil bidding for you, although your overlord character has a significant part in the game play 
 mechanic as the minions do. Well, sort of. Sometimes it feels like there is too much of an emphasis 
 on the minions and the overlord himself seems pointless during many situations. Your minions collect 
 treasure for you, find items they can equip and for the most part do most of the combat for you. 
 This lack of balance is just one of the many design flaws I encountered on my quest to spread evil 
 throughout the realm.
  
  The game is a mixture of a real time strategy and a role playing game, though it seems to ignore 
 both of these formulas quite a bit while merely scratching the surface of them. This leads to the 
 game feeling rather empty and devoid of interaction. You can't go into houses and buildings other 
 than sending your minions in to sweep in and collect any treasure. There aren't shops to bargain 
 with, or even a variety of weapons other than three classes and three strengths throughout the 
 entire game. This feels a bit limited and much of the time you don't feel that you can really do 
 anything you want in the world or get too involved in it. Whats worse is there is relatively no 
 point whatsoever in the game. A plot is almost nonexistent up until the last couple of hours in 
 the game, and even then it is very uninspired. It felt like the developers had a good concept in 
 their hands and pissed it away with poor planning and a lack of vision.
  
  What is worse is that the control is incredibly poorly thought out and the movement feels very 
 clunky with the overlord barely moving his arms as he walks. It seems like there was little, if 
 any, motion capturing done which resulted in a very archaic look. Aside from the minions, whom 
 are animated mediocre at best, character animations throughout the world are sub-par. Lip syncing 
 doesn't even exist and the movements of all characters feels rather rigid. Controlling your overlord 
 is done with the left analog stick and controlling the minions is done with the right analog stick, 
 so as you can guess swinging the camera around requires you holding an extra button (left bumper) . 
 Throughout playing the game, my finger was almost constantly at least hovering over the left bumper 
 because the camera fails to keep up with what's important for you to see. Moving the minions is 
 necessary not only for combat but because they are capable of going in many areas your overlord 
 is not. Unfortunately, the minions control begins to get very unresponsive, especially as you have 
 more minions in your horde. Your overlord can only move at two different speeds and your minions 
 can only move at a single speed, which again feels very archaic for a next-gen game.
  
  Tasks that would seem to be very simple can become quite a chore simply because of a poor control 
 design and rigid movements. For example, every time your overlord is to attack, he stops in place, 
 which makes killing a simple bug difficult itself just because every time you swing your weapon 
 the creature moves away. This feels like it was a result of the lack of motion capturing in which 
 the game is incapable of animating you to walk at the same time as swing a weapon - very lame.
 
  
  Sadly, the game is filled with design flaws. Minions seem to be able to attack enemies you aren't 
 even supposed to know exist yet through doors! While your minions carry an object back to a portal 
 to bring it to your tower, they have to take predefined and often unnecessary routes just to make 
 getting the object harder. This is ridiculous because several times the minions could easily get 
 an object back to a portal much quicker and easier but the game insists on forcing the minions 
 to take a harder and absolutely unnecessary route instead. Even though there are four minion types 
 you are only allowed to select either one type or all of them; how you are not able to select two 
 colors as once is astonishing - my guess is because the control was already built poorly and this 
 would have only made it worse. Every time you go to a new area and the game has to load the type 
 of minions and spell you had selected are unselected again which is also very annoying. While there 
 are portals spread around throughout the realm which allow for easy transport, they don't allow 
 you to teleport to any area - so instead you almost always end up wasting time teleporting to your 
 tower first and then teleporting to the area you wanted to go to. This annoyance must have been 
 completely overlooked because it serves no purpose when the bottom line is you are able to teleport 
 to the desired location once you are in your tower.
  
  You would think with all of the poor design aspects of the game there should at least be some redeeming 
 qualities. Well, graphics would have to be that quality because AI certainly isn't. The AI is incredibly 
 stupid. I know these are supposed to be minions and they shouldn't be too bright, but that is no 
 excuse for some of the stupid things your minions will do or will refuse to do. Fortunately, the 
 enemy AI is also really stupid which can work to your advantage. Several times larger enemies will 
 try attacking you by rolling towards you. If there happens to be an object in front of them or 
 if they were barely hitting the edge of a wall, they will be unable to hit you and as stupid as 
 they are continue to do this over and over. All along you can have your flaming minions throwing 
 fire at them while they keep rolling into a wall. Quite a sad sight to see.
  
  Design flaws aside, the game is also loaded with bugs. I encountered several of them and while 
 many of them are relatively minor they add up to create the feeling of a really rusty game. Since 
 minions don't seem to really consume any physical space, since you can group 40 or so to a tiny 
 corner in which only one can fit and you would only see one, this lead to a bug in which minions 
 occasionally get stuck inside objects. At least five times I ended up having a minion or two get 
 stuck inside a wall or rock somehow so that minion would be useless until you left the area to 
 force the game to reload. The soldiers you fight in some parts of the game also come with their 
 own little quirk. It seems that any time you deal the final critical blow to kill a soldier who 
 is on the ground they will first jump up and then fall over dead! I had to have witnessed this 
 countless times and it looked very cheesy. After you "make it" with your mistress in the tower, 
 there seemed to be a bug in which Gnarl continues to tell you anytime you are in the tower that 
 your mistress is waiting for you in your room. I must have checked countless times after I had 
 already done this scene and she simply wasn't even though the dialog continued to repeat and repeat 
 after you "score" that achievement. There was another such bug in which you are to lead an enemy 
 into a portal to your castle to finish them off there. What happened here the first time playing 
 was I had her cornered on top of a building and she didn't go anywhere anymore. No matter where 
 I sent my minions or ran around to, she was completely stuck in place and couldn't move anymore. 
 This forced me to leave the area and re visit it in which the game was forced to reload the scene.
 
  
  The games overall best quality is the most shallow of them all - graphics. The graphics are well 
 done with some nicely designed environments with quite a bit of detail and good textures to boot, 
 even if it appears to be "boring" quite a bit of style from Fable. While the frame rate isn't as 
 high as some other Xbox 360 games, it at least runs pretty smoothly for the most part even when 
 there are a lot of polygons on screen. Playing online is a different story altogether though as 
 log is almost consistently annoying with every new match you play. The only real negative aspect 
 of the graphics, besides having it's own unique style, is that the draw distance wasn't very great 
 and looked quite old school in several areas.
  
  The audio in Overlord is quite standard with nothing too spectacular and some really irritating 
 (and repetitive) voice overs. I've never encountered more annoying elves in my days of gaming then 
 in Overlord. It's bad enough the voice overs sound very amateur, but they are also incredibly repetitive. 
 You will end up hearing the same stupid lines in the same stupid voices countless times as you 
 revisit regular locations.
  
  I really think Overlord was capable of being so much more than it is, but it's complete lack of 
 vision and purpose proved how shallow the game really is. The abundant design issues and bugs only 
 worsens the already uninspired title. It is a shame that Overlord wasn't more than it ended up 
 being, but saying it only needs some polishing is an understatement. It needs quite a bit of it's 
 core rethought out to address the large number of problems it has. Fortunately, the added online 
 play adds a bit more excitement to the otherwise bland and repetitive quest.
  
  
  Gameplay: (6) Moderate length of a single player quest, ridden with control problems and bugs. 
 Additional online play does little to justify a "must own".
  
  Graphics: (8) The most redeeming quality of all. Good style, even if unoriginal, with great environments 
 and textures. Poor motion capturing is a disappointment.
  
  Sound: (5) Mediocre music and horribly annoying voice overs that will get so repetitive you will 
 contemplate braking your television.
  
  Lasting appeal: (6) It doesn't take very long before you start to realize how repetitive the game 
 is. It is fun for a while, but begins to be quite dull. Fortunately, the online play can be fairly 
 enjoyable and might get you to play it a little bit longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunloved
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Alright, having played the so many games were you take the path of good or evil, and I was ready 
 pleased that this one, Overlord, was Evil only. While you can in a sense, do good deeds, I doubt 
 that many of you will stay on that path. Only considering you'll meet people you just want to run 
 into a wall. You play as an evil Overlord, hence the name, and you control hordes of these little 
 minions that are ready fun. Arming them with the greatest amour and weapons you can find is rather 
 fun, and some of the things the minions pull is a laugh. I had a few wearing pumpkins for helmets 
 and waving around zombie arms for their weapons. The most annoying thing though is having your 
 minions die. Yes, it'll happen, but when you want them to go here and they go charging into water 
 and drown. Or just after you get them all armored up and pretty and then make the simple mistake 
 and having half of them die right off and losing all that work. *Sigh* But its still an enjoyable 
 game. Fixing up your tower is fun, and finding a, mistress if you call her that is also interesting. 
 Though amusingly, I tried to hit her with my sword and she slapped me sending me flying to the 
 ground. So makes me wonder, how come this evil Overlord, who just killed all these bosses, is smacked 
 down to the ground with one hit from his *Wife*. Maybe she should be in charge... lol. We'll call 
 in Overlord 2, The Mistresss... or something along those lines. Its a good game, but for those who 
 played Fable, after you did it all, you did it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob6918
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  When I first popped this game in I thought wow this is like Fable. Then it completley changed. 
 The review is exactly right, this weird blend of RPG/RTS elements adds up to be quite a enjoyable 
 and fun game. The game however was lacking in a few parts.... Mostly it was controls that hindered 
 you the most. However once you get used to them the game becomes quite easy. The second part was 
 the somewhat false advertising of "Be good or evil" and kinda took the Fable approach at it. You 
 can be demoniacally dastardly or a perfect angel and for the most part it doesn't effect the game 
 or storyline at all. Also noticing on this, is the fact that for a "Evil" game. You are very limited 
 as to what evil things you can do.
  
  Overall a nice game that would be a great stocking stuffer for anyone in your family. Since the 
 game will probably be around the $30 mark come December, and is a must own for anyone with a sense 
 of humor and a slightly dark side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheese_123
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  Ovaerlord is basicaly a Pikmin game except more EVIL and more funnier. The story is your an sauron 
 wanna-be who is wanting to take over the world and take revenge on the heroes that destroyed the 
 villan beffore him. To help your character get what he wants he has the help of little imp like 
 things called minions. There are four type of miniont theres brown who are the strongest, and can 
 equip themselves with various things to either hinder or help the, another type is red ones who 
 fire fireballs at enimies and are restinant to fire, the third type is green they are very sneaky 
 and do loads of damage if they sneak behind something but get pasted if they get attacked head 
 on. The fourth type is the weakest of the lot but can heal these are blue and can swim. the chantering 
 on of the minions is one of the highlights of the game, but can get a little annoying after you 
 have heard what the minions have said. There is a system where you can be lots more EVIL but it 
 somehow feels that your not being evil enough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggleJUGGLER
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  in overlord you start out in a small human farming community where you are forced to kill evil 
 hobits. the games weird sense of fantasy like ghostly elves mean hobits, and gremlin warriors just 
 doesn't set the right atmosphere for the game. the controls for your army can be very good but, 
 they decided put tactical without practicle. with sweeping your guys go to hand to hand combat. 
 this just doesn't seem right since your archers or red gremlins would know not to fight with their 
 fists. past your normal ones the rest prove to be useless. reds will take too long to set up, greens 
 can get killed too easily, and blues just get killed. the overlord himself is useless. the story 
 isn't good and this game could be more evil. i can't play this game very long because its boring 
 and i know half lings are not evil. this game is as mediocre as they get. the games controls also 
 make this game frustrating and hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arrow-man
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  The best game I have ever played, I think it has been rated to low.
  You always get games were you have to save the world save the universe
  Be a hero. This is one 
 of the only games that I have played were you have to be evil to complete the game, just plain 
 brilliant . The pure joy of commanding a small army of malicious minions more than makes up for 
 Overlord's weakness ,if you have not played this game i advise you to get it as soon as possible 
 it is a great game it will keep you playing hours upon hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Overlord reminded me alot of the dungeon keeper series but in a 3rd person combat view, you have 
 a dungeon heart, rooms you can modify, hordes of creatures to control, mistresses to keep happy. 
 Which is all a good thing since we'll probably never see DK3 unfortunately.
  
  Anyway overlord starts out as you a newly resurected fallen hero who is going to bring destruction (supposedly) 
 to the world. After playing a while though you'll find you are acting more as a good guy helping 
 the villagers out and doing quests. There is thankfully a good and evil paths basically in every 
 quest though I do agree with gamespot that you don't feel particularly evil in this game. Overlord 
 has a mix of a number of elements, minor puzzle solving, strategy, 3rd person combat and rpg elements 
 where you make different decisions for certain quests as well as being able to upgrade armour and 
 spells.
  
  Your armies comprise of 4 different coloured imps which each have different tasks they can do. 
 Comanding the imps is really fun as when you get like 30+ imps is like a giant imp wave of destruction. 
 You can pretty much not run out of imps either, when you kill things you get lifeforce, and since 
 areas respawn with monsters you will never be short unless you are excessively sloppy and let imps 
 die faster than you can harvest life force.
  
  Graphics are pretty good, the animations are really neat seeing your imps swarm jump and stab everything 
 they come across. The music is forgettable, comes and goes at certain times. The imp voices though 
 repetitive I didn't find annoying.
  
  The difficulty was about right, maybe a touch easy but only if you managed your imps properly as 
 things could be taken down effectively and quickly. Blindly swarming everything without thinking 
 would mean losing alot of imps since some of the bigger monsters could basically take out your 
 whole army in 1 hit.
  
  There were a few points I didn't like though. Firstly there is no automap and although the levels 
 aren't that big I did spend alot of times running around trying to find a way out. Which is the 
 other problem although you were told what your next quest was there wasn't always clear directions 
 on where to go and I had to consult a gameguide a few times after killing everything in an area 
 and not having a clue really where to go next.
  
  It also would have been nice to be able to move up to bigger monsters to command than imps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Before the reviews I thought that this game looked pretty stellar, of course with Darkness coming 
 out around the same time and Bioshock quickly following that Overlord was pushed back till I finally 
 got around to picking up a copy, I will admit for the first week or so I played the game in 20 
 minute intervals and it was pretty interesting. 
  
  You are a bad guy, you have minions you need to go around and kill heroes and get back the stuff 
 that was stolen from your castle. The concept seems out of this world, and for the first few hours 
 its pretty neat. To start with the gameplay aspect, while you may always have different things 
 to do which give this game a "Sandbox" illusion you are normally backed into a corner (at least 
 for the length middle part of the game) as to what quests you can do because you normally require 
 something else in order to start another quest (IE Red Minions etc) 
  
  This game is fairly Linear, even though you think at times its not. While you can pick between 
 two or more quests at times many of those quests are normally MUCH easier if you do another quest 
 first which basically forces you to follow a loose order, something that really annoyed me after 
 a while. One item that was interesting at first that became a total hassle later was minion control. 
 
  
  At first when its you and your "Browns" its fairly easy, one stick controls you, the other controls 
 minions, but as you find the other types of minions (Red, Green, Blue) you have to select the color 
 you want and then control them and "post" them into place then select the next color and do the 
 same, all the while hoping you don't select the "All Minions" option and lead your red, brown and 
 green minions into a pool of water and ultimately their death, which requires you to go back to 
 a "spawning location" and summon more minions (this assuming you have enough life force for that 
 color of minion because every minion requires their own type of life force to summon) and to make 
 matters more annoying there are different spawning grounds for different minions (IE Red Spawn 
 for Reds, Blue for Blue etc) and the game most of the time is great at assuring the one that you 
 need is in the right place but there are timesugh.
  
  I think back to a situation fairly early when I was getting the Blue Hive and I had 20 minions 
 at my command (which was my max at that time) I needed 15 blues to carry the hive (as only they 
 could walk through water) and I needed some greens to bust through some poison clouds on land so 
 the blues could continue, yet I had enemies killing my greens and a spawning pit WAY back at the 
 start of the level, although on my trip back to the start there were at least four blue spawning 
 pits. This is just one of the MANY times where I wanted to throw a controller through the TV. 
 
  
  Aside from those very annoying situations the RPG aspects of the game are fairly interesting allowing 
 for you to develop your character through better weapons and armor and for a game of its sort I 
 was very impressed at the selection of weapons I could create. It will also offer a challenge for 
 even the most skilled puzzle and RTS vets.
  
  The battle sequences are a nice change of pace between what you normally have to do, as your minion 
 totals increase there are some aspects where you can just sit back and sick them on the boss or 
 go at it yourself. I also enjoyed the limited and comical means for your minions to "upgrade" through 
 looting and such, I had an army of browns with pumpkins on their heads. 
  
  I also found having to hold RB and LS to move the Camera to be a pain as the camera angle was just 
 never quite right in core sections of the game. Graphically, it really is nothing special but at 
 the same time the graphics do not really hinder the game at all. 
  
  Overlord supports 720p, 1080i and 1080p which much to my surprise really did add to the wonderfully 
 rich and colorful areas in which you travel to. The towns, friends and foes do repeat over and 
 over again with the exception of bosses and some of your core allies which can hinder the enjoyment 
 if that sort of thing bothers you. 
  
  If you have an HD TV the range of colors makes it interesting, if you have a standard TV its still 
 nice to look at. The audio aspect of this game was one of the biggest letdowns in my humble opinion. 
 The score is so forgettable that I cannot even hum a bar for you if you had asked, it really does 
 remind me of an old SNES game called Soul Blazer in terms of the very subtle background noise. 
 
  
  The attack sounds all sound the same regardless of what you are swinging it, and the minion catchphrases 
 are pretty funny but once you have heard them for the 100th time you really do take advantage of 
 the Custom Soundtrack option.
  
  Although the voice acting of Marc Silk for the voice of Gnarl was amazing, perhaps one of the best 
 I had heard and always made me laugh. This game is really hard to recommend as a buy for someone, 
 because I just don't see it being able to hold you interest in really long bursts. I could not 
 imagine playing the game for three days straight and enjoying it.
  
  I find myself drawn back to it every now and then to play in 20 - 40 minute bursts but that is 
 hardly worth the cost of a new game, at this pace I will be done as Halo 4 hits the shelves. However 
 its unique, and that is one aspect that I know many gamers crave. 
  
  It's a nice blend of Puzzle/RTS/RPG/Hack and Slash all mixed into one, and maybe that is what gives 
 this game its draw and its charm, that it's a bunch of things that you rarely see together in a 
 game? Also keep in mind "How evil can you really be in a T rated game?"
  
  If that is your cup of tea, by all means but don't say I didn't warn you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlomHellscream
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  A birthday present for me, indeed a fun week or so. Though the thought of all of you minions being 
 ripped apart all at once and you can do anything about it, strikes me as... well sucky.
  
  Honostly, I love going into battle and killing everything in sight, what adolescent doesn't? Well, 
 I've seen the light, it says to play it for about 5 days and get bored of it. So I shall. The game 
 uses a large figure that can crush most anything, with a group of small, one-track minded, bloodlusting, 
 war-hungry, monsters. Just as any other RPG game, you have to keep a long term for people and their 
 needs. Finishing quests with bad ending revolves to 5-40 Corruption points. Let the villagers live, 
 you get to stay neutral to your loyal, yet clingy, potatoes of people. This is evil business, you 
 must build a long term relationship with your people to stay on top. Killing people is not allowed, 
 but than again, you are the Overlord, lord... -Gnarl. Quests are harder to understand than a one 
 legged man in an ass kicking contest. Much like pikmin you must keep them out of water, except 
 for the blue minions, they can go everywhere but fire and poison. That's right, you guessed it, 
 green minions, fire and water = BAD. Red, red is correct, fire away. Browns... err, they kik some 
 arse hard when the time is near. You make stuff for yourself, bone your wife, and even get servents, 
 life is great... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZogTheIneffable
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  This game has one of the best demos ever. Seriously. Its witty, its pretty and it promises so 
 much. Play it. Youll love it. But think very carefully before buying the game.
  
  Overlord has lots going for it. The script is great, the voices are wonderful, the visuals are 
 fine, the idea is original, and the basic notion of stomping around as a slightly comedic uber-villain 
 battering annoying good-guys!
  
  One word: hobbits. You get to wipe out the smug, irritating little yokels. That rocks. If you felt 
 the biggest let-down in the Lord of the Rings movies was that they cut out the Shire getting over-run, 
 then you will want to play this game just to bring doom to the puke-worthy little brats.
  
  But if it seems that Ive just spent too long talking about something inconsequential and superficial, 
 then youre already getting an idea of what is wrong with the game. All the things in it that are 
 wonderful (and they are, truly, wonderful) are inconsequential and superficial. The actual gameplay, 
 on the other hand, is pretty repetitive.
  
  Sure, there is some strategy. But aside from the occasional strategy-puzzle which is just fiddly 
 (the controls cant quite keep up with your brain) or annoying, most of the gameplay is repetition. 
 Run to next area, send minions to target, watch mayhem, repeat. Once youve played the demo, youve 
 pretty well seen the game.
  
  Worth owning? If the basic idea appeals to you, then why not. It will bring a smile to your face. 
 But dont expect it to be as good as the demo. And if you arent sure after playing the demo, then 
 dont buy the game, because the demo is the best bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Funny dialog, great voice work, using Minions is interesting and fun, nice graphical 
 style
  
  The Bad: Little player involvement, lack of arrow or map makes you get lost easily, way too linear, 
 not enough Minion races
  
  Overlord's main feature is letting you be evil. You can control the direction of the game by being 
 evil or erm... REALLY evil. Your main focus are your Minions which you use to fight baddies, move 
 objects in your way, or get them. You have four races which are Browns (your main fighting Minions) , 
 Reds (long distance Minions that are immune to fire) , Blues (which are weak but can revive downed 
 Minions and can take down magical creatures and are immune to water) , and Greens (they can ambush 
 large enemies and rip them apart) . When you acquire all the Minion gives you can summon them via 
 holes throughout the game. You're main goal is to go from world to world helping the people so 
 you can find parts from your destroyed tower. You can save damsels in distress to have as your 
 mistresses and receive items like smelters for armor and weapon upgrades, blue, red, and yellow 
 objects to increase mana, health, and maximum Minions. You are able to sweep your Minions to specific 
 places with your right analog stick to solve puzzle and what not. All these features are fine and 
 dandy but with the lack of a map or arrow you get lost ALL the time. Without a FAQ you'll have 
 no idea what to do most of the time. You yourself can attack foes but you just mash the A button 
 and it's the same 3 hit combo over and over again. Of course you can use your powers like shields, 
 fireballs, and berserk your Minions but it doesn't help much sometimes. This game could have been 
 so much more if you were more involved in the game. It's like a 3rd person real time strategy. 
 There is a lot to do in the game but sometimes you just saying forget it and never playing it again. 
 The game is very unforgiving with a lack of checkpoints. The graphics are pretty good and so is 
 the audio but nothing that says next-gen in your face. The voice acting and dialog is very funny 
 here and that helps ease some of the pain. Overlord is a great rental but nothing really more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SBD-LUDI
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Good Part-
  
  First off this game is probably the most amazing idea I've ever heard of a game that forces you 
 to be evil. It also plays nicely after you get over the strangeness of moving with one stick and 
 sweeping minions with the other and the slightly challenging camera controls its all very nice. 
 OK first of you have minions MINIONS this is the best concept ever! ever! and they control really 
 well and i mean really really well the point and swarm option then the sweeping option was just 
 really great control. Another thing that stands out was i was laughing the entire time it was this 
 dry humor to it that just sets you off laughing! i cant get the There throwing rocks! Primitives! 
 remark out of my head for the past 3 days! Also the game just helps satisfy this deep seated need 
 for doing great evil that seams to be placed in all human beings. If this game had bin M i would 
 have given it a much high score you can be really evil in this game but its still only a T game.
 
  
  Bad Part-
  
  The camera is nice for most of the game but it just gets really annoying some times i wish you 
 could have had a sweeping camera to fallow you minions really. You can't be really evil in a T 
 game. Only one setting i would have liked to play the game again at a slightly or much higher difficulty.
 
  
  All in all-
  A very fun and amusing game that you should buy if your looking for a nice gaming experience that 
 wont tax you over much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IpodHero176
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  When I heard the concept of the game, I expected two different paths between being good and evil. 
 When I played it, I was surprised how close the two paths are, which isn't good.
  
  You are the Overlord, the most evil person in the world, or was. You were killed by the Great Heroes, 
 but years later, you were revived by Gnarls, your right-handed minion. You find out that the Great 
 Heroes became corrupt in your absence, and it's up to you to reclaim your territory again by defeating 
 them as an anti-hero, or as a villain. That's pretty much as deep as the game gets. None of the 
 important characters get a deep backstory, which is very disappointing. When doing quests, you 
 end up doing good, and if you want to become a villain, you have to kill good people, and the quest 
 isn't even altered if you do that.
  
  The graphics are alright, but there are way too many loading times because of it. The detail of 
 your overlord is pretty good, and the area around you looks good too. Too bad they had to add more 
 loading times than necessary.
  
  There isn't anything memorable about the music. if you're in a meadow, you get happy, skipping 
 music. If you're in a battle, you get regular fighting music. As I said before, the music is very 
 forgettable, and you might as well just use your custom soundtrack feature when playing.
  
  The gameplay is good. At the start, you're going to have to fight alongside with your minions, 
 but after awhile, you can just send your minions in and watch the battle enfold. I prefer to fight 
 with my minions, but sometimes I sit back and watch them kill the enemies. There are 4 different 
 types of minions. Brown minions, which are the foot soldiers, blue minions, which are the healers, 
 green minions are the assassins, and red minions are the archers, but they throw fire instead of 
 arrows. You start out with the brown minions, and you must do certain quests to get the other minions 
 to get the other 3. I like how you must make a strategy to place your minions during battle. Here's 
 an example: You send the brown minions out to fight a troll, you place the red minions far from 
 the troll, but in a range where they can still throw fire at the trolls. You then send the green 
 minions at the troll to help the brown minions, and then you place the blue minions closer to the 
 brown and green minions to heal and revive them if they die. The troll will go down very quickly. 
 You can also improve your weapons and armor by sacrificing your minions, which is neat, but the 
 improvements aren't that major.
  
  Overall, this is a good game for the weekend, and the achievements aren't that difficult to aquire (they 
 are more fun than hard to get) , but this isn't a game to spend all your time on. I would suggest 
 renting this first, or getting this used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This gave is fun, if you like Fable you should like this game also. You are a dark lord or not 
 what ever you would like to be. You have these things called minions but they are gremlins. (Probably 
 something to do with the copy right laws) They like to break and attack everything and steal it 
 too. You have 4 different kinds that serve a purpose on certain occasions. The maps are pretty 
 big and easy to get lose in, a map would solve this problem but tough you dont get one. You can 
 upgrade your weapons, armor and minions with time and items. Find items to help you on your quest 
 to become Overlord. Graphics are very good and the sound is good. The game play takes some getting 
 use too. Being that you cant control the camera does get on your nerves. It is a very good game 
 and I hope there is an Overlord 2 in the making. But this game has very little to no replay value. 
 You will get no unlocks or money you just start over which sucks. Thats why I say rent it after 
 you beat it you can take it back, it wont take long. Other then that I really like this game. 
 (Oh and it needs a map BAD!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warden72
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Good: Fun minions steal the show, mostly attractive graphics.
  
  Bad: Embarrassing NPC animations, unused multiplayer, disappointingly bland writing.
  
  Most 
 Zelda-like adventures star a hero embarking on an epic journey to vanquish some all-powerful threat, 
 but your quest in Overlord is to become that very threat to a bright and colorful world in dire 
 need of corruption. Your sole purpose is to absorb every city, home, and willing resident into 
 your dark and vast empire. You have been awakened from ages of sleep and it is time to reclaim 
 your kingdom while at the command of an army of goblin-like minions ready to kill and die for you 
 with cackling glee. Sounds truly sinister, doesnt it? Some would certainly hope that Overlord 
 is a taste of the Forbidden Fruit, a deliciously decadent experience. In truth, Overlord has more 
 of a darkly comic tone due to its light-hearted nature, fairy-tale artistry, and general goofiness. 
 It's probably a good thing that Overlord doesn't take itself too seriously. Such creative direction 
 makes it rather hilarious to burn hobbits alive.
  
  You, as the nameless Overlord, command minions that babble like children, play dress-up, and chug 
 ale on sight then urinate seconds later. And these things are supposed to be threatening? Although 
 I wouldnt exactly turn to stone upon running into such a crew, but they indeed can carry out all 
 the required killing and looting with remarkable precision and speed. These little imps are the 
 standout unique feature of Overlord and, frankly, represent the only reason to play the game at 
 all. Without them, Overlord would have been yet another remedy for insomnia.
  
  The right thumbstick guides a single band of minions within a wide radius wherein they will destroy 
 stockpiles, ransack houses, fetch items, and kill every enemy while the Overlord just stands there 
 staring into space, if he so chooses. Thanks to decent AI, your minions are quite independent once 
 guided to their target. They auto-attack any nearby hostile or container, outfit themselves with 
 dropped gear, and will even run back to you with offerings of treasure and minion-generating lifeforce 
 harvested from defeated enemies (or even friendlies) . Running these guys around to wreak havoc 
 and collect riches is terribly fun and just doesnt get old. Although the minion feature is well-designed 
 and mostly efficient, it is imperfect. Sometimes minions try to attack unreachable targets, get 
 lost or hung up somewhere or misbehave in other ways, but these problems occur sparingly and never 
 hurt the fun. I approve of how Overlord handles the concept of commanding followers to do your 
 bidding. Really, little need be done to change it.
  
  Those with concerns about potential repetition from giving little helpers all the work need not 
 fear. Story progression unlocks minions with different abilities such as ranged attacks and resurrection, 
 thus adding minor puzzle-solving, very basic resource management, and a bit of strategy to battles. 
 Conveniently placed portals act as minion dispensers that shoot out the desired number and type 
 of minion. However, having to mix-and-match minions can be either tiresome or unchallenging. Sometimes 
 slightly tedious backtracking is needed in order to find the proper minion dispenser, and sometimes 
 the exact minions you need are available in the right place all too conveniently. Being able to 
 summon any minions at any time but with more strategic resource management may have been a better 
 idea.
  
  Fans of similar games will be reminded of one particular title the instant Overlord starts: Fable. 
 Overlords artistry, level design, and even some of the voice cast are ripped straight from Lionheads 
 Xbox hit. Technical graphic quality, however, isnt much different between the two, which is now 
 a bit of a problem given the 360s power. Think of Fable in high definition with a smooth framerate 
 and hilariously bad NPC animations, and you have pictured Overlords appearance almost exactly. 
 And the NPC animations are terrible. Peasants flee like circus clowns, sexy women strut with 
 great exaggeration, and faces in cutscenes morph grotesquely during dialogue as if cycling through 
 several random emotions per second. Thankfully, this is the only laughably bad aspect of Overlord.
 
  
  At any time during your conquest you may return to your black castle with expectedly pointy architecture 
 and tinker with the most shallow aspects of the game. You have access to very limited castle upgrades 
 such as placing a long red carpet before your throne or flanking it with ominous statues. This 
 feature is just another stripped-down form upgrading your crib . Theres also a forge for making 
 improved gear and a dungeon where you can practice battles with previously defeated enemies. These 
 are Overlords functional if obligatory attempts at the customization and mini-games we have come 
 to expect in recent years. These side tasks are mostly unremarkable, but those dungeon battles 
 can pose a mean challenge.
  
  Another problem with Overlord is its disappointing writing. You would expect this light-hearted 
 tale of silly evil to have been laced with more irreverence and satire. Although the plot takes 
 jabs at RPG cliches, the dialogue itself is on a par with mediocre cartoons: no groaners, but no 
 whoppers. Gnarl, the Yoda-like minion who acts as your guide, has a few choice phrases here and 
 there but the competent voice actors are given nothing clever to say otherwise.
  
  If nothing else, Overlord is amusing. The minions are the stars of the show and set Overlord apart 
 from all other fantasy-adventure titles. Although the game could benefit from sharpened graphical 
 detail and a rapier wit, it still generates all the appeal necessary for a person to see it through 
 to the end. Overlord is simply fun, and really doesn't need to be anything more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  At first, this game was a lot of fun. I'm sure that I'm not the only to compare it to Pikmin, but 
 this was evil and funny, and entertaining. I love the graphics, in that they take some of the edge 
 off the game, yet still make it fun.
  
  The sound for the game is good. Lot's of appropriate sounds, and the music is very a propos.
 
  
  The gameplay was fun, but it quickly became repetitive and downright boring. Then it became too 
 difficult. I couldn't believe it. I bought this game in order to play a nice, relatively easy game 
 that would fill the void in my purchases. Not so. I have attempted one section around 25 times, 
 and it is now at the point that I no longer wish to play the game. That hasn't happened in years!
 
  
  This is a fun game, but rent instead of buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrayHalo
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 2, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Overlord should have been a dream come true for many fantasy fans and in some ways does succeed 
 at creating a great fantasy atmosphere, but is drag down by several fatal flaws. It suffers in 
 the same way many shooters due, too much attention to graphics and not enough on game play. The 
 game looks beautiful artistically, it's a legend of Zelda not gears of war, the way it should be. 
 The art style is very similar to Fable, a lot of the same lighting effects and color tones are 
 used. If it wasn't for the minions this could have been Fable 1.5 with an evil only requirement. 
 The other influences become apparent fighting the first group of enemies, half-lings, more famously 
 known as hobbits. Its obvious they borrowed a lot from the lord of the rings as the hobbit homes 
 may as well have been from a LOTR game. As well as the overlord himself armed with a mace might 
 as well be Sauron. And that isnt a complaint, I knew that the designers meant the game to be an 
 almost satirical look at fantasy so the use of Peter Jacksons vision of hobbits was fine, and 
 quite humorous as well; the first boss is named Underbelly, a play on Frodos traveling name Mr. 
 Underhill. The music is fitting and sometimes humorously juxtaposes sweet happy music when you 
 slaughtering sheep for minion souls. The voice acting is decent and the dialog can range from tongue 
 and cheek dark humor to dull lines and bad play on words. The voice acting also ranges, from average 
 to occasionally dull in either case, the voices usually fit and add atmosphere. The main component 
 of the game is minions, summoned out of holes in the ground. At first only Brown Fighter minions 
 are available and then red fire thrower, green assassin, and blue healer minions have to be found 
 to be unlocked. The three specialist minions have resistances to certain elements. Reds are immune 
 to fire and can put out fires to make a way passable; Greens do the same with poison clouds. Blues 
 on the other hand can swim. Thus certain portions of the game require certain minions to make the 
 way passable or force you to only use a certain type. Many times these obstacles or obstructions 
 feel like nuisances because they are so simple. If it was a puzzle it would be more interesting 
 and thus justifiable but its not, a fire blocks your path, use Reds to put it out, keep going. 
 This doesnt change. The first few hours of overlord are rather fun, and play off of many traditional 
 RPG elements of looting and questing. But as the game progresses and all of the minions are unlocked 
 the game begins to show, a lack of substance and no variation.
  There are two key and fatal flaws to Overlord. The first is its an action game without action; 
 the second is its a strategy game without any strategy. Let me explain. In an action game I want 
 to do the fighting, I want to be the one in the thick of the action, swinging a melee weapon, cleaning 
 house. In Overlord, instead of doing the fighting you have minions to do the fighting for you by 
 sweeping them with the right stick. And thats fine. I enjoy strategy games so lets look at 
 that element. In a strategy game you dont do the fighting, you control other people to do the 
 fighting for you. The key word is control. The game would be fine if you battled it out with your 
 enemies implementing a strategy that the developer clearly intended you to use. Which is Browns 
 engage the front, Greens flank behind, Reds pelt them with fire and Blues heal the wounded. But 
 this is so beyond tedious, that it isnt worth doing, not to mention you dont need to do it to 
 win. The sweep command is not as responsive as it needs to be, which the game often reminds you 
 of when you are tasked with moving minions at a distance through some gauntlet, to open a door 
 switch. In combat the controls again fail. The pre-described strategy requires you to hold LB then 
 press Y to select Browns to sweep them forward, then LB + B to get Reds into firing position, then 
 LB + A to get Greens to sweep around behind the enemy and then LB + X to sweep blues to get the 
 wounded. If the minions dont engage an enemy they come back to you, unless you remember to press 
 Y to set a rally point. But once you set a rally point you cant move them, unless you press B 
 to get them to return to you one at a time before sending them out again or holding B which recalls 
 all of your minions regardless of color. To control your minions in a way as to implement a strategy 
 you need to be able to micro manage your units and the controls simply dont accommodate. This 
 leads to a sloppy and unsatisfying tactic of selecting all of your minions regardless of what type 
 they are, and sweeping them en-mass at the enemy. But because the specialist minions are physically 
 weaker then the Browns you almost feel like not having them around until you hit a barrier that 
 forces you to use them, like fire, water, or a poison cloud. What hampers using strategy even more 
 are the enemies, whose behavior and presentation is more akin to an action game. They are easy 
 enough to defeat and so unorganized that you dont need to use strategy to defeat them. Its hard 
 to say if thats even a bad thing, because if you needed to use strategy to defeat them and couldnt 
 implement it because of the controls that would be unreasonably frustrating. But at the same time, 
 easy enemies that you sweep over is the epitome of boring.
  This reinforces the idea that Overlord is an action game with no action and a strategy game with 
 no strategy. So underneath all of its heart and soul, charm and atmosphere is disappointment and 
 a whole lot of boring. I cant suggest buying Overlord, when I can barely suggesting playing Overlord 
 to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssKick-U-Lator
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  there isnt too much to say about overlord but its enough to enjoy the game
  
  graphics arent bad, theyre simple but theres a lot too look at.
  sound is off a lot of the time, 
 voices for the most part are done very wekk but sound effect during cut scenes are terrible (if 
 theyre there at all) but dont worry, sound effects are jusr fine during game play!
  
  the game itself is what makes the game amazing. being able to control up to 50 minions at one time 
 is awesome. they pick up just about everything as long as its better than what they have and if 
 it has a heart beat, they will kill it! :D they break stuff, carry stuff, and kill stuff for you. 
 you just tell them where to go.. now dont think u dont do anything in this game because that is 
 not true
  
  4 colours to choose from.
  Browns - brute strength, brawlers! they pick up anything and whack ur enemies to death with it.
 
  Reds - (if it wasnt obvious) FIRE! they throw balls of fire, get enough in a group and watch ur 
 enemies die almost instantly in flames!!
  Greens - Stealth. they run, they jump, they smell. these guys are all about taking down those giant 
 brutes. tell them where to hide, and once that giant gets lured close enough, they will all be 
 jumping at him like a fat kid who can jump really well when he sees a pie.
  Blues - well, to be honest nobody like them.. if u can keep them alive (which is very hard) they 
 can ressurect your fallen minions and they can swim. but they die a lot
  
  so there u go, grab ur minions and start killing!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robot-Jesus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  Overlord is an Action/Adventure game. A surprisingly good one at that. The game centres around 
 controlling the Overlord and an army of goblin-like minions simultaneously to traverse the 3D gameworld 
 and defeat the heroes who slew the Overlord's predecessor. The controls are pretty simply and easy 
 to use once you get the swing of them. The idea as a whole of using minions or things under your 
 command to do tasks has been done before but not quite as successful as Overlord does it. Basically 
 you have 4 types of minions to command. Browns - The fighters, Reds - The archers, Greens - The 
 assassins and Blues - The Healers. The story starts off with the Overlord having no knowledge of 
 what happened. He awakes to a group of minons, who soon have him suited up and ready for domination. 
 The players task as the Overlord is to rebuild his Dark Tower to it's former glory, and give alittle 
 pay-back to the so called 'Heroes' (whom have all been tainted by the very acheviment that made 
 them heroes) that defeated his predecessor. Each of the former Heroes now represent one of the 
 7 deadly sins. You have a corruption level. This effects how your Overlord looks, sounds and how 
 people react to you. It also effects what spells you receive.
  
  The gameplay is so simply, yet it really delivers and really keeps you interested. You can select 
 any of the types of minions, or all of them at once. However, you can't choose 2 at once which 
 would of been helpful for some of the encounters. You can 'sweep' your minions by using the Right 
 thumb stick which lets you move them dependently. The minions don't have to have all the fun, you 
 can head into the battle waving you weapon around, smashing creatures into nothing. Now, there 
 are 3 kinds of weapons. Sword - The faster but weakest weapon, Axe - The medium speed and medium 
 damage (ths is the weapon you start out with) , and the Mace - The slow but strongest weapon (and 
 my weapon of choice) . There 3 kinds of armour, each better than the last. Steel armour (you start 
 with this one) , Durium and Arcanium. To make weapons or armour out of any of the metals, you need 
 to find the smelter for it. Once you have forged a piece of Armour or weapon, you can upgrade it, 
 by imbuing it with minions. Each type of minion has a different effect on it. The more of that 
 type of minion you put in, the better effect it has on it, but you do sacrifice your minions so 
 you will lose lifeforce or the type of minion you put in. You can only put so many minions into 
 the equipment until it becomes full. It would be at fair if you were running around with unlimited 
 health. All of this of course costs gold. Now what would any game like this be wthout magic? You 
 have 4 spells which can all be upgraded by finding them. Fire spells - Self-explanatory, Domination 
 spells - These are pretty useless, until you get the evil one. They just stop enemies attacking 
 you (the evil version makes them attack eachother) . Sheild spells - Again, self-explanatory and 
 finally, Minion spells - These spells beef up your minions and make them hit harder and take more 
 damage. The ultimate spell of each type that you get depends on your corruption level, if you have 
 low corruption, you get the good version of the spells, if you have a high level of corruption, 
 you get the evil spells.
  
  The graphics as you would expect for a next-gen game are great. Now they aren't Gears of War, but 
 the game isn't trying to look like it, so it isn't that bad if you can see afew choppy edges. The 
 lighting is great. The game even has its own theme which really mixes well with the fell of the 
 game.
  
  Now, the multiplayer. Not really that well thought out, well the survival is alright but the versus 
 is hardly passable. There are two types. Co-op survival, in which you just kick the crap out of 
 whatever the game throws at you with a buddy. The versus mode is pretty rubbish. Unfortunately. 
 But the game isn't really mutiplayer-esque anyway.
  
  The Good - Brilliant gamplay that keeps you enjoying the game the whole way through. Good graphics 
 and soundtrack. Witty comedy.
  
  The Bad - The achievements aren't really that challenging. It could be abit longer.
  
  The 
 Ugly - Multiplayer is not satisfying.
  
  Conclusion - Overlord is a game that combines rich enviroments and vivid graphics and soundtrack 
 with some the best gameplay on the 360. If you want some great fun, buy this game.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ugel1212
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  A great game that gets better and better with new minions, quests, and spells. I thought that i 
 would get bored after about 5 hours, but I still love the game. If you like Fable, this game will 
 probably be a big hit for you. The only bad thing is that you aren't strong enough, and you can't 
 upgrade any of your powers by gaining lvls. Otherwise, It is an addictive game that will keep you 
 coming back. You should at least rent it, to see if you like it.
  
  Note: The beggining is very easy and dont let that make you think that the entire game is about 
 pointlessly killing sheep and halflings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prof_Frink
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  A few years back there was a semi-successful title along with a sequel by the name of , the puzzle 
 aspect has been turned down, the combat turned way up and dark humor is introduced.
  
  The concept of the game is that the 'Overlord' has been awakened by the horde to replace the loss 
 of the last Overlord. As the game progresses, more types of minions are discovered that have special 
 abilities like swimming through water, breathing in poison and moving through flames. The story 
 itself is pretty thin and the mention of the different types of minions better explains the concept 
 of the game instead of the story. The fun aspect of the game is that it is a kind-of anti-. The 
 minion hordes are used to attack hobbits, dwarfs and even a paladin. It is revealed at the end 
 of the game why the Overlord is fighting these normally good guys, but it is an entertaining twist 
 at the game that is better scene that read. Needless to say, the main character is supposed to 
 be evil, but he never seems that evil.
  
  The game is ranked 'T' for Teen, so there is really no gore or truly things in the game. The game 
 is supposed to be a dark comedy, so adding more gore or violence would take away from that aspect. 
 The game also gives the player the option from being corrupt or playing it straight. The game will 
 give two different endings depending on the path chosen. But the real entertainment of the game 
 is controlling the hordes.
  
  Just like , the horde can be controlled with the right controller stick, but the game also a lock-on 
 command that will send the horde charging. If the horde was nothing but bruisers, this would be 
 fine, but the Red minions are artillery and the Blue ones are strictly medical support. The different 
 minions can be separated with a couple controller options, but the action happens so fast some 
 times that the minions cannot be separated fast enough and all too often there is nothing but minion 
 goo to show for it. Thankfully, the really stressful times have spawning pits in the area to restock 
 the horde.
  
  The game will take about twenty hours to finish and achievement points are not easy to come across. 
 This game has great replay value since it can be played good or evil and there are online options 
 where it is horde vs. horde. This function was not well laid out and there are not a lot of people 
 playing. It will be hard to get the 200 or so points available for online play. The game pretty 
 much cannot be defeated in a rent period unless some marathon sessions are played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btwin92
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  it is fun to get more minions by killing monsters. i love sending minions into the villagers houses 
 and letting them break everything inside it and when they are done the house starts to smoke. you 
 can sacrifice your minions to make better armor and weapons. and there is an unlimited supply of 
 monsters. so there is an unlimited supply off minions. and if you do not like the minions, you 
 do not have to use them. i do not always use minions. although the minions are very convineint. 
 so most of the time i do have my minions with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  NO control at all, plays like an old ps1 game, can look left or right or turn left or right.
  
  WHY?
  
  You swing your sword and it doesnt even remotely look like you hit anthing. No 
 physics at all.
  
  Just more crap released . Dont even bother renting this old feeling, irritating game. The little 
 Minions you control are just as irritating as not being able to go right or left.
  
  Exactly what you wanted im sure, out of a next generation game.
  
  xxxx
  xxxxx xxxx x xx 
 xxx xxx xx xxxx xx xx xx x x x xxx x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x
  x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x
  xx x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x xxxx x x x xxx x x x xxx xx x x x xxxxxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kagomesango
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I've just played overlord and I think it's great the graphics are great plus I love taking control 
 of the minions. My personal opinion about this game is that it is a great stress reliever for those 
 with stress in you lives (kids) it's fun taking your frustrations out on the game. I felt as if 
 I were the actual overlord with my army of minions doing as I say. I have to admit when I first 
 saw this game I wasn't that into it but once I played the game there was no stopping me. I'd really 
 recommend this game to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilight_King85
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 3:41 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun you are a overlord and you control all of these different minons!!!!!! 
 the graphics are great and so is the sound. you can learn different spells during the game and 
 you can get different minons...... you can get the standard the upgraded and stronger ones theres 
 one that can go in fire there is a whole bunch of them!!!! if you notice in the game your overlord 
 you play as looks like sauron from the lord of the rings trilogy!!!!!!!!!! Tis game is really fun 
 if i were you i would buy this but not everone will like but its  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeyore_bec
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  If you've ever played pikmin this game is very similar but its less cute.
  
  You have these minions that you can command to move, destroy and attack objects or enemies. You 
 can do some combat yourself but for most enemies you'll either need the help of your minions or 
 you can only use your minions to attack. There are four types of minions and each has their strengths 
 and weaknesses. You can increase the strength and defense of your minions by getting them to destroy 
 and find weapons and armor in things like jars, barrels and houses.
  
  Controlling your minions can be tricky. Its fairly easy to select the different types and get them 
 to just wreck havoc but getting them to do something specific can be frustrating at times (atleast 
 on the 360 version) and you'll probably lose quite a few just because of this. The game overall 
 is fairly easy. There are a couple of enemies and bosses that are tougher then most but its still 
 easy to figure out how to defeat them and almost all can be defeated just by sicking your minions 
 on them.
  
  There are also a few places where you can choose whether you want to be evil or good. I found this 
 kind of pointless seeing as how the main objectives kind of force you to be both evil and good 
 at times.
  
  You can spend a bit of time going back to places you've already been to defeat some minor enemies 
 and destroy things but there isn't much else to do outside of the main objectives. It's definitely 
 entertaining to watch your minions destroy things and hear some of the comments they make though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluebrad1974
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  Overlord is just plain fun. It is genuinely comical, and the minions really have character. The 
 art style matches the premise of the game really well. The graphics will suprise you as the game 
 progresses, in a good way. The gameplay consists of pretty much wreaking havoc every chance you 
 get. And you are rewarded in a variety of ways. Gold, weapons for your minions, magic and lifeforce 
 potions are the norm. While in your castle you can customize your tower, forge weapons, and arena 
 fight. Though these features aren't particularly deep, they still add to the overall experience. 
 Puzzles aren't overly difficult, and usually require your minions. There are 4 types of minions, 
 each with different abilities. Having the right minion type along with the right amount is key 
 to solving most puzzles. Boss fights are pretty unique as well as the bosses themselves. The only 
 shortcoming Overlord really has is that later in the game, precisely commanding your minions can 
 be tough. But this shouldn't keep anyone from thoroughly enjoying Overlord. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Overlord's premise is, you're evil, you got some minions, do evil things, but really you're doing 
 good things since the good Heros have been corrupted and your job is to wipe them out. Aiding you 
 in your quest are pikmin-esque goblin like dead zombie rabbit looking minions who will do whatever 
 you tell them to do including giving up their own life to extend yours. Gameplay: If you played 
 Pikmin 1 or 2 for the gamecube, you pretty much know what's going to be going on. You control lots 
 of little minions to pillage towns, kill enemies, and carry large objects so you don't have to 
 do crap. Pikmin was a very fun concept and while it's carried over to Overlord, that concept remains 
 fun. The only thing that I have really experienced thats frustrating about this (like those three 
 giant bird heads early in Pikmin 1) is if you're sweeping all your minions with the right stick, 
 sometimes they start to destroy random objects rather than attack you, and often its hard to sweep 
 them to the next thing after they've killed something because they'll come back to you first. Other 
 than that minor little gripe, the game is easy to control and downright fun.
  
  Graphics: Nothing here to right home about. They look like a game from early in the 360's library. 
 Up to today's standards, the graphics aren't spectacular. There are some good effects, but textures 
 are a little muddy and the surrounding grass and bushes have sorta a weird outline to them. But 
 nevertheless, they get the job done.
  
  Sound: Overlord has a nice soundtrack accompanied by a pretty funny voice acting job. It's very 
 cartoonish which suits the game well since it doesn't take itself very seriously. The minions sound 
 like you'd imagine, crazy little high pitched dead rabbit looking goblin things. You can help but 
 laugh when they let out a sigh of relief after they drink something and start peeing everywhere.
 
  
  Value: $60 bucks is a little much for this game, especially when the PC version is something like 
 $40. But 360 owners should be used to this by now. My personal opinion is that it should of been 
 $50 but whatever, what can you do?
  
  Tilt: In the end, Overlord is a very good game. It's not the best game you'll ever play, but if 
 you're looking for a fun game that doesn't take itself too seriously, to spend some time with, 
 Overlord won't do you wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_ivader
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is a truely fun game to play. Dont believe the ratings of ign and gamespot, this game 
 deserves a much better rating than a 7. Like i said, its just fun to play, for all of us who like 
 seeing a mini army come and wipe and pilage everything in sight, which, i mean who doesnt like 
 that? If your looking for a hard core RPG experience, look elseware, this game will disappoint 
 you. But, if your just looking for a fun game to play that you'll defidently get your value out 
 of, then Overlord is a must play. The graphics look alot like fable graphics, which is a very good 
 thing. The sound is good, but some of the lines the NPC's repeat get anoying after the 100th time 
 of hearing them. The rumors that the controlls are a bit difficult, well they are true, but for 
 those of us who actually stick with it and are willing to give a boss fight a second chance after 
 losing, you'll quickly master the controlls, and will have no problem. I think that the story is 
 great, you get to watch your pathetic ruined tower become the great dark tower it once was, and 
 in the proccess you get to loot and pilage your way through lots of different levels. This game 
 is suprisingly deep also, with four different minion types, and the guard post function, which 
 if used correctly, can turn a slaughter of your minions into a well organized battle. This game 
 isnt all about your main charecter, its about your minions to. For those of you who want a game 
 like fable, where your hero goes and bashes the enemys, dont buy this game. If you dont use your 
 minions, you wont be successfull at all. That is the problem with people saying this game is to 
 hard, if you keep your main charecter back as a spellcaster/commander, and let your minions fight, 
 its actually quite easy, but it still gives a good challenge. As for the word that this game is 
 boring, i find that completely untrue, with always plenty of quests to complete, more dungeons 
 to transverse, and more wilderness to explore all the time. You do have to be the right type of 
 person to like this game though, like i said hard core RPGers will be disappointed by the lack 
 of RPG elements in the game. But at the VERY least this game is worth a rent to see if your that 
 type of person . If you are, you will absolutely enjoy this game. The multiplayer is pretty good, 
 and with a split screen update comming it will improve it greatly. It is defidently a game that 
 you will replay through atleast twice, possibly more than that. Final thoughts:
  Overlord is very fun to play, and defidently isnt boring. Its absolutely worth atleast a rent, 
 and i enjoyed it so much that i bought it. I bet you will to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coopenator
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  For anyone out there that remembers a little game for the Sega Saturn called The Horde: you get 
 to play with the little annoying gremlins that used to come and raid your crops like clockwork.
 
  The game itself is pretty straightforward Action/RPG-ish fare: you, the evil anti-hero, get to 
 run around doing your standard stuff. Repair the castle, collect the armor supplies, slay the bad 
 guys , get a wench, etc., etc. The difference here is the army of little helpers that you accrue 
 as the game goes on.
  I have yet to experience something as satisfying in a game was sweeping a mass of 20+ minions over 
 a wall and onto an unsuspecting critter. The minions absolutely MAKE this game and most definitely 
 cater to the megalomaniacal side in all of us.
  While the controls do get a little tricky towards the game's end (particularly while trying to 
 wrangle four different groups in some semblance of a strategic pattern) , there are still hours 
 and hours to just run around with your little army and wreak havoc on as much of the wildlife as 
 you feel like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volgin11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is a cool game with better good and evil plots than fable it is a bit boring at times 
 and the multi player is good but would be better if there was n lag and the achievements for multi 
 player are to much and getting 10,000 minions who honestly needs that many for any game. i would 
 recommend this game to anyone but maybe not a guy got 780 in a two days and the minions and story 
 can get to you after awhile and ill tell you now the blues are the worst thing you will ever get 
 in any game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmul82692
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Quite frankly, with the varied comments on reviews, i would recommend if you are thinking of buying 
 this game, rent it first. Here's a breakdown:
  
  Graphics: Gameplay graphics are a fable-style, and came out gorgeous. Doesn't exactly meet it's 
 full next-gen capabilities, but is in no way shape or form terrible. The overlord appears mildly 
 stiff, but it's hardly something you'll pay attention to.
  
  Sound: There's nothing that fills my heart with warmth more than hearing a group of minions screaming 
 FOR THE MASTER , FOR ME or DIE . It truly makes you feel like you are the overlord, and they will 
 do ANYTHING for you.
  
  Gameplay: Extremely fun. Forging items and armor is more enjoyable than it would seem, while upgrading 
 your tower and fighting in the arena is fun. The constant complaining about the camera angle is 
 odd, a simple push of the left bumper fixes it on your back. Minion control is fun, yet not too 
 complex.
  
  Value: A little steep at $60 while the computer version is cheaper. It's a wonderful game, but 
 if you don't receive it as a gift or have a lot of money, you can probably buy the computer version 
 or a price drop.
  
  Overall, i found this game a masterpiece, and experienced the glitches almost nonexistent, while 
 many reviewers had constant complaints about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpshin
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  If you're toying with the idea of picking up Overlord, chances are you probably can't go too wrong 
 by doing just that. If you enjoy hack and slash RPG types like Fable and have a fondness for games 
 that don't take themselves too seriously like Black and White you'll probably find yourself right 
 at home here.
  
  Now on the flip side of that if you enjoy in depth RPGs with advanced items and huge inventories 
 and a wealth of rare and coveted weapons, potions, etc. you might not get your fill here. Furthermore 
 if you have your hopes set to become a truly evil incarnation that sets flame to his foes and damns 
 those that would ask for help, again you might be a little disappointed.
  
  Overlord is an overall fun game that lets you fill the roles of an evil... well Overlord set on 
 rebuilding his tower and getting even with a few (now corrupt) heroes. By this point you probably 
 already know some of the more novel aspects of Overlord, most notable of which are the minions. 
 The minion system works very well allowing you to control up to 50 minions during the later levels 
 of the game.
  
  Your minions are comprised of four unique types of minions that each serve a purpose and have their 
 own strengths and weaknesses. The traits of the minions will often have you tackling puzzles that 
 call for the right use of the right minions. For instance you may have to have your minions carry 
 an item across a fire engulfed grate. Now using your brown minions will result in a rather large 
 barbecue, however using your red minions which are resistant to fire will allow you to proceed.
 
  
  You are also able to upgrade both your minions and your armor/weapons to some degree. Your minions 
 will take items left by fallen foes which will increased their resilience and damage. The system 
 for this is very intuitive, most of the time your well equipped minions will be the first into 
 the fight while the weaker minions trail behind in an attempt to take less damage from the brunt 
 of the fight. Minions that are in need of upgrade are generally the first to pick up items also, 
 so you don't have to worry too much about getting three or four uber minions while the rest are 
 lacking.
  
  Your armor and weapons can be upgraded in the game too. Throughout the game you'll find smelters 
 that will produce more effect armor and weapons. Once you've created those items by spending gold 
 you can then upgrade them by sacrificing your minions. Sacrificing different types of minions will 
 add different attributes to your armor, for example sacrificing a green minion on a weapon will 
 add an increased chance to critical with the weapon. So overall the item/upgrade system works well 
 without weighing the game down too much by having you spend endless hours searching for rare loot.
 
  
  The game has a solid story that works well and in most cases would be well received. It does however 
 fall short on the evil end of things. While you're supposedly the poster child for the maladjusted 
 and evil you'll still find your self off on some of the standard quests found in any number of 
 other nameless RPGs. You'll be sent off to find food for your villagers, or protect them from some 
 other evil invaders, etc. This is all well and good and you'll find that you'll have the opportunity 
 to perform some evil twists with many of these but the story just doesn't convey the sense of evil 
 that it was built up to deliver. Most of evil found in the game falls more to the comical side 
 of things, which isn't necessarily a bad thing so long as you weren't expecting some evil epic.
 
  
  So overall I think Overlord is a great game to pick up, and you should enjoy it hopefully as much 
 as I did so long as you go into with the right idea about its presentation. There are tons of neat 
 touches throughout the game that may add to replay value such as being able to beat it completely 
 evil or completely good (well as good as an evil overlord can be) and of course the 360 version 
 offers the standard load of of achievements that can be quite a bit of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elikal
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 27, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Once more a game which promises us that we can be evil, but we can't. Well, slightly. Even in Dungeon 
 Keeper the moral was clear: Heroes invaded your dungeon and essentially you were defending your 
 home. In this case, you CAN slaughter all the peasants, but you are warned it would be better to 
 get them as followers. I don't know, maybe I lack the expertise in being evil, but I didnt feel 
 a big difference from being any nameless hero and the Overlord here.
  
  Sure, the minion handling is nice, as is the graphics, but I must admit I got bored somewhere in 
 the middle, when it was more or less always the same. I didnt see any alternatives from one set 
 path, so there wasn't really any strategic challange, it felt more like solving a riddle, like 
 finding the right things to do in the right order, as the developer wanted. After the first third, 
 when you go astray from this one, correct solution, you fail quite fast, which makes is kinda like 
 the donkey with the carrot. I didn't really feel in a world I did conquer, more like in a huge 
 maze. It is MUCH leg work, going up and back again. Unfortunately, all levels are reset, unless 
 you solve them completely, which is also tiresome.
  
  Overall it was enjoying, but I stopped playing at the last third, when the entire gameplay was 
 too repetitive. It may suit a younger audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conorJgeraghty
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  The game itself is interesting and different with you taking the role of the bad guy and killing 
 the heroes instead of the usual role of being the hero yourself. The games main difference is that 
 you no longer need to work your butt off through out the game, you can get your horde of loyal 
 minions to do your dirty work instead!! SFX is good with back ground screams and clashes through 
 out as your minions cause chaos. Ambient music changes through out to set the mood, from cheery 
 music in the lush hills to haunting melodies in the forests. There is not alot of gore but a huge 
 kill rate. Your own combat skills are basic with 3 basic strikes and one power strike after a successful 
 3X strike. You minions combat is completely AI and is mostly a multitude of hacks and slashes as 
 your minions completely overrun your enemies. The game on a whole is not difficult and you basically 
 need to figure out what to do next on the more difficult areas and use your minions skills to beat 
 bigger enemies like Rock Giants. Over all I say that this game is GOOD and would hope for a sequel 
 in the future. My only prolems with the game is the small amount of upgrades you can gain for your 
 self but you can upgrade your tower with no effect to your gaming expirience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewmodulecod
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  What is Overlord? Overlord is a spoof of the classic RPG, instead of a valiant hero fighting the 
 forces of evil, you are the forces of evil fighting the not so valiant heroes (game needs you to 
 feel like you're fighting villains, go figure) with your personal army of mischievous minions ready 
 to burn and pillage at all times. The minion idea is very good, but still more flawed than it should 
 be, clumsy controls make you feel like a drunken elephant rather than an evil overlord, I concur 
 with Gamespot's idea that the tasks seem often too extravagant for the poor control. Speaking of 
 which the tasks are often extraordinarily stupid and fit for the good, heroes open doors peacefully, 
 bad guys blow them up, if I'm so high and mighty can't I summon a demon to rip a gate to pieces 
 or something, honestly, it hurts my pride to have an entire evil army thwarted by a closed gate, 
 it's like a Darwin award or something. The story is basically a fairy tale version of Crackdown, 
 kill some people and your problems are solved, although the devolopers painfully manage a small 
 plot twist or two, they simply need more, it's not like Oblivion where the story was great and 
 the gameplay superb. The sad thing is that the minions could almost drag this game out of the mediocore 
 level, but even their sadistic humor, and psychosis can't save it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxmax1234
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Whell, what can you really say about it, Its a lot of fun, you know getting into the story and 
 the who's and what's. But after i defeated Oberon, i was just bored. It way to many puzzeling, 
 Like you need the Green to get the blue, but i couldnt find the green anywhere. So i needed to 
 go on gamespot Faq's to find it, wich ussually is my last resort when im pretty bored with the 
 game and i dont wanna go on doing it myself. And its just boring when your playing on a SDTV, nothing 
 special, no surround, magical great graphics (wich arent found on a HDTV two) so i whas pretty bored 
 out on it, atleast if was good for some 250GP, not too much either, i just dont feel the need to 
 play on, like i feel with TESO or GoW. So didn't really played it anymore after 4 day's... atleast 
 i can trade it with somebody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  It seems wrong, but there is an easy way to label this game. It is almost like a dungeon keeper 
 version of Pikmin. This is not an attack on any of the three games. Here you are just the average 
 evil overlord, ready to take the war to others. This is more then just a simple way to get rich, 
 it has a few challenges you won't know until you get there, and all of that just begs to replay 
 the game. You take control of your little demons and there you decide to to pillage, plunder, or 
 aid those in need. I did tell you that you are supposed to be evil.... right?
  
  The graphics are really nicely done. The levels are filled with challenges, and also with choices. 
 In the end, it is your choie what you will do to be the ultimade (bad) boy. Even though the game 
 is very open, it does have a few lineair limitations. This is not a bad thing, as the raid back 
 and forth from other places just adds to the fun. I reckon that this game will come with a defenite 
 Overlord 2.
  
  Controlling your minions like Pikmins will add to the fun and the challenge. All this adds on to 
 the 360, because this game clearly shows how much fun the GC boys have been having. Still, this 
 is not a Pikmin rip-off. It has similarities, but more important, it has differences, and those 
 are an important part of the pillage fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moemoney14
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  All i can say is that, WOW! This game is very good. The graphics aren't all that great but their 
 the regular next gen graphics. So I really like the graphics and visuals and also textures! The 
 entertainment is so funny but yet very good! The minions are the very hilarious part of the game, 
 the action and killing the enemies with the minions are very funny and it makes you want to play 
 the game more and to tell you I really think this game is werth buying. The sounds are histerical! 
 How the minions sound are perfect and the overlord grinnings sound is very suitable for an overlord! 
 Now for the gameplay that's were it kinda dissapoints me a little. The story is very good for the 
 genre of the game but the controlling of the minions wasn't all that great, and the camera angle 
 sucked! So if you have a big deal with camera angles and very little details this game isn't for 
 you! But the positive thing about this game is that it's very long! It's about 25-30 hours of gameplay 
 for single player which is to me very long. Overall This game is long with great entertainment 
 and humor, but these little things that make a difference could bring down the rating of the game! 
 So my opinion is buy it if you want to see the minions and be EVIL! But don't buy it if your very 
 specific on things in a game. If you liked this review you can add me as a friend and i accept 
 everyone as a friend so you can look at my other reviews and check out my profile to to see if 
 you like anything that i like! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSOROCKS555
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  Welcome to the next generation of on-field commanding. In this game you are the Overlord, an evil 
 creature bent on destroying the 7 heroes who destroyed you last time during your evil reign. However 
 you are never alone in this game, you have your trusty minions to protect you while you burn the 
 crap out of everything else. This game play seems very much the same to anyone who has played Pik 
 min. You are not powerless and may help your minions but you never want to get into a battle without 
 them. Once you start to get tired of pillaging the village or capturing servants you may return 
 to your tower where you may upgrade with items you have found along your journey, or you may want 
 to spent some time with your Mistress. However every game comes with it's bugs and it's very easy 
 to get lost without a map in the game. Also you may get stuck in a corner and are forced to restart 
 the console or give up. All in all this game is a great game and worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladesmen21
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Okay now overlord is supposedly the new pikmin but heres the thing.... Pikmin was actually more 
 fun than this
  
  To be perfectly honest the game is VERY LINEAR you end up doing the same stuff over and over. Fight 
 this guy ,collect this, kill a peasent, drink a nice glass of ale. It just gets dull dull dull.
 
  
  The humour in the game is rather nice but we dont play games for laughs now do we?
  
  The combat is plain all you can do is cast 1 outtave 4 spells in your arsenal or swing an axe, 
 sword, or mace.
  
  Also gaining life force to summon minions is not very fun.
  
  Customizing your tower is a nice touch but its not in depth enough to really add much to the game 
 sicne your actions infuance how the tower looks more than objects do.
  
  Voice acting is sumwhat top notch if whiny voices are your cup of tea.
  
  Graphics are nice 
 but could have been a little sharper but they're good for the setting
  
  The only difference bewteen evil and really evil is the spells and what people say to you in towns.
 
  
  Now it is a fun little gem but the gem in question is not that shiny
  
  In other words its worth a rental onl\y buy it if you love it but it just doesnt have enough gamplay 
 wise to keep you intrested 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathman7
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Ohhhhh, I don't know where to begin with this one! The story was perfectly rolled out. I perfectly 
 enjoyed terrorizing civilians and enemies with supernatural powers, and sending minions to bash 
 their heads in! The gameplay couldn't be better, Graphics and sound: perfect! Difficulty was just 
 right; not too easy-not too hard, kind of addapted to the player's skill level. The time it takes 
 to get used to the camera controls was painful but was worth being patient for. Being able to forge 
 your own armor was fun but costly, you would have to save your money from the beggining to get 
 the arcanium set right away! I would reccomend this game to any Fantasy-adventure fan with the 
 fullest regard for the designers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaminretrostyle
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  I've been looking forward to Overlord since I first heard about it, and perhaps that's why I was 
 so disappointed in the final product. The graphics are what you would expect from a game on the 
 360, and the minions are actually brilliantly programmed. Yes, they will walk into fire and burn 
 to death, or water and drown, but that's because evil minions, by their nature, will throw their 
 lives away if their evil overlord tells them to. to really understand how brilliantly the ai is 
 programmed, take a look at what your minions are wearing after you've been playing for an hour. 
 They'll pick up things that are useful or that they just happen to like and equip them as armor 
 or weapons. At one point I realized several minions had made hats out of the rats they'd defeated 
 earlier, while one was wearing a pot as a helmet and another was wearing a chef's hat. The games 
 humor is what you'd expect, it is very cheesy but can, at times, be pretty funny. The game sound 
 works well, and the voice acting is pretty much on par with Fable. In fact, the game is very, very 
 reminiscent of fable in a lot of ways.
  
  So why did I give the game a 6.5? There are two tragic flaws and one minor annoyance in the game. 
 The first, and the most unforgivable, is that it become pretty boring after just a few hours of 
 play. It basically comes down to entering an area, wandering around until you can't go further, 
 and then sweeping your minions to a point where they can turn a wheel. You can use the minions 
 to destroy a great deal of the environment, but that's only enteretaining for so long before it, 
 too, becomes redundant. Before I get to the second major flaw, the minor annoyance is the quests. 
 They're given to you as many as six at a time... but you have to solve them in a particular order, 
 because you'll need something from the first to fulfill the second. Also, they can be really vague. 
 For example You'll need to find the red minions, they MUST be around here somewhere. This, after 
 you've already unlocked maybe six or seven LARGE areas in the game. And that's all the direction 
 you get on the quest until you stumble on them in an area that, surprise surprise, you'd never 
 been too and wasn't anywhere near the area you got the quest.
  
  The seond major flaw with the game is... you just aren't evil. For example, you DO fight hobbits 
 in the game... but they are hobbits that have apparently gone mad and are attacking, killing, and 
 enslaving the human population. Some of the horribly evil acts you perform are: freeing enslaved 
 humans, rescuing a damsel in distress, rescuing a villages stolen food supply. Yup... you're as 
 evil as a puppy. And about as powerful as one. When you're wandering around looking for those red 
 minions (for example) it would be really helpful to grab someone and ask if they'd seen them... but 
 you can't initiate a conversation with anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colossi_killer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 3, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Apart from frequent loading areas, no maps, sometimes annoying dialogue and the fear of the reported 
 game ending bugs I have nothing but positive things to say about _Overlord_ thus far. The humor 
 is a little cheesy, a little silly but, keep in mind when you play it that it is a teen rated game. 
 The minions are loyal but kind of stupid so take care - they'll die for you, bring you health and 
 treasure, but they'll also walk right into fire and burn alive, drown in water, try to fight enemies 
 they can't hurt, etc. The controls and the camera can work against each other sometimes. The Gamespot 
 review was right about how the actions required to get through an area, etc, sometimes seem to 
 require more precision than the controls are capable of - but, that said, they do for the most 
 part become fairly intuitive after lots of practice and a little experimentation. As for reviews 
 claiming the camera is horrible and uncontrollable, the push of one button gets me my bearings 
 back and the press of another a few times can help you get a different angle if you want. It really 
 isn't a problem if you figure it out. The level designs are cool, gameplay and areas remind me 
 somehow of Ratchet and Clank, I'm not sure why. The music is great, voice acting fine except for 
 some annoying repetitiveness in places. You can't jump but that's no big deal - no real reason 
 to need to - I don't see why that's a complaint for some gamers. This is an action adventure not 
 an open-ended RPG ie. _Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion_. It is innovative in its own style and gives 
 you enough to do and interesting ways to do it all - and you have paths for you (or your minions) 
 to do it. The sights and sounds are pretty good, beautiful graphics. Enemy designs are pretty original, 
 especially in Evernight, which I found breathtaking. The story works well, one thing connects to 
 another to another, etc. The characters all look great, some of them quite cute, even if they are 
 evil. Some of the dialogue is pretty funny. I think the gameplay is possibly its greatest highlight 
 - I've never played much of Fable and never got to try Pikmin - I think the gameplay is really 
 innovative and it's different from anything else out there, at least that I've seen. The puzzles 
 can be fun even if a little on the tough/tedious side. There are times there is more than one way 
 to do things, though. The big fights often work that way, too. Each playthrough doesn't have to 
 be the same either, at least two times through anyway. It's what I like to refer to as a quirky 
 action adventure. _Overlord_ is at least worth downloading the free demo. That's what I did before 
 buying it. Personally, I think this game is great and would recommend it to action adventure lovers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azazel005
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Being evil in game is not the revolution it once was. Many titles give you the chance to play morally 
 ambigous or even downright wicked characters. Overlord manages to do it with enough style to be 
 unique however.
  
  As a visually Sauron-esqe dark lord, you commence leading your growing army of fiercely loyal gremlins 
 about the world, crushing the now deeply corrupt heroes that thwarted your predecessor (each hero 
 quite charmingly corrupted by one of the infamous seven deadly sins) .
  
  While the controls and camera iniatially can seem quite cumbersome after some time and practice 
 they can be extremely inutuitive and effective, by the time that I made my second run though I 
 was more then capable of switching and moving minions into suitable places, setting ambushes on 
 the fly and keeping my boys alive. That sadly may be too long for most players to be expected to 
 endure and it's true that the camera in particular can drag you into tight spots, cause minions 
 do go sweeping in the wrong direction and ruin best laid plans.
  
  The level and boss designs though are quite clever, and allow you to continually put your horde 
 to good use, and while the game visually may not be up to the standards of some titles on a technical 
 level, the designs and characters are all very lively. The Overlod is imposing and the minions 
 cute but vicous looking, the ancillary characters and enemies can leave a bit to be desired but 
 nothing overly detracting.
  
  Perhaps the moments of wonderful voice acting help carry some of that visual. Some of the minion 
 voice work is very charming, and the "head" minion's voice work is excellent. its good that those 
 are the ones you here most because the rest are an exceedingly mixed bag from teeth grating to 
 typical.
  
  Most alarmingly to me, was that the games plot and progression is very moody and well presented. 
 As the story progresses, you feel more drawn in then you'd expect too given your lighthearted comic 
 book villian like beginnings. The final stages of the game are of paricular note for carrying some 
 strong moments.
  
  Technical flaws and control frustrations wil likely be overlooked by any RPG fan excited about 
 controlling evil little monsters building their own evil tower and supressing a city of peasants, 
 for those of us in that boat Overlord delivers something to remember, there are times when you 
 will feel that you can't be evil enough or affect the game world enough, but there is still a great 
 deal of joy to be had in what you can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballroompirate
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Some people might remember the xbox title Fable and the gamecubes title Pikman, Overlord brings 
 the best of both worlds and more and brings it the 360 and PC.
  
  Overlord starts off when you the Overlord is awaken by a bunch of minions which later after the 
 quick training session, minions are basically your army in a way the do your bidding from ether 
 pillaging, killing, gathering or in some ways make you get a quick laugh at the slaughter of helpless 
 sheep or villagers. As you progress through the world of Overlord which btw looks pretty amazing 
 (basically an upgraded version of fable or a fantasy tale) which can go from a local village to 
 a elven forest full of rabid mystical creatures that arent so cute up close. Once in awhile inbetween 
 going from zone to zone you can visit your tower which can be upgraded to suit your evil or not 
 so evil persona and you can test your fighting skills within the dungeon which as you progress 
 through out the game you can fight the monsters that you come across. At first some people may not 
 notice the funny dialogue inbetween your minions which to me is one of the high lights of the game 
 which can give you a chuckle inbetween the brutal acts of committing evil deeds or lesser evil 
 deeds. The replay value can be up there since you have to play at least twice to get the majority 
 of the unlockables and a few other achievements which most likely you wont be able to get in just 
 one play through which is nice to see both sides of evil for once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qbell
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 7, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Alot to do. Kind of linear, Alot of getting lost, Alot of fun when your not lost
  
  pretty graphic
  
  happy to have played/bought it
  
  alittle buggy (missed some achievements 
 when i should get them)
  
  good humor (not the ice cream)
  
  Finished the game and im going back to earn some achievements but im not starting from the beginning.
 
  
  very pikmin like maybe 20+ hours of game play
  
  Haven't played the multi yet GG
  
  If you play it make sure to be ether 100% evil or 100% good. might be easier to be 100% good 
 just start the game over if you killed someone by accident! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackinkMG
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 7, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  My Tilt. I guess this would be that I came into the game with a very positive mind towards it because 
 I used to play Dungeon Keeper and the same team made this from what I heard. Other then that its 
 a very unique game so you kind of have to have an open mind when you approach it.
  
  Gameplay. Very unique. Minion combat and Minion Riddles, very little is the actual Overlord. But 
 you control the minions so you still stay the true center of whats happening.
  
  Graphics. Good for what they were doing, I defiantly have no complaints, But there are maybe a 
 few things they could have worked on. Just nothing that specifically hit me as frustrating.
  
  Sound. Good enough but not a highlight for sure. Value. I have not yet played online, because 
 people I have found are rarely playing online as well. But the single is a lot of fun the first 
 time around; I wouldnt imagine it would be a play over kind of game.
  
  Good game and long enough to be worth buying, unless you have plenty of time to play it as a rental 
 I guess. Would be a good one to borrow from a friend thats finished with it. I'm sure they would 
 be willing because beating the game once over is most the fun here.
  
  INK Black~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 7, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Overlord's camera is crap. mainly because it's virtually non existent. you can center ur vision 
 with the right trigger, but that also happens to be one button that send your minions off to attack... so 
 it's fortunate you pretty much just decimate everything you see in the game, but particularly in 
 boss battles this can be problematic. it doesn't make much sense to sacrifice minions just so u 
 can reset the camera to have to in turn run back to a portal and spawn more minions.
  
  it's almost like the game is fighting you as much as bosses from time to time.
  
  that aside 
 the concept is novel and implemented well. all the mechanics are there and the game has a fantastical 
 design on par with the better lord of the rings games.... if you can manage to see it.
  
  it's worth a rental, but little more, unless you're really an evil overlord yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosXing
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Some people go through life as big, hulking brutes who bully people around. For the rest of us, 
 we can live vicariously though Overlord. You play as a large, armored tough guy with little gremlin-like 
 monsters called Minions who do the bullying for you. Life is sweet, except that several heroes 
 gone awry are inadvertently outdoing your do-badding, so you're got to set them straight by defeating 
 each one.
  
  The game doesn't take that long to get through. It's linear, with the only deviation in content 
 being whether you chose to be super evil or just evil. The downside of this is that if you're aiming 
 to be completely evil and slip up by doing one not-so-evil action, you'd better reload from your 
 last save, or it's no 100% evil (or 100% not-so-corrupt!) achievement for you. The saves themselves 
 are checkpoint oriented, so sometimes that can mean if you want to fix a mistake, you have to start 
 all over again from that last save which may have been a half-hour of playing ago. It can be tedious.
 
  
  Also, the camera angle gets stuck sometimes when you've gotten yourself and your Minions into an 
 odd corner or two. Also, the camera can swing around worse than a drunk after being spun while 
 blindfolded for a shot at a pi&ntilde; ata. The right analog stick is used to sweep your minions 
 to whatever location you desire, so it couldn't have been spared for camera control.
  
  Once you spend an hour getting over the camera, the game is highly enjoyable. Minions smashing 
 almost anything up that you command them to come in contact with, and they pick up their own weapons 
 and armor. The four types of minions (basic grunt fighters, fire-tossers, healers, and assassins) 
 are fun to use individually and in combination to overcome various enemies and obstacles. As the 
 Overlord, you barely have to step in to fight yourself because your little guys do all the dirty 
 work for you, though when you do step in to smash some heads it's very gratifying. The storyline 
 is well written and dialogue is always interesting. The cut scenes never take away from the gameplay.
 
  
  Overlord is an original concept that could have used a bit more tweaking to get those sweet spots 
 even sweeter. But after awhile, you'll probably be too busy pillaging and burning to care about 
 it's faults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelord20000
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 5, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  In Overlord you play as well, an overlord. You use the skills of your minions (as well as your 
 own talents) to conquer an entire kingdom world. And overall, is worth your time. The basic gameplay 
 is a good idea, a RPG with RTS elements. Controling your minions is for the most part easy. They 
 can handle themselves a good amount of time anyways. It's a lot of fun watching them tear up anything 
 in their ways. The system simply lets your point and click. You can also sweep them (a more specific 
 method) , but the loss of the one of the thumbsticks limits the camera. You can also attack yourself, 
 but not having minions on your side in battle is too difficult. But its nice you can support your 
 minions in battle. This game could stand to be more evil. This is a T game, so don't expect to 
 be doing anything too nasty. Although the game is focused on evilness, you can be good-evil or 
 evil-evil. Both ways play pretty much the same. But it will effect the outcome of the some of the 
 charecters and places, your overlord's appearance, and the tower. But don't expect for there to 
 be much of difference on the second playthrough. The graphics are good, not inspiring. Don't expext 
 to be wowed or disgusted by the graphics. The multiplayer is poor for the most part, a thing you 
 should stay away from. The one-on-one and co-op modes seem unfinished, don't expect to be play 
 them for more than a few games. Both of these experience some bad lag and extreme lack of value. 
 The lack of maps and varriety makes sure that the game gets old quickly. You can't take your personal 
 overlord online (disapointing) . This game is a great blend of RPG and RTS that overall, is an enjoyable 
 game. For most, this is a rental. I don't recommend buying this game, but it is worth your time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rick-garza
Rating: 3.9
Date: Aug 3, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Well the game play is'nt what we all are used to. With the Next Gen Consoles Most Games are Dual 
 Stick. This one is single stick and Doesnt take time at all to get used to if you've played alot 
 of socom on ps2 . Well You go up against Various Enemies in this game and you can control 4 types 
 of minions Well Groups of minions. you have your pillagers and ten your special minions.. your 
 pillage minions cant swim.. actually no minions can go in water except for your blue ones or they 
 drown and you lose them. the first boss battle was way to childish for me to enjoy. it was just 
 a fat guy eating and rolling over you. I didnt give this game time at all to grow on me.. its a 
 fun game in a kid sort of way.. but the things i do like is the dungeon matches and the tactics 
 you can do with your minions and also sacrifice your minions to upgrade your armor, weapons, and 
 helmet.. you can actually have good strategies with them which is very good for gameplay..
  
  Graphics:
  Well me and my gamer friends debate on graphics, But i say it Has more of a Regular 
 xbox feel to it and looks very similar to Fable except a more cheesy version for a next gen game 
 its horrible looking, Its more of something that we would like to see on game cube, ps2 or even 
 the xbox.
  it has its glitches here and there.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is the game is okay its not really fit for surround, they have somethings in the game 
 that sound off.
  
  Value:
  The replay value is not good at all. Its more of a rent then play then take back and never touch 
 it again, and its honestly not worth 60 dollars.
  
  Tilt:
  All and all its worth a try just to see if you like it, but I did'nt get into this game hardcore 
 i just played it for 2 hours and took it back to Gamestop.
  But if you enjoy endless mediocre graphics with tasteless retarded humor then this game is for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: groundfx8
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 3, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Its a fun game but i can get old fast if you repetedly do the same thing... some of the game is 
 boaring and some of it is too hard to control... Graphics are good enough.. not quite evil enough 
 and it gets very repetitive.. .Although the story line is very good it is not long enough to get 
 really addicted to playing it... and there are not enough heros to fight and even when u do fight 
 them its really easy. the sounds in the game are very good.. do not have enough situtations were 
 u are almost dead. They could have had more upgrades and more types of minions more places to go... 
 some things they brought in this game came too late and by the time they came u had no time to 
 enjoy them overall overlord was very good while it lasted but once the story is over you just cant 
 have as much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaguar1994
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  Overlord a game which makes you think but is very good.
  My favorite part is the minions they may seem weird/stupid but are very smart funny and strong. Listening 
 to there comments funny but dose get repetitive. As being the overlord you face many challenges 
 but your main goal is to wipe out the seven heros who once killed you. Being a [fantasy] RPG you 
 also have many mini quests and your actions will either strike fear into others or make them fell 
 safe as you pass them. You also have your own tower which later in the game you can upgrade it. You 
 will face many different creatures like serpents and bloody unicorns in four places you start at 
 Mellow Hills and as you progress you unlock the other three.
  Overall its one of my favorites you must try it.
  
  good: graphics, sound, story line, the length 
 can go for as long as you like its like Fable and oblivion
  
  Bad: has a few glitches, minions comments get repetitive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PapaGlide
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 29, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is a game where you are chosen as the dark lord where you control minions and wreck havoc 
 across the land. The game is very similar to the popular Nintendo game Pikmin.
  
  You play as the overlord of evil who controls little devils or known as the minions who help you 
 with combat like killing villagers or any enemies that cross your path and for puzzles like making 
 them move a statue that requires a certain amount of minions. The beginning does a great job in 
 actually explaining how to use them properly which makes the game actually know what your doing 
 making it more fun. The game's setting reminds me of another game Oblivion. The areas are pretty 
 much fantasy as what you would expect in a medieval time. The controlls are perfect with the 360 
 but sometimes it makes me wondering why the hell all my minions dying. Sometimes there actually 
 the obstacle. Carelessly, a minon will wander gettting killed in a danger zone. Some will run right 
 inot traps. The list goes on and on.
  
  I think the game tries too hard to be funny b/c every once in a while a minion will fart and they'll 
 giggle killing people. Its pretty stupid. The story's layout is more of like choosing a quest to 
 complete similiar to fable leading to another challenge. The achievement list is quick simple. 
 Beat the game get the points.
  
  The game even features multiplayer mode for Xbox Live. The games are survival mode, Slaughter which 
 is to kill your opponent, and Pillage which is gain the most gold. Its gives something to what 
 your paying for.
  
  Overall Its worth a purchase cause killing people may be evil buts its fun when you have minions 
 to back you up.
  
  GOOD
  
  The graphics can get a bit glitchy but there still good in my book. The game is a good length.
 
  Controls are solid
  Innovation is key just like Pikmin
  Similarity to games like Oblivion, Pikmin, Fable reminds you how the game is fun.
  Minions killing 
 people is tight
  
  BAD
  
  AI has a mind of its own
  Can get glitchy
  Its not really funny and the script can get cheesy
  Multiplayer feels tacked on
  After you 
 beat. Nothing extra to keep you going back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SithProphet
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 27, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  If a game ever felt like it was a copy of another its this one. It is spot on for fable in sound, 
 graphics, and humor. That alone made me like this game.
  You get to control minions and not to many at first. But slowly over the game they will give you 
 more and even change there abilites. This game has a fair amount of strategy envoled but is not 
 overwhelming. It does get a lillte hard to contol everything when stuff gets crazy but not enough 
 to care. The game comes in the the 20 hour range but has plenty of reason to play through twice. 
 Once bad and once good..... the game is different when you do. And the multiplayer is pretty fun 
 to try a couple times. Anyone who likes dark humor and adventure games should really check this 
 game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KomboChameleon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 27, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  this game dose feel alot like fable in terms of the HUD and graphics with a bit of 360 power behind 
 it. so if you enjoyed that youll love this, though this is no rpg. controlls are set up very well... 
 easy to controll. and sweeping your retarded grimlens across the ground just looks awsome. very 
 fluid like. anyway i just bought this game last night and i was up till 430am playing... i had 
 to work at 12pm the next day but could not put it down. i do work in a gaming department though 
 so i took my game in to work and played 6 hours straight, then went to lunch played another hour 
 then left it home cause i knew i wouldn't get anything put away if i took it back in to work. im 
 at work right now and having withdraws, this game is so addicting. i know what im doing when i 
 get home... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackguy87
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  In Overlord, you start off in a crypt surrounded by minions who have just woke you up by rubbing 
 acid in your eyes (talk about a wake up call) . you then follow the minion master named Grawl who 
 will show you how to summon your minions and teach you how to fight. If it is your first time playing, 
 its very important that you go through the training process or it will be harder to get the hang 
 of the game. The story line is that you are reincarnated from the previous Overlord who was destroyed 
 by seven heroes who have since been corrupted and have each taken on one of the Seven Deadly Sins (you 
 know, gluttony, pride, lust, etc.) Your job is to wipe out this heroes and rule your evil domain 
 unchallenged. There are four different types of minions: browns, the fighters of the group; reds, 
 who are immune to fire and throw fire-balls; greens, the assassins who are immune to poison and 
 do a lot more damage when they strike from behind; and last there are the blues, the healers, who 
 are the only minions who can swim. You also have four different spell types: fire spells, domination 
 spells, shield spells, and minion spells. Some of these spells can change by the way you play the 
 game (Corrupted or Uncorrupted) .
  
  Well, thats pretty much all I can think of to say about Overlord, its a great game if you need 
 to tap into your evil side. So I am saying go get the game, I would not tell you to unless I could 
 assure you that it is a great game and if your still unsure about it, you can always download the 
 demo from Xbox Live or Gamespot. com. Until next time, this is blackguy87 saying peace and I'm out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_monkey_god
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  First things first when making a game there are some very important things you must remember. The 
 god #$%&amp; map! I cant even begin to express how frustrated it got with out a map. Second fix 
 the glitchs. I know you cant fix them all. But when I can walk out of the castle by walking through 
 a bridge onto thin air thats bad. If you have the game you can to its easy. Its in heavens peak 
 when you go to fight kahn. Then in the arena you can hit your minions through gates. Send them 
 to the pit in the middle of the minion summoning area near the front door and watch them disappear 
 into nothingness. I dont have time to mention all the others but theres a lot! Its like the game 
 testers were all out sick when it came to testing.
  
  And finally third. The game is short. When you subtract all the time you get lost and cant find 
 your way I dont even think theres 9 hours of game play. And dont worry you will get lost and get 
 lost a lot.
  
  Other than that the game is fun. Minions are a blast to use. In fact there the only thing that 
 helps this game get a 6.3. If there were no minions it would get a 1. The sounds are ok. Graphics 
 look good. and it is fun playing a good guy. Yep a good guy. You go around killing evil heros. 
 Thats what you get when you push for a T rating. I hope there will be a second Overlord. Because 
 if you fix all these problems you will have a great game. This game had so much potential but in 
 the end rent it and dont buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 25, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  For: At last a chance to be bad; minions are a lot of fun; lots of British humour
  Against: Gets repetitive later on; controls with multiple minion types is fiddly
  
  Having 
 been a fan of Pikmin on the GameCube, I recognised the inspiration for Overlord the moment I fired 
 up the demo. Pikmin was a great game, and using it as the basis of a Dungeon Keeper style role 
 reversal was inspired. It works a treat and provides us with something that is both familiar but 
 also completely different. The fantasy role-switch to anti-hero allows lots of opportunities for 
 playing with the fantasy genre - for example, nasty hobbits, vindictive elves, and aggressive sheep. 
 The environments, characters and missions are all recognisable clich&eacute; s injected with satire 
 and humour.
  
  The graphics are good with a commendable attention to detail. The character animations, particularly 
 of the minions, are superb with some unique environment interactions. Look out for the items the 
 minions collect and use for weapons and armour - especially when you encounter the zombies ;)
 
  
  If I have one criticism of Overlord, it is that the button mapping and controls sometimes let down 
 the otherwise enjoyable gameplay. Once you are used to it, it is not bad, but you may find that 
 the controls result in you failing several times verses the later bosses.
  
  Overlord is a welcome change of pace from driving and shooting games, and is a worthy purchase 
 for the gameplay and humour alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Neccers
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 25, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  Although it may not be a guns blarring gritty shooter like the INCREDIBLE gears of war, or a really 
 in depth absorbing RPG such as oblivion, but overlord comes into a genre of its own, combining 
 action, RPG (kinda) and strategy to give a truly awsome mix.
  From square one the game is packed with fun and black comedy as you guide your ever increasing 
 horde of comedic minions around destroying everything in sight and masacring peasants simply for 
 the sheer fun of watching your minions work their magic. the story is quite simple which suites 
 the game perfectly, mainly comprising of slaying various 'heroes' as you explore the vast realms 
 of the game. And if you ever feel like not doing this you can always go to your dungeon and muck 
 around with your horde killing creatures.
  
  Overall i love this game it is truly addictive and great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  I only played the demo, so I have to keep it short and can't make any generalizations of the game 
 overall.
  From a technical standpoint, it's as impressive as an XBOX 360 game should be. The generic voice 
 acting shows its limits pretty early on, as minions say the same things over and over, but it's 
 never annoying and it's always effective.
  The Overlord looks extremely awesome, but his poses don't quite match up. It's hard to describe. 
 His poses aren't nearly dramatic as they're probably supposed to be. He often looks non-threatening, 
 like perhaps he has to go to the bathroom. He probably would've looked a lot more awesome if he 
 had a flowing cape.
  The Overlord gets a very small amount of movement. He can't jump and has limited places that his 
 own feet can take him. One button attacks (a limited number of animations for essenitally the same 
 attack) and another button casts a spell.
  The real joy comes from a button that sends his minions forward, and the right joystick which controls 
 all of the minions to make them go wherever the player wants. Later in the game, the player apparently 
 has to control more than one group of minions, but that's not in the demo.
  From what I did play, the evil Overlord was awfully heroic. After slaughtering some helpless sheep 
 (or more specifically making his minions do it) , his first actual task is to kill a bunch of halflings 
 who took over a farm. The farmer himself is left unharmed (in fact he can't be harmed at all) and 
 is grateful for his farm being rescued from the halflings and their talking pumpkins.
  Next, the player comes up to a raised drawbridge guarded by some humans, who tell the Overlord 
 that they'll lower the drawbridge if he goes and frees the villagers who are held prisoner by the 
 halfings. The halflings at this point are obviously more evil than the Overlord. Perhaps the Overlord 
 is just getting rid of competition so that anyone who's working is working for him.
  The game explains that killing innocent lives brings corruption to the land (which is good!) , but 
 letting people live is supposed to be good, too, or something. Realistically, the only way to be 
 an evil Overlord is if there are people to rule over, so that's probably the approach it takes.
 
  After killing the evil halflings and their evil troll boss, all of the peasants are freed by the 
 wonderful and heroic evil Overlord and the demo ends.
  For being a badguy, the Overlord is awfully friendly and plays the role of the savior.
  I read 
 that the player's minions are strictly limited to tiny goblins of varying colors. This disappointed 
 me, because I'd been hoping that the minions would develop into bigger and more impressive creatures, 
 but the goblins are still pretty great.
  There's no co-op or multiplayer, which is as always disappointing, but for people who need something 
 fun to do by themselves (besides the hairy palms path) , Overlord seems like one of those games 
 that would be really fun from beginning to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IOUOneGalaxy127
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  When seeing that this game was coming out, I was unsure of what to expect. The concept of the game 
 is what initially caught my attention - Being able to play the evil character in a fantasy setting 
 game. Then, once I heard about being able control hoards of minions... well I was pretty much sold. 
 I still, however, decided to wait until it came out because often these games look good on paper 
 but wind of having many flaws. After reading many reviews, purchasing the game, and playing it 
 for a good 20 hours, I have finally been able to pull my thoughts together.
  
  Overlord is a pretty nice looking game and runs pretty well. The problems with the game do not 
 lie within the graphics but rather with the gameplay. I'll admit, there is a wonderful feeling 
 about controlling hoards of minions and having them run into houses and basically do whatever you 
 tell them, however, it can become frustrating. I've found myself in numerous spots where I try 
 to move to hoard in a general direction but have a few slackers get stuck and killed. Of course, 
 this problem may also be due to the fact that I just may not be the best at handling all these 
 minions. Another thing which I found to be annoying but wasn't quite as bad as some made it out 
 to be was the camera. It was very strange not being able to move the camera by simply moving the 
 right controller stick but this was something that just needed getting used to. I still found myself 
 getting stuck in a few places, but haven't come across too many where the camera was the cause 
 of my problems.
  
  Overlord is a fun game but it can be a bit easy and repetitive. For me, this is not necessarily 
 a bad thing. I do enjoy the casual taking out of a game, running around and destroying villages 
 and basically doing whatever I want. If you are interested in a game that will continuously keep 
 you working and doing a range of different missions, this might be a renter first. There are many 
 different style missions in which you have to control different colored minions which of course 
 have different powers, but this may not be enough for some. The environment of the game is also 
 a bit limited. I was under the impression at first that you would have an open world such as in 
 Oblivion but its rather linear. You can teleport to most of the locations on the map by simply 
 returning to your tower.
  
  In conclusion, despite some of the annoying glitches and simple gameplay, Overlord is a fun game 
 that will take a good amount of time to get through. If you're like me and were looking for something 
 nice and easy to pick up for the summer to try and pass the time while I wait for this Fall's incredible 
 lineup, this might be a good game to check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spoonful
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 24, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Being evil is a tough gig. There's always an old, slightly mystical, and heavily bearded fellow 
 training a heroic muscle bound oaf just so that said oaf can stab you in the head with a magic 
 sword. Overlord picks up a little while after a recent skull ventilation; seven heroes have ended 
 your dastardly reign, looted your tower and generally spoiled your day. You have returned, like 
 all good villains should, and it's time for the world to shudder at your name. But the world has 
 moved on in your absence and heroes ain't what they used to be...
  
  Your tower may be in ruin, your powers depleted and the populous may consider you a threat comparable 
 to Elmo, but at least you're not alone in your quest to reclaim your throne as the ultimate baddie. 
 Like all good evil doers, you have a band of fiercely loyal henchmen to do your bidding. Well, 
 hench-things anyway. Small, gaunt, hyperactive and creepily devoted gremlin type creatures, the 
 minions are undoubtedly the stars, and soul, of Overlord, turning a fairly standard third person 
 action RPG into something quite different. It's incredibly hard to suppress a chuckle as your chirping 
 minions gleefully leap onto the back of a sheep or turn pumpkins into helmet with a shout of That's 
 MINE! . In fact, there will be a smile on your face for most of your time with Overlord. The game 
 takes an incredibly tongue in cheek approach to its high fantasy setting, with knowing nods and 
 winks throughout (an obese hafling hero who has gone off the rails anyone?) . For a about being 
 evil, Overlord is a remarkably cheerful experience.
  
  The merry atmosphere is due, in no small part, to how the game looks. From the green, rolling hills 
 of the starting area, through the shadow elf forest to the dwarven mines, Overlord looks fantastic, 
 if incredibly reminiscent of Fable, a comparison hardly diminished by the copious chirpy British 
 accents popping up throughout the game. The bright, cheery graphics go along way to keeping what 
 are pretty standard fantasy locales looking fresh. The inhabitants of this Frodo meets Monty Python 
 world are equally impressive, from the suitably cowed looking peasants to the lumbering trolls. 
 The overlord himself is fairly nondescript, essentially being just a guy in armour, but a more 
 ostentatious main character would likely draw attention from the real headliners: the little buggers 
 scampering around your feet.
  
  An overlord without his minions is like the Internet without weirdoes: a lot less interesting and 
 barely able to function. Initially only the brown warrior minions are under your command but other 
 specialised types become available as you progress. Different minions open up different paths throughout 
 the game world. In another nod to Fable, while the world is essentially open, wandering around 
 involves moving down set paths. The routes to new areas tend to be blocked by hazards requiring 
 a specific minion type to overcome, i. e. the fire absorbing red minions can clear a path blocked 
 by burning wreckage. Overlord feels a lot more open ended than it actually is. The game's story 
 unfolds in a linear fashion: you can't choose which hero to take on next.
  
  Recruiting the different minion types throws the game's control flaws into sharp relief. Control 
 of the minions is mapped to the right analogue stick, which makes it incredibly easy to sweep them 
 around the landscape or to direct them to a specific point. With the analogue stick tied up, camera 
 control presents a problem. The inelegant solution is to hold down the left bumper and then use 
 the right analogue stick to swing the camera around. It's not perfect but you adapt to it surprisingly 
 quickly. However, it's obviously impossible to move the camera and sweep the minions at the same 
 time. It's not an insurmountable problem but it is just awkward enough to be frustrating. A bigger 
 issue is separating and manoeuvring the different types of minion. While you can select each type 
 individually, the process involves two button presses and can be awkward to pull off in the heat 
 of the moment. Moving one group leaves the others standing around, which can be lead to a lot of 
 dead minions. There's also no way to sub divide the groups. It's a nightmare to divide, say, six 
 minions of the same type into two groups of three and manoeuvre them into position. Watching the 
 minion groups interact and take down larger foes is immensely satisfying, so it's a shame that 
 the controls make setting up ambushes a lot more difficult than it should have been.
  
  Aside from a few blips, you do feel that you have a lot of control over the minions. They'll shadow 
 you perfectly; you'll rarely have to wait for them to catch up or disentangle themselves from scenery. 
 Interacting with the world is as simple as sweeping them onto an object or lever then standing 
 back to watch. Ordering your horde to carry out dastardly deeds is very easy indeed.
  
  Not that your deeds are all that dastardly though. Overlord doesn't really let you be particularly 
 evil. Mostly you just get to be a bit of a bastard to anyone who happens to cross your path. The 
 game leans firmly towards the 'Saturday Morning Cartoon Villain' end of the scale o' calamitous 
 intent. For the most part, the missions aren't hugely different from the type you'd normally carry 
 out in an action RPG. It's just that you'll be doing them for slightly more selfish reasons than 
 normal. Given the light hearted tone adopted by Overlord, it's not hugely surprising that the evil 
 acts are a touch tame. In fact, it almost feels as if making the overlord the hero of his world 
 was a conscious design decision, especially given Overlord's knowing, ironic take on other fantasy 
 games.
  
  If Overlord's definition of evil is simply the absence of good, then its multiplayer modes are 
 very evil indeed. For such an obvious single player experience, the inclusion of any kind of multiplayer 
 is baffling. The modes feel tacked on, a feeling undiminished by how meagre they feel. There are 
 a total of six maps, two for each mode, none of which are all that exciting. The multiplayer feels 
 sluggish, as if the game is struggling to keep up with multiple hordes of minions, and just doesn't 
 play all that well. The servers are sparsely populated, which isn't a huge shock really.
  
  Overlord is a game with a lot of charm. The disturbingly cute minions and incredible looking game 
 world help balance the occasionally awkward controls and shoddy multiplayer. It's a game that refuses 
 to take itself seriously, treating the high fantasy setting with the gentle comic irreverence that 
 it deserves. If you have a sense of humour and a taste for games that do things a little differently, 
 you'll find a lot to love in Overlord. Even if they did forget to add a maniacal laugh button. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sardax
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Overlord...
  
  My first thought for the first hour was: What a silly and funny game this is... Killing sheep for 
 life force to be able to spawn your private army of goblins. Running across a mythical world... 
 A game to play it through a couple of hours.
  I was wrong... Don't make your decision of this game by playing it a few hours. I promise, it's 
 getting better and better the further you go...
  
  A perfect blend of two games: Fable and Goblin Commander! You are not alone (at least, that is 
 your own decision, but you are not that strong against all those foes around there... you REALLY 
 need your goblins!!!)
  
  There are four kinds of goblins at your disposal. The first ones are the fighters, those are granted. 
 Using simple lifeforce which can be obtained by killing sheep. The second wave are red goblins 
 (minions, as they are called in the game) , able to throw burning objectiles towards the enemy or 
 object you decide to attack.
  The third wave are the green goblins, aided with a posionous venom and they become invisible when 
 they are gathered together in a group of three or more. And the fourth wave are the blue goblins, 
 which are able to swim, which the other goblins can only drown...
  Being able to use these goblins, you have to find their hives, located in beautiful lairs. Sometimes 
 you reach a certain place which you can't take your goblins with you or you need those particial 
 goblin to open a door or passway. So it will happen a lot that you visite a location more than 
 once.
  Also when you need a particial lifeforce, your need to go back where you can replenish that amount. 
 You can gather as much as you like, but they do run out on a level. That's a pitty, but yet again, 
 you don't play this game so easily until the end in a few hours. Like with Fable, you play days 
 in a row! The story unfolds itself and you are completely immershed, willing to reach the end as 
 soon as possible!
  
  Sometimes a real struggle to find out where to go next, strong enemies, puzzles in which you can 
 only solve with the help of a certain goblin at your disposal. You will like the goblins, they 
 always are talking and making funny noises. When you brake or order them to brake the surroundings, 
 chests, vases, graves... Sometimes there are weapons or armor inside which your goblins can use 
 and wair. When you see something shiny on the ground, it might be a nice weapon for your goblin, 
 in which their attacks will become more deadly and effective.
  Those funny slaves really adore you. Everything what they find or value to you, they bring it as 
 a gift! It's like love, almost! Gonna miss them in real life! :-)
  
  There are shrines to find and magical objects to increase your health, mana and magical powers. 
 Those things will be carried by your goblins towards a teleportation pad, for directly transport 
 to your tower.
  At first, your tower is a total mess. Therefor you need to retrieve certain important objects to 
 rebuild your tower. Even after you have gained a mistress in your tower, you can adjust a little 
 of the appearance of your tower, it will cost you something, but everytime when you go on the road, 
 your goblins will find enough treasures, gold and money to fund your happiness. I was looking out 
 for Fable 2, but this game is a treasure for your collection. At least, for mine. The same addiction 
 has taken place! Played it over 35 hours now, haven't slept during that period, but hey, it was 
 worth it!!! My new mission is to kill a certain King William or Richard, whatever, have to kill 
 a king. But I have to travel back for lifeforce for my goblins. Because in your tower, you have 
 a forge in which you can forge your own weapons and armor, or upgrading them. And that will not 
 only cost you money but also lifeforce.
  I really needed my goblins for those nasty **** Can't understand why they are laughing all the 
 time with that intense tight thong between they butt... (got to think about it that I am only half 
 in the game, died less than six times and played over 35 hours on a row... wow, this game is really 
 fantastic)
  Ah well... A lot to see, a lot to discover, a lot to fight and a lot to solve! You won't be bothered 
 with this game! Especially, when you can plan your own strategy for attacking your enemy... Waypoints 
 for certain goblins to guard a place or corner, while the rest is on a warpath with you... My respect 
 for those who have written this game with all it's contents!! Trolls, giants, dwarfs, zombies, 
 elves, bugs, animals, priests and loads more! At some place I even felt myself playing in a game 
 from Lord of the Rings... Play the game and find out!!! It is a waste of your time if you are NOT 
 playing this game!! Whaha! :-)
  
  And my advise: Don't buy Hour of Victory, that game sucks big time. A total waste of your money... 
 I will not write a review about that game, not worth it!
  
  Greetings,
  Vantazzy (a. k. Sardax) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante2710
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  What couldn't be better than having your own army of little minions and bringing chaos into this 
 world? This game gives a taste of what its like when you become the overlord.....
  
  All of the sudden you are woken up from your slumber by some weird looking creatures... and as soon 
 as you start you are addressed as the new overlord....
  
  As you start walking around u noticed some really vibrant and beautiful colors...... one of the 
 first things you learn is to beat your own jester... as he disrespects you... and makes jokes about 
 you.... who could forget the overlord? more like OVERRATED some of you may think this game isn't 
 for everyone but i would have to say otherwise.... it has humor..... and just fun and innocent game 
 play.....
  
  As you play through... you do get the options to whether kill every innocent out there in this world... mainly 
 peasant.... or help them and you`ll have loyals by your side.... you have the option to be 0% evil 
 or 100% evil.... those are one of the achievements for this game.... which gives this game a lot 
 of reply value....
  
  One thing that bothered me a bit was that you could get a lost some of the times... so might end 
 up being stuck, but do not give up on this game... it starts kind of slow... and might even become 
 a bit hard at first... but once you get a feel of the game.... it`ll become quite easy and enjoyable
 
  
  as you play through the game... you get to destroy flowers.. pumpkins.... even spirits of dead elves..... thought 
 his game doesn't have such a complex combat system... you are still required to use your minions 
 more than you will even think about... from turning wheels, killing trolls, to carrying objects to 
 your tower and even slaves... minions are your right hand on this game... you might decided whether 
 you would like to get your hands dirty and confront the enemy, or let your minions take care of 
 the threat.....
  
  The environment is absolutely gorgeous.... from breath taking mornings to the dawn... you have the 
 option to see whats in front of you, or what around you... sweet looking water..... well detailed 
 textures..... and funny dialogs and quotes. some of the stuff you see in this game might make u 
 laugh, such aa troll farting and then scratching its butt... or when your minions drink beer, burp 
 and then they decide to pee... hehe.... good old humor
  
  Different paths? yeah, which will lead to different endings..... you get to kill elves.... steal peasant`s 
 food and even their gold....... as you progress through the story you find out that the 7 Heroes 
 which previously defeated the old overlord... they have become corrupted? might be related to the 
 7 sins, such a gluttony, greed.... and some others i cant remember....
  
  Now as far as customizing goes..... you can upgrade your weapons... you can choose a mace, sword, 
 or an ax..... you have different metals.... steel, derium and arcanium.... you also can upgrade your 
 armor and helmet as well..... you can upgrade your tower..... and of course as you go through the 
 game... you get different minions....
  
  of course,. this game isn't only about hack and slash, you do get spells... whats an overlord without 
 those? you get fire spells, shield spells, and some others to make your minions stronger.....
  
  I'm sure you are all dying to find out what kind of minions can we use on this game..... lets 
 see, brown minions.... the tough ones.. mainly for up close combat.... they are quiet durable and 
 very useful in almost every situation...... next we have the green minions.... they allow you to 
 get rid of this green smoke which is deadly... and of course they are experts at ambushing enemies 
 by jumping on them... not quite as tough as the browns... but they are quiet good...... next we have 
 the blue minions..... whats so special about them? well they can walk on water... unlike the other 
 which would just drown... and they have the gift to revive their own downed teammates.... why you 
 may ask? because they are pretty vulnerable, though the are the only ones that can hurt elves since 
 they can use magic..... and last but not least.... we have the fire minions aka red minions.... pretty 
 much self explanatory.
  
  This game is quite fun... with en enjoyable story and dialogs and mischievousness gameplay.... who 
 would i recommend this game to? people who enjoy exploring and putting a lot of their times into 
 one games... should definitely get it.... might not be revolutionary.... but its definitely fun... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s-engel9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  After a few hours spent playing Overlord I suddenly stopped, put the game on pause and realized 
 just how much fun I was really having. I first took notice of this game a while ago and started 
 tracking it looking forward to the release. I was not really expecting anything spectacular, rather 
 I was more interested in the premise of playing as the evil Overlord. After playing I don't mind 
 telling you that I really enjoyed this tile a lot. I was happy to discover the ease of controlling 
 my small hoard of evil doers and really got a kick out of the humor that is propagated through 
 out the game. I applaud the creators with a very neat idea to have the usual good guy characters 
 become the perverted nemesis to our Overlord character. Overall I was pleasantly impressed with 
 this title and as long as the player is interested in having a good time they should hurry out 
 and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlueSpirals
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 20, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  I recommend this game to anyone who 1. Enjoyed Fable, or at least enjoyed Fable's beautiful graphics/voiceovers.
 
  
  It really feels like Peter Molyneux (Lionhead studios; creator of Fable) designed this game. The 
 world is brilliantly laid out... it is a very charming, cozy environment. The voice acting is pretty 
 good; I consider the game Fable's voice acting pretty much the best i've ever heard (which you 
 may or may not dispute) . Graphics:
  Magnificent. What a beautiful looking game. The volumetric lighting and soft-shadows really make 
 the world come alive, and help suck you deep into playing. I've got a nice card that's kicked up 
 to max, and this game could certainly handle even more than i can throw at it.
  
  Sound: The gremlins really arent very annoying; at least not nearly as much as you'd expect. They're 
 sort of like your children after a while, and you appreciate their stalwart dedication to you. 
 You truly feel like you've got an ass-kicking army behind you, waiting to die for you. The music 
 is very pretty and fits perfectly with each area, and I dont think I've heard more than 1 song 
 I didnt really care for.
  
  Gameplay: The controls are very operable; my only complaint is that the camera/mouse sensitivity 
 is pretty high, even after being reduced, so a slight flick of the mouse will send the optics spinning. 
 Attacking, moving around and commanding the minions are simple. Perhaps a bit more to be desired 
 while controlling the overlord... he feels kind of like a big lug.
  
  Fun factor: Humungous. Play this game if you're a casual gamer and enjoy good action with storyline. 
 There's a lot of 'cutsie' stuff in this game, so again if you liked Fable or games like it, you 
 will not be bothered.
  For the hardcore RPG fan, this isnt really your game. You have only one quest at a time and the 
 world is pretty much a one-way road. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwoot
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  I wouldn't say this game is the beginning of a franchise or in need of sequels but it is a pretty 
 entertaining game to play through. I have enjoyed the quirky humor and the mix of action and puzzle 
 solving game play. Overlord does some things really well but does have some minor flaws. I can 
 overlook some flaws if the game play entertains and keeps me engaged and this game does that quite 
 well.
  
  The graphics are pretty decent and the game maintains a solid frame rate at all times. The sound 
 effects are good although at times a bit repetitive. The controls are adequate but would probably 
 get my vote for the worst part of the game. A way to toggle the right stick between controlling 
 the camera and the minions would have been nice since the view can become strange or buggy during 
 certain parts of the game. Otherwise the controls did the job quite well.
  
  The game is just long enough that you do not lose interest but will probably finish the game in 
 under a week if you play a few hours a day. There are plenty of good achievements to get and you 
 will have to play through at least twice to get all of the single player achievements. I have not 
 yet played on-line but I will try it out eventually.
  
  Overall this game is a great diversion and I would recommend it as a good rental for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  I was expecting silly antics throughout the game, with lots of comedy and satire, like Dungeon 
 Keeper and DK2 did. The game is in the same spirit as Peter Molyneux's original games where we 
 finally had the chance to be 'evil' instead of justly heroes.
  
  I am really enjoying the game and here's why . . .
  
  The Graphics are fantastic, with sharp 
 textures and variation in colors that make each location you visit more different from the next. 
 The game isn't dark, except when in some dungeons, but its got a nice feel of evilness without 
 pulling you into any direction you may not wish to go. See, you don't have to be truely evil. As 
 the Overlord, you can do good deeds to further your rather chaotic goals. I've been playing the 
 game this way, trying not to harm innocents and doing things by the book and its fun, but I am 
 going to play the game again, this time being truely sadistic and utterly evil. The graphics in 
 the game do not disappoint, and actually help to make the game more fun.
  
  Sound is very good, but I have a hard time hearing the background music, even after boosting the 
 volume of the music in options. An important thing about sound is being able to hear your minions. 
 When you can't see them, which will be often, you can hear them and from their cries, screaming, 
 and sometimes gurgling, you know what kind of danger they are getting themselves into. Voice acting 
 is OK, but there are alot of repetitive voices. Some are a little too stupid.
  
  Gameplay is great except for one main thing, which if you read anything about Overlord you already 
 know . . . there is NO Map. Why? There are many areas to explore and some incredibly frustrating 
 gaunlet-like dungeons to navigate, all from memory. A map would have boosted the score I give the 
 game a whole point or 2. The game is easyto learn for the most part, but can take some time to 
 master the different strengths and weaknesses of your minions, and to get a handle on the different 
 types of puzzles.
  
  Otherwise, romping through villages, dungeons, castles, etc. with your little minions is a blast. 
 The missions are fun and sometimes require a bit of thinking. Puzzles can be silly but some are 
 also clever. The action is fast and you can play the game going full speed ahead, but strategy 
 and planning might be the easier way to go, as each of your 4 classes of minions have their own 
 specialties and can more advantageous if used to their strengths.
  
  I would have liked to see more RPG aspects to the game. You do increase your health, power, and 
 can craft armor, weapons, and upgrade items, but maybe a leveling system and more attributes, even 
 some specialy abilities (other than the spells you find and learn) would have made the game more 
 interesting and more replayable.
  
  Overlord is a better game than I expected, mostly because it has just the right balance of humor 
 and seriousness, and because the way minions are handled, with their special strengths and weaknesses, 
 added a strategic element to the game that I didn't think would exist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha172
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 2:11 am PT
Review:  I would like to start off saying I have this game and it's not so bad, worth the money and worth 
 it to sit down and play it for hours. Not too long though as I don't want to be held responsible 
 for admiring readers to play games longer.
  
  Single Player: The gamplay is quite excellent and challenging in many ways and it can become quite 
 a stress trying to figure out where to go when there's no map guiding you when theres a bunch of 
 quests in motion. The minions you control are your army, you can do just about anything with them 
 except you can't kill them. They bring you gold which you can upgrade the tower, purchase and forge 
 new weapons, armour, upgrades for your minions and household items depending on which Mistress 
 you have and there is a room in your private chamber which shows how much gold you have. Minions 
 can be sacrificed in the forge to imbue a weapon or armour to give it special goodies. There are 
 barrels and boxes in many places which you can control your minions to destroy them, sometimes 
 they drop swords and armour so you minions can equip them. When you die, it's basically game over, 
 you load your previous checkpoint or return to the tower. Bosses you face are totally unique and 
 hard which may take abit to kill them like the last two bosses which took me abit but I eventually 
 got them. There's alot more but I just can't seem to remember, it's a good game though, worth playing.
 
  
  Multiplayer: It's really hard to play, join and host on multiplayer. Why I said that? Because when 
 two players join a room, your basically using your connection and that players connection. For 
 example if the player is American and your American and you both have cable, the game would run 
 fine, although if your American and your partner is a International player with dial up it becomes 
 a huge problem, lag occurs with or without being the host. The multiplayer maps and gameplay is 
 challenging and fun. Although it could be alot better if the online team made some adjustments 
 by making the connection issue less of a problem and description on the rooms of players location, 
 ping etc. Also adding a list box so players can refresh instead of hitting back and hitting A to 
 find a game simultaneously and having the no games are hosted or something similar to that then 
 you gotta hit B to go back, vise versa repeatedly until you find a game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't that bad, it's almost as good as Gears of War, but Gears of War doesn't 
 deserve a 10 because you can see what G. R. A. W campaign have that Gears of War doesn't, the high 
 resolution flash/blurry graphics which Gears of War should have had. I would give this game's graphic 
 a 8 and a half. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tactis
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  It is really a very unique game on the 360. I was waiting for a non-shooter game for a while (nothing 
 wrong with them I like shooter actually I have about 5 of them but I needed a change) and this 
 game really is great.
  
  Some very unique things this game brings to the table:
  
  Minion control (not seen in many games)
  
  get to play as an evil guy for once in a fantasy 
 setting ( and its very tasteful, and I actually enjoyed the T-rating it made the killing peasants 
 and stuff seem kind of comical and not sick and sadistic) humor (especially the dungeon introduction 
 were your jester introduces you its funny what he says and roasting halflings, it reminds me of 
 the old adventure games like monkey island although not as funny as those games but still nice 
 to see some humor coming back to videogames)
  
  dont buy this game if,
  
  you want an action rpg (its action oriented but except puzzles to slow you down so no hard fast 
 brutal action)
  
  if you want blood and gore
  
  if you hate rpgs in general
  
  One of the best things for the game is that one your first play through it should take 20-30hours (i 
 say 30 because i have spent more than 20 and i just started ruborian desert) and if you want all 
 achievements at least one more play through so thats 40-50 hours total time played thats a good 
 value for a $60 game
  
  so overall I would recommend this as a must have for the summer dry season at least until other 
 rpgs come out for 360 in august like blue dragon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursednavi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is a great 360 title and can be real fun. There are 3 fun multiplayers on live 2 of them 
 are versing and the other one is a fun survival co-op. Besides the multiplayer single player is 
 amazing there are many quests and cool power-ups to get. The only thing single player could have 
 used was a more in depth storyline and more ways and more armor. The game combines adventure with 
 RTS. The game gives you a lot of freedom like being able to kill peasents and making towns like 
 you or hateing you. Its also cool to choose to be good or evil depending on choices. This a great 
 game that can give you long gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhody1976
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  It takes a little time to get used to the controls in Overlord, but after a couple of hours, moving 
 your minions around becomes second nature. Neither the graphics nor the sound is particularly amazing, 
 but they are both sufficient... Overlord is about the gameplay.
  
  What kind of gameplay? minor puzzle solving and leveling up. If that doesn't sound like a blast 
 to you, try the game. It's pretty easy to get wrapped up, addictive even. The humor level wasn't 
 as laugh out loud funny as I had anticipated given the subject matter, but still worth a chuckle.
 
  
  And as others have mentioned: if you want blood, gore, profanity and a hard dose of pure evil, 
 this isn't the game for you (and you should consult a professional sooner than later) This game 
 is the lightest form of evil I've ever known.
  
  Someone also mentioned that it can be a little childish at times: true again, but it's still fun.
 
  
  Lastly, the game lastest over 25 hours for me. Not too bad considering the length of other games 
 on the market. Haven't tried online mode, so I can't comment on the longevity of Overlord, but 
 probably better to rent it and enjoy the ride while it lasts over buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brad_the_one
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 17, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  The basic premise behind the game is that your awoken to become the new overlord of the land. The 
 game has a lot appeal and it of a good length and it remains fun throughout, the problem lies within 
 the fact that as soon as you get a few hours into the game and the novelty has worn off, it becomes 
 too repetitive. Let me go into more detail: Yes, it does look like fable and Yes, it does have 
 a pikmin-esque feel to the game but it is so much more. Let me make it clear you do control minions 
 which are similar to Pikmin but the key different is in the core game play of each game, you see 
 pikmin is very much a collection game whereby your striving to collect parts of a ship or pellets 
 to gain more pikmin, which is fun. Overlord is primarily focussed on combat with collection being 
 a secondary aim of the game, you see you collect items that increase attributes such as the number 
 of minions you can control at any one time, your health bar and mana bar and even improved spells. 
 There are 7 bosses in the game and they will take you are 30 hours to beat them all, provided you 
 don't rush and explore. Each boss has a perfect difficulty level for each part of the game.
  
  The minions are easy to control and the issue i had with the camera being assigned to pushing 
 down the RB button evaporating because you rarely need to use it, i found that pressing LT snapped 
 the camera back behind you which was used mostly. The minions are also the stars of the game with 
 their hilarious remarks and comical actions (drink a pint on the table and you will see) , but most 
 of all its just a pleasure to play.
  
  Overall the game is great, its fun and easy to play, and definitely recommended. The main negative 
 points of the game are that once the novelty wears off it can become a little repetitive, and there 
 is some backtracking. The achievements are also quite fun to get and you can get quite a few through 
 a basic play through and finally online is ok but feels tacked on, but there are very few people 
 playing it. So i recommend it as a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 17, 2007 2:13 am PT
Review:  for me, the game is good, with good gameplay settings, great and humours stroryline, detailed graphics 
 but it also lack of camera angle position, it's hard to control the camera while your controling 
 your minions. glitch also make the games feel bad sometimes especially when you will control your 
 minions with the right analog sticks to the narrow places and your minions getting stuck outhere 
 without doing anything even if your summon them back to you. this will make you return to your tower 
 and go back trough the mission once more and that's annoying. The conclusion is this game is worth 
 playing if you want to try something new in RPG/Strategy gameplay but if not, rent it first.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sieler081
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 15, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is a Great Game. The controls seem a little weird. Camera is limited. When I started playing 
 this game it reminded me of an evil version of Oblivion. When you start off on the game, your introduced 
 to several characters. Gnarl your minion leader. You start off with these creatures called minions. 
 These creatures will fight for you. They are very loyal. There are four types of Minions. Red, 
 Green, Blue, and Brown. Each have special abilities and weaknesses.
  
  The game has an interesting story line. In the game you can take two paths. Evil or good. Overall 
 this game is fun. Surprises around every corner. Can be frustrating at times. Get this Game if 
 your looking for a fun game to play in your spare time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 15, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok when i first sat down and played the demo of overlord i was freaking out about how much i liked 
 it i bought it the day it came out. This game reminded me of what would happen if ya took the look 
 of fable and the atmosphere and humor of dungeon keeper and threw in some pikmin. Graphically the 
 game is very pretty not the best i have seen but not bad by any means, in the beginning i was totally 
 digging this game but as i got towards the end it really didn't change i did not get the progression 
 i was expecting in the game by being some badass overlord. By the end you where just doing the 
 same thing over and over again, now i am not saying this ruined the game for me just didn't turn 
 out to be what i thought it would, i did enjoy the twist at the end however but in the end i have 
 to recommend renting this game unless you are a true lionhead studios fan boy like me. oh and the 
 multi-player.. well i would review it if people where on it and i could play/ it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehPwnzter
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 13, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  If some one were to describe this game to you the first thing you would probably think of is Fable. 
 Main quest can be completed in less than 9 hours? Check
  Make decisions that ultimately change your physical appearance? Yeah
  Settings a Fantasy world 
 with trolls, elves, and unicorns? Bet.
  But at second glance your immediatly hit with the realization these games are on two different 
 planets. At first what seems like an open world quickly reveals it self to be a linear path with 
 almost 0 exploration possibilities. No NPC interactions . And 0 customization except for 3 different 
 armors to choose from (dull, shiny, and shinier) . The weapon variety is shallow as well being only 
 Sword, Mace , Or Axe. And the major thing that sets them apart is a Teen ESRB rating that severly 
 limits this games potential to be evil. Now that I have most of the negativity out of the way I'll 
 get too what really saves this game are minions. Small imp-like beings that to your bidding on 
 request. You start off with a max of 5 and in the first hour of gameplay you should have about 15. 
 The they are broken down into 4 catergories that mimic the button colors on the 360 controller 
 y (yellow button) = browns your generic minions the footsoldiers of your army your party will consist 
 of the for the majority of the campaign no to mention they can equip them selves with armor and 
 weapons of defeated enemies and it actually shows . One of the more humorous parts of the game 
 is when you notice they will equip anything they destory ex. tell them to smash a pumpkin the'yll 
 get pumpkin armor kill a dwarf miner they'll take his flashlight helmet that and the hilarious 
 dialogue that they say depending on what your doing ex set a enemy on fire they'll scream BUURN, 
 BUUUURN! b (red button) = red fire minions the artillery with reduced defense but a nastly little 
 fireball ranged attack that can devastate a enemy from afar. The a button switches to your green 
 poison immune minions auto-equipped with a triple-bladed claw on there hands (Wolverine) they have 
 the ability to leap distances and land on unfortunate victims back and shank them repeatedly until 
 they cease to move . That and they can turn invisible when you command them to stand still. And 
 the last minions are the blue water minions selected by the blue x button they have the weakest 
 attack and defense of all minions but thet are the only ones that don't drown in water. The only 
 other reason worth taking them along is they can resurrect fallen minions. Don't get me wrong the 
 overlord is no punk, realistically about half way through the games after getting all armor upgrades 
 you can afford to go solo and just plow through enemies by yourself. But Why? when the sheer entertainment 
 of watching your minions pillage smash, and set things ablaze. But then we meet another issue theres 
 not much to smash pillage or set ablaze there are only I believe 5 places in this game and only 
 2 of them are populated by humans . And they are generic humans only about 4 or five character 
 models for civilians and just multiplied to populate a cities (small cities at that) and even if 
 you wipe out an entire city one load screen and they are all back . Acting like nothing ever happened 
 . I mean its like didn't I just Kill you? And back to the fact of this being a T-rated game killing 
 them isn't even that satisfying no blood just one slash and they die and fade into the ground . 
 The descriptions say you face heroes as bosses throughout the game sounds fun evil guy killing 
 good heroes but you'll quickly realize none are heroes at all. They are just as evil and corrupt 
 as you so when you kill them it almost like youre doing the people a favor...
  All And All this game is a rental at best just do yourself a favor and dont buy this game thinking 
 its Fable you will be severly disapointed . But fans like Pikmin and other RTS's as well as semi-linear 
 hack n slash's will find something to enjoy about this game for at least 2 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcuss1255
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 12, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Not very often is a game as unique as Overlord released, which lets you control up to 50 minions 
 at once to carry out your evil deeds. Although it starts off slow, Overlord quickly picks up the 
 pace for a more thoroughly entertaining experience. The game's multiplayer is almost an exact clone 
 of the single player, which is not a bad thing. The two versus game types, pillage and slaughter, 
 are quite fun in themselves. Slaughter pits you against one other player to rack up the most points 
 by killing enemies and even the other player. Pillage tasks you with attempting to collect the 
 most gold, which is scattered around the map. In the matches I have played, people have frequently 
 quit out because they were losing, which caused the matches to end for me also. If this issue were 
 to be addressed with say giving a win to the player who does not quit or penalizing the quitting 
 player, the multiplayer experience would be a much more fulfilling one. On the single palyer side 
 of the game, you travel around different areas essentially killing off pesky heroes and recovering 
 lost tower artifacts. These tower artifacts come in several different flavors. Your mana, health, 
 and minion count are all upgraded for collecting these artifacts. During your travels, you also 
 have the oppurtunity to obtain a mistress, which adds a entertaining cut scenelater in the game. 
 All in all, Overlord provides very unique gameplay which will entertain you for a long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandroDX
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 11, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  The minion, these little, dumb, stupid, and extremelly funny are the best and the most important 
 part of the game, and they are controlled by you, the Overlord, wich happens to be the name of 
 the game. Overlord is a fantasy strategy RPG, here you travel from place to place fighting and 
 doing bad deeds... or really bad deeds, all this with the help of minions. Minions are divided 
 into 4 classes: Browns, they are the most suitable for direct head to head fights and are also 
 the strongest and the ones you will be using the most; then there's Reds, that can attack with 
 fire but are extremely fragile; Blues, they are the weakest of all minions, but they can swim and 
 revive your lost allies; and finally Greens, these stinky rogue minions like to sneak on an enemy 
 and stab stab stab! they are good for ambushes and big enemies. Your objective is to defeat the 
 7 heroes that killed the old overlord, and all this will take about 20-25 hours to do the first 
 time around. The game is fun all the way and there's never a dull moment, and the constant humor 
 present in the game will make you play with a smile on your face. The game tries to be pretty and 
 is pretty, good visuals that wont hurt your eyes, and the sound is also good, good voice acting 
 and nice music. Overlord is a very fun game that is sure to please anyone looking for a fun challenge. 
 For the Overlord! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RadiantJezzy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  I'm on round two with Overlord at the moment. I played through once as not so evil and I am not 
 on round two as evil . So far directing minons to smash everything they see has yet to get old. 
 The bosses are marginally hard which is good and bad. Good because you can get back to your minion 
 rampages. Bad because the bosses seem more like the bad guys that lead up to the boss. I also would 
 have liked to seen some better character development for all the characters in the game. Graphically 
 it is stunning and the music is well matched for the game. It's not really a game that will blow 
 your mind but it will keep you plesantly distracted until a game that is mind blowing gets released. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robarts
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 11, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  While most games have you playing the great hero defeating evil doers, Overlord does exactly the 
 opposite. As you'll find, you are the overlord, an evil being bent on gold, destruction, and killing 
 the seven heroes who waisted your predecessor. Oh and you get minions to help you along the way. When 
 you first start the game you'll be fitted with your armor and given a short tutorial on the basics. The 
 first thing you'll notice is the exclusion of an ability to move the camera, instead the right 
 thumb stick is used to sweep your minions. In other words, it's how you tell them where to go and 
 watch them do their thing.
  
  Once you get the tutorial over with you'll be tasked finding all the pieces to your tower and killing 
 the aforementioned seven heroes. The story is told with a mix of in game speech and cut-scenes that 
 are very well done. This is one game that will guarantee a smile or two. The only problem you may 
 have is hearing the NPC's repeat themselves to nauseum, but you can always kill them so it's usually 
 not too bad. Speaking of killing innocents, the game also has a corruption meter that increases 
 with the more evil things you do. This is where the fun begins, watching your minions kill, pillage, 
 and destroy is so enjoyable it almost completely hides any small qualms you may have with the way 
 the game is executed. These little buggers have a very gremlin-esque look and sound to them and 
 are some of the funniest characters in gaming. On top of all this, the entire game is very easy 
 on the eyes and at times beautiful. It does have it's hiccups here and there, but overall it is 
 a nice looking game.
  
  Throughout the story you'll gain access to more minion types and more options. You'll get the reds 
 who act as archers, the greens (assassins) , and the blues who can resurrect fallen minions and inflict 
 damage on magical creatures. This is where the game mixes in the RTS element with third person RPG, 
 and also where most people will get a little frustrated. As before you sweep your minions with the 
 right thumb stick, but this would send all minions void of what type in at the same time and get 
 anything other than browns killed. The game tries to help this by giving guard markers activated 
 by the Y button and a minion type selector, and it works most of the time. Then again that's only 
 the times when you have a few seconds to think, but at other times during the game when you end 
 up fumbling with the controls trying to use certain minion types as quickly as possible, the controls 
 become more complicated than helpful. Sometime through your 10-15 hour journey though this too will 
 grow on you and you will become more adept to thinking on the fly while using these controls.
 
  
  After the solo campaign is done Overlord also features three multiplayer modes, all of which are 
 fun in short bursts but not the next big step in online gaming. There is one co-op mode called survival 
 where you simply get online with a partner, pick one of two maps, and fight off enemies to see 
 how long you can stay alive. This mode was probably the funnest out of the three, but also the most 
 frustrating since you can die so quickly later in the mode if you aren't extremely cautious. Enemies 
 become more varied and increase in numbers as the time increases, so before you know it you'll 
 be fighting bombers, flamethrowers, knights, archers, unicorns, rock giants, and more all at the 
 same time. This is where you'll be focused on one group of enemies and die from a flamethrower behind 
 you. There are also two versus modes, pillage and slaughter. In pillage both players fight to get 
 as much gold as possible by using their minions to carry gold to the bases on the maps and by killing 
 everything including each other. In slaughter the goal is simple, kill everything you can as fast 
 as you can for points. Killing the other player gives you the most points in this mode also. Overall 
 the online modes are a good distraction, but don't expect the next big thing.
  
  Overlord is a game that may have it's little problems, but ends up being humorously fun to play 
 and very unique at the same time. If you can get used to the controls you'll have a great time with 
 Overlord. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cainsworld
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  This game has yet to disappoint me in any area. This game takes the gameplay concepts behind Nintendo's 
 Pikmin and improves upon them, not a small feat one-upping Nintendo. The game seems to take a lot 
 of inspiration from Lord of the Rings by the way a lot of the characters look. You control a Sauron-like 
 evil overlord commanding minions that look like Gremlins, in a quest to restore your evil powers 
 after heroes destroyed your tower and killed your predecessor. This is one of those few rare games 
 that I can start playing from the beginning again and still get sucked into and play a lot longer 
 than I would expect to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Once you get going in this game, it is just hard to put the controller down. After you get all 
 4 types of minions that all serve a different purpose for you, the game really opens up, as you 
 are able to access all areas with the help of the minions. You will find yourself unable to stop 
 trying to locate the missing pieces of your Dark Tower which you can customize as you rebuild to 
 your liking, as well as to the liking of the mistress that you will get to choose, lol. You will 
 find yourself having a blast as you use your minions to loot houses and locate treasure so you 
 can forge and upgrade armor and weapons. You even have a treasure vault that fills up as you get 
 more treasure. Controlling the minions is very intuitive as well, and the controls are very well 
 laid out on the 360 contoller, making learning to have complete control a breeze. Before long you 
 will find yourself placing markers for select groups of minions to stage unique attacks, and it 
 really shows off the fun strategy element at the heart of the gameplay for Overlord.
  
  The graphics are also very good, and the artstyle has a very unique look to it that really gives 
 the game it's own identity. I truly hope that they make a series out of this game, as it really 
 is a breath of fresh air to play a game like this that has a unique, and very addictive gameplay 
 structure, good graphics, and an entertaining storyline that keeps you coming back for more.
  
  People keep comparing this game to Pikmin gameplay wise, and while the gameplay is similar, 
 Overlord truly stands out own it's own by virtue of the game itself. It simply stands on it's own 
 as a very original, and extremely fun game that provides a wonderful change of pace from the usual 
 fare. Afterall, what is not to like about being able to play a vengeful dark overlord who wants 
 to reclaim his land in a story that is darkly comedic, with a touch of the light side of evil? 
 The game is not meant to be some tragic epic, lol. It is meant to be simply a fun game with a humorously 
 evil twist that does the job of making it fun. It is just a great game.... period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgkdog101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is a game in which you control a variety of minions ranging from 1 to 4 different types 
 as you progress. I see Overlord as somewhat of a mixture of Fable and Pikmen. It looks fantastic 
 and has that atmosphere of a Fable game, while you control minions like Pikmen. This game is definitely 
 not the best game out there but for some reason it is extremely addictive. The ability to do so 
 much and the suprising AI of your minions (other than them drowning which is just stupid) makes 
 this game really a joy to play. Sure it has some flaws such as camera angles and some glitches 
 here and there, but this game is well worth your money. Of course you can always rent it first 
 I suppose ;) So if you enjoyed Fable and you enjoy RPG/RTS then this game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshdrew
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  overlord makes you feel awesome buy having a horde of little killing spree minions at your total 
 control. this game is really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really good. i don't kno why they gave this game a 7.5 i think it deserves way way way way 
 way way wway way way way way way way more then a 7.5. the graphics are so so so so so so so so so 
 so so so so so buetifull. if you love rpg's that you can controll army's and piiliage villages then 
 this is a perfect game for you. (i wrote words over agian because i did not feel like writing some 
 new fancy words, i got lazy it happens) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamekingpin
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is a colorful entertaining game with fabulous visuals and dialog. This is a strategy game 
 that also requires a little bit of hack and slash. One of the best attributes in this game is controlling 
 the minions. The developers really capture the essence of what it would feel like to have an army 
 of loyal subjects who are truly devoted to your every command. Using the analog stick to send these 
 creature on a sweep of destruction never gets old. They kill and pummel at your command and bring 
 back any treasure they may find along the way. They will even sacrifice their own lives to keep 
 you alive. Although the purpose of this game is to be evil it is also quite humorous. Watching 
 your minions smashing through a pumpkin patch and then wearing the pumpkins on their heads really 
 shows just how much they love to do their work.
  
  The plot in this game is very deep and involved due to the fact that you are awakened so that you 
 can rebuild your evil empire from scratch. You will also have to make some choices that may evolve 
 holding back on your corruption to gain the trust of another character for a larger gain down the 
 line.
  
  The controls take some getting used to because you have to use one analog stick to control the 
 main character and the other for your minions. You can also use the right trigger and the B button 
 to command them and call them back. There is also a good use of a lock on system to aid in attacks 
 and staying focused on a specific area that you would like your minions to focus on. The camera 
 can be tricky at times but there is a button in place that will center the it behind your character. 
 Finally, you have your attack and magic commands for when you yourself have to get into the action. 
 Once you get the hang of that. The game plays pretty well.
  
  The one thing that may turn a few people off to this game is the fact that it is not as evil as 
 we may have though it would have been as described in previews. There is not any gore and the all 
 around fairy tail look gives it a light hearted touch that makes it somewhat comical. You may also 
 wonder why some of the time you are actually helping people and not hurting them, but hey in order 
 to stab someone in the back they have to trust you first right!
  
  Over all this is a fun game with lots of content to enjoy. I don't think its a must but but it 
 is definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setotitan
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  I don't know where each and every one of you are at with the games on the market today. However 
 personally I am so tired of all the damn shooters, sorry I mean action RPGs as they call them. 
 Or all the all the cookie cutter made for movie video games, like Spiderman, or Fantastic Four, 
 Transformer's ect. I'd really soured myself on video games, there wasn't one that I didn't pick 
 up and then 2 days later set back down.
  
  Then I saw this trailer for Over Lord. You have a giant axe, can cast magic, oh yeah.. and you've 
 got a horde of minions to do your bidding! You rampage through your world village to village as 
 this anti-hero of sorts. Time and time again you'll be presented with the option to do the right 
 thing, or take the slightly darker road. The best part is if any of the town peasants gives you 
 lip you can always rip them limb from limb. And who knows, you may even get a bonus for it ;) There's 
 also a great strategy element to the game. As you progress and get more and more minions of different 
 abilities you have to choose who goes where and does what. You can set them up as sentries as you 
 go on your raids, or split the swarms up and just let them all rampage.
  
  There are a couple things to be aware of though. The camera controls can be a little shaky at times. 
 With all things you have to control you forgo your camera rights to the A. I. so it will point you 
 where it thinks you want to look. Also there is no in-game map. However I did find it humorous 
 that they included a paper map with the game. It can be a bit off putting at times but you'll get 
 the swing of it.
  
  For anyone reading this review and seeing the negative comments above, don't let that discourage 
 you from getting this game. Those are minor annoyances and can be easily overlooked in lieu of 
 how much sheer little kid on Christmas enjoyment you'll get from it! It's been nearly a year now 
 since I've found myself staring at the clock as it shows 5AM. Knowing if I rush I can get in bed 
 and fall asleep before the sun comes up. That maybe, just maybe, I'll get 2-3 good solid hours 
 of sleep before I've got to get up and face the real world again. GAME ON!
  
  Magic, Minions, and Mayhem!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peejmode
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  This is my first official review.
  
  So I went out on release day to get myself a copy of Overlord. I opened it up threw it in and grabbed 
 my controller. To my surprise the game was beautifully rendered and I got to play with minions. 
 I have read the other reviews so I am not going to repeat how wonderfully fun the minions are. 
 But I have one major thing to get off my chest. The game is too short.
  
  I beat the game in two and half weeks and thats purely casual play. I was astonished last night 
 after killing Khan... who was very tough and then the Wiz. Who was a pushover, he also looked like 
 Santa but with minions instead of reindeer. I was so confused I wasnt sure if I truly beat the 
 game, so I waited for the credits to roll, continued my game and unluckily as my life is, the game 
 doesnt save after killing the last boss! The replay value is poor because the only thing left to 
 do is kill peasants, harvest life force, and upgrade equipment. I barely upgraded my equipment 
 throughout the story anyways. 2000 Minions for a maxed out arcanium helmet.... anyone find that 
 a little high? Overall I thoroughly enjoyed it and will be looking forward to getting Overlord 
 2 as long as it lasts a little longer. P. S. sorry about the grammar and spelling. I am in a rush 
 to get to work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABlast
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 9, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Overlord is a different kind of game. The entire concept of controlling your minions makes it fun 
 and interesting. These little devils will do anything at your command and are totally loyal, willing 
 to die for you. They are very intelligent as they pick up objects they find and use them against 
 the enemy. You can command them to attack or you can just sweep them to wherever you want them 
 to go.
  
  The only drawback is that in certain situation, the control system is frustrating. When you want 
 to control a specific type of minions in the heat of battle can cause unwanted situations.
  
  But overall this game is a fun. Its completely different than any other game. I would recommend 
 it! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phydeaux45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I had my doubts about this one after reading some of the reviews, but I played the demo and enjoyed 
 it, so I went ahead and bought it.
  
  I'm pretty picky about UI and control schemes; nothing can make a potentially great game bomb faster 
 than messing that up. I have to say that it can be a little hard to practice your minion management 
 at times, but in most cases it just took a little rethinking of my strategy to come back and ace 
 it. It's really cool how you can play out the battles in so many different ways. I watched my kids 
 play through after I did and they took an entirely different but equally effective tack in some 
 places.
  
  The Bad:
  
  No map. Good heavens I would have loved some sort of an in game map. Before anyone goes off about 
 yeah sure magic GPS yadda yadda I get that sometimes the designers hate that stuff. I wouldn't 
 have minded one that even reveals as you explore and doesn't show you on the map. I would settle 
 for just some landmarks. Just something slightly more detailed than the paper one that comes in 
 the box.
  
  The autotargeting could have been a little less random or better documented. I did discover way 
 late in the game that if you have lock, clicking in the left and right thumbstick will cycle thru 
 the targets in a much more sensible way.
  
  The Good:
  
  Voice acting in this game is superb and so is the dialog writing. I found myself cracking up quite 
 often at some of the off the wall comments that your minions make. There are a few cutscenes where 
 everything is quite serious, then suddenly some squeaky voice from behind you will interject some 
 hilarious comment. I wont give any away and spoil the surprise but the first time you meet the 
 silent order is pretty amusing.
  
  Pathing and A. I. Man some games suck at this. This one doesn't. In 3 solid days of gameplay I have 
 only had a minion get stuck twice and both times was due to me deliberately trying to lead my minions 
 off in a tricky place and try to get them stuck. They really do behave quite well and are pretty 
 good at bringing back treasure. What more could one ask for in a minion?
  
  Saves. Very transparent. The save mechanics dont interfere with game play at all.
  
  Variety. 
 You never know what lurks around the next corner. The battles are always a little different. The 
 sheer variety of stuff that your minions pick up and use is pretty amusing. I laughed when one 
 of the minions ripped the arm off of a zombie and did a little dance while chanting mine mine 
 mine then proceeded to use it as a weapon for the rest of the level. Minions going off to piddle 
 in a corner after pillaging some beer is lowbrow but amusing. The first time one goes riding by 
 on a sheep is pretty funny too. The antics are constant but not irritatingly repetitive like some 
 games. Actually in retrospect, sheep play a fair part in the humor of this game.
  
  Levels. The levels are large and varied and they place spawn points frequently and appropriately 
 so you dont have to traipse back through half the game for a minion refill. The graphics are cartoony 
 in a world of warcraft sort of way, but are detailed and the textures arent repetitive.
  
  Achievements. Pretty good here. You can get quite a few just from playing through, some will require 
 you to work a little for them like the forging achievements and the get everything achievement. 
 Nice mix of easy, medium and hard I would say, but with the hard not being totally impossible.
 
  
  Overall, I like the game and it will be one of the few I likely play through a couple times to 
 pick up all the alignment achievements. It looks like it will provide about 15 hours of gameplay 
 for the campaign for someone just rushing through to finish, but I would say you would get considerably 
 more if you are attempting to do some of the forging achievements or the dungeon achievements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Capt_Shavers
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  overlord allows u to be the overlord of evil of an army of minions and at first glance it reminds 
 me of fable besides the minions and the concept of the game. although the motto is it's good to 
 be bad there are choice points where you need to choose between a good choice and an evil one and 
 quite frankly i dont noe y. but then again i guess they need to have some choices to make the game 
 last longer. but other then that i enjoy the gameplay and the minions allows many fun and hilarious 
 battles where they jump on the back or giant beetles and trolls and whack away with their little 
 clubs. they also bring a minor sort of strategy to the game where u need to place minions in certain 
 places and use certain types of minions to take town deadly spores or engolfing flames. the game 
 also allows minor customization for ur fortress and ur armour and weapons. for instance the armour 
 on the cover of the box is not the armour u start with. one of the few bad things in the game is 
 the lack of a map or mini map to the game world and i find without any mission markers i found 
 myself lost numerous times. Overall though i think overlord is a worthwhile game that all gamers 
 that enjoys magic powers mixed with evil deeds and an army of minions will enjoy imensely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxo2
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  Overall, Overlord is a lot of fun to play. You'll have a great time running your minions around 
 and causing mayhem. You'll also find yourself laughing at some of Gnarl's (your advisor in evil 
 ) humorous commentary, or the amusing antics of yourminions as they run amok. At the same time, 
 you'll probably be shaking your fist and saying to yourself, I WISH I COULD SLAUGHTER THE CODEMASTERS 
 Q/A DEPARTMENT WITH MY MINIONS! There are a number of seriously frustrating glitches in the game 
 that totally mar the play experience.
  
  My first attempt at overlording ran into a serious snag when I get stuck in the infamous brewery 
 glitch , which essentially halts your character's progress about midway through the main quest 
 line. Codemasters has released a patch for the PC version, and an Xbox 360 patch should be forthcoming. 
 This is the only crippling flaw I've run into so far, but there are countless other instances where 
 I find myself struggling against my minions to keep them from suiciding (by obliviously running 
 themselves into campfires or puddles) , or getting stuck trying to carry loot back to my tower.
 
  
  It's a testament to the game's fun factor that I decided to start a new game rather than continue 
 to wait for the upcoming patch to rescue my first character's progress. Having played the game 
 through completely, I would definitely recommend it to others -- but probably as a rental. There's 
 not really enough content to keep you interested more than about 40-50 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_halo_king
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  Overlord is a different kind of game as it focus's on evil and not on good. You get to run around 
 your kindom mercylessly killing peasents, dwarfs, elves and other creatures. But the best bit has 
 to be your minions.
  These little devils will do anything at your command and are totaly loyal, willing to die for you. Whether 
 it be collecting treasure or killing sheep they will follow you. They are also very intelligent 
 as they pick up objects they find and use them against the enemy. You can command them to attack 
 ect, or you can just sweep them to wherever you want them to go. In the game there is four types 
 of minions-Brown-Has more strength, Green-Poison, Red-Fire and Blue water. There is spawning pits 
 all over the maps where you can swap glowing orbs you find when killing something for minions. As 
 you get more powerful you can have more minions with you.
  
  You start the game with nothing and you castle is a mess, throughout the game you can find lost 
 objects stolen from your derilict casle and make it into your evil relm, as well as being with your 
 misstress :) But you can use the overlord's fighting abillitys too. There is also a forge where 
 you can sacfifice some minions to make new weapons.
  
  So overall this game is a hit. Its completly different than anyother game and will supply hours 
 of fun. I highly recomend it ! ! !
  
  By King_Halo_King 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgtfoxy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 7, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is a  kind of game. It seems that the idea would be 
 stupid and that the only possible way to win is to amass a gigantic army, but that actually doesn't 
 work. Because of the different attributes of the 4 different Minions (Brown, Red, Green, Blues) 
 you have to balance your Horde out. The other factor that makes you use strategy is the limit of 
 Minions you can have it starts at 10 and you get an upgrade for about every 3 hours of play. The 
 graphics are excellent for an animated game, and the physics are just average. The game is ideal 
 for players who enjoy the fun in killing everything you see, but also like some amount of strategy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  Have you ever dreamed of being an evil ruler with an army of underlings to do your bidding? For 
 most of us, Overlord is as close as we can get to fulfill those twisted fantasies, and it generally 
 does a pretty good job. At first glance, it appears as if Codemasters has created a straight-up 
 adventure game, but the central focus on using your minion army to accomplish goals adds a strategic 
 flavour to the game. This fusion results in an unusual and enjoyable style of gameplay, though 
 it isnt without its share of control issues.
  
  The old Overlord of evil met his demise to the seven legendary heroes, leaving the forces of darkness 
 in disarray. You are the successor to the title of Overlord and its your responsibility to restore 
 evil to its former glory. Although your base of operations is in bad shape, the Overlords trusted 
 minions remain at your command. These gremlin-like creatures will pillage, plunder, and pummel 
 at your command with a gleeful enthusiasm that is strangely endearing yet mildly disturbing. The 
 minions are your key to restoring the dark tower and exacting revenge on the seven heroes.
  
  Only the warrior-like brown minions are available at the start of the game, but youll have 
 access to a further three types after a couple of hours play. The red minions have a powerful projectile 
 attack and can absorb flames, the greens are immune to poison and have stealth abilities, and the 
 blues can survive in water and revive other minions. Your minions will follow you around, but you 
 can control them in many different ways. Moving the right stick allows you to sweep your minions, 
 giving you direct control over their movement. This is handy to lead them down winding paths or 
 to steer them out of harms way. If you want them to stay put, you can lay down a guard marker to 
 keep them still, but theyll attack anything that comes too close to the marker. Using minions 
 to attack is as easy as sweeping them to the target or locking onto the target and hitting the 
 right trigger. Your minions will return to you with the spoils of battle which can include gold, 
 health potions, and life force (used to summon more minions) . Theyll also help themselves to their 
 fallen foes equipment (and sometimes make shift equipment like a pumpkin helmet!) .
  
  Overcoming puzzles consists of interacting with the environment to progress further. When youre 
 an Overlord, however, its down to your minions to do the heavy lifting for you! Objects you can 
 interact with have a number to signify how many minions you need to perform the action. A simple 
 switch may only require a couple of minions to activate, but pushing a stone to serve as a bridge 
 will require more minion power. Naturally, the skills of each tribe come into play. Many sections 
 require you to make use of the abilities of all the tribes to progress.
  
  Ordering your minions around is great fun, but there is plenty of scope to strengthen yourself 
 as the Overlord character. You can cast various spells to assist your minion marauders. You can 
 conjure up fireballs to support them in battle, or you can cast a frenzy spell which will increase 
 the strength and armour of your minions. There are various artefacts scattered around the world 
 that increase your health, magic power, and the amount of minions you can command at once. In addition 
 to this, there are smelters that can be found and transported back to your tower. From here, you 
 can forge new weapons and armour and upgrade your current equipment by sacrificing minions.
  
  One of the games main lures is the ability to be evil, but sometimes youre forced to act 
 hero-like. An early quest sees you retrieving food for a starving village; does that sound evil 
 to you? You have the choice to return the food or keep it for yourself when you find it, but a 
 real Overlord probably wouldnt have even gone searching. Apart from occasions like this, the morality 
 choices are black &amp; white so youll have little trouble distinguishing the good decision from 
 the evil decision. A corruption meter measures just how evil you are; spells get power boosts depending 
 on how good or evil you are. Generally, its best to pick one and stick with it for the game (especially 
 because there are achievements for completing the game with zero and full corruption) .
  
  With all the minions running rampant, there is a lot going on. Unfortunately, the complex controls 
 can be bothersome when the action speeds up. Switching between minion groups in the heat of an 
 intense battle can be difficult, and you can end up losing a lot of minions. Perhaps most notable 
 is the camera. In most games of this mould, the right stick would be used solely to control the 
 camera. Due to the minion sweep feature taking up the right stick, you have to hold left bumper 
 and then move the stick to pan the camera. In theory it doesnt sound so bad, but in practise it 
 feels quite cumbersome, especially if youre used to playing adventure games where the camera is 
 very easy to use. These shortcomings are by no means fatal, but youll need some concentration 
 to overcome trickier parts of the game.
  
  Xbox Live support takes the form of three game modes: slaughter, pillage, and survival. The first 
 two are competitions to score the most points by killing enemies and collecting gold respectively. 
 Survival is a co-op mode where two Overlords fight against hordes of enemies and see how long they 
 can last. Leaderboards allow you to track your score for slaughter and pillage, but strangely not 
 for survival. Its nice to see that an effort was made to include multi-player, but they definitely 
 take a backseat to the single-player game. They dont feel tacked on, but they certainly could 
 have been fleshed out a bit more.
  
  The world of Overlord is very reminiscent of Lord of the Rings. The fantasy-inspired land has a 
 range of different environments. Youll travel through sprawling forests, rolling deserts, and 
 giant castles over the course of the game. They really are great to look at, and its the same 
 for the characters. The Overlord is a menacing and imposing figure, clad in black armour and blade 
 in hand, while the hyper-active, homicidal minions provide an interesting contrast. The character 
 animations of the minions are particularly impressive, whether they are frantically trying to open 
 a treasure chest or hanging for dear life while hanging on to a trolls back. This really adds 
 a lot to the charm of the game.
  
  The music that plays in the background isnt particularly memorable; it really does stay in the 
 background. Youll find that although the music isnt particularly good, Overlords voice acting 
 is very impressive. Although your character doesnt speak, your minions and the inhabitants of 
 the world do. The mischievous character of the minions is heightened by the excellent voice acting, 
 and the non-player characters are given a fair bit of personality through their voices. It really 
 serves to maintain the fantasy setting and make the world seem more authentic, and it adds to the 
 games charm.
  
  Despite the sometimes-dodgy controls and the fact that you cant always be as evil as youd like, 
 Overlord does a good job of what it set out to achieve. This minion-infested adventure will last 
 the average gamer about fifteen hours, which are full to the brim with puzzle solving, money stealing, 
 and hero killing. Add to that a fair attempt at online support and a solid audiovisual package, 
 and Overlord is a game that any adventure fan should check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  i kinda looked at this game from the wrong view so i have to rewrite my review. The game is about 
 being evil and its fun (i kinda missed a few things my first time i reviewed so i kinda understand 
 a few things now) . You have 2 bars heath and mana and of course health is most important but its 
 kinda like Pikman cause instead of haveing Pikman you got goblin creatures. Theres a few type of 
 your minions Blues heal Greens can clean up toxic areas so you can cross reds are fire like the 
 greens they put out fire and browns are your good old melee guys. and the game sometimes get confusing 
 at times but when your past theconfusing parts and in ombat the game is really fun. Well i liked 
 this game alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negimakun
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Overlord is a third person rpg that gives you the ability to control hordes of minions. Although 
 the game has some issues with camera and a few minor glitchs, but those are easily over looked 
 once you get into the game. The multi player is extremly fun, and should be greater once downloadable 
 content starts pouring into the xbox marketplace. It is an excellent addition to any true gamers 
 collection. But the game is to easy to master, and everything is easy. But there are some frustraiting 
 points. other than these, the game is highly recomended by me. Especially if you love controling 
 the hordes to pillage and kill your way to the overlord fo all the lands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightrade
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Some people may compare overlord to fable but it's two different types of games with different 
 gameplay styles. However if you ask me fable is the better choice, but that doesn't mean this one 
 isn't good either. In the beginning, the game might seem so-so but later it get's addictive and 
 very fun, at least in my opinion. It takes place in a fantasy land where you are the new overlord 
 of evil and must begin your conquest over the land. The more evil deeds you do the more evil you 
 and vice versa. In the game it's not your character that does all the work it's your minions. They 
 fight to the death and return object to you and some use for themselves. At first you can only 
 control five but later you can control a max of fifty. You CANNOT beat the game without them so 
 use them wisely. Also your overlord can cast a variety of spells which are determined by how evil 
 or good you are in the game. The game is fairly easy depending on how you use your minions. Also 
 the game isn't very long, it's about 10 hours or so. The graphics are pretty good and the sound 
 is great. The game is humorous and Overall is an awesome game. If your into fantasy you should 
 buy it but if your not, rent it or just don't play it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Ahh, the joys of destruction. If you ever wanna know how the villans always seem to return from 
 the dead, get this game. If you ever want to see a fairy tale from a villians eyes, get this game. 
 If you really like fluffy little sheep peacefully grazing in a field of green grass, put this one 
 back on the shelf. Seriously, this game is twisted, but in a very humorous way. The game starts 
 out with these Gremlins-type (yeah like the old movies, but the evil ones) creatures digging you 
 up and getting you back to your evilish self. You're awakened to find your devilish castle in ruins 
 by the good guys. There are various items that were stolen from your castle that you must get back 
 to rebuild your evil empire. I am using the word evil alot in this one......
  
  The gameplay is very Fable-like, you have the option of being evil, or really evil, though the 
 really evil is not as evil as it could be. Your character is equipped with the option of controlling 
 gangs of these evil-Gremlins to do your light, and sometimes heavy, work. They will attack anything 
 living on command with a hellish vigor. They happily die for you with a crazy stirring laughter, 
 now thats respect! You can unlock different types of Gremlins with different attributes, all at 
 your control.
  
  I have not completed the game at the time of this review, but I can say that it is a fun game with 
 plenty of things to do, but without online play, will get old after a while, just as Fable did. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Story: As far as storyline goes, you are an Overlord who is taking over a previously defeated Overlord. 
 Your mission is to spread your reign of evil defeating corrupted heroes and re-gathering your loyal 
 minions to take back the land that was stolen from your domain.
  
  Gameplay: You play the Overlord, an imposing character of great height and resembling very much 
 Sauron from Lord of the Rings. You have the basic attack (A) , you can call back your minions (B) , 
 use a variety of spells (X - Fire spells, Domination, Berserking Minions, as well as Shields) , 
 and even sweep your minions (R Thumbstick) . As you play through the game you'll gain access to 
 better armor to be crafted (which you can imbue and make stronger) , more lands to discover, and 
 eventually improve your tower to it's previous state. Your variety of minions will present you 
 with puzzles (i. e. Reds can absorb fire, blues can go through water, and greens can traverse poison) 
 as well as give you options on how you can approach your enemies, say, from behind so your greens 
 can jump on top and stab them viciously. Near the end of the game you'll be feeling quite powerful 
 with your upgraded weapons, armor, helmet, and the ability to summon up to 50 minions. Lifeforce 
 itself is the embodiement of your minions, allowing you to summon them and if you run out, you're 
 limited to a few or so. The control of your minions themselves are a little slugish, but after 
 a few hours of playing it becomes quite natural.
  
  Multiplayer Gameplay: You are presented with 3 options online: Co-op Survival, Slaughter, or Pillage. 
 In each game type you either kill the most people (Slaughter) , get the most cash (Pillage) , or 
 survive with a teammate (Co-op Survival) . There aren't many maps to play on, and it's all basically 
 the same, but it's a fun addition that could well be expanded on in the future. If you have a friend 
 that has this game, this is especially fun to compete.
  
  Graphics: The graphics resemble that of Fable (artistically, not really how good they look) , and 
 the world is presented vibrantly and colorfully, helping you immerse yourself in the game and give 
 you motivation to play. The character models themselves are usually pretty nice in how they are 
 featured, but the Overlord is a little stiff (he walks very awkwardly) as well as the animations 
 of the characters are few.
  
  Sound: The sound is great, the minions have a unique sound to them and are humurous as well as 
 entertaining to listen to. As far as what characters say, they usually repeat themselves and this 
 can get quite tiring. The minions themselves don't really get tiring because they are so great 
 to listen to. The sound of, say, a mace hitting anything always sounds the same, but the humor 
 imbedded into this game is just too great to ignore.
  
  Value: The achievements will run you through this game at least twice if you're paying attention, 
 and also give you a taste of everything the game has to offer. The game is fun to replay with new 
 downloadable content on the way.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Not many games have been seen like this before on the 360, or most systems for 
 that matter. Codemasters takes a few risks, has a few downfalls, but in the long run makes a great 
 game that will last you over 20 hours per play, and leave you wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STAZZtheRED
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the most entertaining and adventerous games that I have played for the Xbox 
 360... and i have played a lot.
  
  Gameplay: This game feels like a cross between the Xbox game Fable, and the Gamecube game Pikmen. 
 Both were very good games, Which is why this game is so awesome. You control a horde of minions 
 and command them to do your bidding. For example, have your minions go into a house, pillage it, 
 and give you anything of worth. The minions consist of: browns, reds, greens and blues, all having 
 special powers to bring into the game in terms of puzzles and how to confront an enemy. Now you, 
 the Overlord, are the ruler of the minions and are trying to re-acquire lost land that the former 
 Overlord lost with his defeat and to eventually bring back your Evil domain.
  
  Graphics: One of the major selling points in this game. The lands are beautiful, the people look 
 like people, your minions have their own look to them that makes them special, unique, and add 
 a style to the game you don't find in many others.
  
  Sound: The sounds and dialogue in this game are quite humurous. How your minions pillage and give 
 you items, and how they sound is just pure genius. Also the sound of hitting your minions for disobeying 
 you is also well-done and gives you a feeling of completeness to the game as well as polish.
  
  Value: Like all Xbox 360 game this is $59.95. And for that price it is worth every penny of 
 my money.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: All in all this is a must buy for anyone's Xbox 360 collection. One of the best 
 summer games so far and also the most entertaining 360 game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGamerDiet
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is a game I have been waiting for since the first preview I saw of it over a year ago. 
 I had expectations for this game and it met or exceeded them all. Now note that my expectations 
 were not that it would be the greatest game I ever played. I didnt expect the greatest graphics 
 or sound or story. I just expected a good solid-to-play game and that is what this is.
  
  I wrote a longer review in my blog but I will spare you here and just cover how I got the score 
 (yet somehow this is still long) .
  
  Gameplay: It was quite enjoyable and deeper then I expected (had an actual story) . The minions 
 were a joy to have at my command and for the most part did as they were instructed. Matching up 
 the right minions in the right circumstances against the right enemies gave it an interesting and 
 fun RTS element. The Overlord becomes quite powerful and even though the attacks are limited to 
 one button mashing for melee and one button for spell it was still fun to have this third person 
 hack and slash element to complement the RTS. The spells were nice and worked well as did the weapons 
 (I preferred the sword) .
  
  Graphics: Better then I expected. It does have a Fable look to it. There is no real weather or 
 day night cycles but at times there does seem to be a dusk like look to the day that is very nice. 
 There was a variety of cool looking enemies and the different towns\sections of the map looked 
 unique to each other. It was all very nice (wish there had been snow in the dwarf section though) .
 
  
  Sound: Better then I expected. It was nice and again it had a very Fable sound. In fact, the cheering 
 villagers track could have been ripped right from Fable. The music was appropriate for each location 
 and quite pleasant. The ambient sounds were nice. The minions repeated the same lines over and 
 over but it was fun and not bothersome. There was some repeated lines that DID get bothersome if 
 the game REALLY wanted you to do something or if you faced the same enemy too long. (forgot the 
 jester was annoying too)
  
  Value: The game was a nice length. It took me well over 20 hours to complete, but I did do some 
 wandering and life force farming that were not required to complete the game so it may take others 
 less time. Reviewers Tilt: I was aiming to give the game an 8.2 but the math doesnt workout so 
 it gets a 8.3. I had a LOT of fun with this game but I did have some issues with it and sadly one 
 was at the end which took me out of the experience of the game and dampened the awesome feelings 
 I should have had during the final cutscene. Still though, what occurred for me in the final boss 
 fight will not occur for most everyone else and it wasnt that big of a deal anyway.
  
  Issues I had with the game: Minions dont always come when called or setup when told too. Sometimes 
 the game will have someone repeat something every 15 seconds or so and it becomes annoying (not 
 the minions or townsfolk) . Sometimes the camera would wig out if I was in a tight corner but normally 
 it was good. Lastly there was an issue for me with the final boss but it was not a game stopper. 
 I would recommend this game even at full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stabby
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  With the whole wave of video games for the so called next generation of gaming whether it's hyped 
 up feature come in the form of epileptic inducing graphics, ear drum bursting sound effects, wrist 
 cracking motion sensing or pretentious story/visual appeal that claims to be art developers appear 
 to have forgotten that games were supposed to be a fun form of pass time. Now don't get me wrong, 
 as interesting all the above are, notably to the next (next in line) generation of gamers who didn't 
 grow up with actual games for fun and fun only its becoming harder for a game to claim its all 
 about gaming but then fails with either bugs, graphics close to have been drawn by toddler with 
 rickets or a game with ends the moment you close the console tray... but enough ranting, my point 
 it finally here, Overlord ACTUALLY proves to be the crazy fun bit of gaming we haven't seen in 
 a long time.
  
  - OVERVIEW -
  Overlord is a so-called action RPG that merges first person adventure with real time strategy while 
 retaining the structure of a role play or whatever cheesy sounding selling point the market can 
 make. You take control of the nameless warrior referred to throughout as the Overlord (didn't see 
 that coming!) or if you want to be a proper nerd what Sauron might have looked like during his 
 college years . After being resurrected by a small band of minions (or gremlins) it is your job 
 to raise from the rubble and take over the land before you via a swarm of mindless gremlin minions 
 that come in many forms... well just four but I'm trying to sound like the hype mentioned earlier. 
 Your job is to be evil, and by evil I mean doing to dirty work against all that has pissed you 
 off from previous fantasy games. Thats right, the drunken dwarves? OFF-ED! The petty humans? BOW 
 AT YOUR FEET! The fat Halflings? STARVED! The pompous Elves? OH BOY, YOU'LL SEE! Finally you can 
 take all that irritated you in Lord of the Rings and kick it in the crotch. Sounds like a convincing 
 game formula? We shall see...
  
  - SOUND -
  Lets get passed the boring aspect shall we? With games like Gears of War, Shadow of the Colossus, 
 Medal of Honor and Name of name of the name we see a real emphasis on both roaring collateral damage 
 and orchestrated background music, it kind of puts the whole game in motion. Overlord on the other 
 hand... erm... its not that it doesn't have music just music that you'll identify as back noise 
 to keep the game from being boring when you're not in combat. Not bad, and it does fit the style 
 of the game quite well (and I'm not even 100% sure what that is) but you can and probably already 
 have heard better music. However the voice acting on the other hand? Now when I build that up I 
 didn't mean it was of Oscar standards but it sure does add charm and humour. Most of the talking 
 will be through narration of your sinister adviser, moaning foes and of course your down right 
 dim-witted minion horde. They'll laugh, scream and chant in your presence and not only does it 
 create a sense of humour but will make you feel all the more superior that any overlord should 
 feel. There is plenty of toilet humour and childish doings with a shade of black comedy to them, 
 which is a hit or miss depending on your opinion. For a title that clearly isn't trying to be the 
 next pretentious artist video game you should appreciate to effort.
  
  - GRAPHICS -
  Let me cut to the chase. Its no pretty picture or cinematic masterpiece but its enough for a 360 
 title. The landscape looks like everything you've seen before but a little more updated. Character 
 models are interesting and the world before you is full of life or scenery (ready to tear down, 
 which is always a beautiful thing for games!) . Of course you will see a lot better in the 360 range 
 but that isn't to say its torture to watch. Now heres the thing that has put the game on the map: 
 is it buggy/glitchy? Yes... like EVERY SINGLE GAME I'VE PLAYED its buggy. After one play through 
 I encountered the following in terms of technical problems:
  - The odd minion got stuck behind things
  - Text on screen long before voices actually play out
 
  - The brief moment of half the sound effect tuned out
  But for a 360 game, a console that has been noted for the infamous red lights of catching doom, 
 its no different and let me set the record straight.
  
  IGN US either played a damaged copy, used a damage machine or reviewed the production title because 
 their claims of a game stopping, game breaking bug aren't true for me, Gamespot, other critics 
 and just about every gamer you'll meet. 
  
  Frame rate is usually set but you can change to an overhead view or press LT to face you character 
 third person view. While not the best form its still usable.
  
  - GAMEPLAY -
  To ability to control minions sounds fun right? In short yes, but of course theres a lot more 
 to it. In terms of the proclaimed RTS element, it is in a way. You can sweep them all in, hold 
 certain minions back, direct them around terrain and lure you foe. While not a real major kind 
 of strategy we're used to like PC games, it still interesting enough to say, I command all that 
 . And trust me it does help. Your minions will do most of the fighting but if you feel like it 
 you can cast the odd fireball or swing the odd hand held weapon to enforce your dominance against 
 the enemy, hence is being the action element. But you will just forward your army and enjoy as 
 they climb over and beat their enemy to the dirt before scurrying back to you with spoils of war 
 presented before you. Now comes the RPG element. You can't customise your character's look like 
 Oblivion and the few options you get just improve your character's and horde's skill than look 
 but then again its all about the minions. You can customise your tower, but only so much so don't 
 expect the whole Sims 2 package but your actions in the game will change things. The prime source 
 of the RPG element is the option to do MOST (not all) missions in your own order and own way. While 
 a lot of them don't sound so evil, in fact they sound as good as it gets you can help your ego 
 by beating the quest giver or taking the treasure/goal for yourself so you can get REALLY evil 
 at times that renders your castle and character's look (light of dark) and how the friendly AI 
 reacts when around you whether that be with Godly praise, resentful bitterness or fearful grovelling 
 (always the best one) and finally will change your final game ending. You will encounter God knows 
 how many boss fights, all of them with interesting character and action that come up without warning 
 so be on your guard... but you have minions to do that for you. As for multiplayer its hard to 
 describe since it depends on whom you're playing with. Overlord is more of a single player experience 
 personally.
  
  - VALUE -
  Game time various but with me I spent a full week playing before the final credits. You'll explore 
 4 different landscapes with plenty to do (destroy) and characters to meet (kill) with different 
 paths and endings to allow one to replay. If you're looking for something lengthy and different 
 in a fantasy adventure with a plausible amount of difficulty then you should get your money's worth, 
 which is good considering 360 titles seem a little over priced these days.
  
  - CONCLUSION -
  Theres no game like it. Overlord is an original concept that works in its own 
 way. Being original it will probably be a hit or miss but due to the fantasy background, it should 
 be a clear market target audience. If you like adventure games without the need to be the next 
 groundbreaking masterpiece, then you should ATLEAST play the demo or rent it. Overlord is a fun 
 game that doesn't try to hard in the innovation fad and because of that succeeds in the sort of 
 game it is which is all about wit and game play. If you've had enough with seriousness and want 
 to get back to what made games great then Overlord should supply you with whatever your lacking 
 in game terms whether it be the need to just play and not get carried away with story or art value 
 or if you want to water your dried up ego in terms of feeling a sense of power and dominance. Overall, 
 Overlord is a solid game, while not perfect its worthy enough to be apart of the so called next 
 generation while focusing on being its own kind of game and style instead of a predictable rehash 
 of previous titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matty_6666
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. Overlord is a game which encourages you to be evil even though later 
 on in the game you don't get as much chances to do evil things like in the begginning with the 
 food but it is still a lot of fun commanding a army of gremlin like guys who are your minions. 
 I found it fun to play and has a funny storyline to it. But there where some minor glitches i came 
 across like your minions getting stuck behind a box etc and i could'nt go into the bedroom to see 
 my mistress and gnarl kept telling me i had to.
  
  this is one of the best games to come out for the 360 for some time now, since it has been lacking 
 good games lately. A definite for all RPG fans and RTS fans alike.
  
  I say its a must have game since the problems are nothing to stop the fun. The graphics are beautiful 
 and the music goes well with the game and you just fall in love with your gremlin like minions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  Lets start by getting the negative stuff out of the way first. Where is the map and who decided 
 that sheep can be tough enough to kill an Overlord???
  
  OK, now that I have gotten that off my chest lets move onto the good stuff.
  
  The idea behind 
 this game is great and I am sure that if the developers had been given another 6 months to tidy 
 up all the loose ends it would have been awesome.
  
  The idea is simply that you are the evil overlord, you have your own tower but it is need of repair 
 but to help you achieve this goal, you have access to an unlimited supply of minions.
  
  it is these minions that make the game in my opinion. You can send them off to do your evil bidding 
 by using the right stick (I have the 360 version, not the PC version) and they will faithfully 
 carry out whatever you desire, even sacrificing themselves should you wish it.
  
  As you progress through the game you find different types of minions that have different skills, 
 each complementing the other and needed to get through certain parts of the game.
  
  Visually it is quite pleasing. Animation is good and the framerate is always pretty high and consistant. 
 The world is quite large although the lack of a map does make exploration quite tedious as you 
 have to rely on visual markers to get back to places you have visited.
  
  Combat is very simple, just hit the A button and keep hitting it while locked onto an enemy or 
 do what I do and send your minions to do all your attacking for you.
  
  All in all I have found this game to be quite enjoying and great for just picking up and playing 
 for an hour. If I have one other gripe though is that I would have liked it to have been a little 
 more evil :o) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FredrikVonHoff
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  This game has the best humor of any games I've ever played. I kept smiling for most of the time 
 while playing. Only interruption was the irritation of the controls. Even though i cant think of 
 any way to make them better, they lack the precision needed for some battles in the game. Something 
 that makes the game extremely frustrating at times. Also the controls takes some getting used to 
 at first. Anyway the humor of this games is of another level. Without the problems with the controls, 
 it would be, if not perfect, at least superb game. Easy to play, loads of humor, that will keep 
 you smiling for hours. And the controls will make you cry for a minute of each hour. But I'm smiling 
 right now :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wind_kitty
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 3, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a new type of game out there that dares to be different. Its not a FPS, RPG, or just plan 
 action. It is a combo of action and puzzles, with some messed up humor.
  
  It starts as these, for a lack of better words, grimlins, pull you out of a tomb and giving you 
 armor and calling you master. (wether or not you are there master is left to the rest of the story) 
 This little guy that looks like Spike/Yoda tells you the basics, how to move yourself and attack, 
 then the same for you grimlins. There is some dark humor and some really bad puns, but they do 
 leave you with a smile on your face.
  
  As for the game play, you don't do much of anything, well the overlord does not. Most of the game 
 is you controling the little ones to do everything for you. You know overlords don't like to work 
 for anything. They are some what smart as they don't just run into things that kill them, but will 
 do anything thing you say even if it would kill them. You have different types of them and they 
 all have different abilities. Very easy to pick up one. Not like other games where they throw you 
 right in the middle of things.
  
  All and all this game is worth picking up at least once. The once is all your going to need to 
 be hooked. Rent it first if your not sure. You will find yourself playing though at least twice 
 to get all the fun stuff. Being bad or really bad, changes the game a little. Gab and have fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darquewillow
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  There have always been games where you are forced to make a decision between right and wrong, Good 
 or Evil, in Overlord, it isn't as much about whether or not you wish to be evil, but rather to 
 which extent you wish to be. Such as the game's title may indicate, you play the role the Overlord. 
 You have just been awoken by your minions, and rightfully so, for there is much to be done. Your 
 predecessor was overtaken by heroes who have left your tower in ruins, and now the land is in utter 
 chaos. It is up to you to venture forth throughout the land to loot, pillage, and in doing so, 
 return your tower to its former glory and return order to the turmoiled land. Of course you are 
 not alone to do this; in fact, most of the game requires you to make use of your supporting cast: 
 the minions. In Overlord, you are given access to several minions, each being small gremlin-like 
 creatures. There are four types of these to be found throughout the game, each having its unique 
 ability. They will, however, all perform basic commands, such such as fight monsters, break things, 
 and return treasures to you. Some may even pick up small weapons and armor to equip in order to 
 improve their chances in combat. Controlling these minions is rather simple. You may either target 
 something and send the creatures off towards it, or you can manually move them about in a herd-like 
 formation . This does become slightly more complicated once you begin to control individual color-based 
 groups, such as positioning your red minions in order to allow them to attack enemies from afar, 
 while sending brown minions to fend off the enemy head on. It is in such that Overlord mixes third-person 
 action RPG elements with real-time strategy elements, which despite its few minor flaws, does so 
 rather well.
  
  Graphically, the game is sound, and basically what you would expect from a fantasy role-playing 
 game. The graphics and sound lend themselves particularly well to the theme and story of the game. 
 There is also some great humorous dialog to be found throughout the game between various characters 
 you meet. It is, however, in such that some may come to resent Overlord since even though game 
 allows you to play the role of the villain, everything is done rather lite-heartedly, and such 
 people looking to truly be evil may find themselves disappointed. Overall though, Overlord is a 
 great game and people who like the fantasy genre, or those who are simply interested in trying 
 out something a bit different, should definitely give this shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CapmJim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Thats how it usually is isnt it. We see these movies and games like lord of the rings (which much 
 of this game seems rooted in) and the bad guys dont get too much justice. Overlord changes this 
 by letting you become the big bad guy himself. The game starts out simple enought. Your are found 
 by your minions beneath your ruined tower and your tasked with rebulding your minion army, rebuilding 
 your tower to its former glory and killing off the seven now corrupt heroes that did your predecessor 
 in.... although it would have been nice to kill some not corrupt heroes its still good.
  
  First off gameplay and controls. Well the gameplay is pretty simple but satisfying. You control 
 your minons with the Right trigger to send them or sweep them along with the right thumbstick. 
 Occasionly the minions dont go all where you want but thats really the only control issue i have. 
 You send them after enemies and they pretty much maul them.... or if its a tough one they get mauled. 
 There is some stategy to this. Say a troll comes. You cant attack it up front you have to get to 
 its back or your minions get smacked. Your overlord isnt a pushover either (well at the start he 
 is) but if you upgrade his armor and weapons he can attack with swords axes and maces and even 
 fire, and other sorts of magic later on. All in all its pretty fun. Plus you have forging armor, weapons 
 and other things and you can even put minions into it to make it have better stats such as regenration.
 
  
  Graphics and sound. The sound effects are fine. Im dont really pay much attention to sound in a 
 game but it did not bother me at all. Graphics are very nice as well. While it isnt Gears or Graw 
 2 but they are still excellent. It kind of looks like a next gen fable sort of.
  
  All in all i think it is a very enjoyable game and is at the very least worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuk3r3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  This game has to be the most funny of all the Xbox 360 games. Overlord was the first game to make 
 tears come to my eyes cause I was laughing so hard. The things you imps say are amazingly hilrious. 
 Even int eh agme manual they managed to get me to laugh! The game is full of riddles and various 
 funny parts. Nothing gets funnier when a Unicorn pops up from eating a dwarve and your goblin says 
 Horsie wanna play . I have never laughed harder. The game looks childish at first but turns out 
 to be a more aimed at teens, fun loving teens might I mention. Its violence could be a bit to much 
 for a child. The online isnt the best. Not many people on it and the lack of vareity that worse 
 than Gears of War is horrific. The single player is playable OVER and OVER and OVER and OVER. It 
 is basicly locked into about 3 story lines it offers little freedom when doing quests but beside 
 that it offers vast freedom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NuttyBanana
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  I've been pretty let down with the run of games at the moment and all I've really been looking 
 forward to is Transformers which isn't released here in the UK for a few more weeks yet.
  
  So I hit gamespot one day and find the Overlord review on the front page, check it out, view some 
 vids (frustratingly bad on gamespots new vids player.....) then decide to download the demo.
  
  The demo is ok, fun and short and being bored of the x360 games at the moment i decided to 
 bite the bullet and buy. I've turned out to be very happy with the decision as I found the game 
 to be great. Everything has already been said about the rpg/3rd person etc mix and they work really 
 well, taking the 'levelling' aspects from RPGs and the 'keeping it straight forward enough to play' 
 element from 3rd person shooters/puzzlers.
  
  The demons work great, many people go on about the controls being hard and I don't..... thats it, 
 what's the problem??? I'm nowhere near finished with the game yet so maybe more of the harder stuff 
 is to come and i'll be cursing the controls, but at the moment, it's a good game that you can pick 
 up and jump straight back into whenever you want.
  
  Basically, this game is extremely fun and pretty easy to get into and a nice breath of fresh air. 
 Even if you don't want to be evil you can enjoy the game and help out those annoying humans.... 
 personally I'm happy to lead them into the hay fields and fireball it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natebeebe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  This game is great. The idea of controlling minions to accomplish task and puzzles is novel in 
 that different minion types are required to accomplish them (i. e. Blue minions are the only ones 
 that can traverse water without drowning... some puzzles require this.) The tower custimization 
 is a nice little feature although I felt at times that there could have been more in the way of 
 choices. You do have the morality choices in the game but it leaves you a feeling of a PG-13 evil 
 I'm trying to live up to my heritage choice versus the I'm not such a bad guy Overlord alternative. 
 Armor and weapon creation rely on what type of smelter (metal) you use (for the look, power, and 
 power up capability) and what type of minions you sacrifice to custome tailor them (i. e. Green 
 minion will cause your armor to regenerate, the more sacrificed... the faster the regeneration) . 
 It does stereotype the races and use the typical settings for a fantasy Tolkienish type world (the 
 Dwarven Royal hall has pillars in the entry hall that look identical I swear to LOTR's Moria halls 
 and the Overlord looks like Sauron.) Overall, a good change of pace and novel enough to overcome 
 it minor setbacks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagoatmastah
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 1, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  First thing I have to say about this game is that it's a great change in pace from all of the other 
 games that are coming out. Its a unique title that seems to combine elements from Fable and Pikmin. 
 You are an Evil overlord, and the decisions that you make effect the way people act around you 
 and some other aspects of game play that I'll let you discover. The Pikmin side of it is the use 
 of minions for battle and carrying objects to the gates, having different types of minions who 
 can do different things. I don't really have anything bad to say about this game other than it 
 feels a little short, and there can be some annoying problems with the camera and locking on to 
 specific targets. Its not the best game out there, but it has great game play, great graphics and 
 sound. Camera and lock-on problems are there, but bearable. Not to mention, its great fun to unleash 
 your minions on a peaceful city, watch them kill, pillage and get drunk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tensor44
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is different to other games, only focusing on the evil side. I think that that is what 
 is going to make this game bigger then usual. The minion part is cool but i thing it copy's of 
 The Darkness. I also like how they put humor into the game. But at the same time having to control 
 the different types on minions is a down fall. i think they should do what they where made for 
 by them selves . the game is over all fun and you should rent it first to see if you like it first 
 on account of it being a different type of game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmedWolf001
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  The old Overlord has disappeared, and a new Overlord has rised. Your job is to rebuild your Dark 
 Tower and unleash corruption on the lands.
  
  Overlord offers a great singleplayer experience, that is somewhat comparable to Pikmin gameplay 
 wise, but with an evil twist. Controlling minions that will do pretty much anything to humor you, 
 is great fun. The game has a good storyline, with a great ending finale, I will not spoil. The 
 game looks nice in terms of graphics, but some of the character models could have been better. 
 The main involving characters in the game have great voice acting, while most of the minor characters 
 have mediocre voice acting. The overall sound effects are pretty good though.
  
  As you progress in the game, you will reclaim everything the Dark Tower lost and objects that will 
 increase your health, mana and minion pool. You will also find new spells. There are four different 
 types of spells, fire, shield, minion, and domination. Fire spells deal damage, shield spells give 
 you protection, minion spells give your minions a little boost and domination spells create utter 
 chaos.
  
  The Dark Tower opens up new areas as you progress. Once you obtain a mistress, her area opens up. 
 There you will find her bedroom, a bank, and a room where you can purchase different things to 
 customize your Dark Tower. The forging lair opens up when you obtain your first forge. In there, 
 you will be able to upgrade and create different types of armor. The last area is the Dungeon, 
 where you can choose different creatures you've previously battled and fight them again. It's also 
 a good way to harvest more minion souls.
  
  The multiplayer modes all involve the use of your minions to achieve certain goals. The first mode 
 is Slaughter, which plays out the same way it sounds. Of course, the difference here is that dozens 
 of minions will be facing each other at the bidding of their masters. Co-op mode has you and a 
 friend unleashing your minions upon hordes of enemies. Again, the amount of characters on screen 
 is supposed to be very hefty indeed. Finally, there is another mode called Plunder Challenge, in 
 which players compete to gather the most treasure. The main letdown I found was that you can't 
 use your customized Overlord from singleplayer, you're forced to use the standard armor with red 
 or blue clothes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rob1224
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  Overlord is an amazing game its game play is incredible its just like fable but u dont get to use 
 minions in fable !!!!! also u are a 100 percent evil deedsman if u arent 100 percent evil than 
 you are 120 percent evil there is no such thing as good deeds in overlord What You SEE is WHAT 
 U KILL!!!!! there are 4 minion types fire, majic, poision, and BRown AKA MUSCLE of the pac (Browns 
 are best for combat) theres only 1 problem with this game THE CAMRA is a little haywire most of 
 the time so u will have to click LT alot but check this game out its worth it and if u dont like 
 this game then you were raised wrong or dropped on your head as and infant!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nagumo2001
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  This is a game I had not been looking forward to. I never did relish the idea nor gameplay of Pikmin. 
 Yet, I snapped up the demo of Overlord for but the PC and Xbox 360. After first playing and enjoying 
 the fun, albeit brief, demo available for the 360 I snapped up the demo for the PC to see how it 
 would compare graphically and performance-wise. The game ran very well on my PC, and I found the 
 lighting more refined and eye pleasing. All that aside, it's the various elements of strategy that 
 really make this game. Unfortunately the demo does not really allow one to see this side of the 
 game. The game is very much like Pikmin. You are an entity, in this case an evil Overlord, and 
 you control groups of minions to do your bidding. The game starts off by handing you simple missions 
 designed to show you the ropes without being overly frustrating or difficult. And if this is all 
 the further you play, you may very well feel that the game is simple as well as linear. This can 
 not be further from the truth however. As time progresses you'll find yourself controlling several 
 different minion types. Each type serves a specific purpose. Red minions for example are associated 
 with fire. They have the unique ability to absorb fire from the plying field, useful for clearing 
 paths, as well as being able to lob fireballs at some distance. These guys can be quite handy when 
 positioned as artillery pieces and told to stay at distance while you utilize your brown minions 
 to do hand-to-hand combat as they're your grunts.
  
  This type of basic strategy is what keeps the game interesting as you'll find level design is geared 
 towards the use of multiple types of minions. As the game progresses the strategy to beat certain 
 bosses and surpass levels becomes more complex. This is where control comes in. As you can split 
 up and control minions as one large group, or as individual groups, you will need to be able to 
 do this with some ease and speed. Whether you have the PC version or 360, I do recommend the 360 
 controller. The game was clearly designed with it in mind. And as such you'll find it works very 
 well in terms of analog control and allowing access to in games options at lightning speed. To 
 select minion, one simply pressed the RB (right button) and the corresponding face button. To regroup 
 units simply tab the RB twice. Minions are always controlled with the right analog stick and your 
 Overlord with the left analog stick. Your left trigger selects objects or enemies in the game world 
 and your right trigger tells selected minions to interact directly with the object. Conversely 
 you can simply use the right analog stick to move the minions to your desired target. Using the 
 left and right triggers however makes multi-pronged attacks easier to pull off.
  
  Graphically the game is really quite good. There is a good deal of attention paid to the tiniest 
 of details. Minions, regardless of color, all look slightly different. They will also pick up objects 
 as they move about the game world. Anything worthy of stabbing or bashing will be pilfered and 
 used to as you would expect. You also see a meter telling you how much more effective your minions 
 are in combat as they pick up said objects of destruction. Likewise they will pick up armor, or 
 other more unique items for protection. It is not entirely uncommon to see you rabble running about 
 wearing plate armor, pumpkins as helmets, or even sporing a gutted dead rat to woo the ladies. 
 After all, what lady can't live without a bloody rat hat? The graphical touches are not limited 
 to your minions either. Enemies have a very distinct visual flair and many times the strategy required 
 to best them is hinted at through the games visuals. You will quite clearly need more power to 
 best a bulbous, farting, troll than some poorly armed and waddling halfling. Regardless of what 
 you see in the world it is all well animated, and you may often find yourself standing still so 
 that you can take in the environments. Plants sway in the breeze, water reflects and refracts light 
 and surroundings, fire looks like fire (burns stuff good too!) . You will be hard pressed to find 
 any aspect of the game that looks mediocre, much less bad.
  
  The one caveat most people will have is in the camera control. Essentially you have two options. 
 You can click the right analog stick to switch between an over the shoulder close up view, or an 
 aerial view from directly overhead that gives you a more standard RTS type feel. You can not however 
 adjust the angle or direction of the camera. The only control over that aspect is the ability to 
 hit the left button to center the camera behind you. All that said, the camera does an excellent 
 job of panning with the movement of your minions. There is a bit of a learning curve in that respect, 
 but you'll be a master in no time. Maybe 15 minutes or so and you'll forget you don't have direct 
 camera control, you also won't care. As mentioned previously the game may seem quite linear at 
 first. And to some extent levels do not have many divergent paths. This does not mean the game 
 is strictly linear as once you get going the game will start offing up more quests, which you can 
 pick and choose from, and many of which allow you to decide how to solve. In one mission you will 
 tasked with returning a stash of food to the people of a small village. Once you find this stash 
 you have a choice to build your supporters up by handing them back the food. What fun is that? 
 So being evil you can also kill any witnesses and keep the food to build up your minions! Oh evil 
 is soo much more fun than that icky icky good. The game presents missions in this format throughout.
 
  
  Sound is another area where the game excels. When your first cuddly spiked brown minion brings 
 you some loot, or a soul, and offers it to you proclaiming, FOR YOU MASHTER . You will immediately 
 think of the voice of Gollum from the illustrious Lord of the Rings trilogy. Positional audio as 
 your rabble battles it out, fire, water, wind, and screams of agony all sound great. Each creature 
 has its very own personality and you'll actually feel a bit bad when your favorite minions die 
 off in battle.
  
  The game does have some RPG elements in that the Overlord can learn spells, increase his strength, 
 and increase his mana and health. Nothing complex or deep, but it's does add some variation to 
 how you deal with combat situations. Unlike Pikmin you do have direct control of your Overlord 
 and can thus dish out some personal beatings. Once strategy might even involve setting field on 
 fire to burn up a horde of enemies so that you needn't waste minions if you are some distance from 
 a portal. Adding to the RPG elements is the ability to upgrade your castle with things like cranes, 
 minion hives, a maiden, and smelting capabilities. You can use your smelters to create new armor, 
 weapons, and the like as well as imbue them with the souls of minions to add elemental protection, 
 offense, or basic attack and health bonuses. Once again, not terribly deep, but more than enough 
 to add some variety to the game and the customize it for the way in which you like to play it.
 
  
  Overall this is a fantastic game with some original ideas and a fantastic sense of humor. Don't 
 let the demo lull you into believing the game is really as simple as the demo. If you aren't sure 
 after the demo, hit up Blockbuster or Gamefly. Just don't overlook this gem. As a final note. If 
 you have a PC capable of running this game you can save yourself 20 dollars by buying the PC version 
 that retails for 39.99 rather than the 360 version which retails for 59.99. The PC version is set 
 up from the get go to have the same control scheme as the 360 if you use a wired or cordless 360 
 controller. The actual keyboard and mouse controls do leave a bit to be desired. Take that into 
 consideration if you do not have a gamepad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dude_The_Man
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 1, 2007 3:37 am PT
Review:  This game had loads of potential and had me excited when I first saw the previews. Even the demo 
 had me drooling. Sadly the game only works for the first hour or two of gameplay. It's to slow 
 paced and has no depth and in the end it gets boring fast.
  
  Gameplay: Overlord' gameplay breaks down into moving the overlord around an area with the left 
 thumbstick. Usually a dungeon or forest. Activating doors or portals with the A button. So you 
 can enter and exit areas. Then lastly sending in your minions and watching them kill whatever is 
 in front of you using the right trigger. The gameplay is never more complicated then this. At a 
 select few and I mean few places in the game you would have a slightly easier time if you split 
 your minions up and set them in different areas. 99% of the game this is pointless. If this description 
 makes the game sound boring it's because after an hour or two at the most; it is, very, boring. 
 The game attempts to add depth by giving you a total of four different types of minions. The browns 
 are melee fighters and can be used throughout the entire game to do everything in combat. Their 
 also the easiest to use as they get the job done and die less then the others. The other types 
 of minions solve problems you'll run into such as fire in your path or water etc. You only need 
 one minion of the correct type to get past these areas. Another large problem is the fact that 
 separating your different minions on the fly to do different jobs is very counter intuitive. But, 
 like I said you only need Browns anyway so this problem would only effect the game if the other 
 minions were actually useful. There is a small castle customization feature which does nothing 
 but change the way your very lifeless castle looks and only in the most trivial of ways. There 
 are also some basic buffs you can give to your Overlord' armor helmet and weapon. Getting these 
 requires you to farm for souls which turns into a grindfest of epic boredom. Also taking into account 
 the fact that your Overlord never needs to get in combat himself and the fact that it's not fun 
 in any way in the first place mashing one button to have him do the same combo throughout the entire 
 game... This leaves customizing his equipment a bit pointless.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are nice overall. They look appropriately next-gen and are great to look 
 at as you wander around the country-side. The minions look particularly nice with their entertaining 
 bits and bobs they snatch from random areas and wear on their person. The enemies look worse then 
 the minions in general but are still decent looking. The bosses tend to look better then their 
 henchmen even if some of them are disgusting blobs or odd looking freaks.
  
  Sound: The sound works great. The voice acting is wonderful and again the minions steal the show 
 here with their superb and entertaining chatter. The music works and I never found it annoying 
 or tiresome. The battle noises aren't out of place and sound like they should.
  
  Value: Value to me always comes down to Length, Difficulty and Fun Factor. This game is of below 
 average length for a game of this type. This isn't all together a bad thing considering how repetitive 
 it is. It has next to no difficulty to speak of and could be played while watching a movie at the 
 same time. It's that easy. As for fun factor when a game is this slow paced and repetitive it's 
 hard to find anything fun about it past the first hour or two.
  
  Tilt: Tilt for me is always originality. This game gets a few more points for originality then 
 a standard game but all it does is combine two genres into one and it doesn't do it very well.
 
  
  Overall: In the end Overlord wasn't worth my time and I don't say that lightly. There are better 
 games to play and many, many games that realize the need for at least moderate depth in their gameplay. 
 Nothing worse then a game you can play with two commands. Walk and send minions being the two for 
 Overlord. I would only recommend this game to those who enjoy very simplistic gameplay with nice 
 graphics and sound to go along with it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowking1st
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  like i said up there! it is great fun but there is a part i got stuck but ifigure it out. it is 
 great if u like puzzles and even better if u like to be destructive (once messacured a whole village.... 
 just because i felt evil....) Just make sure u have a couple blue minions to heal u guys, and browns 
 are still best to fight all around! Ths game is good if u like to combine squad tactics with evil 
 powers like fire blasting things. it takes both of best worlds of magic and tactics! If u dream 
 of becoming a evil OverLord well this is ur game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuffinPunk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 30, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Well this has been under my radar for a while and now that I finally got, I'm exited and it meets 
 plus passes my expectations. I had thought this could be a good game but something was gonna go 
 wrong that I wouldn't like. But it's fun, funny and beautiful. There isn't another game on the 
 360 like it. It's a well balanced mixed of exploration, RTS like fighting, some action with you 
 the overlord, and lots of fun. The minions and other races of the game bring a lot of character. 
 The races themselves may not be original, but their personalities are what makes them part of this 
 game. All the little noises your minions make, makes the experience that much more realistic and 
 enjoyable. The RPG elements are simple, with upgrading your overlord, his weapons, armor and spells. 
 Also the size of your minion horde grows as you play, eventually being able to command 50. Nice 
 puzzles add the rich and varied gameplay. The whole theme is so well done and full of life, it's 
 easy to get hooked on every little interesting detail they added. The camera is not bad it's only 
 different them most other games. Just tap a button to move the camera behind you overlord. Also, 
 locking on fixes the problem. Online play also fits the style of the game bringing different modes 
 you've probably never played before. Enjoy dominating this vibrant fantasy world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is an Action RPG with slight RTS elements that is a whole lot of fun to play.
  
  Gameplay: Pretty basic and can get a bit dull after a while but it's fun. Causing chaos is great 
 and the minions you control are super duper fun. The Overlord himself is basic with basic melee 
 attacks and some spells but it's great being able to set little halflings on fire! The camera can 
 get a bit dodgy but once you've found your sweet spot with the controls its great fun.
  
  Graphics: Really nice, bright and quirky visuals that look great. The Overlord's animations are 
 a bit stiff but other than that the game looks great. Could of had some more detail in places but 
 overall it's a nice looking game.
  
  Sound: Fantastic voice acting throughout with some good sound effects and a good fantasy score. 
 The best part of the game other than the minions.
  
  Value: A pretty lengthy campaign from what I can gather which is great and some interesting multiplayer 
 modes. I can see the multiplayer getting old and it feels a bit tacked on but it's quite good fun.
 
  
  Overall this is a great British game full of comedy, great graphics cool voice acting and lots 
 of fun. If you like games like Fable, Pikmin and Kameo you will love Overlord, and if you're looking 
 for a light-hearted but at the same time comically violent game then it's great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpython99
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Overlord is a great little game. It is ambitious in its attempt to meld two different genres, namely 
 RPG and RTS. While as the Overlord you can rush into situations and just start bashing away the 
 true joy of the game comes from sending your minions to do it for you. And truth be told the game 
 would be near impossible were you to attempt to take on all comers by yourself. The character control 
 seems a bit clunky at times, and the Overlord does not move around all the fluidly. It often times 
 feels as though you're guiding a lumbering beast with a broken leg instead of an all powerful ruler. 
 However, the minions move around with a remarkable amount of ease. The ability to control all or 
 just a certain division of the minions proves necessary and selecting the right sect is relatively 
 easy given enough practice. The game also feels a bit liner in its story line, and a world map 
 would be a welcome addition.
  
  The tag line for Overlord is to be as evil as you want. But this doesnt seem to really be the 
 case. While in games like Fable you are obviously choosing a path of light or dark in Overlord 
 there is really only one path. You can opt to do some mean things but nothing has really shown 
 itself as evil to me so far, more like just being a jerk. What it really boils down to is that 
 some of the actions you take could be good or could be evil the problem is that there are really 
 only slight consequences for either of these actions. This could have been developed a little bit 
 more since it is a major part of the game. The graphics aren't going to blow doors down, but they 
 do quite nicely. They seem to work well with the type of world that you are going to immerse yourself 
 in. With your minions you will battle hordes of imps, trolls and Halflings; quite Tolken-esque 
 if you ask me. But this is where the graphics play a key role, while they could be sharp and clear 
 and lifelike they are not. This enables more of the fantasy of the whole situation.
  
  The sound value is through the roof. While you are likely to hear the same phrases time and time 
 again from your minions and the townsfolk the voice acting is superb. Because of this those tiresome 
 phrases dont seem to wear out nearly as soon, and often time garner the same kind of chuckle each 
 time. The musical soundtrack for the game also plays well with the atmosphere. The music plays 
 in the background, enough so that you know its there but no so much that it takes over the scene. 
 Too often Ive played games where the musical score, albeit a great one, overshadows all the other 
 audio aspects of the game. All in all Id say this is a highly enjoyable game. It doesnt seem 
 to take itself as seriously as other games on the market, so it proves to be a nice change of pace. 
 Its a delight to be able to sit down and play a game without having to wrap myself in the world 
 that it creates. Plus the added bonus of being as evil as I want to be cant be ignored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigdawg321
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 29, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  really fun game, good graphics and unique gameplay. Game controlls are kinda confusing at first 
 but after about 30 min to an hour you get used to them. very good game. some parts though are confusing 
 when you might need minions you dont have and yo dont know where to get them in a open world enviroment. 
 not as evil as i would like it to be but its good enough. Spells re also very useful and they can 
 help alot in a pinch. personally i like the brown minions the best cause they woop ass on everything 
 and its funny to see minions wearing pumpkins for helmets 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fox3586
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Overlord looks like a Fable ripoff from the moment you start playing it. It might actually be stolen 
 code from Lionhead, it is that similar of a game.
  You control a hero (forget the evil thing, its used mostly for humor. You are not that bad of a 
 guy though) and make decisions during your quests that minorly effect your world. It is a deep, 
 beautiful game with fun British accents and humor. The NPC's are all straight from Lord of the 
 Rings. Halflings in underground homes, Dwarves in mines, and Elves in the woods (plus a bunch of 
 characters that, again, look like they were stolen from Fable) . So far the game looks like it is 
 simply borrowing from everyone else. Truth is, they did something very different... they made a 
 GOOD game out of all these components. The major difference comes in the minions. I haven't tried 
 it yet, but I imagine you could play much of the game without them. You'd die a lot, but it is 
 probably possible besides the puzzles. Honestly, after you meet the deliteful pieces of terror, 
 you will never want to play without them.
  
  Minion break and kill anything you want them to. They grab weapons, armor, gold, objects, and other 
 items. They do all the heavy lifting and really make you feel like a true Overlord. Because of 
 Minions, this game is both easier and harder. Without them, it would be just another hero-based 
 adventure game that we've seen a million times before. Now everything feel brand new and fun again. 
 The minion also provide some interesting challenges that require good strategy. Without saying 
 too much, you have four types of minions that you acquire slowly. They each have their strengths 
 and weaknesses and you will have to use them in many different ways to you advantage. I haven't 
 completed the game but I hear the maximum horde size you can have at your command is 50. That is 
 awesome because 20 is enough to swarm almost anything that crosses your path. Gameplay: 10 Fun, 
 different type of gameplay. You control the main character and up to 50 more. The camera can get 
 a little painful occasionally and twice I have had glitches that basically make you reload a save 
 30 minutes prior, but I still give it a 10.... the minions are just THAT FUN!
  
  Graphics: 9
  Beautiful, lush, and a wide variety of locations. It looks like Fable which is great, 
 but also very last gen. Stylized but not top-notch.
  
  Sound: 7
  Probably the weakest point in the game only because of its inconsistencies. Some times it great: 
 The minions, main characters a general fighting noises. Other times it quiet and certain effects 
 seem absent all together. Value: 10
  Longer and better than Fable in one days play (granted it was a long day of play) . I waited 4 years 
 for Fable and it was upsetting at best. I waited two months for Overlord and it surpassed all my 
 expectations.
  
  Tilt: 10
  For a simple change of pace you must play this game. In a word, Minions!
  
  Please recommend, 
 comment, or message me for more information or if you would like me to add more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walbeb
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Hmmmmm, i want to start by saying i had high hopes for this game since i found out about it last 
 year. Now in some aspects my hopes were fullfilled in others im upset. First thing is the lack 
 of map, when you buy the game it comes with this excuse for a map but overall is useless, it would 
 be a lot easier and less frustrating if you had a map to look at. This game seperates minions into 
 brown (best) red (2nd worst) greens (2nd best) and blues (useless peices of crap) The reds shoot 
 fireballs but unless u stack out your army in them they stink.
  
  The greens are amazing if u set there gaurd point and they go invisible.
  
  And the blues revive 
 and kill magic things, even though when you send blues to revive they attack in hand to hand instead 
 and there the worst at hand to hand mind you. The game is fun and quite lengthy if it's your first 
 time playing. In my opionion i beleave they should have made the game M for mature and this game 
 would be 100% better, because without the M this game feels halted because of no blood, and when 
 i wanna destroy a town i want it destroyed for good people throwing there virgin daughters at me 
 so i wont slaughter them. (Okay so the last one was uncalled for but you get my point.) And there 
 is no option to be good, i mean u can not kill citizens but i mean it's not like they pay u rent 
 in exchange for you being nice to them simalar to fable when you ransack a town. I mean if they 
 made it rated M they could have had people more realistic and more reactions and the ability to 
 not be able to talk to anyone makes me angry. When i saved spree and gave them good the mayor told 
 me im welcomed at his inn, well it would be nice to talk to him but i couldnt so i just killed 
 him. I hope if they decide for a sequel to make it M so it could be more like capturing real people 
 and not killing brain-dead zombies. The visuals in this game are stunning especially since all 
 the people on screen at once. The controls take sometime getting used to but once you do its smiles 
 everywhere and your minions will do anything to make you happy, i get them drunk and watch them 
 pee on things makes my day a little better. Online co-op is kind of a joke they should have made 
 it so you and a buddy can conquer together not just try to survive waves of enemys. If they also 
 had a 4 player maximum and can have teams on the versus i would adore this game so much more but 
 they dont and there is nothing i can do about it. This game has the potential to deliver but it 
 didnt, while still a fun game it saddens my heart because i know this could have been so much more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianmh
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Great game, its not Gears of War, but sometimes you need a change. This is the kind of game that 
 the 360 lacks. Some of the graphics are very Zelda like from the Wii, only in Hi Def glory. :)
 
  
  I can't even really say why I like this game so much. As you progress you are constantly learning 
 how to use new things, like new minions or weapon crafting. The graphics are just beautiful. Its 
 kind of a just sit back and enjoy it kind of game. Its probably not for everyone, and you can pretty 
 much judge this game from the Demo, so if you liked the Demo you will like the full game. There 
 are a lot more settings of course and things to do in the full version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saman2006
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  being evil. having fun. stealing women. killin lambs; what else do you want from a game. destroy 
 cities. just be an eeeeeeeeevil character. in my opinion AI is perfect for this game. graphics 
 are nice and game doesnt slow down even when there are a lot of minions with you doing eeeeeeeevil 
 stuff. im not sure about the multiplayer. i dont think multiplayer is as good as single player 
 but overlord is truly one of the few games that i enjoy playing. im not sure if it ever comes out 
 for Ps3. but who care about ps3 when u can unlock achievements on your 360. this game should definitely 
 be on ur shopping list 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Overlord's premise is, you're evil, you got some minions, do evil things, but really you're doing 
 good things since the good Heros have been corrupted and your job is to wipe them out. Aiding you 
 in your quest are pikmin-esque goblin like dead zombie rabbit looking minions who will do whatever 
 you tell them to do including giving up their own life to extend yours. Gameplay: If you played 
 Pikmin 1 or 2 for the gamecube, you pretty much know what's going to be going on. You control lots 
 of little minions to pillage towns, kill enemies, and carry large objects so you don't have to 
 do crap. Pikmin was a very fun concept and while it's carried over to Overlord, that concept remains 
 fun. The only thing that I have really experienced thats frustrating about this (like those three 
 giant bird heads early in Pikmin 1) is if you're sweeping all your minions with the right stick, 
 sometimes they start to destroy random objects rather than attack you, and often its hard to sweep 
 them to the next thing after they've killed something because they'll come back to you first. Other 
 than that minor little gripe, the game is easy to control and downright fun.
  
  Graphics: Nothing here to right home about. They look like a game from early in the 360's library. 
 Up to today's standards, the graphics aren't spectacular. There are some good effects, but textures 
 are a little muddy and the surrounding grass and bushes have sorta a weird outline to them. But 
 nevertheless, they get the job done.
  
  Sound: Overlord has a nice soundtrack accompanied by a pretty funny voice acting job. It's very 
 cartoonish which suits the game well since it doesn't take itself very seriously. The minions sound 
 like you'd imagine, crazy little high pitched dead rabbit looking goblin things. You can help but 
 laugh when they let out a sigh of relief after they drink something and start peeing everywhere.
 
  
  Value: $60 bucks is a little much for this game, especially when the PC version is something like 
 $40. But 360 owners should be used to this by now. My personal opinion is that it should of been 
 $50 but whatever, what can you do?
  
  Tilt: In the end, Overlord is a very good game. It's not the best game you'll ever play, but if 
 you're looking for a fun game that doesn't take itself too seriously, to spend some time with, 
 Overlord won't do you wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3989
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  In overlord for the Xbox 360 you take on the role of a newly incarnated dark lord, you awaken to 
 see your tower destroyed, and the once glorious army of minions your predecessor controlled whittled 
 down to only a hand full of squabbling pansies. Naturally you are set with the task of rebuilding 
 your tower, and destroying the previous group of hero's whom your head minion calls particularly 
 bothersome, with killing your predecessor and that. 
  
  The concept of being evil ends up being a little dry unfortunately because apparently many of the 
 heroes that killed your predecessor have grown corrupt and evil, for example the once small and 
 limber halfling Melvin Underbelly has grown grotesquely obese to the point of his size being completely 
 absurd, he proves an amusing adversary at best and a disgusting one at worst.
  
  The game is also interesting because at first, your overlord can barely hold his own in combat 
 and as such it can be rather dry and somewhat tedious as in the first five to ten hours your minions 
 do ALL the fighting. It is amusing at first, watching them kill and ransack but it quickly grows 
 boring, but after you improve your armor and weapons through an..... interesting system that involves 
 sacrificing minions you can hold your own that the bothersome concept of doing absolutely no pillaging 
 of your own is quickly rectified.
  
  However, if you so desire you could in fact choose to lead a large horde of minions (by upgrading 
 your helmet and retrieving various tower objects) instead of actually improving your armor, this 
 will lead to a large army with a relatively fragile leader in late game, or you can choose to have 
 very few minions, using nearly all but a few to upgrade your equipment.
  
  overall my only complaints are the need of minions to do practically anything, and the camera, 
 which in and of itself is only controlled by using RB to center it on your characters back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cedricxx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  It is fairly easy to just pick up and play but once you start getting different minions it takes 
 awhile to learn how to properly manage them. It is a fairly simple, yet fun, game with a lot of 
 jokes and one liners that are on the slightly dark or twisted scale but nothing that a younger 
 player shouldn't hear. It is rather addictive and just all around fun. You can play it either evil 
 , really just good where the means justify the end, or EVIL killing and pillaging which make two 
 different games completely so it does have some replayability. I can't comment on the multiplayer 
 as I am enjoying the single player far too much right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike_Foxx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  One part Fable and one part Pikmin makes for a game that is almost disturbingly enjoyable. The 
 premise for the game is rather simple. A group of demons have awakened a new overlord to take over 
 for the previous one, when he was killed by a band of human heros. Not only did they kill the overlord, 
 but took parts of the castle with them, so your grand home is now in quite a bit of ruin. You're 
 tasked with finding all the bits of your castle, which in turn make yourself stronger. And while 
 you're out in the world searching for powers and items, you'll be tending to the citizenry of your 
 land. Quests basically come along RPG-style, a la Fable or Zelda. Merely walking into some areas 
 will trigger quests, while others are brought up by completing other quests. Conversations, however, 
 are all one-way; there is no 'talk' button, which can make things annoying sometimes when you can't 
 interact with NPCs whenver you want, just stand near them and listen to them babble. Quests are 
 easy to keep track of, however, with pop-up menus detailing what general area the quest is in, 
 what to do, and what you've already done. The lack of a map function, however, can sometimes hinder 
 getting around easily. None of the levels are overly complicated, but would be nice to know what 
 areas you've been to in a dungeon and what areas are left to explore, especially after saving and 
 coming back later.
  
  Levels themselves are beautifully done. Just enough color mixed with some darker shades to keep 
 the mood of 'dark overlord' going. Outdoor levels look nice enough; rippling water, slight breeze 
 effects, but not overly detailed. The overlord and minions themselves all have good character designs, 
 right down to armor on the overlord and individual weapon and armor details on the minions.
  
  And that, of course, is the best part of the game; the minions. Little demons waiting at your 
 beck and call to pillage and murder in your name. Minions are fully customizable; they'll pick 
 up whatever weapons are available on the map, either from boxes they destroy or downed enemies 
 (including bosses) . It can be a slight annoyance when you get a group of 'pimped-out' minions only 
 for them to be struck down by a tough boss fight and right back to square one. Weapons and armor 
 are never THAT hard to find for them, but still, it can be frustrating to have to re-arm yourself 
 over and over. The different types will be unlocked as the game goes on, and each has their own 
 pros and cons, and getting used to what minions are the weak ones who should be kept at a distance 
 and which ones can take a beating will be the key to the game. Your minions are controlled with 
 either a combination of the right and left triggers (lock on and attack) , or with the R-stick, 
 which is the more useful of the two. However, because the R-stick and triggers are used for minion 
 control, there is no camera control. It is fixed dynamic; it follows you, and changes position, 
 but you can't control it yourself. Which, on some occasions, you'll be cursing the game for lack 
 of camera control just to get a view on something without having to move the character himself 
 so the camera will shift with you. But when the minions lock onto to a group of enemies andd just 
 go nuts, it makes you forget all about some camera issues. You can also attack yourself, like any 
 RPG; you get custom weapons and armor from your castle, rather than using the generic weapons the 
 minions will grab from the world map. But being clustered up on by some enemies once or twice will 
 remind you why the minions are there to do your bidding.
  
  Like Fable, this has a duality path; however, unlike Fable, it isn't Good vs. Evil, it's just plain 
 Evil. But like Fable, being good or evil doesn't seem to have much of a bearing to your paths in 
 the game. Replay value is increased, however, wanting to see how decisions can impact gameplay 
 and how 'evil' you can be. And there are achievements for each decisions to get, so all the achievements 
 can't be gained on one play through, for all the achievement hunters out there.
  
  Getting past some camera issues, this is a fine gem of a game, and will hold over any RPG enthusiast, 
 or even a casual gamer for the summer draught of games and recent lack of blockbusters for the 
 360. At least do yourself a favor and go and rent it.
  
  Summary:
  The Good
  ____________
  -Commanding a horde of minions to kill and pillage never gets old
  -Great presentation
 
  -Customizable weapons and characters in an RPG-esque setting
  
  The Bad
  ____________
  -Lack of camera control
  -No real difference between 'Evil' and 'Evil'
  
  The Ugly
  _____________
 
  -700 pound bosses 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warboy2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  You start off in the ruins of your tower wakened by your minions to rasie again and expand your 
 dark domain. You start off only able to control brown minions (Warriors) and only 3 and as you 
 go explore more areas you will find Red Minions (Archers) , Green Minions (Assians) and Blue Minions 
 (Healers) . An your ability to summon more will grow as you complete quests and beat bosses until 
 you reach the max 50 minions. The game has dark humor with a well balanced storyline and quests 
 that control your corruption rating which as you get further in the game will have control over 
 certain spells that you will be able to get and how much people are afraid of you and how they 
 approach you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkreign2424
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Overlord isnt really like anything I have ever played. Its a very unique game that is quite difficult 
 to accurately describe. Think of Fable as a small unit, scaled down version of an RTS. Complicated, 
 yes? Surprisingly, it isnt.
  
  Youre set as the evil Overlord (big surprise there, I know) , tasked to re-establish Evil's undying 
 presence in a high fantasy land with no small amount of assistance from demonic underlings aptly 
 named, Minions.
  
  I will leave the story and spoilers to the other reviewers. Suffice to say, the story is the timeless 
 set piece we have all encountered in books, cinema and other games set in fantasy worlds. Only 
 the perspective and execution of that perspective are what make this game stand alone.
  
  The entire game revolves around you, your tower, your power and most importantly, your Minions. 
 The Minions are your greatest weapon and your most important resource. All living beings in Overlord 
 have a Lifeforce that can be harvested by, well, killing them. Whether it be sheep, people, halflings, 
 trolls, insects... anything. That Lifeforce is quantified and used to summon, you guessed it, more 
 Minions.
  
  Minions are the absolute focus of this game and the games shines because of them. Minions are used 
 to kill, capture, defend, attack, pillage, harass and to generally wreak havoc everywhere they 
 go. They are a charismatic lot with loads of personality and function.
  
  After pillaging countless homes, killing thousands of sheep, sacrificing endless Minions to further 
 my Evil and filling the gates of Hell of thousands of souls, I have come to the conclusion that 
 this game delivers. See my score breakdown for the same old, same old review we all know and love.
 
  
  Pros:
  Gameplay is very unique. Nothing is quite like it.
  Minions are a riot. The personality injected into these guys is genuine.
  Spells and Upgrades 
 feel like they matter. You not only look more powerful, you are more powerful.
  Minions, Minions, Minions... when you play, youll know.
  
  Cons:
  Control scheme. Its gets 
 complicated once you have full control over all 4 Minion-types. But I chalk it up to the analogy 
 I made earlier in that Overlord is almost like a scaled down RTS. So theres some planning to made 
 ahead of battle.
  NO IN-GAME MAP!!!!!!! I cant say this enough, this game needed an in-game map like Bush needs Hooked 
 on Phonics. The game comes packaged with a paper map that does a good job of showing where things 
 are. The problem is, you dont know where YOU are in relation! Even if the devs didnt put a map 
 in game, a frickin compass would have sufficed. Something. As it stands, youll wander around ALOT 
 more than you should to begin with until you get the geography by pure happenstance. This was my 
 biggest gripe, bar none. Just a compass.... please, pretty please... with sugar on top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackal520
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  Overlord is a game that is perfect for everyone and it will have you playing fot hours on end with 
 its addictive gameplay and the little minions that you can control. There is just so much content 
 in the game that will most likely have you playing it for a really long time. The games graphics 
 are just amazing and they arent as cartoony as i thought they would be they are just really neat 
 to look at on an hdtv and the control scheme with sweeping is just great there is no reason to 
 give this game a bad score as it is one of the best xbox 360 games out this summer and one of the 
 most interesting things to do is to rebuild your evil tower which was destroyed by 7 heroes who 
 now have the 7 sins and not to mention there are dungeons in the game such as the one in your tower 
 where you can fight any enemy that youve already fought. In conclusion dont listen to the people 
 that gave this game low scores i highly recommend this game to any fan of the action adventure 
 genre and have fun.
  Hopefully you have what it takes to be a good overlord. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyward_f5
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:44 am PT
Review:  The Good
  Overlord offers quirky slapstick comedy that works in it's high-fantasy setting, gorgeous graphics 
 set in said high-fantasy setting, a lot of games can learn from its art direction, the voice work 
 in Overlord is done well the real gem here is in the saying that the Minions will let out, really 
 a good laugh all around.
  
  The Bad
  The camera can be frustrating, but luckily with the 360 controller comes the 1 button fix, so while 
 frustrating it dsn't neoear cripple gameplay, simple gameplay can be seen as a pro or a con, depending 
 on level of gamerocity, I'm gonna chalk this one up to a con, there just isn't enough meat in this 
 RTS-ARPG throw together
  
  The Just
  Like the Deck says, the camera and lack of gaming-meat, are both nowhere near enough reason to 
 ignore the gorgeous art and graphics and the overall fun you'll have while playing Overlord 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metystic
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  As you all may now, Overlord is a game where you take the role of a... well... an overlord. Your 
 duty is to selfishly take what you want from others and destroy things, just because you want to. 
 Only thing is, you don't have to do any of it. What is an evil lord without his minions? In Overlord, 
 you have just that. During the game you control minions which do most of the things you need to 
 get done. Killing, pillaging, destroying, carrying things, etc. All you do is press the trigger 
 and one of them speeds off in the direction to do destroy objects, kill enemies, and bring to you 
 and loot he can find. You're an overlord, after all. Why should you have to do any of the work 
 with all this power?
  
  You start out with some basic equipment. A rather kickass and manly axe, a full set of armor, and 
 a helmet with glowing eyes from underneath signifying your evilness I guess. Anyway, with your 
 axe and your armor, which you might not need if you play your cards right with the minions, you 
 can fend off enemies and defend yourself if, per chance, your minions are busy or dead. While you 
 are more powerful than any one minion you have, their numbers are invaluable to taking down enemies. 
 Lucky for you, they fear your power. You are also given the task of rebuilding your rather shabby 
 castle, which had been looted and destroyed by 7 heroes. You must also kill these heroes for what 
 they have done, and to also get them out of the way of course.
  
  As you progress, you find items in the game that upgrade your castle and yourself. The first one 
 you find is the Tower Heart, which lets you warp to any area you've been to, as well as waypoints 
 you've accessed, which only show up one at a time. With your ability to warp to different lands, 
 you must recover lost objects. These objects can upgrade your castle with things like a dungeon 
 for practicing against enemies, and a forge pit type area, which lets you forge and upgrade your 
 weapons and armor. Upgrading only has one cost: Minions. The more minions you sacrifice, the more 
 your armor is upgraded. Depending on what kind of minion you sacrifice affects what it does to 
 your armor/weapon.
  
  Speaking of which, you have different types of minions, which have different skills. You start 
 out with the browns, which are brutes, you could say. They're the ones you want in the front lines 
 of a melee battle. Fire minions on the other hand are more effective at a range, where they cannot 
 be hit, and can catch opponents on fire with deals damage over time. They can also melee, but it 
 isnt particularly powerful. Strategically placing these types of minions can affect the tides of 
 battle. Of course, there are two other types, but you can learn about those for yourself.
  
  Now you might be expecting to do some very evil acts in this game. Super evil, like destroying 
 planets and such. Well, it may be more accurate that the Overlord character is more self-gain than 
 he is evil, though he gains what he wants through evil to some degree. You can be really evil, 
 or kind of mean. For example, really evil would be to steal things from towns and kill the townsfolk 
 , while kind of evil would be to help the town, but in return gain riches, respect, and you can 
 ransack houses as much as you please to add on to your riches. The townsfolk may not like it, but 
 there's not a damn thing they can do about it.
  
  There may also be some issues with camera and control. The controls in the beginning are very simple 
 and easy to learn. Later on, you learn things like switching spells, selecting groups of minions, 
 and having minions guard selected areas (as many as you want as long as you have a minion to guard 
 that spot) . These may be difficult to effectively master, but they are very useful throughout the 
 game. The camera also has some issues, where focusing on the target is sometimes difficult.
  
  However, disregarding that the overlord may not really be all that evil, the game is still 
 fun. Upgrading your throne, items, abilities, minions, spells, beautiful visuals, quests, pillaging, 
 destroying, and killing. These are some of the things Overlord offers, and though the game doesnt 
 really seem to be all that evil, it's still as enjoyable anyway. Personally, I had a hard time 
 putting the controller down. In fact, I'm going to continue playing it right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ratler111
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I have been long awaiting this game and it has fullfilled my expectations. The storyline is great 
 so far and I am enjoying gameplay wih the mnions. Sometimes the puzzles get a little long and the 
 camera getsin the way on a few occasions but it is not too frustrating. Also the game doesn't really 
 follow the evil aspect because you must save maidens, forests and slaves. The game is comical at 
 points and the minions help contribute to the overall fun of the game. In conclusion this game 
 is worth buying and it seems like it will have a high replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazer327
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  You are a really really bad guy that has to restore evil to a pristine land. (Once I heard this 
 I was enticed.) You start off being able to control 5 minions that will live and die for you, and 
 you have a few spells. As you progress through the game, you get more spells and are able to control 
 more minions. 50 is the cap on minions, so you end up controlling a lot of guys. There are also 
 4 types of minions. Your minions will pick up stuff they can use and will bring the really good 
 stuff to you. I saw my guyz smash up a pumpkin and put the shell of the pumpkin on his head as 
 armor. (That got me hooked.)
  
  It's a really funny game as well. The minions say all sorts of messed up stuff. Has me laughing 
 quite often. Your minions can go pick up beer and drink it. After doing so, they appear drunk and 
 will pee on things as they sober up. In the end, the interesting part about this game is that the 
 minions sort of end up being the main stars of the game, not your main character.
  
  As you progress through the game, you unlock more and more of your castle (which is in need of 
 repair) , and more and more deeds to be done. Your goal is to end up defeating 7 Heroes that overthrew 
 your predecessor.
  
  The controls are intuitive. Sometimes the camera gets to be a little bit of a pain to control, 
 but overall is ok. The graphics are pretty darn good for a console. The sound is pretty good, but 
 the best part is the voice acting. Hilarious. Since it's not a normal kind of game where you are 
 the hero, and your character is the main star, I think the tilt value on this game is pretty high.
 
  
  I'm a pc gamer, but got this one on console. I pretty much despise consoles, but every now and 
 then, they have a good game come out. This is one of them.
  
  Overall, it's a game I would highly recommend. If you are into RPGs at all, or like humorous games, 
 you should at bare minimum rent this one and check it out. I'm pretty sure you won't be disappointed.
 
  
  This game is also on PC... so if you got a good one, you might consider that as an alternative. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Overlord Review
  Graphics-
  Good nothing suprising, the artistic design look some what like Kameo and meets next gen expectations.
 
  Gameplay- Simple minded gameplay thats fun and addictive, the imps look even dumber than they 
 look and they are actually more fun to watch then to actually control them. When not controlling 
 imps you will be tapping the X button but that is not the main point of the game. Being that this 
 game is all about the minions the AI shouldve been improved.
  Sound-
  Decent Voice acting with dark and british humor mixed together which makes an innocently funny 
 game.
  Story- You are the Overlord, or so the imps think, and you are thrusted into there control, or 
 rather they thrust you to control them to rebuild the Overlords castle and rebuild darkness through 
 the lands.
  Conclusion-
  Overlord offers a fun game with some errors, I got what I expected from this game besides next 
 gen AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gedeone1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It is nice very well balanced and the different minins are very funny and 
 you always wait for them doing something unexpected that will make your day better. I think this 
 game is a must have for the summer. you learn pertty quickly to direct your minions to do what 
 you want and to make strategy to defeat the ennemies that are very funny too. The way you have 
 different minions to assist you is one of the strong point of this game. You just have to look 
 at them to know what they are good for. Res for fire blue forr water Etc ...
  
  Everyone Enjoy and bow to the Overlord ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PiNwOrM
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Overlord is one of those things that flys under everyones radar and will become one of two things.. 
 either a cult classic, or widely popular and praised. Unfortunately, I see it being a cult classic 
 due to lack of advertising, but I digress. This is about the game not how it does in the mainstream.
 
  
  First of all, lets tackle the menu. The camera circles around your tower in real time. But it's 
 YOUR tower. Throughout the game, you upgrade your tower. It starts destroyed, but you can get items 
 to repair it, make it look cooler, upgrade it, and so on. And the 3d background in the menu shows 
 your tower as it is. Why do I stress this so much? Well, because hitting Continue Game sends the 
 camera into your tower and centers on your guy. Not only does this look snazzy, but you get to 
 play INSTANTLY, without a load or even a black screen. These are the small - but awesome - features 
 you can expect to find all over Overlord.
  
  Other small things that are awesome include the amount of things to do in your tower. There's TONS. 
 You can change it, do mini-games (Like going into your dungeon and fighting any enemy in the game 
 you have already fought) .
  
  Then the voice acting. It's great. And there's A LOT of dialogue. You also get labels. For example, 
 if you kill all of the humans in the human town of Spree - which you can do and is fun, almost 
 in a GTA type way - you gain the label of Supressor of Spree. Then whenever your in your town, 
 your cheery little jester will run at you yelling hail the supressor of spree! and other titles 
 you may have. Of course, if you don't like hearing him, you can always kick him in the face, and 
 he's quick to be quiet.
  
  Enough of the small features though, though they are a big reason why this game is so great. The 
 graphics are just as fantastic as the audio. The game looks amazing. It has a unique style too. 
 It's not exactly cartoony, and it's not exactly real, but it's not really a cross either. It looks 
 quite realistic (which I admire since I despite cartoon looking games) , but with a hint of unique 
 cartoonyness, but more in a way that pokes fun at fantasy games, which this game does a lot of. 
 Style aside, this game does look fantastic, in every area. From vast open farm fields, to inside 
 half-ling houses, to dungeons, and to elven forests, the game looks superb in every area.
  
  As for the gameplay, well, you control an arsenal of minions. A LOT of them. You move them 
 the same as you move your character, by sweeping them with your right analogue stick. One complaint 
 is that this makes camera use difficult, but it's not bad at all. It will rarely effect you, especially 
 because you can use the left bumper to center the camera the way your guy is looking.
  
  You can also change the view to be over-head, which looks sort of like diablo. Both look fantastic 
 and are fun to use.
  
  The one complaint about gameplay is that you feel a bit underwhelming as the overlord. While the 
 game is about using your minions, it would be nice if you could be more powerful yourself - though, 
 you can upgrade your overlord in many ways, like armor, weapons, and spell. This is a very minor 
 complaint. There's also multiplayer, though I have yet to try that. This, coupled with the fact 
 that the game is fairly long, and has many different ways to play (as in the slogan, you can be 
 evil or very evil) , it will have a fair amount of longevity, and I see it as one of those games 
 you come back to replay 20 years later, trying to get that nostalgia.
  
  There it is folks. Overlord is one of the best games on the 360 yet, and one of the best games 
 ever, in my opinion, which I consider fairly credible after many years of gaming. This is a game 
 you should not miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OPUMON17
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is great totally worth the money great fun great twist on stories for this game always 
 wanted a game like this I hate playing as a good guy all the time and wanted to be the bad guy 
 this is it finally a game that delivers it haha. Great storyline and cruel humor love that you 
 can pimp out your castle and have a girlfriend or two love the fact that you have minions under 
 you to do your dirty work . Has some great graphics this is goin to raise the bar on game like 
 this to come I hope they make a second one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  That's exactly what you'll be doing in this game. You are the Overlord and you've been brought 
 back by your minions to rebuilding your tower and collect objects that were once a part of your 
 tower. Also you'll be going around the world causing chaos and destorying everything in your path.
 
  The game has a very Fable type of look more like a fairytale type of game. In the beginning of 
 the game you'll only have control of 5 minions and has the game progresses you'll have control 
 over more minions as you go along in the game. The graphics aren't the best in the world but the 
 game looks pretty good. It's a very colorful game. The sound in the game is pretty good as well. 
 The controls will take some getting use to because when you're using the right stick you basically 
 using it to move your minions instead of your camera angle. If you're looking for a game with funny 
 dialogue, fantasy type quest, with powers of a god than you should definitely check this game out. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
