-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Over G Fighters
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sim/worldairforce/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of different planes to unlock.
 somewhat lengthy campaign mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Weak mission design.
 planes usually feel sluggish, and the control options don't help much.
 really bland voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 5.3, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 1,448 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Taito Corporation
Genre: Jet Sim
Date: Jun 27, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Over G Fighters has all the trappings of a budget game except for the one that matters most: the 
 lowered price. 

  Over G Fighters is the latest jet-fighter simulation from Taito, though it's the first from the 
 company to be released in North America. Like the Energy Airforce games that Taito put out on the 
 PlayStation 2, Over G is a very stock, very standard game that puts you into one of the game's 
 30-plus jets and has you go through mission after mission. Though the game attempts to be more 
 than mission-based monotony by also offering online multiplayer and some other options, the sluggish 
 flight controls, bland graphics, and often-poor English translations conspire to make Over G Fighters 
 a vapid package, overall.  

          Over G Fighters lets you launch missiles at planes from a position of near-invulnerability. 
     

  The bulk of the game's action is found in its story mode, which sends you on several missions as 
 you attempt to take out a terrorizing army that's got its hands in conflicts around the globe. 
 Each set of missions is broken up into its own campaign, and as you select missions, other branches 
 in the campaign become unavailable. Since some specific missions unlock planes (and achievement 
 points) , this means you'll either have to follow along with a FAQ or play through multiple times 
 to receive every reward.  

  Each mission branch ends up in the same place, though. At the end of every area, you'll get into 
 one or two longer missions that have you fulfilling multiple roles. For example, in the first part 
 you might have to dust a couple of enemy fighters, but the second part might have you launching 
 air-to-ground missiles at tanks. Unfortunately, the difference between these two activities really 
 isn't much.  

  The big problem with Over G is that it's incredibly straightforward. Fly at your target, get a 
 missile lock, fire, move to the next target, and repeat the process until you're out of missiles. 
 Then, you'll wait for your weapons to recharge, wait and see if your missiles hit (they almost 
 always do on the default difficulty setting) , and move on to the next target group. Some missions 
 give you four planes to shoot down that are put right in front of you, a task that might take a 
 minute or so to accomplish. Later on, you'll encounter a few different types of missions, including 
 one that has you fly low through a canyon to avoid radar stations and antiaircraft fire. But for 
 the most part, the game lines up the targets and waits for you to take them out.  

  The control in the game is sluggish, and even the most maneuverable planes feel broken when you 
 try to turn. Playing on the "real" control setting instead of the default arcade-style setting 
 helps a bit, but overall, the movement never feels quite right and attempting to get around on 
 enemy fighters is usually awkward. In addition to jet control, you can also use the triggers to 
 assign commands to your wingman. While you can lead your wingman to a dogfight, you can't make 
 him fight effectively. Though he'll be able to watch your back in a couple of the more hectic situations, 
 most of the chatter you hear from him discusses how he's currently in trouble and could use some 
 help. You're probably better off just forgetting that he's even there.  

  Your pilot has statistics that slowly improve as you play, though the purpose of a stat named "mental" 
 isn't immediately obvious. Other stuff, such as evasion, visual range, G-resist, and hit, seem 
 like they'd be helpful, but even as they improve, there's very little discernable difference in 
 your pilot's actual performance.  

  In addition to the game's campaign scenarios, you can play in challenge mode, which is more of 
 a freeform mode that has you take off, fight waves of enemies, then land to refuel and rearm. Since 
 your plane only holds a few missiles, the constant restocking gets old fast. The multiplayer mode 
 allows up to eight players to play over Xbox Live in two modes. Arena mode has you join one of 
 four sides (of up to two planes each) , and you then launch attacks on other players. Versus mode 
 is a team mode. Like other Xbox 360 games' versus mode, Over G's versus mode can be played in both 
 ranked and unranked conditions. Functionally, the multiplayer works fine, and since players eventually 
 get pretty good at dodging incoming missiles, it's more challenging than the solo play, as well. 
 But it isn't deep enough to keep you coming back.  

  The sound in Over G Fighters is pretty standard and delivers roughly what you'd expect, though 
 it's often difficult to tell when you're getting shot up by antiaircraft fire. Most of the explosions 
 sound fine, and the sound of jets flying by is done reasonably well. The music is a bunch of generic 
 guitar rock that you'll certainly wish was Kenny Loggins' classic "Danger Zone." But none of it 
 even comes close. Perhaps comparing Japanese jet-game music to the theme to  Top Gun  is a little 
 unfair, but it's pretty obvious that's the feel the developer was going for, and the music here 
 doesn't get the job done. The voice work is amazingly flat and uninspired, especially during the 
 mission briefings, but the canned responses from your wingman aren't much better.  

          Dodging missiles can be tough, but through most of the game, you'll be firing first.   
   

  Visually, the game has a dry, bland look to it that doesn't fit with the rest of the Xbox 360's 
 lineup. Visual effects are kept to a minimum, and aside from good-looking water, the ground doesn't 
 look so hot. The plane models look good, but since you're going to be firing missiles from a distance, 
 you'll never get a good look at them outside of the plane select screen unless you choose the behind-the-plane 
 view, which isn't so great. You can also opt for a cockpit view, which blocks too much of the screen 
 to be effective. The first-person, cockpit-free viewpoint is the most useful perspective available. 

  All in all, Over G Fighters is a dull jet simulator with shoddy controls, lackluster mission design, 
 and a modest presentation. At a budget price, this game would be slightly easier to swallow, but 
 it's a bum deal at $59.99.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (163 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: koknarr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 6:24 am PT
Review:  Shortly, the game is about simulation. If airforce decided to use a console game for their pilot 
 practice, they would choose over g and take out the stupid story stuff. Over g is a slower game 
 than AC series. It has great concept but feels like first rough drawings of great painting, although 
 its still fun, especially further into the game. Basically you need two things to enjoy the game: 
 like ace combat games and be into simulation in video games in general. Oh and probably you should 
 be a hardcore gamer.
  
  not enough words?100?
  
  one georgian dude goes hunting with his friend and baloon-his dog. there's a bear on a tree he climbs 
 it and cries down to his friend: baloon goes for balls and kills so enjoy the show when I throw 
 this bear down.............. If I fall down shoot the f*****g dog momentarily.
  
  I wish million dollars to whomever reads this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midnyghtsson265
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  This is not an arcade flying game, it can be played that way but the controls suffer from it. I 
 will discuss the flaws first. The overall presentation as far as cutscenes go and story is quite 
 bad, the cartoon style briefings leave a lot to be desired. They lip sync and don't move while 
 they brief you. The music is terrible, but its easy to turn it off or use your own music. All the 
 things that make the game bad are pre-flight things, once you get to the runway, everything changes! 
 This game is all about gameplay.
  
  The gameplay is great IMO, graphics are good other than the close ground terrain when flying low. 
 Plane models are detailed and look good. The missiles all have different looks and ways of firing. 
 Dogfighting is a thrill and tough, landing safely will make you proud, the planes all have different 
 radar sections and some have a little stealth so they are tough to target and track. There are 
 lots of planes and they all handle differently, also lots of different weapons to arm them. Before 
 missions and online you can load your plane with what you like. Wanna dogfight other planes mainly?, 
 bring lots of sidewinders and AAMRAAMS, need to attack a ship?, grab some harpoon missiles, got 
 some ground targets?, use laser guided bombs and cluster bombs or slam-mer missiles from miles 
 away. The freedom to equip your plane to suit your style of play is great. Some planes are good 
 for air to ground battle, and some are best at dogfighting, using the right craft for the job is 
 crucial. 
  
  Single player is kinda easy and repetitive but it serves to unlock more planes, and it's good practice 
 so i don't mind. Also, the challenge mode is great, make a custom flight scenario, dogfight with 
 or without a wingman, or just free fly. I play these modes more than the story, i just wanna finish 
 the story for all the planes. 
  
  The last thing i will discuss is the arena mode. The single player arena is tough but fun and similar 
 to the multiplayer arena. I will talk about the multiplayer arena though, it starts with up to 
 8 people getting into 4 teams of 2. It can be played with only 2 people though and the computer 
 will take the other teams. You select a plane, what weapons you want and then you start out on 
 a runway. Ok, the way it works, the 4 teams all have a color, and each team has it's own carrier 
 group, escort ships, airfield with main HQ, other ground targets, and different types of planes. 
 The goal is to destroy the enemies bases, all their assets, or just the major targets like the 
 HQ building., while at the same time protecting your OWN assets. If you or your wingman gets shot 
 down, you lose a little overall health for your base and start again on the runway. The map is 
 HUGE, plenty of room to do any outflanking you could want. If you fly from one side to the other 
 in a jet, it would take at least 15 mins or more. There is one white neutral airfield in the middle 
 of the map that everyone can land on. At ANY point in the game, you can go to your airfield or 
 the neutral one and switch weapons or just refuel and re-arm and repair. The enemy can come attack 
 your assets at anytime so you can choose between defense, offense, or a mix of both. 
  
  Thats when a wingman and weapon selection comes into play. Will you equip a dogfighter plane with 
 all air to air missles and just play defense against the enemy planes while your buddy goes on 
 the offensive with bombs and air to ground missiles? OR will you both go on the attack, or both 
 go on defense? Thats where the fun comes from, choosing your own role in the skies. I like to have 
 me and my wingman both equip long range ship missiles, fly to one of the enemies, and take out 
 all the sea assets we can in the first strike to eliminate all the SAM sites and anti aircraft 
 guns, then we fly back to base and land and re-arm with air to ground missiles and bombs and go 
 attack the airfield. You always need a few air to air missiles in case you are spotted by any enemy 
 planes. 
  
  It's mega exciting to have all this going on at once, plan an attack and fly with your wingman 
 all the way to the enemy, you two both have your own set of targets. As you get close, you break 
 apart and both go after different targets, dodging AA fire and having to evade the occasional missile. 
 One time, i had dropped all my ordanance, and was just doing flybys on the enemy airfield, and 
 my buddy came diving in from really high up and dropped a bomb on the HQ building! It was great 
 because i was flying right next to it so i saw everything! It's also fun to be sitting on the runway 
 when a buddy tries to come in and land and makes a small mistake and blows up!! 
  
  It's like a perfect marriage between action and strategy, choosing what to attack, what to defend, 
 and what to use. IMO, the best flying game I've ever played. Not for casual fans of flying games 
 probably, it leans a lot more towards realism and simulation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZedX-14Pilot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  First off, if you buy this game expecting something like the Ace Combat series, you should be slapped 
 for not doing your homework. And GameSpot should be slapped for giving the retarded review they 
 did for this game. When are game sites going to start writing responsible reviews. I think they 
 overcompensate a bit too much for the casual gamer. They, including GameSpot, need to start reviewing 
 games for the audience for whom they were intended first, THEN give analysis on what the casual. 
 or 'mainstream', gamer should expect. Overall, the game should be scored based on what the intent 
 of the developer is FIRST, and scored based upon their execution of their intent. Can a certain 
 style of game get a low score in the fun department? SURE they can. But a game like this, a simulation, 
 is meant to immerse you in that world, not fun first. Simulations are just that. A way for you 
 to be an athlete when you know you can't in real life. Or, a pilot when you know you just ain't 
 got the right stuff. So, fun really isn't the intent of the developer, is it? The intent is to 
 let you feel what it is like to occupy that role for a bit, not see how many cog tags you can collect, 
 or find out how many alien hordes you can fend off. I think GameSpot needs to be scored lowly for 
 their ridiculous score of this 'simulation'.
  
  This game, as a simulation, is probably the closest you will come to a PC simulation on a console. 
 It does very well in that respect. As with most simulations, the graphics can be a bit better. 
 I think the difficulty in this game is hit and miss, but not bad for a first attempt. I enjoy this 
 game lot's. I like games that make you use your intelligence, and make you work to acquire skills 
 to become good, instead of giving you infinite fuel and weapons to complete a task.
  
  if you are looking for a simulation, then you should pick this up because they did an above average 
 job for a first attempt. This game is an 8.5, but could be a 9 or more with some graphical improvements 
 and a little bit of tweaking. DEFINITELY not a 5.9. Clowns...
  
  UrbanMerc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasonDarksavior
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  Over G Fighters is a very addictive, fun, 99% realistic and filled with options to tweak your experience 
 to make it a memorable one and it's filled with awesome weapons to blow things clean out of the 
 sky! 
  
  First of all, Over G Fighters is a great game, most people who enjoy a modern combat flight sim. 
 will really enjoy this game. What makes this game so addictive is how the gameplay is tweaked. 
 The missions range from a simple reconnaissance mission to blowing up destroyers and cruisers with 
 pin-point acuracy from bombs. This game sure gives the player one good time!
  
  Over G Fighters offers the player extreme reality of piloting modern jets. Once you enter the cockpit, 
 every detail on the screen is useful for your survival and not to be blown out of the sky. Altimeters 
 and other flight instruments move accordingly to how your plane moves. After most missions, you'll 
 be required to land on either an aircraft or an airbase. When you land, every detail of realism 
 is put to use and be used to test the player. All these features make Over G Fighters a memorable 
 game, that would be hard to forget.
  
  The game is filled with many weapons ranging from massive bombs to missiles. All these weapons 
 are realistic and are required to be locked on before firing, just like in reality. All weapons 
 give a major blast.
  
  However, as the game progresses the missions get so hard. 80% of the time when a missile is fired 
 to take you down, you will be shot down. Most the time you will be angry but Over G fighters is 
 worth a look!
  
  Youn should rent it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bookeater
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Very underrated game!
  It's not obviously offers realism of some PC simulators, however it provides the most accurate 
 sensation of being a fighter pilot on any gaming console to date. Requires patience and sometime 
 strategic thinking as you have as many missiles as real-life equivalent of fighter has. 
  
  It's just amazing how many real plane function had been fitted in just few joy pad's buttons! Soundtrack 
 is decent for my taste but if you don't like you can obviously feed your Xbox with any music you 
 like
  .
  Graphics of planes is equal to this of Ace combats 6. Only field where AC surpass OG is terrain 
 graphic at close up (which means very low flying) which can be noticed only sporadically.
  
  Learning to put your machine down on landing strip is a challenge and greatly rewarding. Not 
 to mention mastering landing on a carrier (madness!)
  
  Great game to anyone who like to taste a real air combat!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordLeverette
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  WARNING: PLAY WITH REALISTIC CONTROLS ONLY
  
  This game can not be compared with Ace Combat. STOP COMPARING IT WITH IT! Ok, enough of me being 
 pissed, let's get to the REEVEW.
  
  This game is supposed to be a military combat flight sim. To most, things that are easily compared 
 to Ace Combat are used to bash this game.
  
  Some people say the planes feel sluggish. Maybe you have 3 giant fuel tanks attached to your plane? 
 Another thing is that planes dont ACTUALLY feel so supersonic. The sound is pretty good where it's 
 needed. The voice acting also isn't bad (THAT bad,) . Planes also sound good enough, very realistic 
 I might add. The cockpit is also realistic, all the guages and clusters and the HUD are used realistically 
 to their full potential. Since this game is REALISTIC, you don't simply have to pull up to avoid 
 missles. You have chaff and flares for heat seeking missles, and to add to that, TURN OFF YOUR 
 AFTERBURNER! You throw out all the chaff but use your afterburner to try and escape a missle. Try 
 and think more realistically.
  
  Basically, if you have played Ace Combat, and want this game, remove all your prior knowlege of 
 flying planes, and prepare for a REAL challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark1712
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  Maybe I'll begin from graphics. Even when the game came out in 2006 it wasn't anything special 
 and all those screens shown before premiere were renders. It doesn't mean however that it's awful. 
 Surely textures look mediocre and explosions are almost the same as in the Airforce Delta Storm 
 on XBOX, that came in 2003 but I say again: it isn't that bad. Plane models look neat (especially 
 shadows they cast) and airfields' staff (especially humans' animations) . There's one problem with 
 the cockpits though - all the instruments present same data (easily observed in "glass cockpit") . 
 Luckily each cabin looks just like in the real life (i. e. spacy F-22 vs "bunker-type" F-14) . Another 
 thing that nailed my attention: armament's details (e. g. AMRAAMs stop trailing smoke after some 
 time) .
  
  Sounds - poor, poor and poor. Although standard sounds are good, music can be described as EPIC 
 FAIL. It was quite nice for the few missions, but how many times you can listen for the 4 tracks?! 
 Some people, used to Ace Combat, may complain that there's no music in the missions (though IMO 
 it's good idea in the pseudo-simulation) .
  
  Story - let's leave this subject behind ;)  vs newly created organization 
 to counter them? LOL, give me a break ;)
  
  There's one more thing, essential I think: flight mechanics. Many players (again, used to AC) complained 
 that the game is very slow and it's too hard. If you want comparison: Ace Combat can be compared 
 to Need for Speed, just like OGF to Forza Motorsport. You can't just sit relaxed and play it. You 
 have to read the manual, get used to the flight basics and PRACTICE. But when you'll get used to 
 it I can guarantee a lot of fun (even from landing on aircraft carrier) . Different thing is evading 
 missiles - you'll be learning it all the time :P
  One thing that makes this game superior over AC are that pseudo-realistic flight mechanics. In 
 the Namco's series you can't make some fancy aerobatics, like "Candle" or "Pugachev's Cobra".
 
  And there's one more thing we can't forget about: rich plane selection; from Gripen to F-117 or 
 OA-10 (but there's no favourite of mine: EF-200 Eurofighter T_T ) .
  
  To conclude my review - this game is underrated a lot. I suppose many reviewers treated it as a 
 direct competition to the AC (although these are VERY different games) , but oh well - I don't care 
 about them. I bought it and am very satisfied (after ~100 hours spent with the game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdwolf260
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  This may be an extremely realistic fighter sim, I just wouldn't know it since I've never flown 
 a real fighter jet. However, if piloting a fighter jet is anything remotely like flying one in 
 this game then I'd rather join the Army as an infantryman then the Air Force as a pilot. Let's 
 start off with how the game looks. It seems that this title has fallen off the ugly tree, hitting 
 every branch on the way down. By how muddy the colors and details in this game look, you'd think 
 you were playing it on a PS2 and not on the 360. In fact, I popped in Ace Combat 4: Shattered Skies 
 into my good ol' PS2 and graphically they're pretty much the same. The game play doesn't fare any 
 better either. Piloting any of the jets in this game for some reason feels like you're trying to 
 maneuver a tank in the sky as opposed to a nimble fighter plane. Good luck avoiding any missiles 
 that may be launched in your direction, evasive action is pretty much impossible when your plane 
 handles like it's flying through molasses, resulting in MANY frustrating mission restarts because 
 your plane is blown out of the sky. Given that I suppose then it's a good thing that many of the 
 missions are only 1 or 2 minutes in length. After spending 4 frustrating hours with this game I 
 finally gave up in disgust. With sub par graphics, poor mission structure, boring presentation, 
 and abysmal controls, there are no redeeming qualities to be found here. I didn't even bother to 
 explore the multiplayer portion due to the fact that flying anything in this game is just plain 
 boring and frustrating. If you want a great fighter plane game, do yourself a favor and pick up 
 any of the Ace Combat titles, even any of the ones on the original Playstation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XPHOBOS666X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  I love jet games, the good ol' days of Janes F-15. This feels like that but looks better. This game 
 gives you enough realism and arcade to keep you happy. The only negative is no checkpoints during 
 mission. I hate flying for twenty minutes and dieing from my target and having to start over from 
 the beginning. The muliplayer is little confusing, or at least for me, stick to dogfighting not 
 the arena mode. In arena mode you'll lose without ever seeing another player or dieing. But the 
 singleplayer arena is hours of fun, taking off, shooting down a few planes, land, rearm and going 
 back up. Yes this game seems like a cheap game, but the detail on realism is great. I can only 
 believe the only reason to hate this game is your looking for Ace Combat and they didn't have it 
 so you got this. I truly believe i'm flying when I'm playing. If your looking for a good jet fighter, 
 this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnvegeta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  ok, I know that at first this game is difficult, atleast some missions when your jet isnt tht good.. 
 (compared to higher end ones/ newer ones) and its hard to get those pesky missles from chaffing 
 off ya. If I were you and you like realistic Jet fighter games then Get This, I know you have blazing 
 angels (more of a older plane fighter and different style) and you have ace combat ones. (more 
 acade like combat) Over G Fighter Fallins in the line inbetween a flight simulator and ace combat. 
 I would atleast try and beat the game on easy, Get yourself the f22 raptor then things will be 
 alot better.
  The graphics are nice, music is ok, but then again im sure you can use the dash to play your own. 
 the gameplay is hard at first, and learning curve is medium id say. and now i gotta type some more 
 heh. in area 7 i would get the f22 raptor over the f35b. just because the raptor is so much better 
 and more powerful, you can go 80k feet high with it and the f15e. the f35b you can hover im not 
 sure how high tho, ive been up to atleast 1500 feet... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zach68486
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 7, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  Over G Fighters... when I saw this game at my local videogame rental store, I thought it might be 
 good. So I checked the reviews online and found that not many people actually liked it... but, being 
 myself, I decided to ignore the reviews and rent it. All I can say is... thank God I didn't spend 
 60 dollars on this piece of crap.
  
  I was hoping that this game would tie down my hunger for an aerial combat game whilst I waited 
 on my copy of Combat Flight Simulator 3 from Amazon. com. Unfortunately, this game was a total let-down.
 
  
  Let me start off on this review. First of all, the graphics are bland and boring. The planes are 
 all a boring shade of grey, the textures of the environments are muddy and uninspired, and only 
 thing remotely good graphic-wise is the smoke/cloud effects. These kind of ugly and bland graphics 
 are not acceptable for a next-gen title and CERTAINLY not acceptable for a 60 dollar game.
  
  The sound... well, the voice-acting is horrible and sounds like the voice actors just got up 
 with a hangover and about two hours of sleep. The music is annoying and repetitive, with the same 
 bad guitar riffs which sound like they belong in the movie Top Gun playing over and over again. 
 The engine effects rarely change, and sound quite boring. The explosions don't sound too bad, but 
 they aren't anything that would impress you.
  
  Gameplay and control-wise, this game fails in these fields aswell. The controls feel very slow-responding, 
 and there is no sense of speed in this game. For instance, you won't feel like you're travelling 
 1,325+ mph over the countryside. You'll feel more like you're flying a massive metal box with wings 
 over a muddy and poorly-textured swamp.
  
  The game is also ridiculously easy. The artificial intelligence of the enemy aircraft will simply 
 fly infront of you and wait to be shot down. Honestly, crashing into the ground or scenery is alot 
 more of a danger then the enemy aircraft.
  
  I thought the 'one man war' syndrome was only for first-person shooters, as in you feel like you're 
 the only person fighting in the entire war. But this syndrome crosses over to Over G Fighters as 
 your allies do absolutely nothing to assist you in killing or safely escaping from the enemy aircraft.
 
  
  Overall, this game is horrible. You'll find a better story, better graphics, better gameplay and 
 everything if you play Ace Combat 5 or Ace Combat Zero, both of which are on the PlayStation 2.
 
  
  Do not buy this game, and do not rent it. It is a waste of money in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetehhaloz
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 5, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  The minute you see Over G Fighter's menu, you'll know the game will be a piece of crap. The boring 
 newspaper article style menu is something I don't understand because it has nothing to do with 
 what Over G Fighter is about. Most gamers won't even probably care what the game is about anyways. 
 The game has some lame boring story that shows how bad a Japanese game company can make a "western 
 game". This game makes Chromehounds truly shine (that game sucks as well) . The cutscenes deal with 
 some still images of some guys whose blabber resembles the G-Man from Half Life 2. The game is 
 practically boring, I never fully finished it (I just couldn't) . 
  The aircraft models are horrendous (you find Flight Simulator addons a lot better) The gameplay 
 is pointless and stiff, the agile planes move like flying tanks (probably at the same speed too) . 
 Don't even consider this game. Ever. My 2.0 is probably to generous this game sucks so bad.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perfect_Shot
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  When good games are released, such as Ace Combat, you can generally only use one word to describe 
 them, as they are so amazing, they need their own made-up word to describe them. But for a game 
 like Over-G, you need a whole sentence of words to describe it. Unfortunately, I can't tell you 
 this sentence, because I couldn't find all 20+ words in the dictionary that all meant horrible. 
 This is the type of game that would make people wonder why it isn't in the bargain bin, or not 
 at all.
  
  Graphics: For a game that hardly deserves a 2.5, the graphics are more like an anime or a comic 
 book than a game of a next-gen console, like the 360. To be honest, I think makers of this game 
 should read newspaper comic sections more often, because even those look more graphically detailed 
 then this. The details are bland, and adds to the boring gaming experience. I give the graphics 
 1.5/10.
  
  Gameplay: Imagine riding a garbage truck. No, actually, imagine riding a garbage BUCKET. That's 
 what it feels like to fly these planes. Your speed is sluggish, same as acceleration. Rolling is 
 pathetic, and G-turns are impossible, and actually give enemies more of a chance to hit you. Evading 
 shots are more like a coin toss then actual skill. You randomly roll, drop chaff/flares, and hope 
 that the missile doesn't hit you (Actually, its more a Heads you lose, Tails you lose, and side 
 you kinda win coin toss) I give gameplay 0.5/10.
  
  The Game Itself: I could explain it all right now: Leave hangar. Take off from runway. Spend 30 
 seconds attacking/getting killed. Done. That's about it, the whole game feels more like a giant 
 repetitive mini-game then an actual game. Truthfully, you spend more time taking off the runway 
 then shooting down planes. (No, I'm actually serious. The path from the hangar to the runway is 
 like a maze, and if you accidentally stop touching road, you fail, so by the time you get to the 
 runway, maybe 2 minutes have passed.) The characterization is also like a garbage bucket: The stuff 
 you throw in it make random squishing and poof sounds, which seems like the sound set for this 
 game. The voice acting is like what you would get after spending 3 days without sleep, there is 
 no emotion, all monotone. Story seems non-existent, I wonder even if the developers considered 
 this when they made this game. I give The Game 0.5/10.
  
  Overall: When you see this game, turn away immediately. If you see a friend reaching for this game, 
 or just a random person about to pick up this game, quickly grab their hand slap them, and place 
 then place it on Ace Combat 6. Over-G could all could be summed up into one statement- In the dictionary, 
 replace the word "Horrible" with "Over-G Fighters". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VooDoo1144
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 25, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  I have been a flight simulation fan from the days of Janes Combat simulations and such, I remember 
 having to read large manuals so I could understand the basics of avionics and weapon management. 
 I watched those days fade slowly in favor of more arcade style titles that favored graphics and 
 action over realism... it seemed that people did not want to play a real sim anymore. I saw this 
 game at wal-mart one day and it seemed like it could have some potential, granted I knew that it 
 would never be a real sim, but I thought it might be fun none the less. boy was I ever wrong.
 
  
  Graphics-
  
  Whatever got into the minds of the developers when they created the look of this game probably 
 came out in the form of a harmful parasite. it is sloppy from the menu to the terrain, the only 
 semi good looking thing is the somewhat bland looking aircraft. This game looks like a Xbox game 
 and in this day and age, that is unacceptable... we don't pay for next generation games for no reason. 
 Sound-
  
  The crappy soundtrack is the first thing you hear in this game, it sounds like a bad 80's jet fighter 
 movie and is almost distracting, not to mention very repetitive.
  The voice acting for the briefings and in mission is so bad that it is funny... no drama or tension, 
 just someone reading the lines with no real emotion. Gameplay-
  
  I am not sure how to explain what is wrong with the controls for this game. I have tried it on 
 both realism levels and it never seemed right to me. The planes feel muddy and heavy... almost like 
 you are flying a giant garbage truck with stubby wings. The evasion system is kinda like a lottery 
 where you really just start jinking and popping flare and chaff and hope it works.
  The worst part about the gameplay is the obvious lack of intrest they put into making a compelling 
 story that works in a realistic way... they just send you on 30 second mission after 30 second mission 
 in hopes that you don't get bored and play Ace Combat.
  
  Overall-
  
  This game is not worth your time at all... it is not even close to a sim and never will be, I know 
 it has a cult following that will fall on a sword for it but I can't help but say it...
  
  This game is not a sim and it is very much not good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadGamer666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  This game is a fantastic piece of work. People don't like this game because they don't like simulators. 
 To really enjoy this game you HAVE to take it off arcade controls and take manual control of the 
 landing. Taking it off arcade allows you to do certain awesome manuevers like barrel roles, lood 
 the loop etc. My friends and I have renacted some of the Red Arrows stunts with some time and effort 
 online. The different JETS (not planes) allows the player to choose the best one for them that 
 they currently have unlocked. My friends also love this game and it has been reviewed that the 
 missle dodging is sluggish. That all depends on the manueverablity on the jet. If you have it on 
 arcade controls then it is sluggish. Many people just can't play the game because they just don't 
 have the patience to stick with it, change the controls and fire. Im sure that the people who say 
 this game is too easy have only played it on begginner and not Hell or Expert mode like I have. 
 On begginner your stock replenishes and on Exper and Hell mode, you have to land to restock. People 
 say this game is Ace Combat... boy are they wrong. This is nothing like Ace Combat (apart from it's 
 jets) . Ace Combat isn't a simulator. This is. This is made to see what you can do in the air. Ace 
 Combat is just a game where you fly around shooting things down with all the un-needed info on 
 your HUD. To fully enjoy this game, just take off the arcade controls and fly how you want to fly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: army-of_one
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  *IF YOU BUY THIS GAME, THE VERY FIRST THING YOU ABSOLUTELY MUST DO IS SET THE CONTROLS FROM ARCADE 
 TO REAL*
  
  This game is one of the VERY few console flight sims that are actually somewhat realistic unlike 
 all the arcady ones like blazing angels and ace combat. the campaign was kind of lengthy. . But 
 basically the world has united into one government and there are people that don't exactly like 
 that idea and are a threat to the world government and your job is to help eliminate these people. 
 This is the most realistic flight sim ive played on the xbox360. Your plane cant carry 70 missles 
 like other games *cough* ace combat *cough* You can only carry a realistic amount of missles/bombs 
 and your plane runs out of fuel rather quickly (especially with afterburners running) but to solve 
 that you can put up to 3 external 300 gallon fuel tanks on some planes. But the more things you 
 add to your plane, the heavier it will weigh, decreasing its manueverability. The cockpit view 
 is rather nice, most of the instruments are working and fully functional. When you run out of missles 
 or are low on fuel you have to land which you can either do your self or do it the noob way, turn 
 automatic landing on. Bombing stuff is pretty cool, you have to line up the bomb sight on the target 
 and release but the only problem is theres no missle cam! the only time you can get the camera 
 to follow the missle/bomb to its target is when your watching a replay, and you have to switch 
 to weapon view . Landing on a carrier is actually a challenge, (if you dont do automatic landing) 
 the first time i tryed i overshot and the 2nd time i tryed i was too low and crashed below the 
 flight deck. When you take off from a runway, you start out at the hangar and have to taxi to the 
 runway. (and if you cut across the grass mission fails and you have to do it over again hehe)
 
  
  You can choose your wingman for each mission, there is like 5 to choose from and each specialize 
 in certain aircraft or certain mission types. (for instance, ground attack missions or naval aircraft) 
 but i have found them all to be not much help, or maybe im picking the wrong wingman for the wrong 
 mission, i dunno. Aside from the campaign, there is challenge mode. when you click on challenge, 
 there are 2 gametypes: arena and strike. In strike, you start off in the air and you fully customize 
 your battle situation. You can choose what you want your target to be (for instance a mig or a 
 t80) how many there are, your position in relation to your target, your starting altitude, etc 
 etc.
  
  In arena, you start from the hangar and you have to take off, hunt down enemy jets, and blow them 
 out of the sky. but the map in arena is HUGE there are 2 land bases and a carrier to land on if 
 you need fuel or have no weapons. its like a 15 minute flight (real time) from one end to the other 
 even with afterburners blazing.
  
  The multiplayer on xbox live is rather weak. The gamemodes for xbox live are the same for challenge, 
 arena and strike. Each match on strike lasts like 2 minutes and if your new you will be the first 
 one shot down almost guarenteed. And for some odd reason, even on player match, you have to leave 
 the game after each match and find a new one, which wouldnt be that bad if the matches lasted longer. 
 Arena matches usually last a kind of decent length though. The controls feel awkward at first but 
 after a few days of playing youll get used to them. And yes, the voice acting really, really, really, 
 sucks.
  
  Anyway, if your a huge flight sim fan, I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 4.6
Date: Aug 4, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure what the hell I was buying when I purchased this game in christmas 2006. I thought 
 this game was going to be cool. You get to be a fighter pilot, who flies around in some cool planes, 
 blowing up anything that gets in your way. That sounds cool! But the way this game tries to exploit 
 that is unbelievebly s****y.
  
  The pros: Some cool unlockable planes; the graphics are actually pretty good; the campaign is lengthy, 
 if you want to continue on.
  
  The cons: Though the campaign is lengthy, the mission design is lackluster (in one mission, destroying 
 two planes means you've just completed the mission. What is that?!) The voice acting is unbelieveably 
 crappy; and the controls used to control your plane can be irritating (irritating to the point 
 where you wonder is it my controller not working or the game? I digress.) The game feels unfinished, 
 in a way.
  
  OMG. This game looks cool, but looks can be deceving. If you want to play this game, rent it, but 
 please, for the love of everything good and holy, don't buy this game!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracflamloc
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Over-G is one of the rare games on a console where the programmers and designers actually tried 
 pretty hard to keep the flight characteristics of all the planes balanced and realistic. This leads 
 to reviewers being either:
  
  a) Very disappointed that they can't pull a 10G turn in an A-10 warthog and fire 15 missions per 
 target or
  b) Glad to see a good mix of realistic combat with enough simplification to keep it fun on a console.
 
  
  The biggest problem with professional reviewers these days is that they often have several games 
 they must review as fast as possible before a deadline. This leads to stupid policies like only 
 review the game on the default difficulty and control settings.
  
  *IF YOU BUY THIS GAME, FIRST THING YOU MUST DO IS CHANGE CONTROLS FROM ARCADE TO REAL*
  
  The 
 controls of this game are absolutely horrible on arcade and even if you are a casual gamer looking 
 for a little flying fun on the 360 you will still want to set your controls to real. I don't 
 know why they bothered putting in the game, let alone making it the default! Also, if your plane 
 feels sluggish, remember that the amount and weight of missiles and fuel you load on your plane 
 SEVERELY affects your mobility. Only load up what you need for the mission.
  
  This game has several modes of play. The main mode to unlock planes is the Scenario mode. This 
 plays out the game as a campaign of missions over 8 different areas. You choose your plane, your 
 load out, and then go to it. Mission objectives can change slightly depending on the aircraft you 
 pick. For example there is a mission where if you choose the F/A-18 you start on an aircraft carrier 
 right in the hot zone with 3 bogeys and 5 main targets to destroy, but if you choose an F-16 you 
 start on a runway on land in a non-hot zone with 6 main targets to destroy. Some missions are optional 
 and smaller (and usually a little too easy) , however the 'tactical' and 'strategic' missions that 
 are required in each area can be very challenging even on 'easy mode'.
  
  This is a good thing and a bad thing. Some will be turned off instantly when they die in a mission 
 and claim the game is too hard. This game is not for you. Some will step back, think about their 
 strategy, and then decide on a new approach to successfully accomplish the mission. If you are 
 like the latter, GET THIS GAME. This game forces you to think... something a console game rarely 
 ever achieves.
  
  The other mode in single-player is 'Challenge' mode which is a great way to do some free flight 
 and hone your skills, or to launch yourself into various situations with 5 bogeys all around you. 
 There are two types of Challenge modes, Arena and Strike. Arena puts you in the middle of a large-scale 
 battle and you just go around harassing any targets you want and stir up trouble. Depending where 
 you fight you can get 'bosses' to show up which if you shoot down, unlocks another plane for you 
 to fly. Strike, theres a good bit of depth in this mode. It lets you customize the # of bogeys 
 from 0-5, the area, the starting scenario (ie. behind them, head-on, facing away) . This is a great 
 way to hone your skills in free flight, or get some quick action.
  
  Multiplayer is great and its just awesome flying with your wingman and using the VOIP features 
 of XBLive.
  
  Graphics are a mixed bag and have been covered in plenty of other reviews so I'll just say this: 
 Flying at 800kts at 10,000ft+, would you rather your texture memory be used the make the ground 
 look good, or the planes?
  
  The biggest thing this game needs is a joystick, and with Ace Combat 6 around the corner coming 
 with a joystick/throttle, we can only hope it works in Over-G too.
  
  The bottom line is, despite some terrible voice acting and a lackluster storyline (what do you 
 expect from a Japanese flight sim?) this game really delivers to the home console what PC flight 
 sims have had for a long time, but manages to make it accessible and fun while keeping enough realism 
 that you don't lose your connection with reality like the Ace Combat series.
  
  Tip for avoiding missiles: Continue straight until they are within your inner-ring on the radar, 
 then release lots of chaff+flares while turning hard. If you time it right theres a good chance 
 of avoiding it. But remember these are modern warfare missiles, the best way to avoid them is to 
 avoid a lock in the first place! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kineas454
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jul 26, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this is just a re-release of a flight sim for the PS2 (can't remeber it's original 
 name) .
  
  Missions are boring, it will basically tell you to go and kill 2 planes or 2 boats, then the missions 
 finished. The game is confusing, on the one hand it tries to be realistic, as it shows effects 
 of high g-force etc. and on the other hand, it won't let you fly upside down.
  
  If you haven't played a flight sim before, then get this - it will keep you entertained for hours. 
 But for people who play a lot of flight sims, you'll play it for half hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coxy234
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 29, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  Over G Fighters is a sadly under rated game title. Due to the fact that it is not Ace Combat. It 
 offers a more realistic view of modern air combat. Your aircraft can only carry the realistic amount 
 of ordanence. It will explode if hit by a missle. This only expands to the experience. Making it 
 more challenging. Your forced to think, which aircraft will suit the mission and which weapon loadout 
 is best. Being an aircraft buff the choice of jets is great. Ranging from F-14's to MIG 29's. The 
 aircraft visuals are superb, along with the cockpit view. Which btw is fully functioning. The single 
 player experience is the bulk of the game. From a large campaign complete with cheesey voice acting. 
 With a skirmish mode thrown in to unlock special jets.
  
  Multiplayer options are limited but due to the fact very few people play anymore, the games potential 
 has been wasted.
  
  Overall, this game is not a blockbuster title, but more of a game to be appreciated for what it 
 is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jun 10, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  I love flight sims and anything to do with air combat since I was a kid and when I saw this in 
 the bargain bucket I thought it can't be that bad but when I played it I though maybe I sould have 
 put it in the bin instead. The graphics were terrible and the gameplay was soo basic and boring 
 that my 3 year old could have completed it. This is no flight sims the planes act terrible and 
 there is no sense of speed. My MPV goes faster than the jets on this game. If you see this in your 
 local bargain bucket then leave it there. Wait for Ace combat or playing Blazing Angels. Leave 
 this well alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-cubano
Rating: 3.7
Date: May 5, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the worse game ubisoft ever made made, i think i figured out why Ace combat is 
 the champion of fighter jet games. No matter how many sequals there is, it's just so darn good 
 and the story mod is great aswell. This game was on a next gen console with last gen graphics. 
 Ubisoft should stick to their war games, my mother always said don't try to fix what's not broken 
 and the meaning stood out in this one for sure. I like the fact that atleast they tried to switch 
 what they do, maybe they thought it would work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: egomez3
Rating: 3.7
Date: May 4, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  I jus rented this game and I couldn't be more disappointed. I like planes and aircraft and I wanted 
 to try this game since its the only one on the 360 wit jet aircraft. Let me tell you this game 
 is a total let down. THe controls are so slow it hardly feels like your flying a jet aircraft. 
 The storyline is jus plain boring. The graphics could have been a lot better. THe planes are about 
 the only things that look good in this game. Thank God I didn't pay any money to rent this game 
 but I did waste a free rental coupon on it. If you bought this game I feel really sorry for you. 
 With all the great games there are on the 360 if you wasted 60 bucks on this one there must be 
 somethin goin on in your brain. I can't even stop telling you how bad this game is. I'm really 
 disappointed. But thank god soon enough Ace Combat will come on the 360 and it will be way better 
 than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timeh666
Rating: 1.2
Date: Apr 23, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I am a large fan of combat jet simulators of any type ranging from the most realistic to the just 
 plane fun like ace combat.
  As I like these sorts of games I was excited to hear that there was one coming out on the 360.
 
  I should have killed myself when I had the chance. To begin with the game didn't seem that bad 
 and there an element of fun within the play, then as the levels went on I began to realise how 
 short the missions are, at the moment I am about 1/2 through the game and I have been flying for 
 about 20 minutes. Its stupid.
  As the game progresses the levels dont really differ in what you have to do, shoot some targets, 
 end of level. The most annoying thing about this game is the fact that it is basically imposable 
 to dodge a missile. I've read the manual, researched on the internet and no matter what I try I 
 cannot dodge them.
  The graphics are ok but for what the 360 can do they are awful. the animation between missions 
 is pathetic all they have done is draw a few pictures, there is no REAL story line to follow other 
 than your fighting some people. Thats about it.
  the multiplayer element is fun for the first few seconds and then you realise its going to take 
 about 10 minuets to get to the target area of your enemy and on the way you get shot down by an 
 NPC, but when you finally do reach your destination you find out that no matte what you shoot at 
 the target, its health will not deteriorate. Finally you respawn to find out your base is nearly 
 gone, destroyed by nothing.
  I hate this game so much it makes me want cut out my eyes and remove my ears so I can never see 
 you hear anything about this game before
  My recommendation to anyone who receives this game is to burn it straight away, and then burn the 
 person who gave it to you for thinking it would be a good idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmb34
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I am a Lomac vet and IMO it is the best jet sim of any platform. I thought I would give this game 
 a shot since I have a 360 laying around and found the game EXTREMELY too easy. So easy that I found 
 it boring, though it seems to have a decent frame rate and the graphics arent bad. Saying all that 
 someone who isnt looking for a deep jet sim and just wants to have an hours worth of fun flying 
 it's ok for that. I wouldnt recommend paying full price for a new copy so check around some used 
 shops and give it a go. Hopefully the 360 will get another jet sim cause it is definalely lacking 
 in the flying game department. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abigorus
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 16, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  First off, I love air-plane games. But this felt a little too arcady (is that a word?)
  
  It was one of the first games out for the Xbox 360, so you can't really be too hard on it. Let's 
 get started;
  
  Graphics. They were acceptable, no more. The only thing that really disappointed me was when the 
 people talked in-between missions, it had a still picture of the person, and his reaction changed 
 per sentence. It reminded me of Wizardry for PS2. They could have easily fixed this. The game play 
 graphics were okay, the planes looked good, the scenery, acceptable.
  
  Sound. This is where the arcade feel really came in. The music was almost always the same, the 
 sounds really bland, not really much else to say.
  
  Online Play. I wish I had gotten this sooner, I haven't gotten to play this online, since it's 
 pretty much dead when I try to play it.
  
  Gameplay. The controls were good, but it felt too fake.
  
  As you can see, this review is highly 
 opinionated. I absolutely love flying games like Ace Combat, but I felt that this game was cut 
 short, and had a lot more potential. It felt unfinished.
  
  I suggest renting this before buying.
  My final score, 6.3 fair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono69830
Rating: 4.1
Date: Feb 5, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for 19.99 Canadian and even at that price i felt i got ripped off. The gameplay 
 is boring and lackluster, the controls are set up to try and give you the feel that your in a jet 
 but offers only an annoyance. The acting in the game seems as if they just read the lines from 
 a script and tried to seem serious though it comes across worse then amateur talent. I played this 
 game in hopes of exciting some of its potential to be a good title, but it left me with a bad taste 
 when thinking of Ubisoft (who usually puts out fantastic titles) . Ubisoft should not associate 
 themselves with games of this poor makeup. Believe me if you buy this game, you will be trading 
 it in withing hours of playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfacek
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a terrible game that shouldn't be put into any 360. The graphics are good and it has a 
 decent multiplayer but that's where positives end. The missions are repetitive and not fun, the 
 story isn't any good, and there aren't enough planes to fly. This game just plain sucks, it may 
 seem harsh but it really isn't worth the money you'll pay for it. This game is not good and doesn't 
 deserve they 5.9 it received from Gamespot. Only get this game if you're a die hard combat simulation 
 fan or military aircraft enthuisaist and can find it for under $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdredd1381
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Total waste of time and money. The PS2 Ace Combat is so much better it's sad. So bad I returned 
 it for a refund. Graphics are mediocre at best and the controls are horrible, you don't even get 
 the option of takeoff and landing on your own. The graphics are lacking in clarity and detail. 
 The combat is a joke. Each mission lasts such a short period of time that you don't even really 
 get more than a few minutes in the air. The characters are reminiscent of the old Sega Genesis 
 characters. Drawn and then digitized in a blocky monochrome picture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonSumrall
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 12, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  If you have ever played Aerospace or Ace Combat on the PS1 or PS2 system and are hoping to get 
 the same great game, like myself, you will be fooled. Ok sure, the graphics are decent, but thats 
 about were it ends. The gameplay is bad, and the controls are horrible. The planes are extremely 
 sluggish in all manuvers, in the early stages of the game you cant even turn the plane around without 
 blacking out. You do get a wing-man, but he is there just for the ride. Dont count on him taking 
 down any bogies. I love flight simulators, but this one let me down majorly. WAY not worth the 
 $64.00. I'll gladly sale mine for $20.00 if anyone is interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Flag
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  As I said, this is defenitly a arcade game. It's got the fast japanese electric keyboard at the 
 begging and I just expected insert coins to start flashing up at the begging. The gameplay is pretty 
 straightfoward and easy to learn but that's all. Every mission seems to be the same thing. Just 
 shooting down planes and ships, which sounds exciting and all but really it's not very fast-paced. 
 The sound quality is ok, i guess. It really sounds like someone is talking to you over a radio 
 and the background music... well there really is non until you get to a replay, which is still 
 just fast electirc keyboards. Explsions sound like explosions. Then again I doubt very few people 
 who play this game have actually been in a jet and shot down something with a missle to hear an 
 explsion. The graphics are solid for the most parts. The jets look stunning. But that's it... only 
 the jets look good. The ground and buildings look as if they were brought over from Flight Simulator 
 98. Overall, this game is good for jet lovers but defenitly not worth the price tag of $60. Rent 
 it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joniehitman
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 25, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  When i first got the game i thought it would be great. this it was not. from the first mission 
 it reminded me of an arcade type game where you get thrown into the action and you kill everyone. this 
 should never have been allowed to happen. each mission should be more in detail with take offs and 
 landings and a lot of flight time. This is what a realistic jet sim is. and this is why they dont 
 work on Consoles. Imagine the waiting to reach the target and then to get back home. it would have 
 been so boaring. But flight simulator makes it work well becouse its on PC and there are so many 
 controls and commands. This is where the Realism goes out the window. On Over G Everything is done 
 for you Exept to pull the trigger. maybe when the Xbox releases a Keyboard and joystick the game 
 might have been worth making realistic but with the xbox controller it was doomed to fail.
  
  On the other hand if you play the game in expert it sometimes shows little flashes of brilliance 
 in combat where you must take a slightly more measured approach than just blasting a few random 
 missiles at the sky. If you just shoot your way throught the sub-missions or just skip them entirley 
 the tactical and strategic missions can be quite entertaining. you may have 12 enemies to shoot 
 down but only around 8 missiles on your aircraft. this is where the wingmans stupidity can be handy. 
 If you simply tell him to attack air targets he will just kill everyone in the sky wasting valuable 
 missiles. Just let him Fly along side you and keep an eye on him (to make sure he doesnt drift into 
 you) and he can come i a little bit of use. he is greatly needed in missions where you must protect 
 cargo, so there is no time to land and resupply. (this is only needed on expert) . some of the combat 
 can get very intense and evading a radar fired missile can be a very rewarding thing. and so can 
 killing some of the very tough opponents.
  
  Obviously the game could have been built better With the dialogue being poor and what seems to 
 be the same man doing all the voice acting for the game characters but these are not that important. If 
 you take it as a building block for other games to improve on there is much potential in it for 
 a briliant game. but it needs to make up tis mind on what type of game it is. a tactical combat 
 flight sim. or a arcade game destined for the bargin bin.
  
  All it needs is a little time and a little faith. And some drastic inspiration and it could be 
 a brilliant game.
  
  I got it for &pound;15 or $26 so maybe i wasnt so hard done by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverBaron76
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 19, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I was terribly disappointed when I first played this game... actually, before I even played it and 
 witnessed the cheesy, hand-drawn characters issuing lame comments. The game has no story to it 
 and the combat is challenging but sadly unrealistic. However, the gameplay graphics were beautiful 
 and would be admired by any jet lover. Once I gained some proficiency at the game, I actually enjoyed 
 it, mainly because there were so many things to unlock and the more you unlock the easier the game 
 becomes. However, I remain disappointed to this day, because this game could have been so much 
 more with just some creativity put into the story and a lot more realism added to the combat. I 
 still own and play the game, but I wouldn't feel right about recommending anyone buy it. If you 
 like jets, rent or borrow, and see if you can get past all the crap and take it for what it is 
 - the only jet sim on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woozy_Gem
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  More like one of those crappy arcade sims that you can play at some... well... arcade. This game 
 pretty much sucks to me and a lot of other people. The graphics are okay, still a little dull, 
 and the gameplay is boring. Try it once for the first time, you will think that it is okay, but 
 if you play it for a second time, you think, ugh, i'm bored. Next Step; Try getting into a multiplayer 
 match. NONE! No matches. Nada. Nobody is on that game. Rent it first, or read a review. It's your 
 choice, but i recommend to just not get it. It's a waste of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samhankins
Rating: 3.4
Date: Dec 8, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  I'd been waiting months for these piece of garbage to come out. I waited at Hollywood Video while 
 the clerk opened the box of new game releases. I stood around for an hour while he received the 
 games into his inventory system and got them packaged for rental. I took it home, popped in the 
 360, and played it for hours, compoetely aghast at how unspeakably awful the game was. There is 
 no upside to the game at all. The controls are virtually non existent. The missions are so insipid 
 and pedestrian they're practically unplayable. The dialogue, music, and sound effects are a low-fi 
 hodgepodge of cliches and awful heavy metal noodling. The visual effects, which are the hallmark 
 of the next gen consoles were, with the exception of the water effects, completely last gen. Ace 
 Combat on the PS2 is graphically, sonically, and narratively superior in every way. But by far, 
 the games greatest failing is the complete uselessness of the controls. The aircraft fly like bricks. 
 They bank and climb like dirigibles. It makes playing the cheap, boring missions as unpleasant 
 a gaming experience as I've ever had.
  
  I've been playing console games for decades. This is the worst game I've ever paid money to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bozz
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  The aircraft models look pretty decent. Lots of detail.
  
  The world is kind of bland. Up high at altitude it looks okay, but flying closer to the ground 
 needed work. Effects like explosions are also pretty bland, but missile trails look good. The latest 
 Ace Combat games on PS2 look nicer, even though they aren't next gen powered.
  
  The aircraft and weapon selection is pretty cool. The ability to control what weapons go on what 
 hardpoints blows away Ace Combat's pick one special weapon. There's alot of other details that 
 went into the game that best Ace Combat and make each fighter unique but also true to the real 
 life version.
  
  The flight model is pretty forgiving, which is a good thing on a consoler controller. Decent simple 
 controls. A bit sluggish. Controls aren't too bad. Using Sidewinder missiles is actually really 
 well done with not having to change targets manually if an enemy is in your HUD.
  
  Landing and taking off is kind of cool. There are three areas where the game flies apart: AI, Mission 
 Design, and Dialog.
  
  The wingman AI is pretty useless. I've gone to make a hard left turn several times, only to have 
 my wingman right there to collide with, meaning another mission restart. Even after giving him 
 orders to attack, he still seems to accomplish nothing. Flying around the wingman flying AI looks 
 convincing, but lacks when it comes to actual combat.
  
  Many of the easy missions were walkthroughs. Fly to here and easy snuff two baddies with missiles. 
 But then all of the sudden (South American campaign) I'm at a nigh impossible mission. This revealed 
 a major flaw in the Over G mission design. I find that very often enemies are spawned literally 
 on top of me. Giving me no chance to track them on radar and fire. And often enemy missiles are 
 impossible to dodge, even with chaff &amp; flares. Some SAMs are brutal this way.
  
  The dialog and voice acting is a mixed bag. Sometimes it's okay. Other times it's laughable. Some 
 of the lines were delivered completely apathetic. And you can definitely hear an Australian influence 
 in the English dialog. Americans don't usually say bloody or crikey. And the menu translations 
 make even less sense than Sony TV instructions. Sorry, Ubisoft, very bad localization.
  
  If you're an aircraft fan, maybe pick it up for cheap out of a bargain bin. Hopefully this title 
 doesn't make publishers veer away from flight sims on next gen consoles. This one had potential 
 but failed to fully execute on a few important areas. A game where you want to love it, but it 
 keeps frustrating you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banuchi
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  You have got to be kidding! I swear the old ATARI games were better than this piece of junk. You 
 couldn't give it to me for free! I really thought xbox would have reviewed games that they offer 
 for their console. If they can let this game through, then they must be desperate. I'd suggest 
 that microsoft review their games or otherwise it can hurt the reputation of xbox. This game is 
 not worth playing, looking at, or even speaking of. I was so shocked that they had a game of this 
 type that I had to come here and warn everyone not to purchase this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdutill23
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 15, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game. The first modern flying game for a next gen system sounded like 
 a gamer's dream come true. Unfortunately this game is more like a child's nightmare. The graphics 
 are on par with the first Xbox, the sound is horrible, the gameplay is warped (by that I mean that 
 controlling the planes is like being in a state of vertigo) , and the story line lacking at best. 
 To knowledge I don't even think you can fly in the third person. I don't know about you, but I 
 occasionally like to look at the plane I am flying and appreciate barrel rolls and dives. To top 
 it all off, you have to pay $60 for this game and I discovered all the aformentioned flaws in one 
 gaming session. I then attempted to salvage the game by trying the multi-player on Xbox live. That 
 was even worse than the single player. You are completely out of luck if you haven't unlocked the 
 F-22 when you go on line because if you play against someone who has, you can't lock on to them 
 and they end up shooting you down with a missile before you ever get to engage. In my opinion (and 
 that is all this is) this game is not even a renter. It's a never should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theo_1
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 12, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I bought this on launch and was I ever suckered and mislead to believe that this would even be 
 close to a great jet fighter sim. No this game is the one game that is an absolute waste of time. 
 The graphics are last gen or worse and the soundtrack is really great if you have poofy-wavy long 
 hair and long gay electric guitar wrifs that sound terrible. The missions are very easy and over 
 in 1-5 minutes. I gave it a chance to get better and waited till the 11th mission but they were 
 still quick and easy and lacked any type of depth whatsoever. Why is it that games these days lack 
 depth, creativity, inspiration, or anything that makes the game challenging. Why are game developers 
 producing so much trash? There should be a law against game developers producing crap and stores 
 should have at least a 24-72 hr return policy. Any how I immediately returned this game the next 
 day for a loss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkvolture
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I wont right up a very long review on this, its hardly worth my time, if you get this game you 
 are wasteing a good 50-60 Bucks, with that just go to the movies like 6 times, it would be more 
 worth it. When i got this game i exspected some thing along the lines of ace combat within a more 
 realistic seting, i got the realisum but this game plays more like an arcade game then a video 
 game, hell if im being trained for the airforce more power to me, Graphics are crap, just sky and 
 what would look of an undetailed land, even the video in the beging is crap. The pepole talk i 
 think, but you have to hit a button every time to contiue the story line. if it was not bad enogh 
 i see no significant point to the wingman system and i feel its horible. Should you get this game 
 and like it, i would find you one out of the few, who show enogh drive to waste your life away 
 with this game. Simply put invest in some thing else.
  
  Dark Volture 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGreen15LA
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  While Over-G Fighters looks nice, thats about all it's worth. In fact, that is probably the only 
 thing positive about the game: the graphics. The jets all look beautiful, but like a hot, yet dumb-as-a-rock 
 model, thats where the perks end. This game is basically a polished version of any fighter game 
 you'd find at an old arcade, except in some of those, the chairs will move according to the movements 
 you enter in for the corresponding plane. Your best bet of finding any fun out of this game is 
 probably checking for the few others who have it on Xbox Live. Most likely, they would be somewhat 
 of a challenge and what's better than trash talking someone from the other side of the world?
 
  
  Wrapping up, I would only recommend this for those who like fighter aircraft (such as me) or those 
 who happen to have an extra wad of cash lying around. Otherwise, wait until it hits the bargain 
 bin... and even then it wouldn't be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bugeyes1701
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 3, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  I must agree with the editors remarks. The story behind the game isnt well put together, the voices 
 are flat, cheesy or both, and the planes handle like a 18 wheeler. its more realistic then the 
 ace combat series, giving you the close to the real weapon loads of the jets you fly, but most 
 pilots dont start to black out from a 90' turn either. The handling is bad, the planes move like 
 they're made of led, and your wingman is annoying then useful. i guess you can argue the point 
 that planes loaded for bear are harder to fly then a striped down show bird, but when you have 
 to fight to keep the thing flying is a lil much in a console game. if i wanted a sim, ill go back 
 to Falcon 4.0 . to be fair, its not a bad game, it just left me frustrated a lot, and wanting something 
 better. if the designers kept the more real weapons of this game, with its ability to choose your 
 load out, made the planes a bit more responsive, somthing like a pick up truck, and put in voice 
 acting that didnt make me want to play the game on Mute, it be a real winner. Oh, the wingman thing, 
 either loose him, or make him useful. maybe i should just go back to ace combat 4 &amp; 5. or maybe 
 im just to picky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: priley77
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 24, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  This is a decent game but does lack freedom. It had such potential with the amazing graphics but 
 after you get used to the graphics... well the game play needs to get you more involved. They need 
 to add a ghost recon aspect to this so you get involved as a pilot. be able to control the craft 
 as if your life and others depend on it. after a while I feel like well lets put another quarter 
 in. Such potential and mayb the next flight sim coming out will be more fun. For now I will love 
 the graphics and play only once in a while. However next time I may just rent this one instead 
 of buying. Your Firnedly Neighborhood W. C. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 21, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  A couple weeks ago I finally sold my last PS2 game. I wanted to go ahead and put some money toward 
 some more Pre-Orders of games releasing at the first of next year like Lost Planet, Haze, and Medal 
 Of Honor: Airborne. This last PS2 game was Ace Combat Zero, which I had been playing to get my 
 Air Combat fix. I tried with Blazing Angels to get this fix, but failed to do so, and now I've 
 tried with Over G Fighters, which looked more similar to Ace Combat. That is all though, it just 
 looked similar, but it was nothing like it. Over G Figters has decent graphics with good plane 
 detail, but can't live up as a True Next-Gen Air Combat game, because the last gen PS2 Air Combat 
 series is better in each catergory. The game is slow and sluggish and feels more like your driving 
 a school bus than flying an high speed attack plane. I don't really know a whole lot about what 
 goes on throughout the game, because it only took me about 3 or 4 missions to decide that the game 
 sucked and that I couldn't stand to play it on a regular basis. I only hope that sometime someone 
 will be able to develop a good Air Combat game for the Xbox 360, because I'm not going to get the 
 PS3 just to play the new Ace Combat game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_chewbacca
Rating: 1.7
Date: Oct 13, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I really dont understand how the developers can be so stupid as to release this game. It is god 
 awful! Youd think that they may actually play it them self and realize that they screwed up. First 
 off this games gameplay is horrific. The controls are so dumb. Your plane flies extremely slow 
 and shooting down other planes requires no skill what so ever. All it does is puts a box around 
 the enemy and you push a. The game is extremely HARD!!! It isnt a challenge. Its just plain ridiculous. 
 When a missle gets shot at you two seconds later you die. No chance what so ever. Even the taking 
 off and landing mission is hard because it has such vague instructions. It takes alot of trial 
 and error, and if you have the pacience, and if you dont throw your 360 out the window with frustration, 
 you will still not have fun. The graphics i will not even go in depth with. They just plain suck. 
 The sound is horrible with the lame sound effects and generic rock and roll music that is so repetetive 
 it will make your ears bleed. It has no story what so ever and no real point. Your just randomly 
 attacking different enemies. The presentation is disgusting and turned me off right when i started 
 it.
  
  I highly recommend you DONT GET THIS GAME. Even if you are a hardcore flight sim fan dont even 
 bother, youd have more fun with Galaga. Steer Cleer away from this disaster. The developers were 
 either retarded or 8 years old.
  
  Good Points: Honestly none.
  
  Bad Points: Everything else you could imagine.
  
  Achievements: Extremely hard, dont even bother. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 2.7
Date: Oct 3, 2006 3:21 am PT
Review:  By far one of the worst 360 games in the world.
  
  GOOD- Loads of real fighter plains; real-life sim
  
  BAD- The graphics aint next-gen; jets 
 move realy slow; missions are short, only taking out 3 foes and your done; confusing set ups; too 
 much on screen dails
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  Over G Fighters is based on a flight sim, the only probblem is that its not fun, its more like 
 work!, one thing i like to point out is the movment, there jets right?, so why do they move soooo 
 bloody slow?, the gameplay is defently bad, whilst playig your put in a cockpit were you cant see 
 hardly out of the window due to the fact theres to many onscreen dails, and your missions are masic, 
 all you do is lock on a enemy fighter and fire a lock on missile, you destroy about 3 and your 
 done, theres nothing to it
  
  GRAPHICS-
  The graphics are poor, tho the jets look awesome, the background is terrible, its somthing you'll 
 find from a release ps2 game, the grounds are flat, the skies are plain blar blar!
  
  SOUND-
  ..... You have that very slow, very boring american people talking to you, no music, rubbish 
 sound effects ect, the game is realy that bad
  
  WHY SHOULD I BUY THIS GAME?.
  One thing DONT... its rubbish, and the price tag is too hight, it should be &pound;20 not &pound;39.99 
 or &pound;49.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junahia
Rating: 2.3
Date: Sep 10, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  This game has the position to have become the first really good, advanced combat flight sim, but 
 it failed. The graphics seem really blocky, and the city backdrops look like paintings. To sum 
 up, these graphics don't deserve to be seen on an XBox 360.
  
  Gameplay is boring, you won't ever have to do evade and counter attack meanuvres or spins and generally 
 fun flying objectives, as all the opposition in most missions can be taken out in the first few 
 seconds (if you're not a small infant who can't reach all the buttons at once.) I was hoping that 
 this game could be a great first combat sim for the 360, but that was a total letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atlantis1701
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 4, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  REVIEW: THIS GAME SUCKS
  
  Ok now that I have that out of the way. I pre-ordered this game, because as a child all I ever 
 wanted to do was be a fighter pilot. I own every flight sim game known to man. and have beaten 
 each one with a certain amount of glee. When I saw this entry into the flight sim catagory for 
 the 1st time on my 360 console, I was sure it was going to be good. The controls have the look 
 and feel of a real combat fighter. (I served in the gulf war and had access to fighters so I've 
 seen the heads up displays of many joint task force fighters before) So in all I was pretty happy 
 with the look and feel. Then I went to fly the plane. no sense of speed. no ability to role. no 
 change in pitch or yaw when there should have been. Did I saw no ability to role. Come on folks 
 this game just flat out sucks. If you look at my 360 achievements you can see I tried to get into 
 the game but I just plain gave up on it. there is nothing here worth continuing for. a better choice 
 for the title would have been over priced fighters. stick with the Ace Combat series my friends. 
 the Belkan war is just that, an all out war and you can fly it with the real joystick from the 
 last ace combat or with your PS2 controller. This game was a huge disappointment. NOT RECOMENDED 
 ON ANY LEVEL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Over G Fighters is a jet sim from Taito and Ubisoft. The thought of Ubisoft taking care of this 
 game probably made people think it would be great, because Ubisoft is a great gamemaking company. 
 WELL YOU WRONG.
  
  When you had first looked at Over G, you probably thought, Wow, i'm gettin this flight sim, no 
 matter what or something similar. But when you start plalyin all you can say is WHAT THE ****?! 
 
  
  Over G Fighters is not a good modern flight simulator. The gameplay lacks variety, the level designs 
 isn't even at 360 standards, except for the planes, and voice work is terrible. If Taito is a new 
 company, than they must be ticked off about their first project, this game, sucks.
  
  The main game is about a terrorizing organization that wants to threaten the world's secuity and 
 peace. You will play through 75 single player missions that are about one minute long practically. 
 You will do all sorts of air fighting tactics, like bombing, shooting downs dimwited planes, and 
 thats it, nothing else.
  
  The graphics are not good at all. Even if Ubisoft is making this game, well, they didn't do what 
 they were famous for: graphics. The graphics are bland, with little or no detail showing Xbox 360 
 power. Planes look cool, but the environments suck.
  
  The voice acting is what takes this game down. Its terrible. People in it have no expression or 
 anything, and generals that breif you sound shallow and weak.
  
  Xbox Live shows some quality. With up to 8 players, you can dogfight anyone. Thats probably the 
 only dogfight you get, cause in the single player, its too easy you don't even need to be afraid 
 of doin the mission again.
  
  To top it all, Over G Fighters falls from bad graphics, poor voice acting, bland gameplay, and 
 an overall lack of achievment.
  
  A 5.6 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candilga
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 30, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I bought Over G fighers since I loved aviation simulators on the PC and all the fighter movies 
 out there from Top Gun to all the Iron Eagle series to even that new french movie that mimics top 
 gun....
  
  Granted despite all the negative reviews I read I thought I'd give Over G Fighters a try...
  
 
  The result: Fun at first, and not so easy since I tried it at the expert setting from the getgo 
 since everyone ranted about it being so easy... Truth is that missions are way too short in some 
 instances... In a few missions I think 90 seconds would be a stretch then on the other hand you 
 have missions that last forever but because you take about 2 minutes to takeoff again... one mission 
 that I kept on getting shot down because 20 missiles kept on being launched at me it was frustrating 
 to have to taxi and takeoff time after time....
  
  Wingman AI is fairly stupid... I don't even know why they bother on saying certain wingmen are 
 better against air targets or ground targets... they are simply bad at everything...
  
  Enemy AI is fairly decent at the expert level and on later on scenes in the sense that its not 
 that easy to avoid missiles and once you get into a dogfight you always have other planes from 
 a distance shooting at you but in that regards its only difficult because you're outnumbered... forget 
 about 1 to 1 situations...
  
  Graphics are ok though I agreee with gamespot there are times when they look worse than a 486DX2 
 66mhz machine... Story.. the story is quite boring frankly and there is no sense of you ever getting 
 involved or accomplishing anything
  
  Gameplay... Gameplay is really not that bad and probably as realistic to a simulation as one will 
 ever get. However its fairly repetive no matter what plane you fly or what mission you go onto... granted 
 though since its the first real simulation game I've tried on a console in this aspect its better 
 than I expected...
  
  Overall... If you're a huge huge huge fan of flight sims you can get it and be somewhat satisfied 
 with it otherwise I'd stay away and pick something else up this game won't make the WORST GAMES 
 of 2006 but it won't make the RECOMMENDED GAMES list either... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 1:10 am PT
Review:  The story i will start on at first sucks its horrible its absolutly retarted about some coalition 
 to remove terroists. It sucks missions vary from 2 minutes to 40 minutes. It does not immerse you 
 enough to be fun. Its just plain crap. The fact that you need to beat SP to get better planes for 
 multiplayer really hurts it because the story well sucks.
  
  The Sound horrible until it comes to the planes the voice overs suck plane sounds are fine. Graphics 
 are awfull they just plane suck everything but the plane looks like crap.
  
  It is not worth the 60$ it needs to be like 30-40 $ mabye even 20-25$
  
  The multiplayer is 
 were it really comes good but still fails. The one mode sucks Arena you get one life its pretty 
 much fling your missles then dog fight with machine gun. The fact that you need to beat SP to get 
 better planes for multiplayer really hurts it because the story well sucks. The i can't remmember 
 the name but the other mode is fun you fly around bomb other peoples bases you kill them in the 
 sky its very fun.
  
  It is mostly geared for hard core simulator people not arcade but it still stinks in simulater 
 besides the red and black things and accurate plane flying.
  
  All in all the multiplayer can't lift it. I would not recommend this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K4ss3r
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Over G Fighters is the first modern aircraft combat simulator for the Xbox 360, created by Taito 
 Corporation, who I, haven't really heard of before.
  The game is heavily based on simulation, and is therefor no where near the arcadish flying game 
 released for the Xbox 360 earlier this year, Blazing Engels.
  
  To start of in the simple, which will be the first thing you'll probably see, is the menu system. 
 
  It's actually set up quite nicely, as a newspaper. However, it's not like you're looking around 
 on the newspaper to find the different menus, they're basicly right above each other on the left 
 side of the newspaper, just under the word 'Contents'. 
  
  You're a new pilot, Gargoyle. It's a weird name, and I sometimes wonder why the developers would 
 give the main character such a name, and also wonder how he'd look like.
  You're basicly just taking different missions along the way, starting out in North America, going 
 to the Far East and even to the Barents Sea.
  The sad thing is though, that there hardly is any story in the game. Of course, it does feature 
 cut-scenes, but these mostly only let you see the general as a drawn figure, explaining the mission 
 to you, and that's about it.
  
  The first mission you'll get to play, is basicly just a tutorial, to get the feel of the controls. 
 You'll have to take off on a carrier, which is rather easy if you know how to increase the throttle, 
 and intercept and destroy a few planes, which hardly does you any harm. A somewhat good thing with 
 the Scenario mode is, that your missiles automatically restocks after a few seconds. Sometimes 
 you'll have to fly a long while, and it would take quite some time if you'd have to make it back 
 to the base, every time you're low on ammunition.
  
  When you start getting into the later missions, multiple enemies will usually have you targeted, 
 and you'll most likely have to evade a missiles every now and then.
  However, this is not at all as easy as it sounds. Evading missiles in this game takes a lot of 
 practice, and you really need to focus, as well as performing some very nice moves if you wish 
 to get rid of the missile that's just behind you.
  Once you've got the hang of it, then there's a greater chance that you can evade a missile, yet 
 it will still seem very hard to do so.
  
  The mission length really is a lot different. Sometimes, you'll play a mission where there is up 
 to three cut-scenes, if not more, and sometimes, you'll simply have to take down two enemies, which 
 takes less then a minute.
  There are three different sorts of missions though. The normal ones, which mostly is about destroying 
 different things, from land vehicles, ships, and other aircrafts.
  The two others are the Tactical Missions, and the Strategic Missions, where there are a bit more 
 'Story' in them, and more depth to them then simply shooting down enemies.
  
  Every time you complete a mission, a green text saying 'Mission completed' will appear, and you're 
 done with that one, moving on to the next mission. This means, that you sadly won't be landing 
 the aircraft after every mission, even if you've set the game settings to 'real', this won't really 
 make a difference.
  
  The graphics in the game is sort of a mixed experience. The planes looks very nice, and is rich 
 on details, and I must admit that I love looking at the afterburner. However, the environments 
 isn't really candy for the eyes. They seem quite plain, and nothing special about them, and they 
 can become a bit tiring to look at, after hours of flying around.
  The water seems to have a somewhat good detail, but nothing extraordinary, though it is nice to 
 look at the sea when the sun is going down.
  Explosions seems a bit dull as well. There's a big fire when the missile hits, if it destroys the 
 aircraft, and then it turns to a black cloud of dust and such, and disappears after a few seconds, 
 leaving nothing of the aircraft left to fall to the ground. Leaving no tracks is a good thing, 
 eh?
  
  There are a few different views, and there probably is one for every person out there, however 
 I do think one is missing: One where you can see your aircraft from a long distance.
  These few is in the game.
  - Cockpit. (With lots of information.)
  - Cockpit. (With low amount 
 of information.)
  - A follow cam, where you see your aircraft just behind it. (Oh the lovely looks of afterburner 
 in the morning..)
  - A first person view, without cockpit with lots of information.
  
  Sure, the graphics are fine, and really shouldn't keep you from giving this game a try, as it is 
 rather fun.
  However, you must be prepared for a rather slow sort of gameplay, as even though you're going with 
 well over one thousand kilometers per hour, the plane still seems to be going somewhat slow, compared 
 to the arcade flying games, and this is of course because it's a flying simulator.
  The speed of the game is somewhat near comparable to Microsoft's Flight Simulator, if you've tried 
 that, and liked the speed that everything was going, then you'd love this one without a doubt.
 
  
  Of course, because it's 'Slow' also means that you can focus more when busting out some really 
 insane moves, that can be replayed again. You can basicly perform every move possible in real life, 
 in this game. Some of the moves requires training and skill, while others are easy to perform.
 
  However, there's a really cool feature that kicks in when performing moves with the aircraft.
 
  For example, if you're taking too heavy pressure, or too many G's if you will, then the screen 
 will start turning black, depending on how quickly the amount of G pressure is increasing. However, 
 you won't suddenly have feint, but only have a problem finding out which direction you're going, 
 since the screen gets very black in the end. (I haven't tried having a blackout in the game yet, 
 but I think it might be possible if you reach a very high amount of G's.)
  Also, if you're trying to fly upside down, you might get too much blood to your head, which will 
 make the screen go red, however this won't do any harm, other then that you might have a problem 
 seeing where you're heading, due to a very red screen.
  
  There really isn't much to say about the sound in this game. You'll be listing to the same sound 
 from your engine most of the time, and a bipping sounds if an enemy has locked onto you.
  Voice acting is fine, and especially the generals voice really fits the looks of the character. 
 Mostly you'll only be hearing your Wingman, and perhaps the radio tower, which has a very realistic 
 voice.
  The planes however, does actually sound nice. Even if it's just the same engine noise most of the 
 time, then it seems that they've done this in a very realistic way, and I'm telling you, it doesn't 
 get much better when two aircraft flies very closer to each other. 
  That 'Wruuum!' when the other aircraft flies past, really impress me, as well as firing missiles, 
 which sounds awesome as well.
  However, those two things are about the only of the sound that impress me, the rest just seems 
 decent.
  
  The controls are put together very well. On the bumbers, you increase and decrease the speed, and 
 you rudder right and left on the triggers, just below.
  These are the buttons you'll use mostly, as well as the left analog stick of course, which controls 
 the aircraft in a very basic way. Turning it left and right, and up and down.
  Y, X, B and A are for the simple things such as firing your weapon, changing weapons and using 
 flares.
  The D-pad toggles landing gear, hook for the landing on carriers, changing targets and using the 
 air brakes to slow down.
  
  Last but not least, the right analog stick is used to look around in the cockpit, or around the 
 aircraft, if you're flying in the 'Follow' view.
  I must admit that the inside of the aircrafts are very well done, and every aircraft looks different 
 from the inside as well, as they do in real life.
  A small, but fun nonetheless little detail is that the legs moves when using the rudders.
  
 
  So, I've talked about the Scenario mode, which seemed more of a thin Storymode. Well, it's not 
 the only gamemode you'll play in this game. There's also the challenge mode which does what it 
 sounds like, put you up for a challenge. Here you'll fly in a huge Arena where there are lots of 
 other aircrafts for you to shoot down, as well as carriers and airfields you can land on, to restock 
 on missles and bombs.
  There's also the 'Strike' challenges, where you get to go to set up a lot of different things, 
 such as what sort of aircrafts your enemy has, and how many there is. Also, how you'll encounter 
 them. Will they ambush you from behind, or will you both fly straight towards each other? It's 
 up for the player to decide, and there are numerous of things to choose here.
  
  Of course, I shouldn't forget about the lovely wingmen. Can't live without them, can we?
  They 
 usually do their job rather well, however, be careful not to smash right into them. There's a couple 
 of different wingmen to choose from, but overall, they seem just the same, except their voice and 
 the things they say.
  
  The game also has an online mode, where you can use the aircrafts you've unlocked, which there 
 are plenty to unlock, and take them to use against other players world wide.
  There are short missions, where it's all about intercepting and destroying the enemy before he 
 destroys you, and there's a huge Arena for you to play in.
  The Arena is huge, and it would take you a couple of minutes to reach one end, from the other. 
 It's a huge battlefield, where up to four teams battle it out, trying to take less damage, and 
 do more.
  These Arena battle takes from between fifteen minutes, to an entire hour.
  An hour may seem of a long time, but honestly, it isn't. Once you're in the battle, trying to find 
 and eliminate your enemy, then time passes quickly and you'll have lots of fun with the other players.
 
  
  Overall, this game is a solid title. If you like aircrafts, then you should at least consider renting 
 this one, as it might just happen that you love the game.
  And if you give this game a go, then remember to give it some time, and take to learn the game 
 controls.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeyandreous
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 19, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  hi, this si another review by me mikey...
  
  well its not the best and hard to get into but on the plus side its very realistic and has very 
 very good graphics. In my opinion its top gun the game but who cares. I got it for about 40pounds 
 and i don't think its worth that much. Real aircrafts, real HUD navigation so its more like a simulator. 
 Its good and bad i say. I think were better off buying flight simulator at least that has a bigger 
 map and actually has different types of land not just brown ground wth a few brown sticks for trees 
 like this game!
  
  thanks...... Mikey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackman787
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  oh WOW amazing like at first i hated this game because the multiplayer is so gay i mean like 1 
 game then you gotta quick find another game is so lame but it grows on you when you start getting 
 the hang of it and you get all the planes in singleplayer scenario noobs if your looking for a 
 good plane to start with, start online with the f-15c yeah it eats up gas but its just as good 
 as the f-22a but doesnt have 20 gazillion missiles to be gay/cheap/noobish with so when you play 
 this game i recommend unlocking planes in singleplayer mode first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hbarillas
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 17, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  The original idea its OK, mostly because there hasnt been created a really good Sim for any platform 
 up to date, but the gameplay its boring, and not realistic, flying jets its quite different that 
 WWII planes, mostly because dogfighting its almost impossible when you got all the big stuff in 
 it, so after a few missions you start noticing that its very repetitive and upseting, I really 
 dont recommend it to buy it, I really think its neccesary to have a really Flight SIM for XBOX 
 360, lets wait this guys surprise us with sustantious big changes in future titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebuft
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 17, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  this game offers a lot ,top gun for the 360 but just fails to deliver in so many ways.
  looking at the graphics, the aeroplane models are perfectly recreated looking identical to their 
 real life counterparts but uninspiring terrain models and textures leave you feeling like you are 
 flying in an alternate universe where the earth and buildings are made of badly painted cardboard. 
 strangely the water effect is top notch.
  
  sound is exactly what you should expect from any flight sim uber casio rock synths and engine noises 
 for each plane
  
  on the gameplay side missions are short and boring, most end with you flying to position X ,shoot 
 down N enemies. strategic missions (each areas main objective) are just longer versions of this, although 
 the game does throw up some exceptions ,bombing raid in a stealth bomber anyone?.
  the other bad part of the gameplay is the difficulty of avoiding missiles, this alone at times makes 
 the game unbearable.
  
  This game also lets you create custom missions which does little to add to the value of the game 
 as there exactly the same as you get in the main game and an arena mode which is not brilliant 
 either as you constantly have to break off from the fighting to refuel.
  
  if i hadnt already bought this ,i might rent once or twice but just because i love flying sims 
 but your better off with blazing angels in the long run 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 9, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  wow this game looks beautiful. problem is everything else is absolutely horrible. the controls 
 are so bad i hope they slit their wrists. gameplay is weak, along with replay value. you have such 
 limited control of the plane its just wrong. the weapons get boring after about 5 minutes and thats 
 if you have a long attention span. online is pointless and honestly so is even writing a review 
 for this awful title. maybe, and only maybe, if you are such an absolute freak for fighter pilot 
 games that you would cut off your right hand just to play a game with them in it, would i recommend 
 a rental. otherwise this game is trash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hairyassapeman
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  I found Over G Fighters to, at times, be the most frustrating game I've ever played on Xbox 360 
 or even Xbox. That is, until I unlocked the F-22.
  
  When you first start out, the game runs between being insanely hard and ridiculously easy. Some 
 of the first few missions you can beat by literally pointing the nose of your plane at a few targets, 
 pressing the missile launch button a couple of times, and waiting for the explosions. Those are 
 the super easy missions.. That doesn't last long though... The mandatory multipart strategic missions 
 tend to be the ones that will have you smashing your controller in frustration. Before you unlock 
 the F-22 it is almost impossible to dodge a missile. No amount of jinking and flares/chaff will 
 save you. (Ok yes it IS possible at that point, but if you manage it, you won't believe it) The 
 aircraft that are available early on, are VERY sluggish. The F-14 for example feels almost like 
 you're flying a fully loaded , winged 18 wheeler semi truck. Anyone who's ever seen the movie Top 
 Gun can tell you that the real F-14 does not fly like that. 
  
  On the multi-part missions, if you die during the second half of the mission, you have to fly the 
 WHOLE mission over again. There are no checkpoints or save points. In the early game, if you have 
 a missile fired at you, you may as well quit right there and start over. Spare yourself the pain 
 of watching your plane explode after a desperate evasive maneuver. 
  
  The second worst thing about this game, is that enemy aircraft will suddenly spawn right in front 
 of or behind you. Often times they will shoot a missile at you as soon as they appear. This is 
 insanely annoying for anyone, but especially for flight sim buffs... And yes the enemy actually 
 SPAWNS like that... It's not you just DETECTING them at that point.. They are spawning there... 
 Extremely frustrating and unrealistic. 
  
  I had to really push myself to keep trying during the hardest missions. I wanted so bad to enjoy 
 the game and beat it. There were times I wanted to take this game back to the store and exchange 
 it for something else. And then I managed to unlock the F-22 and everything changed... The game 
 all of a sudden became a LOT easier and I was able to complete the rest of the game without any 
 trouble at all. The F-22 is simply magic. And that leads me to another complaint with the game. 
 There's so many aircraft in this game that are great in real life, and for an aviation buff it's 
 neat to have them to fly. However once you unlock the F-22, you'll never want to fly any of those 
 other planes EVER again. There's no point, and it's suicide NOT to fly the F-22 once you have it. 
 
  
  This was a tough game to review because I have a lot of mixed feelings about the game. I'm very 
 happy Taito created a game that is closer to an actual PC flight sim than anything we've seen on 
 a console. However the "arcadey" elements bring it down. The enemies suddenly spawning from nowhere 
 makes it feel like the game developers are taking a cheap shot at me. All in all, it still is more 
 of an arcade game than a sim. 
  
  The aircraft in Over G Fighters are gorgeous. When I first started playing I watched nearly all 
 the replays of my missions just to check out my plane in action. People complain that the scenery 
 is pretty bland and not up to standards in this game. In my opinion the scenery is about on par 
 with some other PC flight sims, with the exception of Lock-On. You have to remember that in a flight 
 sim, with so much of the world visible at once, that a lot of detail in the scenery will turn the 
 game into a "slide-show" from such a bad frame-rate hit. 
  
  As far as sounds go, the effects do the job. The voice acting isn't so hot, and the soundtrack 
 music is absolute crap. Do yourself a favour and play your own music during the game. 
  
  I'd only recommend this to major aviation buffs and flying games enthusiasts. I would still say 
 rent this game first though. The sheer frustration may well put most people off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullleader007
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 7, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Over G Fighters is an excellent aircraft game. It has a lot of jets to unlock, plenty of different 
 story paths to take, great visuals and not to mention all the ammo and jet names are real. It is 
 a sim/arcade and I only say that because there is an option to choose easy mode where your ammo 
 refills after a couple of seconds. The game seems sluggish at first because of two things: the 
 beginning planes are exactly what I called them beginning planes so they are slow, and two you 
 have to get your stats higher such as mind I believe to make the game seem like it has a good sense 
 of speed. The tutorials help and doing different missions unlocks different jets. There is also 
 challlenge mode to unlock other jets and to increase your flight level. A higher level means better 
 stats and skills. It is a nice game if you love to fly so give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cagnaccio74
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 3, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  First of all, THIS IS NOT ACE COMBAT. And this means good news for me.
  Over G is not an arcade-action game with fancy visuals, furious action, unlimited missiles and 
 fictional sci-fi planes.
  
  Instead, it is a nice try to bring a semi-realistic flight simulator to a console, somewhat resembling 
 the Interceptor / JetFighter games, and it delivers some very interesting features.
  
  It has major flaws, including not-state-of-the-art graphics, useless RPG features, AWFUL presentation 
 and a "Arcade style" control option that should be completely forgot. 
  
  WHAT I LIKE
  
  - Excellent representation of most of the major modern fighting planes. Very realistic cockpits 
 with detailed avionics (but you're not requested to use them nor you're told anything about the 
 planes, cockpit or weapons....)
  
  - While it is not Falcon 4.0, it is still by far more reastic than Ace Combat.
  
  - Flight 
 dynamics are not bad.
  
  - Graphics of the planes (and sea reflections)
  
  WHAT I DO NOT LIKE
  
  - AWFUL presentation. If you have no knowledge of combat jet technology 
 you will not appreciate the game at all, and the reason being the fact that there you will be missing 
 important information that the game will not provide. AWFUL graphics in the menu.
  
  - Low res textures for the ground, and awful explosions. Come on... This should be a next-gen game!
 
  
  - Manga-like charactes and RPG features are completely useless.
  
  IN SUMMARY
  
  Over G fighters is not as bad as may think by reading reviews here and there. It is a nice attempt 
 in the unexplored region of semi-realistic jet combat games.
  But it has major flaws, including the worst presentation I've seen in a X360 game.
  If you're 
 an aviation enthusiast like me (I have been a real life private pilot) you MUST give it a try: 
 it is the only reasonable attempt of flight simulation on the X360.
  If you're not an aviation enthusiast you will not like it.
  If you're a ACE COMBAT fan you'll 
 find it disgusting.
  
  The worst thing is that this COULD have been one of the GREATEST flight games ever. But fails. 
 What a shame....
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 2, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy the in cockpit flight sim feel. But the missions usually last under five minutes 
 a few lasted under 30 sec. Im not kidding. The graphics are horrible. The ground is so blurry looking 
 you cant tell how high up you are. I know you are supposed to use your altimeter. But it looks the 
 same at 250 feet as it does at 7000. I do really the cockpit view with every gauge fully functional. 
 The game does a poor job of explaining anything. I was so confused i thought about sending it back 
 after turning t on. The sound sucks. I couldnt bring myself to play online. There is alot of value 
 but youll get bored quick. The 360 needs a good flight sim but this isnt it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbale2000
Rating: 1.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off, let me just say that I am an avid fan of airplanes and flight sims. I've played 
 through quite a few flight games and simulators but this one is the most disappointing of them 
 all.
  
  But before I get into all the bad things about this game, let me mention some of the good things...
 
  
  ... Well...... The cockpit looks cool......... and........ it has... online multiplayer ! ..........
 
  
  ....... ok, moving on.
  
  
  
  First off, in general, the graphics are horrible, I mean look at some of the other games for the 
 360 like Call of Duty 2 for example, it has amazing graphics, taking advantage of the 360s power. 
 With Over G you can still see the rough edges of assorted game objects and the lack of accurate 
 coloring on the non-plane objects (Missles, ships, buildings, ect.) . I was also disappointed that 
 the ground and the water look like something the N64 would put out! I thought this was supposed 
 to be "Next gen"?!? I've seen better graphics on the PS2! or even the PS1 for that matter!!
  
  The gameplay is so incredibly boring, the AI sucks at times and other times cheats. Missles 
 are extremely accurate (Both yours and the enemies) and almost always guarantee a hit. The missions 
 seem too strait-forward, easy to complete, and bland. The storyline suffers from being under-developed 
 and not very engaging to the player.
  
  The sound is boring and repetitive, lets leave it at that.
  
  All in all, it's a terrible game. 
 I think I'd have more fun watching metal rust then I would playing Over G Fighters.
  
  Seriously, there are better ways to use $60. If you want a good Flight Game, go out and get "Ace 
 Combat" or "Hero's of the Pacific" for PS2. If you want a good Flight Simulator, go get "X-Plane" 
 or "Lock-On" for the PC. Either of those choices would be infinitely better than wasting your money 
 on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echo13791
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 1, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  I really was concerned whether I would like the game or not. I went out on a limb and got it. Overall, 
 I really love this game. It was a very nice surprise that I liked it so much. First of all, the 
 Single Player is very long. It is at times VERY easy, and at times its also VERY HARD. There are 
 many different things you are told to do, and some are more fun than others, but I wouldn't call 
 any of them boring. There are some missions where you take off, and fly for a couple of minutes 
 before you get to do anything. This might sound boring, but it adds more realism to the game. Your 
 pilot is also effected by the Gs, which I have never seen is a game before. For example, if you 
 are flying fast and turn, the screen starts to get "hazy", like you are going to pass out. If you 
 dive too fast, you see red, meaning WAY too much blood is rushing to your head. There are a good 
 amount of planes to unlock as well. Now, the multiplayer. So, my personal favorite mode is arena 
 mode. In this mode, its 4 teams of 2. Basically, in a huge map, you try to blow up the other team 
 HQs. Other modes end so fast, you don't have to worry about fuel or ammo, but in this mode, you 
 have to land to re stock. This mode has awesome dog fights, bombing ships and HQs, and much more. 
 There are standard modes such as Versus, where there can be teams. The whole game is great overall. 
 If you are interested in planes, this is s good buy. I also loved Ace Combat, but this isn't the 
 same. There are many and different similarities, but I like this more. I highly recommend this 
 game. Sorry if there are typos, I am too lazy to read this over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Space-Wolf
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 28, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  There's not much I can say other than if you don't appreciate jets and how it is to fly them for 
 real, you will find this boring and probably won't like it. The graphics are great, the gameplay 
 is great if you like simulators, this game is good. Rent it first, then buy it if you like it.
 
  
  I find this game comparable to Grand Turismo in a sense. I personally would take Burnout over Grand 
 Turismo anyday, simply because I couldn't be bothered with "realistic" driving, because that's 
 not what I'm interested in. But, when it comes to flying, I love the realistic stuff. So, if you 
 would rather play an arcade style game, go with Blazing Angels, if not, you will have fun with 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supahornet
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 27, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Whoa, if there is any game that sorely needs a new review, this is it. The game sold well initially, 
 ranking at #7 when it came outthere are plenty of people who bought it. One knock is that there 
 arent enough players online. True, but I attribute that to people who got on and got blown out 
 of the sky by people who played through enough to get other aircraft. Since then, they stopped 
 playing online because of the perception of some sort of cheating going on. Listen to me on this 
 onethe tactics that succeed for real will succeed in this game. Im in the military, not a pilot, 
 but I am able to get some hints from some. Fly Navy! I dont like to see people preying on newbies 
 to pad their statsIm glad about the reputation system of xbox live. 
  
  Over G is really a simulator but so was Energy Airforce. The flight models are really pretty accurate, 
 so the sluggish control hits it took from just about every reviewer in the industry are unwarranted. 
 Chalk one up to not having the time to play through enough to improve the their attributes. G-resist, 
 and visual range have a definite effect on game play. Im able to see adversaries from pretty far 
 away now, and I wasnt when I started playing. It could be from playing on a 1280x1024 monitor 
 with the vga cord. I was at first perturbed by how hard it was to evade missiles. The reviewers 
 worldwide who commented on it, had it pegged. None of the pilots I asked had ever had to evade 
 a missile, but they still told me how to, and I used what they said to evade a bunch. Now, my evasion 
 rating is so high, that I dont worry. In an team game, I can usually be the last team member alive, 
 but it still doesnt help me to be one on four a minute into a match. If I wasnt always up against 
 at least three F-22s, Id dominate. So far, I think I might be the only person with the rank of 
 Ace Destroyer, Im working on Ultimate but I hope that I dont get switched back to a Sniper or 
 Gambler. Does anyone know how that system of ranking works? Somehow I think it has something to 
 do with weapon choice.
  
  Ive got 19 aircraft out of 38. The missions arent nearly as short as you may read unless you 
 want to hear nothing but criticism from your team mate and the general. Im hell bent on getting 
 all S ratings, I know that getting high ratings is the way to get certain planes, like the F-2B 
 that I havent even seen mentioned anywhere. Playing the way I do doesnt always mean a fun ride. 
 But its definitely more personally rewarding. I spent over a week trying to pass that two cutscene 
 anti-ship level at the end before I gave up and took the easiest route and its C rating. I might 
 still be trying if it wasnt for luck. (I only play on hard) I also really enjoy the hell mode.
 
  
  Some hints for those of you who like the game but are stuck on some parts. You really need to choose 
 the right plane for the mission. If possible, start your air-to-air dogfights at the highest altitude 
 possibledepending on your television/monitor you might be able to spot the glare from an enemy 
 canopy if the sun is at the proper angle. You can also pick up speed by dropping altitude and evade/outrun 
 a missile after its fuel runs out. If your main target is ringed by defenses, stop going after 
 the target and take out the defenses first.
  
  And by the beard of Zeus, tell some more people to play online.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jer_OC
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jul 27, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  Besides the fact the game has crashed.. twice.. it was kinda fun for about 10secs.. even hard core 
 sim buffs cant really like this too much, as it incorporates so much arcade qualities you can easily 
 miss the sim aspect... The graphics are weak.. really weak.. and say this cause we are suppose 
 to be on 'next-gen' quality, and this game uses 'side'sclling' arcade characters that talk in bland 
 terms.. and also give the impression of astroboy when the fly onto the screen to review your flight 
 data..
  
  Rent it before you buy, and even then.. if you have other choices for rentals,, pick them first! 
 sucha dissapointment.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoyalGamer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Over G (Energy Airforce) is a pretty solid flight Sim experience. If you ever played the original 
 (Energy Airforce/aimstrike) games on PS2, you pretty much expect the same style of gameplay, but 
 with new content added. The engine to design this game looks similar to the PS2 counterparts, but 
 the graphic are pretty good despite that. The game starts slow at first, but when you get the hang 
 of it the game really takes off. Especially in HELL MODE!!! The only complaint I have about this 
 game is the shallow storytelling. It look like they did that part of the game at the last minute! 
 And ever other part of the game they got right! Now this game tends to have a more technical/realistic 
 aspect than other consloe flight Sims. Which can be a turn off for some gamers (Judging by other 
 gamer reviews) , but other than that, I think it's a pretty Damn Good Game! If you got good patients 
 & flexability skills as a gamer, give Over G a shot. You won't be let down, or shot down (which 
 ever comes first.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KN1GHtFr1GHt
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  If you ever wanted to fly a fighter jet then here is your chance. Over G Fighters is the most up 
 to date and realistic combat flight simulator game I have ever played in my life. You will be amazed 
 with all of the features this game has to offer. If you think you have what it takes to defend 
 the skies and bomb the smack out of a carrier or enemy base then you need this game. The campaign 
 is off the wall and online play will make you feel the adrenaline rushing threw your veins. Feel 
 the power, play Over G Fighters. You will love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  The Good  
  - The only Flight SIM game on any console EVER
  - Gameplay is well done and is the main reason to buy this game
  - Controls are great, I never 
 thought I could play without a flightstick
  - Different Modes/Online mode add extra value
  - Planes look great
  - Challenge mode is a lot of fun
  - Take-off and Landing + Carrier Landing
 
  - Achievements are very well balanced
  
  The Bad  
  - Biggest flaw is that sometimes enemies appear out of nowhere 
  - Graphics should be better 
 for a 360
  - More Camera views are needed / No Fly-by
  - Story is lame
  - Character dialogue is so outdated
  - Presentation/Menu is prehistoric
  - Times New Roman 
 FONT?!
  - Manual sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PvT__HuShBuRN
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 20, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Over G Fighters is the most un-realisic fighter jet simulator on the market. Let me start off by 
 saying the plane models/textures are stunning. But when you decide to take this fighter in the 
 air, you will be deeply, deeply, dissapointed. When you look at the ground you see green. Only 
 green. The ground has no texture. The odd time there may be a few different color terrians, but 
 still NO texture. Taito/Ubisoft did NOT take advantage of the Xbox 360's power in any shape or 
 form. Next, when you shoot another fighter down and it explodes it looks disgusting. It looks like 
 a ball of yellow. Again barley any texture. The Graphical department of this game is terrible, 
 besides the plane models. Now the sound, this is the worst sounding plane game in HISTORY. When 
 you hear a re-play you would think you would hear the sound a fighter jet makes when it flys by, 
 a really loud noise, faster than the speed of sound. Instead, you hear nothing. When you fire a 
 missile, well it makes a bomph, sound and thats it. It's not even loud. The music in this game 
 is terrible, it's Over "G" Repeated. Now the gameplay is the worst thing about Over G Fighters. 
 Every mission is the same, bomb/sink/destroy a target. No varitaty in gameplay. The difficulty 
 of this game is insane. It's harder than finding Bin Laden to dodge a missile.
  
  Thats all.
  
  3.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigwillie912
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I believe top gun for tjhe ps2 was a better game. I own every game for the x box 360 ,and this 
 is the worst by far. I will play it for the achievement points, they are easy to get .This is also 
 very dissapointing . I think microsoft should make these points a little harder to get .In closing 
 i say if you want a good jet fighter game you should stick to pc games, they offer a much better 
 game play and graphics. Theses are all just my thoughts if you dont believe me try it yourself, but 
 i promise you this is a game that was just thown out there to satisfy our needs for a new game. I 
 think microsoft should get on the ball with these games ,to me this is a slap in the face to real 
 gamers and alot of free points to new gamers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  I have to say when I first started the game I was not impressed. 
  However, I decided to give this game a try since my love for planes goes way beyond just a mere 
 try. At first I thought the game was slow and aircraft movements were not realistic at all, ( if 
 that is the case turn the ARCADE MODE off !!) . 
  The game gradually grows on you, I loved the movement and beautiful graphics this game had to offer. 
 I found it highly unfair to see this game only deserved a 5.9 so I decided to reach out and make 
 it clear ITS NOT !.
  The game has an immense campaign game to it with huge maps and a huge variety of different planes. 
 The difficulty is just right to make you wanted to go back for more and making sure you work to 
 survive.
  For the multi-player game, it's just great. There are 2 types of battling it out with a simple 
 versus where 2 teams go head to head to battle it out in a simple dogfight. 
  The other type is a more mission type where you have to venture out and do missions blowing the 
 other teams base.
  The graphics are phenomenal with great sceneries and realistic looking planes. 
  This game definitely 
 should be at least tried out or rented.
  And it sure beats its predecessor Blazing Angels. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgfanr
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I'm out to lunch on this one. I really don't know about this. Looks great! .. Plays horrible! No 
 story at all, just mission orders! Cartoon still shot drawings for main characters. BS. Kinda like 
 Ace Combat did.
  This game will appeal to arcade style fans, it doesn't play like a Sim. I have to admit I want 
 to like this game but it leaves me hanging. Like when you go to shake someones hand and they don't 
 shake back!
  I don't really have anything else to say about it. I don't want to bash it completely (which would 
 be totally justified) 
  So like moms use to say "If you don't have anything nice to say then don't say anything at all!"
 
  
  So my mouth is shut!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fyfeb
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  This is not a arcade style/shooter like Ace Combat. Nice graphics both in the plane models and 
 terrain. The in game audio is fine but the radio conversations are repetetive and reminiscent of 
 anime. Multiplayer is pretty good once you have mastered the controls.
  Some of the single player scenarios are too short and relatively easy. Multiplayer is where this 
 game can shine. The Live communiations is kinda cool to add to the experience as long as you have 
 players that are into the game.
  The terrain graphics are pretty realistic and have be taken from satellite phones of the areas. 
 Realistic sun reflections really add to the experience and smoke trails and explosions are pretty 
 good. I think the single player sencario isn't enough to recommend this game but is you are into 
 Live play and looking for a decent flaying game this might be for you.
  Rent it and maybe pick up a used copy because I don't think it is worth $60.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockinaway
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jul 13, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  The missions with picking characters and making their level go up in skill, and unlocking planes, 
 with different weapons is probably the only good bit about this game. The garphics are poor to 
 what can be shown on a 360, comparing to games like GRAW, they need really improving on this game. 
 
  
  The sound, is repeated again and again, the same voice and same phrases. 
  
  The missions are VERY basic, shoot a few missiles and you completed the mission! This makes the 
 game start to get boring. All I had to do was shoot a few missiles at some enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpaghettiDiner
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  This game is the latest modern combat flight sim for the 360, the graphics are pretty amazing, 
 like people have stated before the story and everything that goes with it is lame. But what matters 
 is the gameplay which is fairly good. Taking off and landing is cool, one shot one kills are in 
 this one other then some like Airforce delta storm for xbox. Though in spite the crappy story its 
 still worth playing, and worth a try for you top gun fighters!!! Though at first the controls suck 
 cuz they are not on expert controls which enables rolls and all the good stuff..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EviL_EyEz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I have to say when I first started the game I was not impressed. 
  However, I decided to give this game a try since my love for planes goes way beyond just a mere 
 try. At first I thought the game was slow and aircraft movements were not realistic at all, ( if 
 that is the case turn the ARCADE MODE off !!) . 
  The game gradually grows on you, I loved the movement and beautiful graphics this game had to offer. 
 I found it highly unfair to see this game only deserved a 5.9 so I decided to reach out and make 
 it clear ITS NOT !.
  The game has an immense campaign game to it with huge maps and a huge variety of different planes. 
 The difficulty is just right to make you wanted to go back for more and making sure you work to 
 survive.
  For the multi-player game, it's just great. There are 2 types of battling it out with a simple 
 versus where 2 teams go head to head to battle it out in a simple dogfight. 
  The other type is a more mission type where you have to venture out and do missions blowing the 
 other teams base.
  The graphics are phenomenal with great sceneries and realistic looking planes. 
  This game definitely 
 should be at least tried out or rented.
  And it sure beats its predecessor Blazing Angels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobstos
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jul 12, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Over G Fighters is a flight simulator that is set in the near future, where you are part of a fictional 
 elite corps of pilots sent to do various tasks around the world. While the premise sounds exceptionally 
 fun, the already-thin layer of flash wares off all to quickly.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is nothing special whatsoever. you fly modern-combat millitary jets, and shoot other 
 jets down (and the occasional ground targets) . Thats about it.... This wouldnt be so bad if the 
 missions were a tad bit more exciting, and not so frustrating and tedious. There is a whopping 
 3 different things you can do while in the cockpit of your jet, and that is shoot other jets, shoot 
 tanks, and shoot boats. WOW. and even this would be fun if it were more intense and exciting. all 
 you do is lock on, get that annoying buzzing noise, shoot the missle, wait 6 seconds, watch your 
 target blow up, and mission over. that's it.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are sadly the high-point of this game, with amazingly real and accurate cockpit models, 
 complete with working gauges, switches and buttons. everything you see on the console is in real 
 time, so you can turn your HUD off and rely on your insturments if you really wanted to. the actual 
 jet models themselves are a bit blocky, with low texture decals and weapons. when watching a replay 
 of a mission, this is VERY apparent.
  
  Sound:
  Ugh.... the sound. First off, the voice acting is TERRIBLE. the HQ sounds like they have no idea 
 what they are talking about when they give you missions, and they dont even bother to use any authentic 
 millitary lingo. So much for realistic. When you are in the jet itself, you hear 3 sounds. the 
 ever-so-soft hum of the engine, and the annoying buzz of locking on targets. Once again, I would 
 have forgiven this if you could hear the explosions of your missles, or even your machine guns. 
 But sadly, nope.
  
  Value:
  Like Gamespot stated, this game has all the trappings of a budget title, except the most important 
 thing: the price. at 60 dollars, this is hardly worth your hard-earned cash.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: 
  Like I said, This game had a lot of potential for sucess and overall fun factor, 
 so I will rate this slightly higher as a saving grace. 
  
  Overall, this game is boring, tedious, and not fun. Unless you are a hardcore flyboy and have nothing 
 better to do, then rent it. but please, dont buy it. Just dont. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob123456789876
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 10, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  If you find yourself frustrated by blackouts, redouts, stalls, tricky landings, and missles that 
 can't be evaded, then OverG will certainly frustrate you. There are two reasons why OverG has been 
 grossly underrated:
  
  Firstly, after reading several negative reviews, it appears that the general consensus is 'actual 
 flight simulators are not as much fun as good-ole starfighter for the gamecube.' Yes, if you appreciate 
 two-stick twirrling shoot-em-up games where one can tap the 'fire' key with reckless abandon, then 
 this game is certainly not for you. Pick up Ace-Combat 5, or perhaps Galaga, if you would like 
 to enjoy one of these games. Although this game may not appeal to the bulk of our population, one 
 should review it objectively, with its primary goal of flight simulation in mind.
  
  If your major complaint was:
  
  "All I did was: take off, find my target, fire my missles, 
 evade theirs, and return home"
  
  then you clearly shouldn't be playing fighter simulation games.
  
  Secondly, I thoroughly agree 
 that this game had ridiculously cheesy and downright stupid voice acting. I found myself rolling 
 my eyes at the ridiculous attempts at drama. It's obvious that the game designers did not take 
 these seriously, and neither should we. In all seriousness, if a person's major complaint is 'this 
 flight simulation would be great if it had better voice acting" - then that person should not be 
 playing fighter games.
  
  In short, take it for what it is. If you want a easy/catchy shoot-em-up game, do not play OverG, 
 because it's not for you. If you want a great Role-playing tear-jerking story, pick up Final Fantasy 
 VII, and stop underrating OverG: a high-end graphic Fighter Simulation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essence_69
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 10, 2006 1:34 am PT
Review:  The game isn't bad at all, yeah the comicbook cut outs reminded me of early Metal Gear Solid which 
 was weird cus i thought this was a Next-Gen game. The A. I. I believe needed some work. But overall 
 the game is fun to play and is more realistic than most airplane sims. Comeon in Ace Combat you 
 have like 100 bad guys to fight in one stage, but in real life our Airboys fight very few enemys 
 and there usually pretty far from there target when they destroy it. I like Ace Combat but its 
 more of a Arcade style Flight Sim while this a more of a realistic kind of Flight Sim. So in all 
 in all a nice game for the collection. I believe the Reviewer had some good points an it didn't 
 deserve 5.9, but Hell i got it for 40 bucks, and not bad for 40 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isles4life11
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jul 9, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  i was expecting this game to be like Ace Combat only more realistic. turns out to be like US Navy 
 Fighters 97 for the PC. the flight controls are horrible, i feel like im driving an 18 wheeler 
 rather than flying at F-14. u cant even do a split S without having about 10000 feet of altitude 
 to play with. its absolutely lame. every single missile you shoot hits its target. once an enemy 
 fires a missile at you, you may as well just quit cause you cant dodge it or throw it off no matter 
 how much chaff and flares you drop. the missions last at most 3-4 minutes. u start a mission and 
 your already lined up with your target so all you do is select target, fire missile, watch explosion, 
 hear stupid comments like "yeah you got em", and repeat. the only plus in this game is the aircraft 
 models. they look very good. the only thing this game will do for you is collect dust, so dont 
 even bother wasting the money. im just gonna stick with ace combat for PS2... they got it right 
 and know what theyre doing with combat flight games. if i wanna play a "sim" fighter game ill play 
 Janes F/A-18... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitey3221
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 9, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  Wow, trailer got me all excited. Realistic planes taking off and landing. Song reminds me of Top 
 Gun. How did it all go to poo? Okay so first of all it looks good in motion and in cutscenes which 
 are brief and pointless. The gameplay is fun at first but gets repetitive very quickly... also you 
 realize after the first two missions that you really don't seem to be going all that fast. Even 
 if you're going around 300 knots very close to the ground you don't move past things all that fast. 
 Which is obviously unreal. The sound of planes are fine it's just that the "mission briefings" 
 had an annoying commander guy and a few of the audio clips repeated themselves in all of the missions 
 that I did. I don't play many flight sims but I can pretty much guarantee that this is nowhere 
 near the top. I'm glad I rented this one before I thought about buying it. I would have been pretty 
 angry had I spent 60 bucks on this. Only multiplayer is on xbox live which I didn't take the time 
 to check out, but missing local multiplayer brings my tilt way down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceofblitz
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jul 8, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I'm a fan of flight games, especially the ones that are realistic yet not textbook simulation, 
 think Ace Combat. Which is what i was striving to compare this game to when i first heard of it.
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The default controls have been really annoying since the beginning of the game. At first, you would 
 think there is some sort of tutorial or boot camp when you first play, there is but sadly, you 
 have to figure most of it out on yourself. The training stage just taught you how to take off and 
 land your aircraft and it was very vague. Another problem i saw was that the missions were too 
 short and straightforward, and dogfights (if you didn't shoot them from across the country) are 
 not as fun as many other flight combat games out there (a. k. a the jet fighters move like flying 
 chicken) . This game had so much potential in gameplay.
  
  Graphics
  
  What's the use of a next-generation console and an HD-TV when all the graphics in the game look 
 like this? Seriously the biggest disappointment in the game is the graphics that make this game 
 feel like it never belonged to next-gen. the explosions in the game were horrible, it almost looked 
 2D.
  
  Sound
  
  Not much of a soundtrack, abit too repetitive, thank god for custom soundtracks. Sound effects 
 from the game got on my nerves, a beeping alarm when the enemy is 10 kilometers away from me got 
 me to panic at first, then i realized thats the lock on sound (You're locking on to a plane that 
 far away which has a green square arround it? what are you metal gear rex?)
  
  Value
  
  for 60 bucks? definitely a NO might aswell collect some gamerpoints from this game if it cost 20 
 bucks or if its too late cuz you bought it.
  
  Reviewers Tilt
  
  As much as i love this genre, I was really disappointed in this game, I still hope for a game to 
 cover up this mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CNoteSpencer
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 8, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Over G Fighters is exactly what one can expect from a console flight sim. Minimal control over 
 your aircraft and not enough action to actually be entertaining. Not an actual sim, not an arcade 
 style shooter, but somewhere in the middle. Let us compile a list of this games most aggravating 
 faults:
  All the jets handle as if the landing gear are perpetually lowered into a prehistoric tar-pit. 
 I suppose the designers wanted to accurately depict the turning radius of an F-15 at near supersonic 
 speeds. Fascinating, but I tire of having to spend three minutes to bring my fighter back around 
 for another fantastically dull pass at the enemy ground forces.
  Lack of action. The most effective way to do battle is to launch a barrage of radar guided missiles 
 from extreme range. Little danger to yourself, as the enemy planes are apparently piloted by blind 
 aardvarks. They don't shoot back much. When they DO shoot back though, atempting to evade their 
 missles is nearly impossible. One second your HUD flashes red. The next you are treated to a lackluster 
 visual of your aircraft exploding. Chaff? Flares? What? I think they deploy on their own, but since 
 I wouldn't know when to use them anyway that is probably for the best.
  No fun whatsoever. I was looking forward to piloting my A-10 low in over the treetops before laying 
 depleted uranium waste to all oposing forces... Unfortunatly the cannon on the Warthog apparently 
 shoots hotdogs. Or perhaps the enemy tanks are armored with somthing that sheds the imfamous 30mm 
 projectiles like the rain on my Jetta's windshield. Needless to say, anything but missles are not 
 worth shooting. And shoot you will. Thank goodness all the planes regenerate ammunition like something 
 out of a japanimation sci-fi. Otherwise there wouldn't be enough firepower to kill the vastly numericly 
 superior enemy forces. It's not like your wingman is capable of anything other than canned comments 
 on how badly he has been shot up and how much help he needs right away. Too bad you can't shoot 
 the bugger down, THAT might actually be entertaining.
  Last but not least, the graphics of this game belong on a normal XBox, not a 360. The most interesting 
 visual effect the player experiences is the glowing green words "shoot" that apears over an enemy 
 plane when your missle locks on. Just to remind you why you are out there, in case you were thinking 
 of sending him a fruit basket instead.
  Pass on this game, your money will be better spent on... Well.... Anything... Go buy 50 dollars 
 worth of whoppers from BK....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentkillah
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 8, 2006 2:29 am PT
Review:  Man, this game could have been 10x better and easlily the top game on XBL till GoW would be released. 
 A few things, the graphics could take a huge bump into the next generation era, as much as I love 
 this game, there is still greatly needed improvement in that section. Also, multiplayer bugs need 
 to be patched ASAP if it is possible. Games frezzing and all that mumbo jumbo. Finally, another 
 hit at multiplayer would be the score system and the 'non-existent' Clan/Squade/whatever option. 
 Man, a group of 10+ Wingment in a Clan would be awesome. Much needed room for improvement, but 
 still a solid game if you like planes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gojaks06
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jul 7, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Just to plainly say it, this game sucked. I stopped playing after just 5 minutes. Look, this games 
 has great grafics while you are in the air, but then once you get close to the ground, they start 
 to suck & I know its an air game, but still they should have made this game's grafics good all 
 around.
  
  As for gameplay its alright. You can pick up the controller & get right into the game (well after 
 alittle practice) but still you're like going 500 miles per hour & it looks & feels like you are 
 going 2 miles. I'm just saying alittle more realistic physics & this game would vhave a good gameplay 
 cradentals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dumnorix
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 7, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Over G fighters reminds of PC games like F-15 Strike Eagle III, moderately realistic and still 
 actually fun to play. The graphics don't quite match the ones found in the more recent Ace Combat 
 Games, but the planes themselves look nearly as good, and seem much more realistic than the ones 
 in Ace Combat. The missions are also a lot more realistic. You do not have a nearly limitless amount 
 of missiles to take out endless hordes of enemy planes along with dozens of land targets, and fuel 
 consumption seems to be modelled more accurately than in Ace. If you like a more arcade like feel 
 to your games, or massive shoot 'em ups, stick with the Ace Combat series, if you're looking for 
 something a bit more realistic, Over G is for you. Over G Fighters is the closest thing to a flight 
 simulator you'll get without a high powered pc, and unlike the more recent pc flight sims, it's 
 actually fun. 
  But I can't let the review end without mentioning the commander. He looks like he stepped out of 
 a poorly drawn comic book, right down to the fact that his movement is limited to a few comic style 
 panels. I don't know what they were thinking when the decided to include him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jul 7, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  this is a very bad start for 360 to add a flight sim game. if they would just add one ace combat 
 game they would be golden. this is a horrible game. the controls are to stiff making it hard to 
 manuvuer your plane and you cannot not dodge missles. the story line is extremely poor with a animated 
 cast that copys front mission. the missions are some what easy but with the controls of the plane 
 being poor theres no excitment to it. there is so much they could have done starting with the controls. 
 if i had one wish it would be for the ace combat series to come to 360. this would not only bring 
 more sony fans over but i would have a decent flying game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShyter
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jul 7, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  I was pretty excited that this game was releasing and purchased it the day it came out. I first 
 put in the Xbox360 and played it for about 2 hours. I knew right away that I was very disappointed 
 with the way the game was developed. I also purchased Blazing Angels when that first released and 
 though that game was very basic and a "no brainer" type of game. I gave Over G Fighters a few days 
 before writing this but COME ON TAITO CORPORATION..... ever hear of the word "Challenging"???? 
 
  
  The good part about the game is the graphix. But then again, almost all of the 360's games have 
 excellent graphix! The controls are not tough but take a good amount of time to get acustom to. 
 All in all, I can go on about the dislikes of the game and how bad it was developed. Bottom line 
 is DO NOT waiste your money like myself and many others already have. Not worth the $60.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmhawk
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 6, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  So i had Gamefly send me the game. I was so excited. The game looked like it was going to be an 
 awesome game. I put it in and right away I can tell that it didn't look that great. Not to say 
 anything bad about Japan, but it looked like a Japanese game converted to American. I start playing 
 the game and the missions were really short and too too simple. So i start over in expert and it 
 got a little bit better. The game just didn't live up to what I thought it was going to be. The 
 graphics were alright. The story line was pretty cheasy. I played the first few continents and 
 i just wasn't having any fun. So after a few days i sent the game back off to Gamefly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeamMM3_Xbox
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  When I first hear about this game I was expecting it to be a great flight simulator for consoles 
 but I was wrong. I am a huge Microsoft Flight Simulator fan, both combat and non-combat, but this 
 game just isn't very good. I only got through a couple missions but the missions I did were very 
 short, kill 5-10 planes then your done. All it seems like you do is aim (doesnt need to be near 
 an enemy) then fire and you kill the person. The graphics I thought were not that great considering 
 it was on the Xbox 360. I guess I am a non-combat flight sim person more than a combat flight simulator 
 but I expected to still like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I cannot imagine what possessed Taito to release this game for the 360, since an abacus worked 
 by an infant could have produced better results. I know that some may argue that firing on enemy 
 targets at 20+ miles is in fact an accurate simulation of what a pilot in say, an F22 might expect, 
 IT IS NOT FUN TO DO. This is a game after all, and not airforce training. 
  
  I am struck first, as I recall my time with this game, by the pity I felt for my friend who bought 
 it. I know that games like this are bound to crop up when a system is so new, but really, given 
 the power under the hood of the 360, this one is almost absurd. Especially when you look at the 
 box and realize that UBISOFT is publishing it! Good god. 
  
  Gamespot got a hole in one when they said that the planes feel "sluggish". I know that people argue 
 that game like Ace Combat have conditioned people to expect silly levels of performance from more 
 sim oriented games, but Over G doesn't even come CLOSE. There is poor sense of speed, and no sense 
 of... G's. If this is what flying F-15s amounts to, I don't know why pilots need a pressure suit, 
 or a bladder bag. 
  
  Over G... it's like flying a Studebaker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  This game takes the mickey for everything a jet sim (let alone a flight sim) should stand for. 
 Over G Fighters is currently the lowest rated Xbox 360 game (except for X-Men: The Official Game) 
 on Gamespot with an attrocious 5.9! Lower than Final Fantasy XI Online! Over G Fighters is underwhelming 
 graphically, realistically and virtually, the controls are no help to your situation what so ever, 
 the garphics are horrible on the scenery and the voice acting is worse than Perfect Dark Zero.
 
  Aubergine Fighters would be much better than this sleazy crap! No depth of story missions at all, 
 slow and sluggish jets make the game even more hopeless and dogfights are so unimpressive, you 
 might as well get two dogs, prod them with sticks and watch them fight.
  This game should have been great, to me ... its not even good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikB0869
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 6, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that many of the reviews I have read for Over G Fighters are about right, although 
 I cant say that I agree with Gamespots score in this case. The game does have flaws, and it is 
 not for everyone, BUT, if you like flight simulators and combat simulators, and if you liked the 
 Ace Combat series, then you should definitely give this game a try. There are enough similarities 
 with that game, plus the advent of online play (which Ace Combat does not have) , which make this 
 game worth a rental at the very least. Over G might also be a necessary purchase for the 360/PC 
 owner who loves games like Battlefield 2 and other flight sim/combat sim games. 
  
  Graphics, contrary to what some reviewers think, are actually quite good in most cases, although 
 I, too, was not happy with how ground targets and landscape textures looked below 1,000 feet. Apart 
 from that, planes, clouds, and ground detail (from altitude) are very good, and the horizon stretches 
 for an extremely long distance (a nice step-up from PS2-style graphics) . Also of interesting graphical 
 note, not only does the HUD provide you with most of the information that you need at any time, 
 but as a cool diversion you can also check out all the working gauges in the cockpit, which respond 
 to whatever you are doing with the plane. 
  
  Audio is appropriate for the planes you are in, especially in the cockpit view. It may not offer 
 a lot of Wow!-factor, but the sounds are quite accurate, and they add to the immersive feeling 
 that a simulator is supposed to provide. If you have ever seen and heard cockpit video from inside 
 a real jet fighter, you will know what I am talking about. 
  
  Enemy A. I. is decent at times, and it can give you a good run for the money, especially when you 
 are in a big furball of a dogfight (i. e. when there are lots of bogeys and bandits) . Your wingman 
 A. I. is, unfortunately, about as useful as most other flight games to date, which is to say that 
 its pretty dense. It would be nice in the future to see developers make real use of those processors 
 in the 360, and give us something that is really like having another person there with you. In 
 the meantime, I suggest that you go online and try your hand against real human opponents. Do be 
 careful, though, because this game has been out in Japan for quite some time now, which means that 
 there are several aces out there already. 
  
  On the Beginner setting, most of the missions are admittedly not all that difficult, although 
 it would be incorrect to say that the enemy cant dodge your missiles  they most certainly can, 
 and do! The cockpit view is totally functional when looking for those enemies, too, and no, it 
 does not cut off too much of the screen to be of any use. If someone thinks that while playing 
 Over G, then he/she must not have played Ace Combat, either. When in cockpit view, use the right 
 stick to move the camera (i. e. your head) so you can see whats going on. Gee, its just like 
 being in a real plane. Imagine that! I never have problems being able to see the enemy, and if 
 I cant see them straight ahead, I move the camera and/or the plane to look around, just as a real 
 pilot would. Frankly, I found it easier to use the cockpit view effectively in Over G much more 
 so than in Ace Combat, but thats just my opinion.
  
  What several reviewers are missing is that Over G is supposed to be more of a simulator, and not 
 an arcade-style shoot-em-up like Ace Combat, or worse, Crimson Skies. Similar to Ace Combat, however, 
 is the fact that you will often be taking out enemies from a distance, and unfortunately, when 
 you get tagged by the enemy, it can also be from a distance, so learning how to use chaff, flares, 
 and evasion maneuvers is important. (That buzzing noise in your ear and flashing red HUD isnt 
 your alarm clock, buddy, its a missile launch warning!!!)
  
  As for the sluggishness with the planes, again I will remind you that this is a simulator, so dont 
 expect the same plane movement as in some other air combat games. If youve ever been in a plane, 
 you never feel like you are going very fast (apart from takeoffs and landings) , because you dont 
 have any reference points at altitude. You dont here, either, hence the lack of a distinct feeling 
 of speed. As for the plane not being able to maneuver well, since this is not an arcade-style flyer, 
 you have to actually use physics to your advantage. In other words, if you have less than 100 knots 
 of airspeed, and you couple that with barely 100 feet of altitude and an attempted 3+ G turn banked 
 over on your side, then that equals a CRASH!!! You will drop out of the sky like a stone, plain 
 and simple. Instead, hit the afterburners, go into a slight dive (from altitude, dummy) , then crank 
 the plane on its side while pulling the stick back, and you will find yourself starting to black 
 out from the Gs you're pulling. You may even exceed the G-limit for the plane you are in. (The 
 warning, by the way, is announced by the planes computer as Over G! Over G! and I think thats 
 where the games name comes from, by gosh!) 
  
  Is this game an 8? No. But I would say that it ranks higher than the 5.9 that Gamespot gave it, 
 even if it is probably only about 6.8 to just about 7-ish. What brings the game down are the cheesy 
 menus and presentation, as well as the bad music. (Oh my gosh, Xbox 360 games support user-customizable 
 soundtracks. Did you know that? You can also just turn the music off, should you so desire.) And 
 in my opinion, the replays could really benefit from more camera angles and camera control (similar 
 to PGR3) , as well as the ability to toggle between aircraft (both friendly and enemy) , so you can 
 learn from your mistakes. As far as I am concerned, the replays are the most important thing to 
 fix, since in a game like this, you can use it as a learning tool and not just for entertainment. 
 Although the soundtrack and presentation can be annoying, I think they are last things you would 
 care about with any game. I mean, what else? You didnt like the box art? Well thats a reason 
 not to try the game, isnt it? 
  
  People who are most apt to like Over G are plane buffs, flight simulator fans, and people who like 
 air combat games such as Ace Combat. If you like realistic jet air combat, then you should definitely 
 check out this game. I can happily say that this game does have challenge, and for once, I can 
 have air combat without the ridiculous, deathstar-like super-weapons that, in my mind, plague the 
 Ace Combat series and games like it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deltorro2
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 7, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  First off, it needs to be said that this game is not like any other on the consoles. It is not 
 meant to be an over the top, 80 missile, 45 bomb type of arcade shooter. This uses semi realistic 
 flight performance profiles and actual load outs. Enough of the disclaimer, lets get to the review.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  I have chosen this is the leading subject since it is the first thing people see, and also since 
 it is the first of its kind on a next gen console. And its a shame. The graphics are not bad, 
 just not completely on par with the next gen games that are out there. Water looks nice, atmospheric 
 ambiance is well done, and aircraft models look great, as do the enemy ground and sea units. But 
 on the other hand, unless you are above 1000 feet, the ground texturing looks sub par. However, 
 there are a TON of trees to fly over when at low altitude. The explosion effects when viewed closely 
 are also not very impressive, and also not a good representation of real world missile hits. In 
 the game, an aircraft is vaporized in a cloud of smoke with a few small pieces falling down. Real 
 world missile hits. well. you can YouTube some videos to see that. 
  
  Cockpits can also fall a bit in the graphics department. Each cockpit of every aircraft was very 
 well done, and pretty accurate to boot. They are not just filled with non sense, non functional 
 gauges to fill space. They are fantastic recreations of the actual cockpits in each aircraft. All 
 with moving gauges, dials, and the like. 
  
  Missile launches from aircraft/ships/SAM are also well done. Not a lot of arcadey flashy smoke.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Welp, it has gameplay. Whether its good or bad depends on how you approach it. The game uses a 
 branched mission system. IE you choose a mission from several available. The ones that you are 
 able to select after that is based on your choice. This can at times be frustrating since finishing 
 certain missions unlocks aircraft for flight not only in single player, but multiplayer as well. 
 So if you manage to select all the wrong missions, you can clear a campaign area with out unlocking 
 any aircraft. There is no way to go back either without playing through the game again. 
  
  Missions can vary from fun, to short, to pulling your hair out frustration. When choosing the mission 
 on the campaign map, you are first shown what type of mission it is. These can be, SEAD, Air Intercept, 
 HAVCAP escort, Anti-Surface and on and on. Each area of the campaign contains sub missions that 
 branch depending on which one is selected, and also contains mandatory tactical missions that are 
 required to fly to move onto the next area. The sub missions may take anywhere from 5-10 minutes 
 to complete, while the main tactical missions can take a bit longer and require landing to re-fuel 
 and re-arm depending on accuracy of your weapons and hostiles.
  
  There is also an arena for unrestricted combat. This map is quite massive and filled with targets 
 to engage. You are given two bases to land at to re-fuel, re-arm, and save your progress, as well 
 as a carrier if you are flying Navy. Bosses and Big Bosses will also appear and can prove to be 
 worthy adversaries. Some of the larger bosses, when defeated in the arena will open another challenge 
 for a dogfight to be awarded that specific aircraft upon victory.
  
  Another single player mode involves a lightweight mission builder where you can select what aircraft 
 you want to dogfight with and how many. Or you can chose ground targets if you want to warm up 
 on some mud moving.
  
  As the game progresses, you pilot and wingmen will gain points towards attributes. Attributes include 
 G-resist, Sight distance, hit probability, mental, evasion. 
  
  Other things that show attention to detail are the flameouts when flying through the debris of 
 the hostile you shot down right in front of your nose. This requires throttling down, diving to 
 put air in the engine and throttling up again to re-light the engines.
  
  Flying low altitude across the water creates a wake behind the aircraft from the moving air among 
 other things.
  
  Sound:
  
  Radio chatter: Bad. Almost to the point of irritating. Especially when you are flying the same 
 mission for the 4th time trying to complete it.
  
  Explosions: Excellent. Sounds pretty true to real, and depending on the distance, you will see 
 the boom before you here it. Very well implemented. 
  
  Weapons: The dull humm of the cannons is true to life. Missile launch effects are not over exaggerated. 
 
  
  Engines: The engine sounds are true to the aircraft engines. From the distinct sound of the A-10s 
 to the well done light up of the after burners.
  
  One thing that would have been nice is a way to silence certain warnings such as the low altitude 
 call from **** Betty in the F-16 and the non stop whine of being locked on. The lowest point in 
 the sound is most defiantly the radio chatter, but thankfully, this can be turned off in the options 
 menu.
  
  Online:
  
  The online community is made of mature people. There are different modes of online play. Arena 
 is where 4 teams of 2 each have their own base. Points are scored as each team bombs, missiles, 
 and guns the other teams carried battle group and land base and of course, for shooting down the 
 opponents. 
  
  There is also an online mode strictly for dog fighting if thats your fancy.
  
  Wish I had 
 more time to write, there is really a lot in this game. I am sure I have forgot about things, but 
 this should give a quick jist of what OVER G is about. Not the perfect flight game, but the best 
 one of its kind. But it needs to be understood that this is not an Ace Combat arcade style shooter. 
 If thats what your looking for, then try Ace Combat. If you are looking for the most realistic 
 flight game on a console, then this is the one to go with.
  
  This game almost needs two scores. So here they are:
  
  If you are looking for an Ace Combat 
 game, This will probably score a 5.
  
  If you are looking for a more realistic game, then I would give it a 7.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: steveobd
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  i admit, i'm coming at this from the tilt of an Ace Combat fan, and from that perspective, this 
 game just doesn't have it. it doesn't have a compelling story, and the terrain and models don't 
 look that great either. most of all, there's no real feeling of speed or g-force to make this seem 
 exciting. maybe fighter aircraft these days are so mechanized that there really isn't much to flying 
 them. if that's the case, this is a good sim.
  
  there should be a lot of these for sale used that have barely been played, so don't buy a new one.
 
  
  it's no surprise there wasn't a marketplace demo for this one. it certainly would have kept me 
 away from buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbgarlin
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Could have been good, if only the planes could turn well. Its a shame, the game has beautiful plane 
 models and a great selection. Unfortunately, the game is missing focus. There is absolutely no 
 feeling of motion. The planes turn very slowly, the friendly ai is non-existent, it places the 
 enemies directly in front of you. Missions can be accomplished in as little as 30 seconds. Online 
 is slightly more engaging then single player. Overall, if you love flying sims it might be worth 
 renting at the cheapest store you can find, otherwise, avoid it. I was really looking forward to 
 it as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drlongjon32
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 5, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is GGreat!!! It takes a couple hours to really get the hang of what you are doing, you 
 must of course play in "Real" mode to understand the true dynamics and strategic variances of this 
 under reported and under rated game. Give it some time to get used to, it is definately worth it. 
 Once you "Get It" it will be hard to put down. If you are willing to spend the time becoming a 
 good pilot, you will be rewarded with exhilerating online matches. If you don't have xbox live, 
 it won't really be worth buying though.
  Do not miss out on this genre defining game that will surely be followed up on by many aerial fighters 
 to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelljon
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 5, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  Over G Fighters is a great game. The plane models look fantastic, the controls are great, and the 
 sound is well done. Sure, the voice overs during the pre-mission briefings could be better, but 
 thankfully they are only a insignificant part of the game. Dogfighting is cool and can be challenging 
 when you try to avoid a missle coming at 12 o'clock (make sure you have a GOOD jet!) . Using the 
 cannon takes a lot of skill, so those missles come in real handy. Some gripes: the graphics can 
 look bland at times for distant objects and scenery; some missions are VERY short (like shooting 
 down 2 bogeys..... and that's it!!!) . It would be great to fly from one mission to the next, having 
 to conserve ammo........... or maybe land at another base to refuel and rearm, to take on the next 
 mission. I guess that's something to look forward to for the sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denaz
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 5, 2006 1:51 am PT
Review:  Well i bought this game with dogfighting in my mind. Thinking that they finally released another 
 Ace Combat... but much to my dispair. 
  
  I mean overall its not too bad a game, the missions can get a bit repetative and at time really 
 quite boring. But remember this aint Ace combat, so its not meant to be about the dog fights, but 
 more on flight control and handling.
  Must say that i was really quite disapointed in the graphics, i mean the planes looked awesome, 
 but the landscape was appaulling. From a flat ocean with not a ripple in site, to the perfectly 
 flat desert, or the square rocks on the sides of cliffs. 
  Really all in all this could have been a much better game, and leaves a lot of room for improvment. 
 However i am still playing, so it isn't all that bad.
  Would recommend renting, rather then buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoninEMS
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  I tried very hard to hate this game. The $65CDN price tag raises expectations of a highly polished 
 game. This was not it. A rough interface and poorly translated instructions made for a poor first 
 impresssion. As i learned the game, I steadily grew more addicted. The lacklustre campaigns became 
 more challenging forcing me to consider the diverse arsenal at my disposal.
  
  The graphics are ok, but the low res textures do not scream next generation gaming. I also expect 
 the ground textures to mip up so I have a better visual idea of my altitude when attempting low 
 altitude maneuvers.
  
  Once I went online i realized I was hooked the Arena multiplayer sessions are quite enjoyable but 
 the lobby system is grossly underdeveloped. You cannot have a rematch as you are kicked back to 
 the mode select screen after each match.
  
  If people keep playing this online it will be great game. Undoubtedly the online population will 
 diminish rapidly. A great buy when it goes on sale or if you can find it used. But for 70 bux after 
 tax, ... meh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 6, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  Thank god they finally got something close to a real flight sim! That is one of my biggest laments 
 about switching to consoles and getting out of the PC upgrade race a few years back..... no good 
 flight sims.
  
  Over G is not a great flight sim. It is still a console game. That said, there are many things 
 about it that I really like. The graphics are really good, they do look very real. The physics 
 of both the planes and the missiles is pretty good too. Very accurate. Trust me on this! 
  
  There are a lot of people out there who have been slamming this game because it is unrealistic 
 and too easy. You don't have a clue what you're talking about. Try setting this game to expert 
 to start. It kicks your ass a lot.... maybe too much at times... okay, my ass was handed to me. On 
 expert, the levels are not equal, an easy can kick your butt. For those that say it is not and 
 accurate sim, take the flight controls off of "arcade". They work well for a console.
  
  Sounds in the game are good, but the music is really lame. I mean come on, in this day and age 
 you couldn't do better?
  
  Another item that annoys me are the cut scenes and briefings. What is this the SNES? Get real!
 
  
  This is a good game that will eat up a lot of time. If you don't know if it's for you, rent first, 
 but play for more than 20 minutes before drawing conclusions.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReU_GanJa
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 4, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is very in depth with realism (simulation) , if you're an ace combat fan you probably 
 will not enjoy this game. 
  
  This game is realistic other then the sense of speed. The take off is easy however landing is a 
 bit trickier but fun.
  It's very fun online for a challenge, unfortuntley the singleplayer is not top notch alot of the 
 missions are very similar,
  don't worry they get harder later on. There are also black outs and red outs when you go up or 
 down too fast, it greatly reduces you're vision.
  
  The graphics are not AMAZING but they are good the planes look great the terrain in some areas 
 lacks the explosions are pretty good but not enough debris.
  
  The sound also lacks, the jets don't sound as powerful as you'd think and when you launch a missile 
 it makes a clunking sort of sound, the music is ok
  however I just play my own music anyways.
  
  I suggest you buy or rent this game if you dig 
 flight combat sims.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vhuynh67
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 4, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe that someone would actually made this game for the 360. After looking at the artful 
 phtorealistic graphic in Oblivion, this game made me cringe when I look at the water and building 
 model. As to simulation, the game is lighter than air at best. The fun of an arcade style found 
 in Blazing Angels and Crimson Skies was taken over by an simplistic simulation of basic configuration. 
 In fact, F22 Raptor Sim on the PC back in the mid 90s had better weapon loadout and choice than 
 Over G Fighters. This game will be blown over as fast as the fighters themselves. I'm going back 
 to Battlezone for the PC developed in the 1999. Graphic and story line are better than this overlord 
 of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShiftyInc
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 4, 2006 3:32 am PT
Review:  Over G Fighters is by my guess the best flight sim ever to hit the market.
  It's a very big game, over 75 missions 38 jet's and online play.
  The graphics are pretty good 
 for a flight sim.
  when you fly 10.000 meters high you can really see an amazing view.
  The planes all fly really good, interaction with your wingman is good.
  multiplay is pretty nice 
 and is split in two mode's.
  one where you can go 2 teams against eachother, the other where can make 4 themes and defend your 
 base.
  
  So two wrap this up. if you like flight sims than this is for you, if you never played one this 
 is for you, if you dont like it dont buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: law17lm
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 4, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  Great visuals, but lack of fighting quickly rears its ugly head. I was looking forward to a great 
 sim that could throw more at me than this. Shoot a missle here, drop a bomb here... if you get bored 
 enough, pull in close and shoot your guns (your nose cannon isnt even required to use at all) . 
 There just isnt enough going on here to keep my attention for a full hour and im a HEAVY gamer. 
 Do yourself a favor and DONT buy this game. Rent it, borrow it from a friend, hell have someone 
 ELSE buy it. just dont wast your money on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loogs
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 3, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  this game is basically an xbox game running on the 360. it doesnt take advantage of the power of 
 this great machine. the graphics are very bland. for a game that doesnt really require too much 
 graphically it fails to deliver any thing that would make you say wow. the cockpit of every plane 
 should look 100% lifelike. the buildings and aircraft carriers are boring to look at.
  
  the sense of speed has to be way off. i mean ive never flown a fighter plane but i would assume 
 that if youre in one and you fly by a building that its gonna be almost blinding fast. not in this 
 game.
  
  the gameplay is very unbalanced. some of the missions can take 30 seconds. other are almost impossible.
 
  
  this one really bugged the hell outta me. they dont teach you how to play the game. they just expect 
 you to know how to fire missles and bombs and what the differences are between them. its obsurd. 
 you will lose your mind trying to figure out how to bomb stuff on the ground. reading an owners 
 manual in the year 2006 is plain bs.
  
  the sound effect are ok
  
  the replays are stupid
  
  some of the planes are cool
  
  the voiceacting and characters 
 are dumb as hell
  
  but with all that said this game is somewhat fun to play. i cant explain it maybe its just me cause 
 i have such a fear of flying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanefelix
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 3, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Basically gameplay is really straighforward. But this aint your average Ace Combat game. 
 As you see, this is more of a flight sim. Personally i find this bewteen a arcade sim, and a flight 
 sim so it fits my style just right. The gameplay could be based on gamer's opinion. So if you're 
 no flight sim fan, and you're unsure of this game, i recommend renting first then purchase.
  
  Graphics: Mixed bag. Basically this game was devoloped for the PS2 before, so the engine used 
 here is similar. If you; re playing on a SDTV, i dont believe that the graphics of the 360 is used 
 much. But personally i own an HDTV, and i really enjoy the graphics. People say they dont like 
 the environment, but i think its all right. 
  
  Sound: Generally, the sound is fairly good. There are the rock music in bewteen cut-scenes and 
 replays, but there isnt any music when you're actually playing. I just think this makes the game 
 more realistic, and if you've ever been on a real plane before, then you would reconize that kind 
 of sound which brings me many, many memories (haha)
  
  Overall: Basically, this game is based on player opinion. I cannot recommend this game for anyone, 
 and not even for people that enjoyed these kind of games because this is different. What i would 
 prefer is renting, then purchasing. The multiplayer is there, but i havent played it out that much, 
 but all i can say is that the multiplayer is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nascar1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 3, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  i usually don't write a game review but considering the surprisingly low scores this game is receiving??? 
 i thought i'd say a few good words to even things out some in hopes for OverG 2 in the future !
 
  
  i'll admit my very 1st impressions of this game was kinda mixed; the sense of speed just didn't 
 feel right in the air from the cockpit view and the 1st few missions where too easy & short, especially 
 if you just take out the main targets right away... but as you progress through the game the missions 
 aren't soo easy or short and the gameplay is very intense and outright complicated !
  
  i enjoyed the graphics from the start... the planes are photo-realistic in HD (very nice) and they 
 get better and faster as you progress & unlock other planes, each with its own special function 
 like: dogfight, deploy/retract hook, super search, carpet bombing mode, stealth mode & hover ! 
 
  
  with online play and the ability to customize the offline gameplay to your liking... including taxiing, 
 take-offs & landings on beautiful landstrip runways and or an aircraft carrier... also the option 
 to save replays... what more can one ask for in a video game on a console?
  
  i highly recommend this game as a very satifactory console flight simulation... get it / keep it 
 and get use to it... it's a GREAT GAME !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kr_blade
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, people must understand that this is a sim. At least as close to a sim as you 
 can get on a console. Arcade style gameplay found in Ace Combat, Crimson Skies, and Blazing Angels 
 will not be found here. If you're willing to take a shot at something more realistic then Over 
 G may just fit the bill.
  
  Physics DO play a part in this game. Planes will bleed off speed rapidly and stall if you're not 
 careful. Weapon load-outs and fuel capacity affect how the aircraft handles, as well as altitude 
 and airspeed. Missiles seem to be too accurate at times, but guns kills are a rarity. As in real 
 life leaving your attack radar on all the time will get you spotted earlier and most likely killed 
 since your opponents can see you as well when it's active.
  
  The campaign story is weak, there's no denying that. The missions themselves do get progressively 
 more difficult and reward you with new aircraft, the choice of which depends on the mission path 
 you take through each area. What this means is that in order to obtain every plane you will have 
 to play through the campaign multiple times, in addition to completing certain conditions in Challenge 
 Mode .
  
  Multiplayer is decent but could certainly benefit from support for persistent clans/squadrons online. 
 Free-For-All, and Team based scenarios are available. While most combat online is BVR (beyond visual 
 range) there is still some strategy involved in making sure you are not the one going down in flames. 
 There is no real lobby feature of which to speak. Once a game completes you are booted back to 
 the game search.
  
  The graphics are a mixed bag. While the aircraft models look great, everything else is low-res. 
 This is probably due to the fact that this game was not created solely for the 360. Over G Fighters 
 is part of the Energy Air Force series in Japan which was released on the PS2. Assets from previous 
 PS2 games were probably used in the development of this title.
  
  Overall the game is decent. It offers a just enough sim elements to make it more realistic than 
 other titles in the genre, while still remaining accessible to players in general. The game is 
 certainly not without flaws but if you are a fan of flight sims and want to experience the added 
 depth that a sim offers give Over G Fighters a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixbear
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  Right off the bat... Graphics are sharp, clean and are some of the best on the 360... Sound is very 
 good at capturing thrusts and afterburners.... Menus are unique, lively and keeps your eye moving... Voice 
 talent and Calls to Action are weak to average. The interaction of 3D menus with animated characters 
 tells me that money ran out... and corners had to be cut... and it shows. (If you're going to design 
 a game, putting hardcore money and time, complete it and go all the way. ) Gameplay, initially 
 for the beginner is good, but action fades and lacks depth... if it gets off the ground at all.
 
  If they were to ask me... add the ability to control play with both joysticks, as controls are 
 sluggish, at best. If money ran out... find ways to make characters mysterious, so viewer cannot 
 see their faces, voicematch to animation or tell if it's animated or 3D. That's it for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbtrey3
Rating: 1.8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  The Good: Many planes to choose from. Only SIM flight game on the 360
  
  The Bad: Gameplay is horrible. Very slow paced. Multiplayer is worthless. Sound is repetitive and 
 annoying. Gameplay gets boring very quickly
  
  I purchased this game shortly after it's release with very high hopes. I enjoy flight simulators 
 and I was hoping that Ubisoft made some improvements since it's last disgrace of a game, Blazing 
 Angels. Unfortunately my hopes were quickly let down as I began to play Over G. The gameplay is 
 very slow. Simply turning your plane feels like a chore as your turns seem to take a lifetime to 
 complete. Often your jet will be locked on by another plane. When this happens you must steer your 
 plane out of harms way before the missle hits. This process seems very flawed as it seems you have 
 about a 50% chance of being hit regardless of how good you are or how many flares you unleash. 
 The missions are also very repetitive. You basically have 4 choices in missions. Dog fight, ground 
 fight, dog fight and ground fight, or the really special dog fight and ground fight while escorting 
 another plane. Finally I was hoping the multiplayer was going to save the game and make it all 
 worth it. Unfortunately again this element was actually worse than the single player game. I can 
 actually describe the multiplayer portion in a few short sentences. You basically start mid air 
 in a dogfight with other people. 80% of the time the enemy and yourself are already in missle firing 
 range. Immediately you and the enemy fire all of your missles and the lock to the target. Than 
 you spend about 20 sec, firing flares and avoiding the missles until someone dies and the other 
 becomes the winner. That's it! No take off and landing. No strategic flying. Just who can push 
 the A button fastest. 
  
  Overall, I wouldn't recommend this game to ANYONE. don't waste your money on such a crappy title. 
 Ubisoft needs to learn that games like this just don't cut it and hopefully with the lackluster 
 sales they'll get the picture and fire the crappy developers in charge of these pathetic flight 
 games. With such a great potential game idea they have truly let down the gaming public 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omahaguy_79
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a very long time to play a combat fighting game that was fun to play, ease 
 of controling, and had great graphics. There is no other game like this that even compares! Microsoft 
 Combat Flight Simulator or any other flying game has nothing on this game! Of course there are 
 a few things I could live without, like entering into a level and always replaying after you finish 
 a level. I recommend this to anyone that likes flying games. I haven't even played on Xbox live 
 yet and hope that it is even better. Watch out when I get to playing on Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuiltysparkHALO
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 2, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  
  
  The stunning realism of this game astounds me . As a hardcore PC flight simmer , i have to tell 
 you that i had many doubts about this game , i thought it was gonna be another arcade game like 
 Ace combat....... I was wrong , this game delivers in so many ways . 
  
  The main story modescenario" starts you out in a training mode , mainly taking off and landing 
 on runways and carriers and such . After these short tutorial missions the game takes you on a 
 HUGE campaign of conflict from air battles , to Midnight stealth bombing sorties (missions) . These 
 first missions are pretty easy , and require almost no effort to beat. 
  
  
  But as the campaign progresses , so will the difficulty of the missions! Some of these missions 
 will be so difficult , you will die 15 times before completing the mission , but that feeling of 
 beating the mission finally and unlocking that F22 raptor is GREAT! (And then owning the sky's on 
 xbox live with it!) 
  
  During the campaign you will unlock planes ( that come with 25 achievement points) for use in future 
 missions and over xbox live. This give good reason to keep playing the game , and also can help 
 you finish it! 
  
  Now for multiplayer , The shining feature of this game , all i can say is ........ WOW ! 
  
 
  The multiplayer in this game is what REALLY makes it stand above all others . There are 2 modes 
 , a versus mode where you just go plane versus plane ( i dont like as much ) , and Arena . 
  
  Arena mode is when a team has a base that they take off from and attack the other teams bases 
 . So if you are not the dogfighting type , you can climb into that A -10 and bomb the hell out 
 of the other teams base while your teammate defends you from the other teams fighters. You will 
 have to play this mode to see how amazing it really is...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyleMcintosh
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 2, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay in the game, for the most part, is just very fun. It is the most realistic flight 
 games out on Xbox, Gamcube and PS2. Some people may be turned of by the fact that the game is not 
 very arcady. Some of the missions are short, but there is no lack of fun.
  The graphics are not as good as i expected but are not bad. For the most part the plane animations 
 are very well done but bad ground and water textures really take away from the grpahical experience.
 
  The sound is below average for a game, not much more to put to it.
  Overall the game is very fun but not for all people. Rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayward_
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 2, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Jets, sky, clouds look ok but when you fly low the ground reminds me of flight sims from the 90s. 
 Developers didn't put much effort into the details. Wingmen are only good for yelling at you over 
 the radio. There's alot of useless chatter and subtitles that annoy you throughout the missions. 
 Nothing meaningful scripted. It's like they just threw in lines for filler.
  
  Xbox Live multi-play is trash as well. All it takes is for an F-14 loaded out with Phoenixs and 
 the round is done in 10 seconds. Groups can't continue round to round. The session has to end and 
 then someone has to create a new one from scratch.
  
  Mission difficulty is inconsistant as well. You'll go from a mission to shoot down a one large 
 "spy" plane to taking on an entire battle fleet (planes and ships) with just the help of your wingman 
 which we've already covered his/her usefulness. 
  
  The only question I have now is will I get more money for it on eBay or just trade it back in for 
 credit. Total let down for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sobey01
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 2, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Over G for the Xbox 360 is pretty much what you might expect from a modern jet sim on the console. 
 After playing through several missions it actually has a little more than that. First off, the 
 downer. Some of the graphics are a little less than spectacular. Particularly the plane textures 
 seem to be a little off and come across as too shiny and a bit cartoon-ey. The physical motion 
 of the planes in the air is solid however and flows smoothly.
  
  The controller scheme is a little different than an Ace Combat or Air Force Delta Storm. So if 
 you're used to those games you might want to give yourself a few practice missions to get comfortable 
 with the controller. (You'll think youre going to fire your missile and instead you turn on navigation 
 mode.) In stead of using one button for missiles and one for the gun, they both fire with the A 
 button and you press the left stick to alternate between weapons and missile types. It sounds awkward 
 but once you get used to it it really works out well. The button functions can be changed in the 
 setup menu for the color buttons and the D-pad, but not the triggers or shoulder buttons.
  
  The D-pad controls landing gear, air brake, Wingman command mode, but can be re-programmed 
 in the setup menu. (Advice- if the D-pad on your controller is worn and doesn't always activate 
 the right way then assign the less important functions there. I would want to talk to my wingman 
 and my landing gear would go down.)
  
  The shoulder buttons control the throttle and the triggers control YAW. (Side to side movement 
 in expert mode.) You get used to it but it would have been nice if they had let you change or alter 
 these.
  
  When you actually are ready to fly there are several different points of view to choose from, outside 
 and behind the plane, full interior cockpit, Cockpit with HUD overlay and HUD only. Choice is good! 
 
  
  The actual control of the plane with the flight stick (left stick) may seem a little sluggish at 
 first but I think they went for a more realistic approach than the arcade feel. Even so after a 
 while you don't notice it. You will experience a black-out effect if you try to turn too quickly 
 from the G-force.
  
  The First mission launches you right into the action and you intercept a couple of enemy planes. 
 The in flight pilot voices sound pretty authentic over the radio. You start out in an F-14 with 
 a wingman. Your wing man will shoot down enemy planes and if you're not on the ball the'll shoot 
 down the enemy before you. Just for practice I recommend playing this opening mission a few times. 
 It's not very long and it will help you get used to the controls.
  
  After completing the first mission you'll go to the first mission briefing. The game consists of 
 several campaign regions you can choose, like Africa or North America. Once you choose a region 
 you get a mission briefing. There is a main mission which is then broken down into several smaller 
 sub-missions which you must complete but you can choose the order. 
  
  Once you accept the mission you will go to plane select. (New planes are acquired as you complete 
 missions.) Once you choose a plane you then choose your wing man. After that you go to the weapons 
 load out screen for your plane and then you're wing-mans. This may be one of the best options in 
 the game. There are a wide variety of missiles and ordinance to choose from including extra fuel 
 tanks. The choice of weapons can affect the outcome or ease of a mission. If you'd rather just 
 get to the action there's a button on the screen that will pick the optimal weapons load for you. 
 You may change planes between main missions but may not change between the sub-missions. If you 
 discover that you've chosen the wrong plane after several of the sub-missions you'll have to start 
 them all over if you want to change planes.
  
  Over G is a solid modern console Jet sim that fills the void in the next-jen world (for now anyhow) 
 It's mostly what you've come to expect but it does have a few nice little surprises that can make 
 it worth while.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmielnik
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 4, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are subpar. Cockpit view is cool and there are many different views almost exactly 
 like PGR3, which is probably the only highlight of the game. Unless you like to fly around for 
 ten minutes just to shoot down 2 planes before some random SAM blows you out of the sky. The music 
 is typical of any Japanese racing game type. The graphics are ok at best for the planes but the 
 backgtound graphics are subpar. The game can be confusing more often than not. And you cant tell 
 if yo've fired a chaffe. Also adding an actual tutorial mode would have been better that just showing 
 the controls. And there is no sense of speedbecause the background never seems to change.
  
  Unfortunately this is one game I highly advise avoiding. It not really worth the 8 bucks to 
 rent let alone buying. Borrow it if at all possible. But be aware you cant refund the time you 
 waste on it. Its a shame because I thought this was gonna be another Ace Combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCRCPBXBOXFAN
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  dissappointed at the game. It wasn't done very well and when you play it you'll see that it just 
 gets really boring really fast. I'm no one to complain but when I pay 60 bucks for a game it better 
 be worth every penny. The controls are a little awkward and if you miss what you are trying to 
 shoot then you have to make a very long turn. The missions I played were very very short. For a 
 next gen system these graphics were terrible. I thought there would be more action and all that 
 jazz, hah I sad it. It wasn't they have better writers for the back of the game case than for the 
 game. Overall I might put this in my 360 every 6 months to 1 year that ticks me off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billmain1
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jul 2, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  When I saw the previews, I thought "Hmm that looks kinda familiar!?"
  
  I had a really bad game for the PS2 called Energy Airforce, which I bought thinking it would be 
 like the fantastic Ace Combat series of games. Man, how wrong could I have been! Poor, sluggish 
 controls, easy missions that you could complete blindfolded and really bad menu screens and presentation. 
 On the plus side the graphics were actually pretty good, but that was about it.
  
  So I put in my nice shiny new disc into my 360 and to my horror discovered the exact same menu 
 screens as that crappy game I had for the PS2!
  What makes it even worse is, when you start the first mission and it says "Energy Airforce is given 
 a new mission" WTF!!! They couldn't even be bothered to change the text for all the missions from 
 the PS2 original!! getting further into it even the callsigns are the same from the PS2. Have a 
 look at the screenshots on this site for Energy Airforce and compare them to this..... Identical!!
 
  
  I played this on both a HDTV and standard TV. HD looks awesome, crisp visuals, near photorealistic 
 aircraft. However on standard TV it's identical to the PS2 game from 2 yrs ago.
  
  The handling of the aircraft is all off, the visuals are only impressive in HD, the missions are 
 very, very easy, menu screens suck.... etc. 
  
  If you buy this thinking it will be like the Ace Combat games you'll be horribly disappointed, 
 like I was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ga6230
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 1, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I've been playing PC flight sims for the past 18 years, had some fun with them, but I never 
 dreamed I would experience something like this! This is way more than I was hoping for! I've read 
 some of these reviews before I had a chance to play for myself, and was expecting to be a bit disappointed, 
 but happily, the opposite happened and I'm DELIGHTED! I've never seen such beautifully rendered 
 aircraft. The ground scenery looks amazing too... Flight control is almost intuitive, so you're 
 situational awareness in the environment isn''t distracted by trying to switch radar modes and 
 ranges and learning complex keystrokes. 
  I really don't understand why people don't rate this higher-Maybe it's their setups? I have a 52 
 inch HD Sony, with home theatre audio, The graphics are just incredible! I swear I feel like I'm 
 watching actual video of aircraft in action instead of computer generated aircraft. 
  I spent most of the day playing this game, a lot of that was just admiring the replays. If you're 
 a flight sim fan, RUN, don't walk to your favorite game retailer and pick this game up! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonr_nd
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 1, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  only playing the game for a total of probably a half hour, I wasnt impressed AT ALL!!!!! my first 
 thoughtsTHIS, is "next gen??????" the graphics arent breakthrough, the controls arent nearly 
 as comfortable as i thought they would be, The game in general really offers nothing new to flight 
 fighters, it feels like SNES, plays like SNES. For a 60$ price tag, I'd wait a few years and pay 
 30$, definantly NOT worth anywhere near 60 dollars.... repetative gameplay gets boring quickly. 
 I'd say its a good 20 minute game, I just cant bring myself to get into it, no addiction factor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinamorgan09
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jul 1, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  So, since the game was created by the same company, Ubisoft, I assumed the controls and the smoothness 
 would be some what similar. Wrong. The planes fly stiff and the way to actually dog fight is exteremly 
 to easy. Bascially, you push y button to lock on to the enemy fighters and push A or B, I forget. 
 And that is the hard sweaty work that you do through out the entire game. So, if you like modern 
 aircombat, your best bet is to stick with the microsoft ones on the computer. 
  
  The story play it self looks like it should be on the DS. The Characters are all animated and do 
 not even move. So, for the 59.99 it is not worth the ouch of maybe thoughts to pick this game up. 
 Trade in a game and pick up Table tennis and motoGp 06, atleast you'll know those two games you'll 
 get your monies worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadGod86
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 1, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  The game is very good, one of the best.
  Taito tried to develop a flight sim, but they just got a very good arcade, beside the good quality 
 of it, there are some bad this.
  The textures are not so good, so if you take a closer look it looks like a Xbox game, but the on 
 a medium range view the game show a very realistic aspect.
  The simulator characteristics as, limited number of ammo, difficulty evading missiles, taking offs 
 and others, that could be considered good on a real sim brought some undesired complications to 
 the game.
  Taito and Ubisoft should not be criticized, as they did a fine job.
  Over G have became the most real console flight game ever.
  The game deserve a good classification! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawaiianc
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 1, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  ok heres the thing, i think the game needs work graphically its good but the voice acting is very 
 poor sorrry to "whom everr did it but it was badd" they easily could copied ace combat didnt which 
 i think they respectfully tried not to copytried too hard i mite add"..
  
  game is like falcon which is cool and feels like it but with a compact feel on a console. controls 
 on the other hand is some what odd. you cant switch analogs controls which could make some people 
 feel more conferable to play with "exemption to put throttle on one of them with rudder" for faster 
 smoother turns also i would put brake with air brake not push both rudders or both triggers in 
 taxi mode for easier controls.
  
  thats all the problems of the game so yah the only down side was the controls if you didnt care 
 about the storyline and just want to do some jet to jet dog fighting which they have good game 
 modes just for that and they should have left it as that "if the story acting was better.". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoCReverand
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 30, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Alot like Ace Combat or Airforce Delta. I think this is the main reason everyone scores it low. 
 Me personally I loved those games. It's either love or hate. Graphics aren't next-gen but it's 
 good arcade flight sim for people with no PS2 or one of the other systems Ace Combat or Airforce 
 Delta came out on.
  
  Controls are a little slugish but I think that's by design. The music is the same cheesey mess 
 that plagued the other arcade flight games. Why do these always have Japanese crap rock? 
  
  It's pretty cool to me but like I said I loved the other games mentioned here for the simple 
 fact I could sit back, knock open a beer or 2 or 10 and just have fun playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer4ever2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for an Ace Combat for the XBOX 360, you might find this game not good, because 
 the control is by far less arcade and the flight dynamics pretty realistic with the stalls and 
 how your plane flies when you have too much payload with you.
  I crashed almost 8 times during a mission with my F-16C because of stalling by doing some easy 
 turnings but finally found out that it was due to my heavy payload. On the next sortie, my plane 
 was much more agile and did not stall that easily.
  You will not find that much dogfights and permanent doing high G maneouvers like in Ace Combat, 
 Air Force Delta or Deadly Skies and the missions are inspired by more realistic scenarios and not 
 about how many kills you make in a short time.
  In real air combats of nowadays, it is much more about beyond vision range combats with AMRAAMS 
 where you never see your enemy at all but only the explosion after a bullseye.
  If you don't have a high-end PC for jet fighter flight simulators, this is a very good choice since 
 there was never such a detailed and realistic fighter jet game on any console. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: m0ntys_pyth0n
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jun 30, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Wow. This game has stolen my will to live. Just when I thought the 360 was churning out some quality 
 games, this insult to coasters all around the world ended up in my white goods. With such bland 
 visuals you'd think the gameplay was turned up a notch.... Not a chance in hell!!!!
  
  Perhaps someone forgot to tell Taito that military aircraft are fast. Even at 100ft the chopping 
 board scenery slowly passes by as if you're flying on the back of a seagull, not a 21st century 
 stealth jet. 
  
  The invisible death and kill style of gameplay blows chunks. By that I mean, the aircrafts voice 
 is the only warning of impending death, much like the only sign of a kill is the cheezy poorly 
 acted voiceovers. Why do the English still sound like an American trying to be Australian in these 
 games? Surely there could've been at least 5 different American and English people available for 
 voice acting for the game.
  
  Alas, my wanting for a top quality aircarft shooter goes unsatisfied again. My only hope now looks 
 like Warhahk on PS3. I should make plans to remortgage the house soon... Even then, I'm not holding 
 my breath. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KneeltoErasmus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 30, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I just go this game today, and at first I did not like it so much. But then after 30 minutes to 
 1 hour I began to have some fun with it. The controls are very well done, turning is very well 
 done and it all depends on the plane you are in and the weight you are carrying. The black out 
 sensation when doing a hard turn is pretty cool, and something I have never seen done before. The 
 cockpit looks wonderful and every single thing works. The plane designs and the bases all look 
 very nice, the terrain is not exactly next-gen quality but it works. Most missions consist of targeting 
 other planes and destroying tanks or boats. I have died many times already because this game is 
 not what I'd call easy. I like that, as most games on 360 are sooo easy and I beat them within 
 a few days. All the planes are good lookin, and they all feel right when in the air. I like the 
 taxiing and taking off as well, reminds me of USAF. Landing can be fairly hard, but I actually 
 did manage to land on an air craft carrier on the 3rd run. 
  
  If you like aviation, flight sims, or are just interested in jets and flying, then I bet you will 
 find something to like in this game. As of now I haven't tried Xbox Live but I'm sure its pretty 
 fun.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cooketh
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 30, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Im going to give you guys the short version of my review. This isn't worth 60 dollars. If you have 
 a ps2, get ace combat and if you like flight sims then get one on PC. If you have neither, then 
 this isn't a bad decision if you want a flight game. In terms of flight games, this is the only 
 one on 360 so if you want one, this is your only option (Blazing Angels is more arcade) . This isn't 
 a terrible game, but can easily be trumped.
  
  Graphics: The worst part about this game. It feels like a 2001 pc game. The water looks terrible. 
 The water actually looks like blue cement. The air effects around the plain are non-existant. The 
 only saving grace this game has is the explosions. The explosions look somewhat next-gen on an 
 HDTV.
  
  Sound: Terrible. You don't hear the missile's drop when you fire. The warning sounds on your plane 
 sound atrocious. The character dialogue gives that old feeling of "all your base are belong to 
 us." The campaign offers horrendous dialogue during mission breifings. This game has the worst 
 sound quality on the 360 to date (june 30 2006) .
  
  Gameplay: Albeit not as good as Ace Combat, this is still fun. There are a number of camera angles 
 to choose from. Landing and taking off is realistic. If you manage to block out the sound, you 
 may feel somewhat immersed in this game. To do that, you'd need to block out the sound, ignore 
 the visuals, and get over the lame story line. Blowing things up is still fun, however. You're 
 going to have fun with this, and thats not a lie, but there are better games.
  
  Value: The singlep player is beefy and there are a lot of acheivments to be gained here. The multiplayer, 
 however, isn't as bright. If you manage to get a match with no lag, which isn't too hard, the dogfights 
 can become very boring as you and the enemy plane just circle for minutes at a time untill someone 
 messes up. The acheivments to be gained in single player mode, however, aren't very fun. Beat the 
 campaign and challenges once and you'll have this game over with.
  
  Tilt and Conclusion: It's the first next-gen flight game and one of the only good console FLIGHT 
 SIM games i've ever played. That being said, i gave it some mercy and put it at an 8. Why? If you 
 honestly like flight sims and own a 360, then this is a decent purchase. Otherwise, stear clear.
 
  Basic statement: This game suffers mainly from poor production and presentation. If you do manage 
 to get over the sound, lame story, and bad visuals, you may find yourself being immersed in this 
 somewhat realistic flight game, which is actually a fair amount of fun. Ergo, this game is uninspired. 
 I wouldn't be very proud of myself if I developed this game. I think there needs to be more offered 
 in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commandstation
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Over G has to be the most gorgeous flight simulator I have ever played. The fighters are designed 
 to look and fly like the real thing. 
  
  I've noticed on some reviews from other websites that they think this game is either too easy or 
 not real enough. This is untrue. Why? You HAVE to set the controls up for REALISM and EXPERT settings 
 --- ONLY for those who have flown flight simulations before (and are seasoned at flight sims like 
 Ace Combat and others) . In addition, you need to go into the Game Options and set your Stereo to 
 5.1 after one mission (if you have home theater) . I do not know why Taito did not give you the 
 option in the beginning, but that is minor. After you set the sound and the above options, the 
 game is awesome! 
  
  In addition, the take-offs and landings make you sweat. The realism is uncanny as the cross-winds 
 and other flight variables make you grab your controller tight while adjusting your rudders and 
 checking your speed. Truly and awesome achievement! 
  
  Trivia: 
  Did you know that the F-14, with the insignia of the Skull and Cross Bones, you fly in the beginning 
 of the game is actually THE ELITE fighter squadron in the entire U. S. Navy? The squadron is called 
 the "Jolly Rogers". 
  
  Synopsis: 
  In Over G Fighters, a terrorist organization threatens the world's peace and security as players 
 take to the skies in a united world air force. Players command more than 30 of the most powerful 
 jet fighters ever conceived and battle for air superiority in massive dogfights in the skies above 
 Europe, Asia, Africa and North America. Players combat enemies in the air and on the ground with 
 challenging and dangerous strike missions against well defended targets deep in the heart of hostile 
 territory. 
  
  Features: 
  
  Fly the world's most powerful fighters: Fly every modern jet fighter in the Western arsenal including 
 the F-22A Raptor, the US air superiority fighter of the 21st century. Face more than 90 Western 
 and former Soviet enemies and get in the cockpit of the F-15E Strike Eagle, F-16C Fighting Falcon, 
 F/A-18C Hornet, Su-27 Flanker, MiG-29A Fulcrum, and F-117A Nighthawk. 
  
  Attempt more than 80 intense missions in a modern-day global conflict: Players take the fight to 
 the enemy in aerial battles all over the world and face massive, challenging missions with interlocking 
 sub-missions. After successfully completing the sub-missions, players will attack the most challenging 
 primary mission objective. 
  
  Check six: With 360-degree cockpit views from realistic, highly detailed and functional instrumentation. 
 Players will feel the G-forces and hear the roar of jet engines in 5.1 channel stereo as they ignite 
 the after burner. 
  
  Get right into the action: Kick the tires and light the fires! Players can jump right into the 
 action and instantly engage in dogfights either one-on-one or in massive dogfighting "furballs." 
 
  
  Flight data recorder: Players can save their combat triumphs and learn from their defeats by recording 
 and replaying their aerial exploits. 
  
  Xbox Live online gaming service for up to eight players online: Engage in head-to-head dogfights 
 or cooperative team play between squadrons on huge detailed maps with varied geographies. 
  
  Tips: 
  Hint: Aerial Combat Maneuvers 
  
  If you are playing on Expert, the enemy fighters 
 are difficult to take down. High speed maneuvers with the afterburners going can cause serious 
 G's which can rip your wings right off of your airplane. I found that you should reduce airspeed 
 to about 80% while enabling your airbrake. This way the stress on your fighter is less and turning 
 is far faster. Once you've completed about 90% of the turn to get a target on the enemy, take off 
 the airbrake and hit the afterburners. 
  
  Hint: Taking out Enemy Ships 
  
  In every mission involving the destruction of enemy ships, ALWAYS take out the fighter escorts 
 first. The ships look like "juicy" targets in the distance, but beware that once enemy fighters 
 get behind you, it is very difficult to shake off their missiles. 
  
  In addition, on some missions you will run out of missiles designed to take out boats, so you will 
 have to switch to guns. Take a high angle approach to the ship and wait until you are certain you 
 can hit the ship with your guns (about 1000m) . It takes about 200 to 250 bullets to destroy a ship. 
 
  
  Hint: Chaffing and Flares 
  
  It's better to wait until an enemy missile has gotten to the most inner circle of your radar. Then 
 press the "B" button to drop chaffs and flares to ward off the incoming missile. Don't stop pressing 
 "B" until the missile lock warning goes off. 
  
  In addition, fly closer to the ground (below 500ft) when you have a lot of enemy fighters in the 
 air. The incoming enemy missiles are typically coming down (if you are flying low) and impact upon 
 the ground. Be sure to hit the "B" button until the missile lock warning goes off. 
  
  Landing on an aircraft carrier 
  
  Landing on an aircraft carrier in Expert mode is very close 
 to the real thing. It's difficult because you have to deal with the cross winds and the fact that 
 the aircraft carrier is moving away from you. You do have an ALS (assisted landing system) . The 
 ALS pops up short after control tower tells you to first lower your hook, then your gear (two cross 
 hairs that aid you in going left/right and pitch up/down) . Take the approach slightly right of 
 the aircraft carrier. Keep following it in and take the ALS recommendation of when to use your 
 rudder to bear left. Upon final approach (when the tower says "call the ball" / the red light on 
 the carrier is called a meatball and if you can see it then you have approach) , your engine speed 
 should be set at around 40% to 45%. When your landing gear hits the deck, rev your engines to afterburner 
 in case you have to turn around and land again. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cerrilove4788
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jun 30, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  A Public Service announcement by you friendly Neighbourhood Doctor Love....
  
  FISCAL WARNING - Purchasing Over G will loose you 50 and leave you with the biggest pile of **** 
 since .... well, something really bad.
  
  This has been a PSA from Me.
  
  Seriously the game sucks.... get a missile locked onto you, its impossible to shake, in other word 
 get a lock on, and you need to restart the mission..... all the missions are the same, take off, 
 fly in a straight line for a few minutes, shoot some stuff, get killed, repeat until you finish 
 it, gets so boring.... the multiplayer could have saved it... until i played it. Can't talk to people 
 who aren't on your team... (only 1 person on your team at the most) and you spend most of your time 
 flying round very slowly, in an aircraft with a turning circle of 2 miles, which may randomly explode 
 if you turn too tight, looking for someone, when you find them the dogfight lasts a few seconds 
 as you lock on with unblockable missiles and get destroyed... go back to base, take off and spend 
 the rest of the time looking for someone else to shoot....
  
  Really utter crap, nice graphics, good music in the replays but no where else, crap voice overs...... 
 my verdict?? Doesn't deserve 2/10... even if it was 10 i wouldn't buy it.... i'm returning it next 
 week for chromehounds instead...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RDW101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 30, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  OK, this is what we've been waiting for with the 360! I am an aviation buff and like the SIMS! 
 This is going to be a must have if you're into flying. The graphics are awesome, the gameplay is 
 awesome, the controls are complex enough yet won't take but a few minutes of training to get comfortable 
 with, and the realism is THERE! The ability to look around only as much as you would in real life, 
 and the other 'feelings' you get while flying are just too much! This may not be the BEST ever 
 in a jet sim but, it definately worth more than a rent for the 360! Well, throttle up, clinch your 
 teeth, and wait for the catapult to release and you're off! Turn up the surround sound and dim 
 the lights... This is going to be great! This finishes what BLAZING ANGELS never started. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob101
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 30, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  This game sucks so hard it could pull pictures of the walls, don't rent it or buy it take the word 
 of the people who reviewed it and called it straight up trash.
  
  The graphics are weak at the best of times, the controls are sloppy, and the story line is so stupid 
 Jack Black may option it for a movie, no offence to Nacho though. The cut scenes if you could call 
 them that consist of a realy bad voice actor, and a cartoon image of him, that does not even move 
 telling you about your next mission.
  
  The characters that make up your wingmen are equally as bad, and the whole thing just stinks, to 
 sum it up I've been robbed before but they alway used a weapon, this time that weapon was Over 
 G= Garbage fighter, and they stole 70 dollars from me the bastards!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m34d
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  This game has not dissapointed me in the least. If you are a pilot you will enjoy every minute 
 of this game. If games like prey and halo are your forte then don't play Over G its not for you. 
 This game simulates what real life air combat is like, boring and repeditive. I love the live gameplay 
 it is done right. This game can rightly be proud that it is no ace combat. Thats why it wasn't 
 named ace combat. Children need not play this game either it is almost too realistic in some areas 
 accept airframe stress. And atleast it only takes one damn missle to down a bogey. Ace combat had 
 absolutely no challenge there was an outstanding story and thats why it made it big. Over G fighters 
 doesn't neccisarily feel like a console game it feels more like the novalogic computer flight simulators. 
 Flight simulator had no story at all and look its at FS10 now and ppl buy it. This game is for 
 pilots and simmers not arcaders and kids. It is very boring at times and the taking off every time 
 you restart a mission gets annoying but in all Taito made a good flight simulator, key word simulator 
 not arcade game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aromon
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  If you have played the game, then you know what I'm talking about. Your first and basically last 
 impression is "This sucks!". And it really does. Absolutely no sense of speed, lame targeting system, 
 and horrible voice acting are only the beginning. This game either feels like a N64 game or a cheap 
 arcade game. This game doesn't even come close to current-gen let alone Next-gen. This game makes 
 Ace Combat look like a masterpiece. Even though Gamespot hasen't released their review yet, trust 
 me, this game blows and you will regret it if you buy it. Don't even rent it, it's garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gphillipsden
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 29, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is a Sim, very much like most of the PC flight simulators I have played without the controls 
 complexity. If you might enjoy something a little less frantic, you may find this satisfying the 
 same way some people prefer realistic driving games to arcade styled ones. Early missions are short 
 with simple objectives. I havent finished the game but missions seem to get a bit more challenging 
 as youre skills improve. Its easy to shoot down other planes and just as easy to get shot, Just 
 like the real thing. Carrier landings are a b*#ch. 
  Looks impressive on HDTV, menus feel very Japanes.
  If you don't get this game try spending more 
 than 15 minutes with it, you might like it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: heya20
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 29, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  It's a good game. could be better. okay alot better considering the power of the 360 wasn't even 
 touched. I still think that it is fun. my biggest problems with the game is the fact that you really 
 cant get a feel for the speed of the aircraft even when you fly low, that's when buildings and 
 land should just be a blended blur. i also dont like how easy it is to lock on and shoot down enemy 
 aircraft. i have high hopes with updates that could possibly fix these issues. online play was 
 a blast especially with a wingman. i think xbox live saved this game for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykoman187
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 29, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been sooo much better... how many times have we said that since the release 
 of the "NEXT GEN" console... The short of it is, the missions are too short. Graphics very unimpressive, 
 and is relatively easy. I am in a 20 million dollar jet... let me dog fight more than 2 or 3 bogeys 
 for the love of Top Gun already. Its not a bad game just lacking oh what do you call it... oh yeah 
 FUN! i give it a striaght up G on a scale of A to ahhh hum "G". When are we going to get a quality... WOW... 
 game for the $400 We all spent to take our gaming experience to another level???? I guess I am 
 going to have to like... interact with real people for fun... nahhh not yet. Anyway, JUST RENT OVER 
 G! 
  TIRADE:
  this is how Microsoft is making money right now... they are putting one or two games out a month... 
 knowing the true gamers are jonesing for a new game, hoping we will run out and buy the junk... 
 I quit. GEARS OF WAR better not suck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midivox
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Hello Fying Game Fans
  Over G delivers the worlds best looking flying game of all time and sets new standards for graphics. 
 Part sim with an arcade twist, you fly around the world unlocking the best looking planes ever 
 seen in a flying game. 
  
  Control is tight, better with the 360 Controller than many PC Flightsticks. Your Right Stick gives 
 you Cockpit , Outside, No HUD and Behind Views. You also have a Free View Camera. You fly the jets 
 with left shift, trigger rudders and bumper throttles. The Y button changes cycles your HUD,, B 
 is chaff and flares, X is guns and A is fire. 
  
  18 planes have special abilities stealth, night vision, tail hooks, etc. Training is mixed in with 
 the campaign missons and you also have a Misson Creator, as well as Arcade modes and XBox Live 
 Multiplayer modes. 
  
  Wingmen have 6 commands and the action can be fast and furious, racing against the misson time 
 limit, dodging missles, hunting down targets, etc. You can save up to 99 Replays and can adjust 
 the Replay Camera. 
  
  Each plane does have its own physics model and takes a different stick. You can get shot down, 
 run out of fuel, crash into other planes, get lost, run out of time, crash on take offs or landings 
 or arcade up and set many options to auto. 
  
  Over G goes miles beyond anything ever seen and heard on a game console and given its arcade sim 
 light structure out does every PC Flight Sim when it comes to sheer numbers of unlockable planes 
 and flying fun. 
  
  The great sound matches the great graphics. Each plane has its own sounds and the different views 
 change the sound environment. Dolby Digital 5.1 systems deliver air combat, plane and battlefield 
 sounds. 
  
  Over G is an excellent example of a true next gen HD game. I give it an Easy 9 al the way around. 
 Whether you are new to flying games or own every one ever made like I do, Over G Fighters is another 
 great game from Taito and Ubisoft. Watch your Six for those Missles. 
  
  Happy Flying
  MidiVox 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abuscemi
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 29, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I love flight sims, they're probably one of my top two favorite genres. I've been and continue 
 to be a PC flight sim guy (IL2 being my main flight sim currently) and have a good amount of experience 
 flying flight sims solo and multiplayer with an "online virtual squad". That being said, I wasn't 
 expecting a true flight sim experiece on a console - for all the reasons one would expect. 
  
  What I was expecting was something in-between an arcade / flight sim experience with killer 
 graphics and a polished / clean feel and to it. Why? Because this is the XBOX 360 and this is suppossed 
 to be Next-Gen; that's why. Because this system has the technical specs that don't limit developers 
 to the game that was produced here. It feels totally uninspired and simply lame especially ao after 
 seeing games like Ghost Recon and knowing what the 360 is capable of in its young life. 
  
  The Good: Decent (not fantastic) plane models, quick "next-gen 360 frame rate", carriers, landing 
 and take-offs are included as well as control of landing gear, hook, brake. Acceptable choise of 
 aircraft. Online multiplayer is included.
  
  The Bad: Just about everything else. Textures of anything but the planes are fair to complete junk 
 - very PS2ish. This includes the sky, sun, clouds, ground, water. It's not that some of the textures 
 are horrendous it's just like their team of developers chose not to put any backbone into it; lame. 
 We have higher expectations on next-gen systems. The GUI is crap (what a lame font and white pop 
 up menus - looks like PS1) , The Voice acting is crap, the drawn characters and story is crap, the 
 damage modeling is crap because there is none - planes just blow up. Also, the physics feel slow 
 and sluggish even at low altitude flight. 
  
  For the love of god this is a sim on the 360 all of this and more make it unplayable. This is too 
 bad because by the number of people that were apparently looking forward to this game there's a 
 desire for a good flight sim on the 360; this is most definately not that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STEVESIZE
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 29, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  What happened to this game? I bought it on june 28th and played it for a half an hour (to see if 
 it got better) and each mission took about 3 to 4 minutes to beat which includes the load times!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 The sense of speed did not exist anywhere in the game. Blazing angles had a much better sense of 
 speed. The take offs and landings were kind of cool but the combat was just plain ridiculous!!! 
 The explosions were a joke. There was no debris from the plane when you blew it up, it just disappeared. 
 Blazing angels had some pretty cool explosions so why didn't this game??? It seems the only jet 
 games that can get it right is the ace combat series. You would think that with the power of the 
 360 that it would at least be as good as ace combat but it wasn't even in the neiborhood. So for 
 all of you that have $60.00 bucks to spend on a new 360 game, save it for the next one. Thank god 
 gamestop let me have a full refund on the game !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cygnusloop99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  Over G fighters is a good game. Its almost a little to realistic. In modern, real life dogfights, 
 the aircraft with the best avionics and missiles wins a battle. And thats exactly how it is in 
 Over G. In real life, you cant make a tight turn at high speed, it takes some distance to turn 
 around. And thats exactly how it is in Over G. In real life, an annoying compute voice will tell 
 you to pull up when you drop below 100ft in altitude. And thats exactly how it is in Over G. This 
 game is realistic, IT IS NOT AN ARCADE STYLE GAME. My first thought on this game was it will be 
 a Ace Combat knock off. Its no where in that ball park. I do enjoy this game, it has high levels 
 of customization, down to the amount of fuel that you put in your tank. The planes look realistic 
 and there is a large amount to choose from. And an interesting feature in this game is the replay 
 mode after each mission with the ability to save your mission replays for later review. On the 
 negative side, why the hell do they have the "Y" button a back when every other game has back as 
 "B". The ground terrain is also lacking detail, pretty typical terrain for a flight sim. The graphics 
 in this game were dumped into the planes. The multiplayer maps are very large and that may also 
 bring down the terrain graphics some. Online multiplayer is also a little different, every game 
 on XBL seems to have its own different way of creating matches, but the same rules I listed above 
 apply online, therefore if you dont get a F-22 soon then you will be screwed online. In conclusion, 
 this isn't the best game out for the 360, there are plenty of games with better everything, but 
 if you die hard for flight sims like me, then you will get your 60 bucks worth out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaleGringo
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 29, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  I like it. It's what I've been waiting for, but you could get it as a safe rental and be just as 
 happy if you're not 103% into jet fighter sims.
  
  It has that *distinctly Japanese* feel, which is not so much a good or bad thing, just know its 
 there. The mission briefings and the type leave much to be desired... they consist of drawn images 
 in differing dramatic poses to (poorly) convey emotional vigor. The controls are decent, but impossible 
 to change once you select it.
  
  For most of us, make sure you select "Reverse" since that won't frustrate you quite so much. You 
 get one chance when you create a new profile, unless I'm just that hopeless at finding it.
  
  After your first quick scramble scenario, you're taken in to Central Africa where you can do 
 larger sorties that are broken down into tactical missions that change in availability as you progress 
 through the short campaigns. The most difficult one I flew was in the Far East, over what appeared 
 to be Tokyo, in a two section mission where I had to splash 11 target aircraft in addition to any 
 other "green" targets of opportunity that decided to encroach my personal space. There are no checkpoints, 
 either, so if you get shot down before you get that last target - or worse yet, shot down by a 
 rogue missle you get that last target, you have to do the whole thing over.
  
  The most serious glitch that I've come across is that the game locks up immediately after you unlock 
 a new aircraft, requiring your 360 to be reset the dirty way. Always starts up fine, but much to 
 your dismay, you possibly will have to redo the mission where you acquired your new wings.
  
  This is what finally convinced me to turn it off last night - I just got done redoing a mission 
 with the F117A Nighthawk for about the fifth time. You have to follow a pre-designated flight path 
 that avoids the AA emplacements, but in so doing, are brought directly into the counter flight 
 paths of enemy fighters. Avoid them by being at a significantly different altitude, but you wouldn't 
 know that nor be told that before the mission starts. Grr. So I finally figured it out on my own, 
 was too low and had a SAM launched at me at waypoint 9 of 10, and by some miracle evaded it. The 
 target was two planes on the ground, and I had two 2000-lb. bunker busters as my payload. I went 
 2/2, finished the mission successfully and unlocked the related achievement for getting the plane... 
 and my 360 locked up.
  
  I didn't want to have to chance my luck again, so I went to bed.
  
  Apart from that serious 
 issue, there aren't really all that many bugs so far as I can tell. MP has potential to be really 
 fun as long as you know what you're doing. Overall, I'd give it a 7.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Ruiner_
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 3, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  Like some of the best music, the first time you play/hear it you dont really like it but after 
 time you see it for what it really is and you are so glad you didnt just throw it out. After playing 
 the first 2 senerios I thought this game was so easy and not well made, but then I went on line 
 and saw how much stategy and skill was involved and now I am completly hooked. THis game is not 
 for 10 year olds, this game takes brains. So try it out and give it a good amount of time before 
 making judgements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbowen
Rating: 1.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  I'm an ex-Air Force Intel guy who's spent a significant amount of time in the air and after 2 hours 
 with Over G I can only tell you it is Over Hyped and not nearly worth the $60. There is clearly 
 a reason Ubisoft and Taito didn't release a demo prior to this thing hitting store shelves. Actually, 
 that's my new benchmark... if a software company doesn't have the guts to let you try it out first 
 its probably not worth buying... (and yes, I do know there are risks with that but I also own a 
 software company and I let my clients try my stuff out.) Over G is just a waste of time... horrible 
 graphics other than the aircraft (just watch an explosion... yawn) , horrible flight dynamics (try 
 to climb to 20K' in any mission) , horrible sound... and the between mission breifings are simply 
 pathetic... I watched better on my Apple IIC in 1986.
  
  I wasn't looking for Falcon 4 on the XBox 360 but I certainly expected more than this for $60... I 
 guess we all just have to wait for Flightsim X and hope someone puts together some decent military 
 mods...
  
  Save your money... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmajchrzak
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  I played maybe 6 single player missions and about 10 multi-player 4 on 4 dogfights. Here are my 
 first impressions on Over G Fighters.
  
  The good stuff: REAL AIRCRAFT CONTROLS. I started playing on expert and was very pleasantly surprised 
 to see that the player has aileron and elevator controls on the left stick. Too many flight games 
 only have a "left / right / up / down" arcade mode. This has honestroll / pitch / yaw" control 
 in expert mode... yeehaw!! GRAPHICS... the airplane graphics are beautiful in HD. The ground is 
 good, but not nearly as refined as the aircraft. SOUND... very good Dolby Digital 5.1 support. 
 SP MISSIONS: single player missions consist of you gaining access to an area of confict (far east, 
 middle east etc..) then you as the gamer, gets to pick from a list of missions what you want to 
 fly when. The voice acting blows and the story line is shallow. MP MISSIONS: only 2 mission types 
 here. all consist of dogfighting. This is a blast to play online 4 on 4 teams, but I wish they 
 had more variety of game types like the FPS games. GAMEPLAY: The actual game play is quite fun. 
 You start with an F-14, and as you complete missions you gain access to newer / better aircraft. 
 I now have access to F-14, F-16 and A-10. Missions have both air and ground components. Shooting 
 heli's down in a A-10 is fun. The 2 radars you have take some gettin gused to.. They do NOT automatically 
 pick up all targets. You have to "look" for targets and the radar blips come and go. ANNOYANCES: 
 by default, they want you to replay your mission on the built in VCR feature... which means you 
 always have to press more buttons to just move on. You can save after every mission and it forces 
 you to press even more buttons... frustrating. The manual does a poor job of describing the radar 
 lines and features. Had to figure out the home vector and wingman vector by myself.
  The explosions are nice, but do not show the plane blowing apart, they tend to atomize. TIPS: When 
 you take off, you can not shoot anything because you are in NAV mode, hit the Y button to cycle 
 through weapons. By default, you're in cockpit view when you start, click the right thumbstick 
 to cycle through views.
  OVERALL: 8/10. If you love simulator type flying games, buy it, if they're just mildly interest 
 you, wait for a price drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jer_1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 29, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  This game definitely has a lot of potential. Over G is about as close to an actual flight sim that 
 we will probably see on the 360 so you have to accept it with a few shortcomings. The weapons available 
 in the game are great and are a good time to use, bombing runs are probably the most enjoyable 
 to me. The plane selection is probably the best of any flight game I've played. Sim Controls are 
 slick, accurate and not hard to grasp. The graphics, while not THE best are still good and more 
 than enough to have fun with it. The AI is pretty tricky most of the time and on top of that you 
 can take it ONLINE! 
  
  All in all I have to say I have really enjoyed this game so far and with the in depth online component 
 some of the best days are yet to come. Oh, dont listen to all these people canning this game from 
 the get-go. THINK FOR YOURSELF, don't let some other moron do it for you. Have fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  There are going to be a lot of comparisons between Over G and Ace Combat which is understandable 
 but consoles need more flight games and this is even more true for the 360 since they hardly made 
 a cameo on the original Xbox. There are also a lot of arguments about arcade vs. sim which I admit 
 Ace Combat has found a good balance. I am hoping in the next generation of flight games on consoles 
 that they give players more choice in how arcade-like or how sim-like they want it. Many PC games 
 in the genre have sliders for almost every possible choice so players can really customize their 
 experience to their playing style. I believe Over G is testing the waters on this concept and I 
 hope they deep dive into it in the future.
  
  At first, the game feels very disjointed because offers at the start Scenario, Challenge, Multiplayer, 
 etc. Scenario is as close as you will get to a story experience but it totally lacks any real motivation 
 and character interaction making it feel very shallow. It all feels really sterile (heh heh he 
 said sterile) . Story is where Ace Combat really flies circles around Over G. On the other hand, 
 some people found the story modes and constant chatter that the Ace Combat series is known for 
 to be annoying. If you are one of those people than Over G should be just right for you. It provides 
 you with the minimal information needed and then off you go into the wild blue yonder.
  
  As for Arcade vs. Sim, you do have some choices to help accomodate players in both camps which 
 I applaud Taito for doing. You can choose things like arcade vs. "real" style, whether to automatically 
 select weapons for the appropriate target, to land or not land manually as well as deploy chaffe 
 munitions (sorry could not think of the appropriate term) . Choosing the "real" style of control 
 is probably best whether you like arcade style or not because without it you will not be able to 
 barrel roll or perform some other manuevers. 
  
  Ground take offs are very cool because you actually have to taxi to your designated runway and 
 wait for clearance. However, it becomes not so cool if you are getting pwned on a mission repeatedly 
 because you will have to go through the whole take off again where most games would have provided 
 a checkpoint. Take offs on an aircraft carrier though never gets old.
  
  Once you do get up though you will notice that it just feels slower than most other flight games. 
 I have never flown a fighter jet but I have a feeling that this may be more realistic because whenever 
 I am in a commerical jet it never feels like they are going the 400 miles an hour that they do. 
 It would have been nice though to give some kind of visual or stronger vibration feedback when 
 you do certain things because no matter if you are fyling level or doing an Immelmen it always 
 feels the same.
  
  In single-player you are able to select one of five different wingman for each mission. They each 
 have their own specializations such as one wingman being better at high tech planes while another 
 is more suited for air-to ground combat. They will also advise you on whether you are making a 
 good choice for your plane for that specific mission which can be helpful for noobs. You are then 
 able to select your loadout as well as theirs but they stay silent on this subject. There is nice 
 list of commands you can give them in the air although the interface to do so is a little clumsy. 
 Hard to tell if they are really good or not but suffice to say that they will not get in your way.
 
  
  The graphics are something that is pretty disappointing for a 360 title. The aircraft, in flight 
 effects, skies and water are all acceptable and look clean without all the jaggies that Ace Combat 
 suffers from on the PS2. Its the ground that fails to be convincing which is suprising because 
 I have seen flight games on lesser powered PCs that have been able to do a nice job of air and 
 land. If you were just focusing on flight at 15,000 ft or above this would not be a concern but 
 their are a lot of air-to-ground missions which makes the contrast in quality apparent. 
  
  Here is probably the biggest factor in favor of Over G. Online Multiplayer. This is an area Ace 
 Combat has yet to get into (although there next installment supposedly will) and Over G does a 
 nice job. You have the choice between standard versus mode of up to 8 players or Arena. Arena I 
 found the most interesting but also the most confusing at first. They really should have done a 
 training for this mode like Splinter Cell did with their online action. The gist is that up to 
 8 players represent up to 4 of the factions from the game where each faction must defend their 
 own strong point (aka building) while also laying the smackdown on the other factions strong points. 
 Its got a nice enemy territory feel to it once you learn what all the blips on the radar mean. 
 Highly suggest looking at the manual for this.
  
  Overall, there is a nice selection of planes and modes of play. Graphics are not as good as they 
 should be but I for one am glad that they at least have a cockpit view unlike Blazing Angels. Missions 
 can be a little short but at least you get a choice on which one to take on next. If you liked 
 Ace Combat or other flight games you should not be disappointed but this is no Crimson Skies or 
 Blazing Angel because it does lean more to simulation than those do. Of course, if you can, always 
 try renting before you buy to get in the pilots seat yourself to see if this baby really can fly 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan_117
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Those of you looking for a massive shootout or an Ace Combat experience should stray away from 
 Over-G. If your looking for more of a sim then listen up. The campaign starts out slow but after 
 unlocking more jets to use it becomes addicting. With many planes and over 50 missions to chose 
 the campaign shuld keep u busy for a while.
  
  Then theres the multiplayer. IT IS AMAZING!!! Its broken down into 2 modes, Arena (4 teams of 2 
 trying to destroy eachothers bases) . And Strike (i think) where its a 4 on 4 dog fight elimination 
 style. One downside to the multiplayer is after every game u have to find a new lobby ( like call 
 of duty 2 used to be. 
  
  The graphics look great with the plane models but mostly everything else shuld be upgraded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nxtrder
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 28, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Last flight games I played were f18 hornet and ah64apache for commodore 64. Oh and crimson skies 
 but that kinda sucked. Star wars and fire fox games not counted. This game delivers a solid all 
 around combat flight sim. I never played ace combat or anything of the like so this game is solid 
 in my view. The problems I've come across are 1. no fly arounds on single player mode when you 
 miss the hook on carrier. You have to restart training every time, meaning you have to launch off 
 carrier and then attempt to land again. 2. You can't shut off replay so that it doesn't try to 
 replay your flight after every mission. Online play is decent. 3. The music kinda sucks but i just 
 lower it and raise the fx volume. Haven't seen where to put in your own music. 4. Lack of servers 
 but that's cause there's not a whole lot of people playing now. 2 types of online. Quick paced 
 dogfight and slow arena play. Arena you take off and land to refuel and rearm during the mission. 
 Usually 4 teams flying from a base to attack or defend. Dogfight is quick paced and no respawn 
 type action. Another big annoyance is that once your in an online session after the scoring scene 
 you get dumped into the lobby. I haven't come across a quick game where you can stay in the session. 
 Seems to me that the host has to restart the online process too. But for all the little things 
 I've found. It's a hell of a lot of fun. Nice change from GRAW and Amped 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjenk13
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  The overall game play is satisfactory for a jet simulation game. The aircraft flying characteristics 
 are fairly accurate to what would be expected. The jets dont just turn on a dime like they do 
 in earlier Ace Combat games. The ammo capacities are also kept into realistic respects. The behavior 
 of aircraft during taxi to the runway is also very accurate, as in every plane I've flown (and 
 I have flown an L-39C jet) , this is exactly the same feel.
  
  Couple downfalls to the game are the missiles not depleting from the wings after being fired and 
 the explosions after missile impacts are poorly designed. These two graphical components are a 
 key visual due to the fact that the point of the entire game is to fire missiles and blow up targets!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 28, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I want to start off saying that the number of bad Xbox 360 games is getting ridiculous. I can count 
 on one hand the number of very good games that I have owned or rented so far. Though Im not a 
 Sony Playstation fan, Im starting to become one really quickly.
  Im sure you figured by now that Over G Fighter isnt s very good game. If you looking for a fight 
 sim, get a PC and get Falcon 4 or Lock-On Modern Combat or something, because you wont find one 
 here. This makes a descent arcade game, but Im not sure paying $60 for an arcade game is even 
 worth it.
  To start the graphics in this game is pretty good, though others dont think so I think they are 
 pretty well done. The jets are well rendered and the flight surfaces seem to be all there in working 
 order. The water and land surfaces are sparsely covered, and of pretty low detail, nothing close 
 to what the Xbox 360 can do but seem good enough as it fly by. The audio is an absolute joke; to 
 call it bad wouldnt even be fair to bad audio. The music is weak, and the voiceover, if you want 
 to call it that, is very repetitive. This wouldnt even be good for a Playstation one game.
  The open scenes are beautify and well done, with the camera panning down to the carrier, but the 
 mission are of such poor design, and are so short, without a doubt if the rest of the game was 
 a 10, this would still make the game not worth owning. In one of the early missions, I was able 
 to take off from the carrier and shoot down my target within 45 seconds, no lie; I really mean 
 I was completely done with a FLIGHT SIM GAME mission in 45 sec. absolutely ridiculous. I finished 
 10 missions in under an hour.
  There have been some really bad, bad Xbox 360 games so far, 3 out of the last 4 games Ive sent 
 back to the store within days and this is no difference. I cant believe 360 games are still $60, 
 putting out game after game of worthless junk like this.
  There are a few good things in the game, the online play was ok, but I couldnt find many people 
 to fly against, but that will change as people buy the game, but after that, there isnt anything 
 worth it in the game. RENT THE GAME FIRST or you will be very sorry.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: acepilotmra
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jun 28, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This game needs to be chucked into the nearest trash bin and sent into the sun. Ubisoft needs to 
 wake up and figure out how to make a good flight simulator. Though multiplayer gives this an aspect 
 that not many good flight sims have, it is still a terrible experience and the online interface 
 is terrible. The graphics are definitely not next generation and ACZ compares very well to this 
 game in that respect. This game also needs a good tutorial, the book tries to explain things but 
 not well enough and there is no substitute for actually trying the maneuver without failing a mission. 
 DON"T BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 300_Spartans
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 1, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  I have played the Ace Combat games for a while, and you would think this game would be boring compared 
 to those, but it isnt. Its fun and intense, and also has awesome online play hat i cant get away 
 from. Theres always people online, and i didnt have any difficulty finding players. There are over 
 30 jets awarded to you over time. Each of them has unique characteristics that can be used in different 
 mission types. The graphics are not quite next gen, but you will forget about that once you start 
 playing. Being a fan of aviation, this is a great title, but for the everyday dude who really has 
 no intrest in air combat, its a pass.
  
  Over all i am enjoying the game tons, see you online!
  
  Gt-HavokSpartan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jun 28, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Someone else said it, and I'm going to back them up on this one. Gamespot and sites like it need 
 to be truthful when they get their hands on these 360 games and tell us the TRUTH about how the 
 game feels. I've pretty much given up on Game Informer as far as their previews are concerned. 
 Pick an Xbox 360 game... any Xbox 360 game. I guarantee you the review reads something like this 
 (and this is NOT a quote.. but if it matched up exactly, I would not be surprised) : "This game looks 
 amazing. The attention to detail is awesome. We see some very good plane models here. Planes really 
 look realistic. The cockpit looks good. Definitly need to buy this game because it looks amazing." 
 When will gaming sites and magazines stop catering to people who only want eye candy??? A more 
 appropriate review would be "This game looks good... but it really sucks in the gameplay department. 
 Unless Ubisoft straightens some things out, this might be just another mediocre flight game." It's 
 amazing to read G. I. and see them slam a game after its out.. when you can go back a couple months 
 and read all about how it was going to be the greatest thing since chocolate when it comes out. 
 But anyway, I picked up Over-G because it's the only 360 game I haven't played and the only 360 
 game to come out in.. well.. forever. I LOVE a good flight game. But, just like Blazing Angels, this 
 game is not a good flight game. It's not even halfway decent. And I'll tell you why.... in my Game 
 Breakdown.
  
  Graphics: Models look good. Environments not so good. I fail to see why a game like this can't 
 have water that looks as good as Far Cry's. The water in this one looks like blue carpet. Explosions 
 lack anything even remotely exciting, as a simple, generic "boom" is all you get with your puff 
 of smoke. Are they serious? Cockpits are done well.... and are totally confusing. 360 view of the 
 cockpit is nice though, and I liked being able to look to both sides and see the horizon. Whoever 
 decided to implement "grayouts" and "redouts" should be fired. It was supposed to resemble blood 
 rushing from your head or to your head due to g-force. Sounds like a good idea, but in reality 
 the execution couldn't have been worse. Why would you even try for realism with that addition when 
 the rest of your game sucks hardcore? Ah well, a gimmick I guess you could say.
  
  Sound: Sub-par to maybe par repetitive voice acting. The cockpit chatter on the radio seems to 
 lack any sense of urgency, as it often seems like the characters could be talking about what they're 
 going to do this weekend just as easily as talking about the missile on your six. Explosions are 
 a joke... and nobody's laughing. Music.. all 5 tracks of it... is extremely repetitive. Planes sound 
 generic. I really wish I could say something good here, but there's nothing good to say. Total 
 letdown in this department, which is really bad in a flight sim game. Your call sign is "Gargoyle 
 1".... and you have no voice. Gotta love budget games.
  
  Control: If I was to ask someone on the development team what that word means, they'd probably 
 think it goes on a salad. Ever see "Spaceballs"? Know the flying Winnebago? That's exactly what 
 your 10 billion dollar plane flies like. It literally turns like a bus with wings. I could never 
 tell what missiles I had active, and many times had to make multiple passes on ground targets because 
 my air-to-ground missiles wouldn't lock on. Guns are USELESS. Don't even bother with them. And 
 if you can land a plane on the aircraft carrier, you deserve a medal. WTF wants to taxi their airplane 
 to the runway in a game like this??? Stupid little annoyances like that whittle away any fun factor 
 that may have been left in the carcass of this could-have-been-good flight sim.
  
  Entertainment: I had a 1981 Honda Civic DX at one time with over 100k miles on it. Going off the 
 speed sensation in this game, I'd bet $5k it could outrun an F-14 traveling at full speed with 
 the afterburners going. Seriously. There is NO sensation of speed at all. When you look and see 
 your speed is over 400 mph and there's not even any wind effects on the cockpit glass, that's when 
 you know your game sucks. Missions are over and done in thirty seconds or less, and most only require 
 the destruction of one or two planes. AND HERE IS THE BIGGEST QUESTION OF THEM ALL. "Your mission 
 is to destroy the enemy transport aircraft. It will be protected by two squadrons of enemy fighter 
 jets. Down the transport aircraft. You are NOT AUTHORIZED TO ENGAGE ENEMY FIGHTERS." Um...... WTF?????? 
 Realism huh... yah, right. I can see someone being told that hey, even though enemy fighters are 
 trying to KILL YOU, you are only concerned with the transport craft. Although, if you manage to 
 hit the transport, it's quite hilarious how the mission is over successfully despite the 50 fighters 
 buzzing around you ready to kill you. WTF Ubi... WTF. Also, if the enemy fires a missile at you, 
 just start the mission over. You will not be able to dodge it. Mostly because your plane turns 
 like an 18-wheeler with 6 flat tires. Chaff all you want, it's no good. And before every mission, 
 Ubisoft decided to use the same dang intro cutscene each time.. and it blows. 
  
  I can't tell you to stay away from this game enough. I wish I had thrown my $60 out the window. 
 Would have been better than wasting it on this garbage. I know this review may seem harsh, but 
 I had really high hopes for this one (thanks Gamespot, Game Informer.. really..) and its a real 
 stinker. I wouldn't recommend this one to anyone who likes a good flight game, action game, or 
 even my worst enemy. The only reason this game will garner ANY good reviews will be because its 
 a new 360 game and people are just looking for new software. New this is, and crap this is too. 
 Stay away. I can't recommend a purchase, or even a rental. Sorry fellow flight game fans, but the 
 wait for an even halfway-decent flight game on 360 continues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychoLord13
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jun 28, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  OK, think about this. The world has been united under a world government and you must keep the 
 peace. You are part of an elite airforce created to protect the peace. You are armed with the latest 
 weapons and the newest, most deadly airplanes around. Keep that image in your head. Now, replace 
 the word "latest" with "most ridiculusly easy to use, so easy it's boring", and replace "newest, 
 most deadly" with "slowest and most difficult to turn" and you have a much more proper image of 
 Over G Fighters. From what I gathered in my 2 missions of playing this game (it's just that bad) , 
 your enemies are more peaceful to you, not a single enemy fired a shot at me, let alone hit me. 
 The game is made to rumble the controller A LOT! It's cool at first notice, but it eventually boils 
 down to a cheap trick that makes a good first impression at the expense of annoying you and wasting 
 controller batteries. So what does the actual gameplay boil down to? It boils down to turning your 
 plane to face your enemies, firing a missle at them once they are locked on, and watching them 
 blow up. Kind of like the instructions on the back of a shampoo bottle huh? Personally, I see it 
 as a bad sign when a game's idea of difficulty is making it hard to turn and face an enemy. At 
 least the game has decent production values. The plane model and the boats all look great (as for 
 your enemies, I never got close enough to one to get a look at them) and the game sounds alright 
 in some parts, but even that is offset by flaws. The graphics are undermined by boring colors, 
 uninspired backgrounds, and a complete lack of anything that resembles artistic direction, while 
 the sound is marred by the sheer annoyance of your engine, subdued weapon noises, and shoddy-at-best 
 voice acting. I personally played this game at my local Gamestop, where the employees know me and 
 sometimes allow me to try out games there, and I left being glad that I didn't have to drop $60 
 or waste a week on my Gamefly rental plan to find out how bad this game is. If you have $60 to 
 burn, you'd be better served by covering your $60 in cow excrements and eating it. You have been 
 warned 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tefdesign
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  This is a genre that has been not treated well on the consoles. I am pleased to say, that if flight 
 games with modern aircraft are your thing, this is a must buy.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The controls are dead on. Their is an option for just about everything. Want to fly arcade? Got 
 it. Want more of a sim feel? Got it. Want different views? Got it.. Want to load the plane the 
 way you want it? Got it. Flying fans do not want to miss this one.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  The aircraft models are well done, and look extremely authentic compared to their real world counterparts. 
 The surrounding environments however, are low textured and very bland... The cockpit view is amazing... the 
 engines actually look "alive"..
  
  SOUND:
  
  Decent sounds, nothing spectacular, and the same applies to the music. It sounds like a Japanese 
 game.. 
  
  VALUE:
  
  The game features a robut campaign that allows the player to choose the missions they play. Nice. 
 Online play should be a blast, and the rivalries should be intense.
  
  TILT:
  
  A modern flight combat game on a next gen system. The game has some high and low points, and fotunately, 
 the highs overshadow the lows.
  
  Thanks for taking the time to read my review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabotage57
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 29, 2006 1:46 am PT
Review:  This game provides a fun and moderately exciting experience. The best aspect of the game is definitely 
 the multiplayer, and as far as I'm concerned until Ace Combat gets online multiplayer its going 
 to be a runner up. The flying in this game seems a bit slower, i. e. no quick spins or turns without 
 intense breaking, but this gives the flight physics a bit more realism. For example a quick dive 
 or climb will send your pilot into a red or black out. The single player missions are short which 
 is helpful because you dont have 65 missiles, but this allows for quicker unlocking for multiplayer, 
 and maybe ill watch a whole replay this time. The graphics are better than ACZ, but do not reach 
 my expectations of next gen. Any fan of flight or dogfighting ace will enjoy this game, but those 
 who prefer to mind blowing 15G+ turns will be in for a lesson in flight.
  
  O........ ya also before you even start your first flight go to options and change the controls 
 to Realistic or else it will be impossible to roll. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 28, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Where to start....
  
  The still images look a whole lot better than reality. Weird things like the missle never actually 
 hits the plane, you just see the missle approaching and then the missle disappears and the plane 
 explodes. That's poor.
  
  Of course you have to play the missions to unlock things that should be unlocked anyways. For just 
 once, just once I would like a game I didn't have to unlock anything. I paid for the whole game. 
 I don't want to play missions ever, I don't want to follow some stupid story. I want a completely 
 open ended and dynamic environment against the computer or against someone online
  
  All I wanted to do was to be able to setup a game against the computer using any plane that is 
 in the game, select how many computer opponents, what planes they are using etc etc. But nooooo, 
 this situation only comes about in Xbox Live.
  
  This is a game I would not buy again. Probably trade it in..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJustin
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I had purchased Over G fighters today and have spent the last 2-3 hours playing the singleplayer 
 portion. I have not touched multiplayer yet. So far This game is a great game for hardcore flying 
 game fans. You truely have to love jets and dogfighting to really get everything out of this game. 
 Which I do. The only bad things about this game so far that I have found are The graphics (which 
 really do not matter if the game is fun) and the Sound. 
  
  The Graphics- Very decent plane graphics aaaaannnnnnnd thats about it unfortunatly. The rest is 
 not so good. Playing on a 30 inch widescreen HDTV
  
  Sound- Sound isn't top notch, but it's pretty good. I'm playing with a 5.1 surround sound by the 
 way. I think the music sucks. Generic rock and roll music with no singing that I have heard, but 
 the 360 helps that catagory by haveing fully customizable music to put your own in. So that helps 
 a great deal.
  
  Levels work kind of weird from what I have seen so far. You choose the scenario and then you choose 
 different things to do in that scenario. For example Scenario 2 will have many different small 
 missions in it which lead up to a hard one.
  
  All in all, If you are a fan of flight simulator games I'd "say what the hell, grab it." I did 
 and I like it. If you don't like them then stay away. If you prefer Things like final Fantasy with 
 all the pretty things to look at and the unrealistic fighting in it then by all means stay away, 
 but if you are 100% aware that there is almost NOTHING to look at except the sky, ground, and the 
 bastard you are trying to kill then this game might be for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfrogue13
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 28, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 6/10 : You win a mission in 30 seconds, if you don't, its because it is so freaking hard 
 to evade missiles. Unlimited chaff/flare, and the missile will still work its way up your butt. 
 BTW this is all on Beginner and Simulation.
  
  Graphics 6/10 : Its impossible to evade an invisible missile! You'll find yourself watching endless 
 replays where you can not find the bugger time and time again. Can not even see the bogey until 
 your withing 1/2 mile of it. Water looks like blue grass.
  
  Sound 7/10 : Its all the same, however sounds good. 5 total music scores. Repetitive.
  
  Value 
 6/10 : I have a hard time justifying $60 for any game, much less a crappy one.
  
  Tilt: 8/10 : For one, what choice do you have if you enjoy modern flight sims. It plays fine, and 
 its not a total pushover against AI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulntara
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited to get this game- I love flight sims and after games like Ace Combat from PS2, 
 flight sims for the 360 should blow them away, right? Well, not exactly. Don't get me wrong- the 
 first mission starts out really cool with the cat shot off the deck but then goes dead when I beat 
 the first mission in only 3 1/2 minutes on my first try. With the difficulty on advanced. I thought 
 to myself that it was a short mission because it was the first mission. Not. I have only been playing 
 the game for about an hour and I have already beaten the first 10 missions and I haven't even died 
 yet. I'm glad there are 65 more missions to play. These missions are way way short. I am not kidding. 
 As for the graphics, not exactly what I was expecting for the 360. The PS2 looks much better with 
 the Ace Combat series. Except for the cockpit, where the gauges actually respond (really cool) plus 
 you have 360 degree view, it's pretty ho-hum. The flight models are nice but not perfect (why the 
 heck is the Tomcat pilot sitting so far back?) . All in all, it is a flight game and yes, I will 
 still play it cause I can go online and maybe get a challenge for once. For those of you out there 
 who haven't wasted 60 bucks yet, rent it first or wait to see if they put a demo online for it. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
