-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Perfect Dark Zero
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/perfectdarkzero/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Awesome presentation, featuring cutting-edge graphics and sound.
 Delicious assortment of high-powered near-future weapons.
 Excellent cooperative mission mode lets you play split screen or online.
 Lots of multiplayer options, including some clever twists on familiar themes.
 One of the best original soundtracks this year.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Characters can look ugly up close, plus some other minor graphical glitches.
 Some missions are frustrating, especially since you can't save midmission.
 Pretty weak storyline is incidental to all the action.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.1, 97 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 15,338 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Rare Ltd.
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Nov 17, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This awesome, high-tech first-person shooter champions the Xbox 360 with its excellent assortment 
 of single- and multiplayer game types, as well as its incredible good looks and dynamic, intense 
 action. 

  It's tempting to try to put Perfect Dark Zero in perspective by spending a lot of time on topics 
 other than what makes it such a terrific action game. One of the highest-profile Xbox 360 launch 
 titles, this near-future first-person shooter is the long-awaited sequel to a highly acclaimed 
 Nintendo 64 hit, and it happens to be one of the biggest games to be released by veteran developer 
 Rare since its well-publicized acquisition by Microsoft several years ago. Perfect Dark Zero's 
 sci-fi theme, together with the circumstances surrounding its release, also means it's destined 
 to be compared to Halo: Combat Evolved, the game that defined the Xbox (so yeah, no pressure) . 
 But let's stick to the point: Perfect Dark Zero's stunning presentation, excellent assortment of 
 believable weapons, exciting tactical firefights, and fully featured single- and multiplayer components 
 combine to make it easily one of the best first-person shooters this year and one of your best 
 options in the Xbox 360's starting lineup. Despite some minor shortcomings, the game is still a 
 tour de force for the Xbox 360, and it's just a thrilling experience that pushes the already-extremely 
 competitive first-person shooter category still further forward.  

          Perfect Dark Zero is finally here and it's amazing.     

  You don't need to be familiar 
 with Perfect Dark for the Nintendo 64 to easily get into Perfect Dark Zero, starring the spunky 
 red-haired hired gun, Joanna Dark. Though she and her dad are technically bounty hunters, the game 
 has got more of a high-tech superspy feel to it, from the futuristic weapons to the fancy gadgets 
 you'll get to use. Perfect Dark Zero's story spans more than a dozen big missions, and may be optionally 
 played through cooperatively with a friend. The campaign is longer than average at about 12 hours, 
 and its multiple difficulty settings, unlockable weapons, and the outstanding co-op mode should 
 keep you coming back to it after you reach the conclusion the first time. Perfect Dark Zero also 
 features a "combat arena" mode that contains most of its multiplayer options, some of which may 
 be played with and against computer-controlled bots in addition to (or instead of) other human 
 players. There's a wide assortment of different modes supporting up to 32 players online, including 
 conventional free-for-all and capture-the-flag modes, as well as some great Counter-Strike-inspired 
 team-based match types. In short, this is big game with a lot to it.  

  However, it's not just all the different modes of play, but rather the sheer attention to detail 
 that separates Perfect Dark Zero from other first-person shooters out there. It's a gorgeous-looking 
 game, especially if you play it on a high-definition display, and the beauty's more than skin deep. 
 Most every weapon in the large arsenal of available pistols, submachine guns, assault rifles, and 
 heavy weapons looks extremely authentic, right on down to their steely sheen and white-hot muzzle 
 flashes. You've never seen a better-looking assortment of guns, and the near-future setting gave 
 the designers license to include lots of familiar hardware, with some surprising special abilities. 
 What's more, some excellent character animation helps make the guns feel as powerful as they look. 
 Enemies recoil realistically depending on where they're hit, no matter if you hit them in the hand, 
 the foot, square in the chest, in the back, or wherever else. And the vast levels are as varied 
 as they are beautiful to behold, setting you loose in jungles, city streets, high-tech industrial 
 compounds, and more. Bullet holes shred the scenery, armor pieces fly every which way under a hail 
 of gunfire, blinding explosions rock the screen, and your enemies' bodies litter the corridors 
 once you're through. Gorgeous lighting and an impressive motion-blur effect that kicks in whenever 
 you make a sharp turn further enhance the quality of Perfect Dark Zero's visuals, resulting in 
 a game that at times could easily be mistaken for a big-budget action movie. Credit is also due 
 to the outstanding audio, which features some heavy-hitting weapon effects, as well as a fantastic, 
 moody soundtrack that gives each mission its own pulsing rhythms. It's a diverse array of electronic 
 and rock beats, and it's all very catchy.  

          Scratch that gun fetish with Perfect Dark Zero's wild assortment of wonderfully true-to-life 
 weapons.     

  From a gameplay standpoint, Perfect Dark Zero is highly refined. It doesn't stray too far from 
 convention, but it features some interesting twists in weapon and enemy design, making for a much 
 more entertaining experience than the average shooter. You can carry up to four different weapons, 
 but larger guns take up more inventory space, which means you could pack several pistols but only 
 one machine gun at a time. It's a good system that makes sense, though it's tough having to choose 
 from all the great options that are available. Even the pistol you start with boasts an optional 
 silencer, a scope, and a flashlight attachment, making it extremely versatile and plenty deadly. 
 But chances are you'll want to replace it soon enough. One of the assault rifles you find later 
 on may be converted into an automated defense turret, helping you tear into the enemies' ranks. 
 There's a pistol that fires madness-inducing projectiles that turn foe against foe (in multiplayer, 
 this causes the victim's teammates to appear as enemies) . One submachine gun even projects a diversionary 
 holographic image of you. Many of the guns are scoped, and smaller weapons can be wielded in pairs, 
 doubling your stopping power. A couple of the rifles have grenade-launcher attachments, letting 
 you seriously damage groups of foes both in story missions and multiplayer, and making these particular 
 firearms seem especially dangerous. But in the end, your choice of guns may well come down to personal 
 preference. There's a lot of cool, lethal firepower to choose from.  

  The type of weapon you're carrying influences your running speed, which is something to consider. 
 There's no jump button, but you are given some tactical options, like taking cover behind obstacles 
 and executing quick rolls at the touch of a button. The cover system is implemented quite well, 
 letting you take position behind any barrier or at any corner at the touch of a button, while seamlessly 
 switching your perspective to a third-person viewpoint, which gives you more situational awareness. 
 You automatically peek out from behind cover when you fire, and it's a deliberate-enough process 
 that doesn't feel overpowered. As for the evasive rolls, they're great for quickly ducking out 
 of harm's way, but you'll take extra damage if you're shot while rolling, so you'll have to think 
 twice about tumbling around too much. And if an enemy gets in your face, you can always bash him 
 with whichever gun you've got equipped. These are all great-looking moves, made all the better 
 since they're powerful. What's more, you can even disarm opponents by ripping their guns right 
 out of their hands, provided you've got room to carry another. It's hard to imagine a more satisfying 
 way to take out some dude on Xbox Live than by using his own weapon against him (preferably the 
 butt of the weapon, for that matter) .     

  Perfect Dark Zero's winning combination of pure run-and-gun action and tactical realism is also 
 captured in the well-designed health system, which lets you soak up a good amount of damage but 
 doesn't let you get cocky about it. Each time you're shot in succession, your health drops just 
 as you'd expect, though Joanna can take a surprising amount of punishment at the normal difficulty 
 setting. If you avoid taking any more damage for a couple of seconds, your health meter instantly 
 jumps back up. This seems like Halo's recharging energy shields at first, but the difference is 
 your maximum health gradually gets depleted the more damage you take. So, typically, the later 
 into a mission you are, the more carefully you'll need to tread.  

          Expect serious resistance during the game's missions, which are even more fun if you play 
 them cooperatively.     

  That's especially true since you'll often have to start a mission over from the very beginning 
 (or maybe from a checkpoint halfway through) if you're killed or otherwise fail. You can't just 
 quick-save your progress after every few steps like you can in many shooters. There are a couple 
 of missions that are demanding of some trial and error, where the lack of an in-mission save feature 
 might be frustrating (there's one particularly punishing late-game mission that forces you to complete 
 your objective in a certain amount of time or start over) . But this design choice mostly just forces 
 you to stay on your toes, and it also helps extend the length of the story mode without feeling 
 cheap. If you do find yourself stuck, thankfully you can adjust the difficulty independently for 
 each mission.  

  The story missions offer a lot of variety, both in terms of mission objectives and tactical situations. 
 You'll experience plenty of up-close, in-your-face shoot-outs that are perfect for shotguns and 
 high-powered pistols, not to mention melee attacks. But the game also packs in lots of medium- 
 and long-range shooting, sometimes pitting you against surprisingly large numbers of entrenched 
 foes. There's some hacking, lock-picking, and demolitions thrown in there for good measure, each 
 involving its own quick little minigame. There's a good bit of stealth, which lets you get the 
 drop on your enemies before all hell breaks loose. Before each mission, you get to select your 
 starting weapons based on the guns you've collected up to that point in the game, which is a nice 
 touch that invites you to revisit earlier missions with later weapons. Some missions let you fight 
 alongside some computer-controlled comrades, who'll do a thoroughly competent job helping to keep 
 your foes at bay, and who may well save your life a few times. There are also a couple of entertaining 
 but brief vehicular sequences in Perfect Dark Zero, featuring a jetpack and a hovercraft that you 
 can pilot around. These look great and are fun to drive, but you don't get to play around with 
 them for very long. Most of the combat arena maps and modes don't have vehicles in them either, 
 so vehicles are one of the aspects of the game that noticeably could have been more fleshed out. 

  The foes you'll fight throughout the missions in Perfect Dark Zero won't necessarily shock you 
 with their tactical prowess, but they do a pretty good job of weaving to avoid your fire or just 
 keeping their heads down. In general, they believably behave like action movie fodder, creating 
 danger often just through sheer numbers. What's interesting about them is that many of them are 
 armored, clad in helmets or full protective gear. Anyone who has been playing first-person shooters 
 for a while is by now accustomed to aiming for enemies' heads, and while headshots in Perfect Dark 
 Zero are as deadly as you'd expect against unprotected opponents, helmeted foes can withstand a 
 couple of shots to the noggin before going down. Even at the standard difficulty, your foes tend 
 to be highly accurate at long range, which would seem unrealistic were it not for the scopes on 
 their weapons. And they'll do a good job of tracking you down if you try to run from them. Your 
 foes will use all manner of different weapons against you, and that, combined with the different 
 environments you'll be fighting in, keeps the combat consistently fresh. It helps that your foes 
 have a lot to say in battle -- you'll catch them urging their comrades to press the attack when you're 
 reloading, cursing you if they're shot but survive, and so on, and you'll rarely hear any of the 
 dialogue repeat.  

          The plot of Perfect Dark Zero is mostly just an excuse to put you in a series of intense 
 shootouts all around the world.     

  It's fortunate that the action is as good as it is, since the story in Perfect Dark Zero -- which 
 involves a power-hungry businessman's search for some sort of powerful artifact -- feels surprisingly 
 tacked on. A combination of voice-over mission briefings and rather unimpressive cutscenes using 
 the in-game character models try to drive the plot forward, but it's easy to get lost in the details, 
 and it's harder to care. Despite some good voice acting, the characters just aren't developed much, 
 not even Joanna's relationship with her gruff father. The story takes a few decent twists, but 
 it seems to be kept down to a minimum so as not to get in the way of the shooting action. It's 
 too bad, though, since a better story would have helped make the mission mode more cohesive. As 
 it stands, the missions are generally excellent, but they do feel somewhat disconnected, especially 
 since the game pushes you back out to the mission-select menu in between each one. A very brief 
 ending also prevents Perfect Dark Zero from having much impact from a storytelling standpoint. 
 But on the plus side, there's a good chance you'll want to dive right back into the campaign as 
 soon as you've finished it for the first time.  

  Perfect Dark Zero's cooperative play mode is easily one of the best things about the game. You 
 can play through the entire campaign cooperatively online or in a split screen, and the tactical 
 shooting is even more fun when you're coordinating with a friend. However, what's really great 
 about the co-op mode is that it does more than just throw a carbon copy of Joanna Dark into each 
 level with you. Instead, player two will control some other character, who may begin the mission 
 in a different place and be forced to overcome different obstacles from player one. For example, 
 one early mission has Joanna high up on some rafters overlooking a city street where her father 
 is fighting for his life. When playing solo, you must defend Jack Dark by sniping at his enemies 
 and cutting a path for him to proceed. But in co-op, player two controls Jack directly.     
 

  These types of scenarios don't fundamentally change the fact that the both of you will end up running 
 and gunning side by side, but they help keep things fresh and they also foster communication between 
 the players. What's more, the headset support works great, letting you speak to your partner without 
 interruption during missions and in between them (during the relatively brief loading times and 
 everything) . And the game is still plenty challenging in co-op mode, offering both players a lot 
 of targets to shoot at. Should one player fall in combat, the other player can revive him just 
 as long as the coast is clear. In one nice little innovation, you'll always be able to find the 
 other player in a co-op game just by following some yellow waypoint markers to his or her location. 
 For that matter, similar waypoints also appear to help guide you to your next objective. At first 
 this seems like cheating (and you can toggle it off if you want) , since you're clearly shown where 
 you're supposed to go. But it's a great feature that's simply there to keep you from getting lost 
 in some of the big levels, and it's justified in the context of gameplay by how Joanna's off-site 
 support staff is able to frequently bring her updated intel and status reports.  

          Lots of different multiplayer variants are available, including all the usual suspects 
 as well as some fun new game types.     

  Whether you play solo or cooperatively, the mission mode presents some of the game's greatest thrills. 
 But the combat arena mode offers plenty of fun and variety as well. Multiplayer matches in Perfect 
 Dark Zero aren't wildly out of the ordinary, but the excellent weapon selection, flexibility of 
 options, high-quality maps, and smooth online performance (we never experienced any lag in several 
 days of playing online) make for a rock-solid competitive shooter. Game types are split up into 
 "deathmatch" and "dark-ops" themes, each of which features a number of unique variants. The deathmatch 
 variants all let you play with bots, and that includes killcount and team killcount for your typical 
 multiplayer shoot-outs, as well as capture-the-flag and territorial gains, the latter of which 
 forces players to fight for control over certain key points on each map. You can determine the 
 weapon loadout, number of players, and many other variables for each match.  

  As for the dark-ops variants, these all feature a Counter-Strike-style rounds system, so you'll 
 earn money as you play and will get to spend it on armor and the weapons of your choice in between 
 rounds. Eradication is the simplest dark-ops variant, pitting one team against another in a fight 
 to the finish. Onslaught puts one team on offense and one on defense, and the defensive team must 
 make a stand in a fortified position. The defense team may purchase weapons, while the offense 
 team may not. But members of the offense team respawn if killed, while members of the defense team 
 only get one life. The infection variant is kind of similar, but it's a free-for-all in which human 
 players must fend off infected players who look like skeletons. Human players can purchase weapons, 
 while infected players are stuck with whatever they can get their hands on. But any human killed 
 by an infected player joins the infected... making it that much tougher for any remaining humans 
 to survive the round. Finally, the sabotage variant tasks the offense team with trying to incur 
 as much collateral damage as possible by damaging key objects in the environment, while the defense 
 team must prevent this by any means necessary. You can only play dark-ops matches with other human 
 players, though the bots found in the deathmatch variants seem like they could have been smart 
 enough to handle these slightly more complicated battles, too.  

  Not every combination of map, game variant, and number of players leads to spectacular results, 
 but many of them do. The killcount and capture-the-flag modes, being the most conventional, are 
 probably the least remarkable, while the more-novel modes like onslaught and infected are really 
 quite fun, offering tense but fast-paced thrills. All modes benefit from giving you a helpful onscreen 
 map and radar, which briefly detects foes that fire their weapons in your vicinity and lets you 
 get to where the action is. The game records your progress as you play successive matches, and 
 many of the unlockable achievements are tied to long-term multiplayer accomplishments, like playing 
 1,000 deathmatch games. And since you can heavily customize any multiplayer games you set up, down 
 to which combination of weapons will be available for players to choose from, Perfect Dark Zero 
 should have plenty to keep you busy over the long haul.  

          Holding out for an Xbox 360 just got tougher.     

  As mentioned, Perfect Dark Zero 
 is very impressive from a visual standpoint, but some of the multiplayer match types do bring out 
 some of its graphical rough edges. Team-based matches color code friends from foes, but the monochromatic 
 uniforms look rather garish. You'll also see some downright crazy rag-doll death animations, like 
 when characters are killed sometimes they'll bounce or slump in impossible ways -- effects that are 
 likely to be just as amusing as they're distracting (but they do detract from the presentation 
 slightly) . You might also see the game's frame rate take a dive during particularly hairy multiplayer 
 shoot-outs, though this also happens on occasion in the mission mode. Other visual details in Perfect 
 Dark Zero really stand out, like the stylized gouts of blood that spurt out whenever you score 
 a headshot, or the way killed enemies' weapons leave their grip and clatter to the ground. The 
 game performs about as well if you're playing alone or in a split screen with three other players, 
 and it still looks fantastic on a standard-definition television. The audio has no real weak points 
 apart from a few hokey voice acting performances, but the weapon fire and musical score easily 
 drown this out. There's no music during multiplayer matches, though, unless you provide your own 
 using the Xbox 360's slick custom soundtracks feature. Also, if you've got a surround-sound system, 
 you'll enjoy the tactical advantages of hearing all the great audio happening all around you.  
 

  Taken as a whole, Perfect Dark Zero is decidedly one of the best, fully featured Xbox 360 games 
 so far, and it's a compelling reason to spring for the system if you've been on the fence. While 
 the game doesn't reinvent the first-person shooter, which has been a mainstay of action gaming 
 for more than a decade, it delivers one of the most highly refined and spectacular examples of 
 this brand of gameplay to date. From its ravishing good looks and totally first-rate audio, to 
 the believable feel of its outstanding weapons, to its wealth of single- and multiplayer options, 
 Perfect Dark Zero delivers just about everything you could hope for from a first-person shooter. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1408 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jmeads
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 5:53 am PT
Review:  Like some sort of crazy A-Team-style plan involving hammering in a garage, close-ups of pipes being 
 cut, sheets of spiked metal riveted onto a van, and some hilarious one-liners from Face-man, Perfect 
 Dark Zero has actually come together. And we love it.
  
  You'll begin, unless you want your arse handed to you by an online ninja, with the 14-level single-player 
 adventure. To anyone skilled in counting, it should come as no surprise this is a prequel, but 
 there's absolutely no need to scour charity shop bargain bins for game cartridges; previous knowledge 
 of the N64 classic is unnecessary. You're Joanna, a wet-behind-the-ears special operative with 
 a Yankie accent (bizarrely, she spoke with a plum in her mouth in Perfect Dark) . Your father is 
 Jack Dark, a mercenary with vocal chords that have gargled glass. Your chum back at mission control 
 is Chandra, a dreadlocked hottie with a viper wit and a body that old men go to prison for leering 
 at.
  
  Through a somewhat convoluted plot that you won't be spending too much time remembering, this motley 
 crew begin to track a Mekon-headed old Chinese man called Zhang-Li, and his  
 daughter, Mai Hem ('mayhem', geddit?) . This is achieved by killing hundreds of thugs, most with 
 comical oriental accents. Good, wholesome fun is guaranteed. This is the game at its least impressive; 
 the voices range from passable to offensive, later on enemies sound dangerously close to South 
 Park's Terrance and Phillip, and the slightly 'wacky' nature of the enemies fails to amuse, especially 
 when almost everything else in the game is so polished.
  
  The gigantic level structure of PDZ simply could not be recreated on a last-generation console. 
 By the time you've struggled out of a lift, and gawked at the flippin' great rocket on a launch 
 pad, battled across a floating ocean platform, ridden a gantry bay, been attacked by bad bastards 
 in jetpacks, and realised this is still the first mission, you'll be praising Microsoft's Rare 
 purchase as a stroke of prescient genius. And the level design never deviates from 'impressive', 
 except towards the realm of 'astonishing'.
  
  Aside from a return to this floating fortress later on, each of the missions is significantly different 
 from the next. You'll spend some time blowing up a boat in a rundown warehouse, then scale a phenomenally 
 lit nightclub, realising the epilepsy warning in the instruction booklet wasn't a hollow threat. 
 The action moves on to a dash along the tops of skyscrapers, tagging foes and keeping on your toes 
 as a manic boss named Killian sweeps down in a dropship brimming with rockets, and two large, minimally 
 protected engines.
  
  A night-time assault on a Chinese temple during a fireworks celebration is a particularly choice 
 bit of fun with a gun. The infiltration and escape from a laboratory and a hovercraft ride through 
 enemy compounds is classic heart-pounding action; pant-crappingly intense. But it is the jungle 
 trek through a native village and a jetpack ride over Mayan ruins that left us pointing at the 
 screen, agape. The action never lets up - it simply goes from one epic locale to the next. It's 
 the assault on a massive temple exterior, followed by a banzai charge over a huge bridge swarming 
 with wave after wave of enemies that really leaves you bewildered and utterly ecstatic at what's 
 possible in games nowadays.
  
  The advancements in level design also leave you little concern over that dreaded (and invented) 
 word: 'replayability'. Because, like the N64 sequel, Rare has ensured you'll be charging through 
 each mission dozens of times. Why? Well, for starters, there are four difficulty settings: Agent 
 for the absolute beginner; Secret Agent for the casual or inebriated gamer; Perfect Agent for veteran 
 first-person aficionados; and finally, Dark Agent, a mode so horrifically hard you'll be shouting 
 all manner of rude words at your television screen.
  
  The way you complete each mission also adds to the replay value: the easier the difficulty, the 
 fewer objectives you'll have to attempt. And in almost every single room, there's a different way 
 to play. Go in guns blazing, or snipe from a balcony? Or use the Cover mode to hide behind a wall, 
 using your target reticule to line up a kill? Or you can always find a second player (either online 
 or System Link) to partner up with, and waltz through each level yelling radio messages at each 
 other, catching foes in the crossfire, and solving puzzles that only appear if there are two agents 
 on the case. This is, quite simply, the best co-op action since Doom 3. Bloody hell, is that not 
 enough for you? Then how about collecting the new weapons each mission has, then using them on 
 previously unlocked levels, thus creating a whole set of new opportunities for wanton destruction?
 
  
  Ah yes, the weapons. All 25 of them. And most of them have two or three modes of fire; some can 
 be dual-wielded, and almost all of them have a novel and potentially devastating tactic you'll 
 spend weeks perfecting. There are just so many ways to pummel, eviscerate, skewer, or cleave your 
 foe that you'll go giddy figuring out which is your favourite. Each weapon, thanks to months of 
 finetuning at Rare, is reasonably balanced to all the others, but it still didn't stop us over-using 
 our homage to GoldenEye, the FAC-16 assault rifle. Dropping foes with a grenade burst or bullets 
 has never been so much fun. Well, except when you try the RCP-90 with its threat detector, effectively 
 turning everyone orange and allowing you to see in the dark. Double-magnums you can fire independently 
 or at the same time? Machine-guns that turn into sentry guns to stick to exits and catch adversaries 
 out? Rifles with a special visual scope turning the entire playing field into Arnie's X-Ray scanning 
 scene from Total Recall? Some of the OXM team had to be slapped to stop them squealing. And we 
 don't even have the room to tell you about Joanna's gadgets; three types of goggles, a demokit 
 for blasting through weakened walls, a Locktopus for opening gates and dropping ladders, and a 
 DataThief for hacking terminals.
  
  Then there's online play for up to 32 players. Our initial disappointment (only six levels?) was 
 well and truly crushed under the insane number of options to try. A Counter-Strike-based method 
 of armament purchasing drew us in; two vehicles with which to trundle over enemies brought home 
 great memories of Unreal Tournament 2004; masses of game modes fed our insane hunger for Xbox Live 
 carnage. The destructible nature of each zone brought home the teamplay and tactics needed to succeed. 
 We then started hyperventilating at the countless tactics you can employ with any of the weapons, 
 the custom armament selection you can tweak in the options, and the fact you can shrink or enlarge 
 any map from tiny to gigantic.
  
  And don't get us started on the Gamerscore points you can accrue. We had to have a lie-down after 
 that. We really weren't prepared for how good this game is. PDZ is easily the most graphically 
 gorgeous first-person game ever seen on a console. But it's the exceptional replay value both offline 
 and on, the multitude of weapons you'll entertain yourself with for weeks, and the balls-to-the-wall, 
 last-second way this game came together without imploding that makes you glad to be a gamer. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathtarget04
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  -Awesome gameplay, continues on what the orginal had.
  -Great coop feature. (Played with friends for hours and hours :) )
  -Multiplayer is where it 
 shines ( Hard to get into matches nowadays but at the time it was really addictive)
  -The graphics are well polished (at the time of course :P)
  -Really good replayability, online 
 wise and coop :)
  -Joanna dark is easliy the best woman protagonist in any given game (step aside lara croft, joanna 
 is #1)
  
  The Bad:
  
  -No checkpoints between missions (almost broke my conroller on hard mode trying to finish a mission 
 :P)
  -Although the visuals were great, when there were closeups on certain people or objects it looked 
 belgh : (
  -Plus some graphical hitches that took away the greatness of the game.
  -The story could have been better and just a tad longer....
  
  
  Final thoughts:
  
  So 
 did it live up to the original perfect dark?? um no but it is one of my favorite games for the 
 360. Lovers of perfect dark for n64 will defenitly love this. Even newcomers to the series will 
 enjoy it. While its multiplayer shines, the single player campaign is where it slouches, i would 
 recommend playing with a friend to make it more enjoyable. While the graphics dont look so well 
 nowadays, there's no need to miss this game. Its a good buy for anyone who wants a good shooter. 
 overall 8.6 out of 10.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishoturface
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2009 9:37 am PT
Review:  
  
  The good: Good multiplayer - great sound - Co-op.
  
  
  
  The bad: Graphics are good but everything looks so shiny even the dirt is - weak story - boring 
 campaign - guns in multiplayer are very weak - some missions are very confusing.
  
  
  You play as Johanna dark who is some sort of agent but its never really explained as to what type 
 of agent.
  The story is weak.
  It turns out some bad guys have gotten a hold of some sort of weapon that could help them take 
 over the world.
  And of course you have to take them out... It is really just a way to kill a bunch of bad guys 
 and kick some butt.
  Now this is a prequel to the perfect dark game for the nintendo 64. Now how this is a prequel i 
 have no idea, since the story is rather bland, boring and just plain not fun at all.
  
  The missions can vary from anywhere to 10 minutes to around 30 minutes..
  The main reason it 
 would take you 30 minutes to complete a missions is just because levels can be very confusing. 
 there is a blue arrow on the ground that will point you toward your objective but i never really 
 found it useful since the arrow is kinda hard to see and sometimes it seems to just disappear.
 
  Like i said some missions are easy some are not and some missions (meaning most) are flatout boring.
 
  
  By boring i mean boring gunplay, the guns are powerful but rather hard to aim with since the sensitivity 
 is rather odd and enemies jusr rolling and running around aimlessly make it really hard to even 
 get your cross-hairs on them.
  Enemies might seem smart by just running around and diving. But, in truth they are just plain stupid, 
 Running right by you without shooting or diving right in front of you and looking at you like "shoot 
 me".
  
  There is co-op for up to two players splitscreen and two players online.
  The co-op is a bit more fun than just you by yourslef with some dumb friendly AI.
  The second 
 player will play as either some girl that is Johannas friend, or as Jack Dark (Johannas dad) who 
 is also some type of agent.
  
  
  In the campaign you will see a few different types of enemies and many different weapons. Enemies 
 like some that are in vehicles (some sort of jet pack or something) ot the hovercraft which can 
 go on land and sea.
  And speaking of weapons. There are around 25 or so weapons ranging from the standard pistol to 
 the almighty rocket launcher. There is a sniper rifle called the "Jackal" but sniping is just plain 
 useless since the enemies always run around and not to mention the sniper rifle is only single 
 shot and takes up almost all your guns spaces you have.
  By gunspaces i mean there are four slots where you can carry weapons, Pistols only take up one 
 while SMG's shotguns and assault rifles take up two, while the larger weapons (rocket launcher, 
 jackal some other sort of other sniper rifle that in its secondary mode can see through walls and 
 the M-60) and if you carry any of those weapons you can at least carry one pistol like the heavy 
 duty 357. python.
  You can take cover in single player and multiplayer but the cover system is rather weak since you 
 have to wait til the games says you can take cover behind a wall.
  
  The campaign could easily take you anywhere from 6-14 hours depending on the difficulty and if 
 you can figure out the levels easily but the average player should be able to complete it in around 
 8 hours on the easiest setting.
  
  
  The multiplayer is probably the best part of the game even though it has its flaws.
  You play 
 with up to 16 players online or 15 other bot offline in splitscreen with some friends.
  There are many modes but only 5-6 maps. But those maps can be set to be different sized maps (small, 
 medium and large) the only reason you should probably have it set to large is if you have the full 
 amount of bots or you dont mind walking five minutes to find someone to kill.
  The game modes vary from your normal deatdmatch, teamdeatch match capture the flag and so on. But 
 the beter games modes are in a class called darkops. These game modes are more unique, like onslaught 
 which is where one team defends and the other attacks. The defender being able to but weapons with 
 a certain amount of money before the attack begins. And the attackers have a preset weapon that 
 you can choose which weapon the attackers start with.
  You can also set the amount of money the defenders start with.
  And there is the infection games 
 mode, where one player starts out as the infected and tries to infect all the other players and 
 the last person not infected wins.
  Like i said earlier the weapons are very weak in the multiplayer. It can take up to 2 clips to 
 take down an enemy. With the exception of the shotgun sniper rifles and rocket launcher. But once 
 again sniping is useless.
  The shotgun will only take two shots up close but futher away and if they have armor it might take 
 5-6 shots with the shotgun.
  One wierd thing i found about the grenade launchers is that it tales two grenades to kill an enemy 
 even if you are only a few feet away from them..
  Now i dont know why they made the weapons so weak but i just found it a pain in the butt.
  
 
  
  The graphics as mentioned are good, but every little surface looks like it has just been waxed 
 and is really shiny. I did find it anmoying yo be looking at dirt or 1000 year old walls that shine 
 like some car that just got waxed. There are also some glitches like enemies running into walls 
 and conyinue to run into them til you kill them.
  The characters also do not look so good upclose (they sure could use a makerover) .
  
  Teh sound 
 is rather good. With a good soundtrack. And good sounding guns.
  The downfall of the sound is the acting.. Just plain old not very well done.
  
  
  Overall 
 i might have bashed this game somewhat. while the singleplayer is boring and the co-op is the only 
 really good part about doing missions, and the multiplayer being the best i do not see why you 
 should not at least try it for yourself.
  
  
  
  Campaign: 6.4/10
  Co-op: 7.7/10
  Multiplayer: 8.0/10
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  Sound: 9.0/10
  singleplayer gameplay: 5.7/10
  Multiplayer 
 gameplay: 8.3/10
  Funnessfactor: 8.5/10
  Overall score: 7.1/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tower75935
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 3:25 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark: Zero is a good first person shooter. However, if your interested in playing the Campaign 
 (avoid this one) . The achievements are okay to collect but gets pretty annoying for some of them. 
 The thing that make's Perfect Dark: Zero seem like it is the best FPS ever is that the Multiplayer 
 is so good, you seriously will be addicted for hours on end!
  It feels sort of like "Timesplitters" multiplayer, which is great. I love how you have to earn 
 guns in multiplayer by buying credits to earn them it is pretty neat and also interesting. The 
 graphics are nothing to talk about, they look pretty weak in most places.... there are only a few 
 things that have been worked on in my opinion in the graphical spots. I loved the online play the 
 most, you diehard online fans, will get the most out of this game. However, still watch out for 
 immature people who have nothing better to do but ruin the match, that is the only error that will 
 make Perfect Dark: Zero a non-replay. 
  Overalll, Perfect Dark: Zero is an impressive game in the multiplayer standpoint but the single-player 
 definitely needs to be remade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peppersfan2
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero looks like a great game. Its graphics are very well done and have a unique polish 
 to them. However this is where the praise for this game ends.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is the prequel to its Nintendo 64 predecessor Perfect Dark. While Perfect Dark 
 Zero was a great game and one that still has a single player campaign that was a blast to play 
 Perfect Dark Zero delievers none of that. 
  
  The story is tepid shallow and bland the characters are annoying and lifeless. Joanna Dark is cardboard 
 and lifeless. 
  
  The weapons are annoying and enemies take way to much ammunition to the skull to kill. You would 
 think that a single well placed headshot would be enough right? Wrong what will happen is that 
 you will shoot one enemy in the eye knock some of his armor off and watch as he rushes away to 
 alert more enemies to your presence. The game has zero replay value and you won't want to play 
 it more than once anyway.
  
  The graphics are breathtaking and remarkable considering how rushed this Xbox 360 launch title 
 was.
  
  The game tries to incorperate stealth mechanics but due to the one track AI and the disasterous 
 gameplay this is impossible. The soundtrack is lame and has none of the industrial avant garde 
 tracks that added to what made Perfect Dark so great. 
  
  However the game is cheap around 8 dollars american so play it once and destroy it afterwards. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perfect_balance
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 12:14 pm PT
Review:  i don't understand why this game has so much rating and what the people see in this game. First 
 the first Perfect Dark is way much better than this.
  
  This game is good, is fun, but a 9.0 of rating to this game? Come on!! The graphics are good but 
 can improve a lot but to be the first 360 game is acceptable. The music disturb me a lot, this 
 is no music for a action game. The game play i think is really good, good story but its too short, 
 its extremly hard in some parts of the game but this add more fun to the title. 
  
  The multiplayer is so confusing and boring for me, it's hard to focus a especific target a spend 
 much time trying to kill some one.
  
  Overral: this game is good but can improve a lot more.
  
  I miss the Johan Dark of N64, for 
 me is better and have more personality. If you have 8.00$ in your pocket and what a game try this, 
 but believe me, no is that awesome that other people tell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyFingerPoints
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2009 11:52 pm PT
Review:  I finished the campaign in a day and I would have to say it is . The single player is nothing like 
 the perfect dark for the Nintendo 64. The campaign is very short, for instance in only took me 
 a day to beat it. And it has a disappointing story. The game is hard to follow, it is highly fictional 
 and isn't that different than an Indiana Jones movie. Also the ending is not well thought out and 
 the last boss scene is quite easy. Another issue is the cover system. It isn't very fluid and it 
 takes some time to get used too. In the end I only used the cover system about 10 times in the 
 whole game. However there are positive things that keep this game from getting any lower than an 
 eight. The combat is medium paced and there is a large number of weapons. Most come with alternative 
 fire which makes firing them interesting. Along with that the game comes with a fun multiplayer 
 and an good co-op mode online and off. You can play multiplayer with bots which is alright, but 
 the multiplayer really stands out online with up to 16 players. There are a variety of modes and 
 maps, and you can adjust many things with the match such as the size of the map (ex 1/2 size 3/4 
 size etc.) . Overall Perfect Dark Zero isn't perfect, it can be fun and challenging so if you don't 
 pay more that 20$ i recommend it to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damiancds
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Okay, my main beef with this game is the story. Everything seems so immature and childish. Forgive 
 me for saying that I wish it was a little on the darker side. For those of you who played the N64 
 version know what I'm talking about. 
  
  You'll also probably remember the shooting range too, which would have been a great addition to 
 this game merely for achievements (which seem unimaginative and boring)
  
  Otherwise, the gameplay and weapon handling system seems to flow (although the multiplayer modes 
 have seemed to borrow a little to heavily from counter strike in the buying weapons scheme) but 
 all in all it work.
  
  
  Bottom line-
  if you enjoyed the original on N64, you might be a little letdown with the story on this one, but 
 otherwise it has some solid gameplay points. If you're really weary, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassin973
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  First off it is a great game. Ther campaign isn't as good as the multiplayer. Multiplayer-9/10- campaign-8/10-controls-9/10. On 
 the campaign. It is intesting but not the best turns out. Definitely worth the money. The campegn 
 i don't think they put as much as thought into that as they did into the multiplayer. The multiplayer 
 is great. It has great maps, great modes, and great AI's. The Zombie mode is my favorite in dark 
 ops. It is one of the most parts I play on this game. The killcount is awsome also. But it is cool 
 with the Ai's because they're not really stupid. Against the Ai's you will still die sometimes. The 
 weapons are great in this game too! This game is a must have for the 8 bucks! It is really fun, 
 but also a great achievement game. One thing that is also awsome is that when you play zombie they 
 are actually skeletons. The pistols are pretty good in this game to. I use them a lot in zombie 
 untill i buy or find a atomatic. Automatics are beasts in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no_pants_4_u
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 11, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  I will state that this review comes MUCH MUCH later than its initial release frame and that since 
 then, there have been a bevy of games that have improved upon graphical goodness, so I can't be 
 too heavy handed with this review. 
  
  HOWEVER, and I'm dead serious... if this shooter were released TEN to FIFTEEN years ago, I'm pretty 
 sure I still wouldn't buy it. The multi-player is a complete mess (I'm serious, Goldeneye would 
 kick the crap out of this if it just had a new coat of paint on it... the entire 'feel' is just 
 all wrong.) , the single player campaign has a very contrived story with wonky controls, and the 
 weapons, stealth action, and general gameplay aren't very responsive. The achievements for the 
 Xbox 360 are very poor too-extremely difficult with the majority of them online (which to me, wasn't 
 really an option) .
  
  Perhaps I'm spoiled from Call of Duty 4 and Fallout 3 and I do take that into account, but unless 
 you haven't played games in the last 10 years (in which case this would be brand new to you and 
 you wouldn't probably mind) , best leave this sucker in the bargain bin, where it belongs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PurpuhlRowboht
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the first games to come out for the Xbox 360 and I think it was the first fps for 
 the 360 as well. Even though it was next generation at the time the gamespot review was written, 
 it doesn't mean it's as great a game as they say.
  Some Xbox Live multiplayer maps are wide open, barren fields and our character is too slow to run 
 over to the other side of the map where everyone is getting in on the real action. Although there 
 are teleporters after you respawn, it is not very specific as to where each one goes to.
  The story is just boring and uninteresting and gives you no motivation to do the mission you are 
 given. It is also easy to get lost and talks quite a while to wait for arrows directing you to 
 your objective to appear.
  Enemies take a little too long to die as they always crouch over in pain and get up when they are 
 still alive or fall over when they are dead. It is a waste of time to wait and see if the enemy 
 is dead yet when dozens of others are shooting at you.
  The protagonist also takes a fairly long amount of time to reload her gun which is very inconvenient 
 when you are on the verge of death in the heat of a fire fight.
  Plain and simple: Once you go 'Orange Box' you never go back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FJHrunner
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  I am going to go with the editor's choice on this one... 9.0 for a score!! Perfect Dark Zero is 
 great with an awesome storyline and it's a great adventure! Though the only 2 bad things about 
 this game are that it takes forever to kill an enemy! In order to kill somebody from the head it 
 takes 2 shots!! 2!!!!! 2 shots!!!!! Oh my God! And the last bad thing about the game is that it 
 doesn't have guns anyone could possibly know about!!!!!!!! Like in 2-Player or X-Box Live, you 
 are trying to find this one gun but it looks different than it does in the (Pick Gun Up) Box!! 
 (Y Button) . That is one thing I would be concerned about! Anyway it has a great 2-Player setup!! 
 I love it!! You will too! From overall rating, I'd rate Perfect Dark Zero... 
  ... ****/... 4.5 stars!! Thanks for reading my review! Tune in next time for a review on the NDS 
 game... Guitar Hero On Tour! Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lahdeedah
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Well, Perfect Dark Zero is a great game, and a great sequel to the series. Everyone says Perfect 
 Dark Zero isn't better than Perfect Dark. I find Perfect Dark Zero better than it. Perfect Dark 
 was good at the time, but now this came along, and blew it away.
  
  You play Joanna Dark. You go by Jo. You look a whole lot better in this game than the last one. 
 You have orange hair in this one. There are a bunch of futuristic guns, and they have realistic 
 sounds. They are better than the guns bungie made up for the halo series. I found those guns pretty 
 lame.
  
  This game is great, but, it is ridiculously hard even on the easiest difficulty. Well, it's not 
 hard on the easiest difficulty... it's just that the aiming is so hard. Good thing on the Agent 
 difficulty you barely get hurt so you have a lot of time to line up the crosshair with the enemy. 
 
  
  The graphics are okay compared to today. The AI is decent, but the enemies look pretty lame up 
 close like gamespot's review said. You only see 2 different kinds of enemies for a lot of the game
 
  
  Overall, Perfect Dark Zero is a great game, and worth a buy, but you are warned about the aiming. 
 The online play is pretty good, but you have to be good with the aiming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkness7089
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  First lets just say that I got this game for 2 reasons; one, I was a big fan of Perfect Dark, the 
 best (or at least one of the best) shooter of that time before the genre was fully marketed and 
 then flooded. Secondly, its only 20$ now. The original Perfect Dark was the only game I rented 
 several times. Although my standards have gone way up to today, and I wasn't as crazy about this 
 one before or after playing it, it was an enjoyable experience.
  
  Perfect Dark functions in many ways as you would expect, like the original, it has a single player, 
 full offline skirmish with full bots, but now you can CO OP the single player online or off, making 
 it a great game to play with a friend. Its bot infested multiplayers can now be done online, so 
 Zero makes up for everything the N64 version couldn't accomplish in that time period. In some ways, 
 it's basically a remake instead of a new game, but there are new gameplay modes and a new single 
 player to keep you busy.
  
  You'll find there are plenty of guns to use in this game, leaving you with tough times choosing 
 between them. Do you want to use the Fac with a bigger bullet chip, but a shorter range scope and 
 only being able to fire 1 grenade at a time before reloading? Or do you want the Superdragon, the 
 smaller bullet clip gun with a longer range scope and firing up to 6 grenades before needing to 
 reload? (Machine Guns) Do you want to use hard hitting revolvers, or not bother with the slow rate 
 of fire and take your chances with the faster pistols? Do you want to carry a Laptop to throw out 
 a Sentry gun? The choices are there, and you are limited how much you can carry, a balanced system 
 any great shooter has. You have 4 slots, Pistols are 1 slot, most other guns are 2 slots, heavy 
 guns like a sniper rifle or M60 are 3; leaving only room for a pistol sidearm.
  
  Multiplayer modes aren't more than you'd expect, but if you want some action, its there. Classic 
 Deathmatch or TeamDeathmatch, Capture the Flag, Capture the bases, Attack/Defend a base, Infection. 
 Infection is especially fun, if you don't know what that is, it has 25% of the players start the 
 game as a skeleton. When a skeleton kills a human, the human respawns as a skeleton, but skeletons 
 stay skeletons. If you are a human, your goal is to survive the time limit, if you are a skeleton, 
 your goal is to kill all the humans. But interesting still, Humans can buy weapons with credits 
 earned from score/kills, Skeletons all spawn with the same low level gun and can't upgrade, unless 
 they loot a dead player. You still get credits as a skeleton to spend the next time you are a human 
 though. Do your teams job for the best score. Attack/Defend is similar, the Defenders can buy better 
 weapons while the attackers can't, but you still get credits to spend the next time you Defend 
 and the Attackers keep repawning. Multiplayer modes/matches can be heavily customized just like 
 the original, choosing what guns can be used for most modes, the difficulty of the bots, how big 
 the maps are (of the same areas) , and so on. Its nothing special, its just there and you'd want 
 it to be. Just like the original, you can choose which weapons are in a game, or if the game is 
 using the shop method, you can't choose which weapons are on and off the shopping list. If you 
 want the entire match to feature only pistols or only something else, you can. (Fill the game with 
 only Swords and Shields and have a brawl)
  
  So how does Perfect Dark Zero live up to 2008 Standards? Well, I've played Gears of war online 
 and Call of Duty 4 (I own all 3) , so I would say, rather well. Gears does have a better single player 
 but really lacks any decent multi player, 8 player cap with no bots is just depressing. Perfect 
 Dark lets you get up to 16 bots or players at the same time, with a huge list of guns Gears doesn't 
 have either. Call of Duty 4 has the guns and numbers but lacks the game modes and bots too. As 
 far as single player goes, this one isn't as good but I found it to be amusing, its especially 
 fun with co op when one player can get a sniper rifle while the other packs a super dragon. Keep 
 in mind that you can revive each other in CO OP, so you can crank up the difficulty and really 
 take some beatings as long as you both don't die at the same time.
  
  Its outdated standards is offset by its reduced price, bringing you the same great bargain the 
 day it was new, a worthwhile investment for anyone's collection shelf.
  
  Single player: 
  (Experience) B (Acceptable)
  Presentation: 
  (Video/Audio) A (Good)
  Performance: 
 A (Good)
  Multiplayer: A (Good) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRS98
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I have owned the game for some time now, like since March. By now, it should cost you $6 at the 
 time of this writing.
  
  1. Gameplay.
  
  First off, I don't how to say this, but I would consider the shooting to be too precise (or is 
 it imprecise?) . Unlike other console shooters, this game needs you to aim. It would feel perfect 
 on a mouse, but if you don't have one of those to connect to your 360 (this is indeed possible) , 
 you might as well just shoot in the general direction of your enemy until he dies.
  I have found this game to be challenging indeed, because a) it takes a lot of hits to kill your 
 enemy, b) your checkpoints are only half the level, so the missions are fairly short, but nonetheless 
 difficult.
  There is a stealth mechanic. I wouldn't call it Splinter Cell, but it is definitely better than 
 Soldier of Fortune II's. Unlike Splinter Cell, enemies appear to have a limited field of view if 
 they don't automatically confront you. Unlike SoFII, you have a better chance of not being detected. 
 Usually it is better to go Rambo because stealth is impossible to go through some areas.
  The control scheme seems rather Halo-ish. You've got your melee attack to the B button, reload 
 to the X. I'm not being clear, but if you play this game, it makes you think that it is a Halo 
 clone. Then again, there a lot of games that came out before this that are Halo clones (I'm talking 
 to you Far Cry: Instincts) . The addition of vehicles (only 2, guys) isn't worthwhile.
  
  2. Story.
  
  This is an embarrassment. The story feels like it was there just to have one. 
 The only thing you need to know without any spoilers is that Joanna is some kind of bounty hunter 
 working with her father and friend. They need to go and get someone but somehow he dies inexplicably. 
 Blah blah blah, there is this old man who wants to become a god and you need to stop him. Honestly, 
 I've read better stories in a childrens' book. It's too messy and goes no to length to add in details. 
 Well, there is a book based between this and the original game.
  
  3. Graphics.
  
  Honestly, weapons modeling today should be this good. It is very impressive, even in this arsenal 
 selection. The character models I cannot say. The only thing I've found profoundly detailed was 
 the pseudo-reflections on some the armor. The cutscenes aren't variley modeled, and they look plain 
 and unimaginative. The environments, however, I will praise lightly. They aren't awful, they aren't 
 great. Just good.
  
  4. Replay value.
  
  This is possibly one of the greatest multiplayer games at the Xbox 360's launch, but then again, 
 there weren't many shooters at launch. The limited 6 maps make the environment a turn-off. But 
 there are three variants to the maps, which makes a possible 18 maps, which isn't all that bad. 
 Plus there are the new downloadable maps, which I haven't really tried myself.
  This is also one of those games that have a high replay value to the main storyline, with new objectives 
 at every difficulty, and new locations to find. That is impressive, and unlike Halo's co-op, you 
 can have system link and Xbox Live play. The problem is that you need a friend who knows how to 
 play the game, and that actually helps (no, killing you is not helping, and vice versa) .
  
  I apologize if I've made any omissions. But to tell you again, this is a game worth picking up. 
 I'm not sure if you can find a brand new copy at major retailers, but you can get a used copy for 
 $6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rated-R-83
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  There's not too much to say about Perfect Dark Zero. It was a very very short game. I started it 
 yesterday and it's already over. The game wasn't that much of a challenge. It was pretty straight 
 forward. I purchased the guide with it because I saw the thickness of the book and thought to myself 
 "oh wow there's hours of game play to be had with this game" boy was I wrong. Now as for the game 
 itself it was good. The story was really well written. The graphics were totally bad ass. I loved 
 the fact that you were a hot secret agent chick that just kicked ass. The arsenal of weapons was 
 probably the best part of this game. Every weapon you used backed a bunch and its secondary function 
 was just as cool. The sniping ability was superb. Everyone that loves to snipe will love this game. 
 The levels and scenery were really good. Another thing I didn't care for was that there were no 
 achievements to collect in single player mode. They only one you receive are the ten points for 
 beating the game. I looked online and there's tons 4 multiplayer mode and online so I might have 
 to try those out and see if this game is better than the two hours it took me to run through the 
 main game. But like I said this game is pretty spectacular with all the weapons and graphics and 
 story plot but it slacks on time consuming game play and achievements. I recommend this game 2 
 people who want 2 b a hot chick and kick ass for a couple hours, but other than that don't waste 
 your money or time. No wonder the game was only $7.99 used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjw514
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I didn't know what this game was until I went over my uncle's house and played it. I thought it 
 was just a regular shooting game but it was just better than that! You play as Joanna the agent! 
 You go through thirteen long levels of FUN INTENSE SHOOTING ACTION! Also, the multiplayer is so 
 intense. You choose and setup exactly how you want your multiplayer to be. You select the level, 
 which type of multiplayer you want (killcount which is every man for themself, and teams) , how 
 much land you want open on the level, the guns, how many people playing (like if you are playing 
 solo you can include bots to play you. The max. number of bots you can have is 14) , and more! The 
 game is very suspenseful. The levels are long and fun. Also the plot is setup exellent. The guns 
 are just out of this world technology that has not even been invented yet. This game consists of 
 nonstop fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DVIENT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Having played the nintendo 64 version of the game, I was excited when I bought my 360 and perfect 
 dark zero. I found it interesting that they decided to go back and tell the story of how Joanna 
 came to work for Daniel Carrington. However found a bit of let down when I discovered that once 
 again the vilian was a big evil corporation, any flashbacks to the original game? But still I found 
 the storyline to be interesting enough to make me continue playing through the game to see what 
 the final outcome would be.
  
  The game play is not the much different to the original 64 version which I didn't mind and made 
 it quite easy to just pick up and play. The only complaint I would have about the game play is 
 the fact that you can only carry a certain amount of weapons and gadgets, but on the plus I found 
 it nice that you were able to select your equipment before the start of your next mission and carry 
 across weapons you had picked up in the previous mission.
  
  When playing the game while the action is fast paced and thrilling at times, you will find yourself 
 being disappointed by the quality of the graphics. For a next generation console game I was expecting 
 more from the graphics and found myself thinking that the previous game actually looked better.
 
  
  But like most gamers I would say that this is a good enough game to hold you over till you get 
 your hands on the next new release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rheinmetal
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 22, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  The entire game looks so attractive and cool, and it has such a nice original music, so I tried 
 to be as positive as I could with this title, but honestly I found it impossible to rate it with 
 a full 9. Apart from its beautiful presentation, it's just a decent shooter and nothing more than 
 that. Compared to other more recent, major FPSs, like "Halo 3", "Medal of Honor: Airborne", or 
 "Rainbow Six Vegas" it is undoubtfully weak. Where this game suffers the most is in its core: the 
 game play. There isn't anything obviously wrong, but it's the combination of the unstable camera 
 motion, of a bit clumsy controls, and of the rather simplified graphics and visuals in general. 
 All are made so much better in the games mentioned before, than in "Perfect Dark Zero". I understand 
 that the comparison is somehow unfair, but I suspect that even in 2005-06, its true mark couldn't 
 had been 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  The AI is great; though it does get a little sticky at times, the AI also excels at other times. 
 The weapons set is the best I've seen this side of the 360 and the title offers many more game 
 types than most other FPS the 360 has seen thus far adding plenty of replaybility. Live alone is 
 worth the buy although I am more particular to the single player campaign and there fore spoiled 
 once again by Rare. The multiplayer is addictive, the vehicles add some nice tension to the game. 
 The variety of the modes are fine, CTF and Infection are great, and the traditional free all and 
 team-kill. And you got to love Rare, making always solid games, it's a company that you can trust. 
 But they need to make a masterpiece yet to the XBOX360, I think that will come. The story of Perfect 
 Dark Zero was okay, it start out fine when Joanna Dark (you) doing some training in dataDyne research 
 factory and then comes mission objective that you have to help out the scientist escape the building, 
 while out side, Joanna Dark's father: Jack Dark appears helping her and the scientist escape until 
 dataDyne's force came and tried to stop you after that you free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krillar
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 2, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I expected an evolved version of the original Perfect Dark. Same game. Better Graphics. Terrible 
 storyline. Ok Gameplay. I expected an evolved version of the original Perfect Dark. Same game. 
 Better Graphics. Terrible storyline. Ok Gameplay. I expected an evolved version of the original 
 Perfect Dark. Same game. Better Graphics. Terrible storyline. Ok Gameplay. I expected an evolved 
 version of the original Perfect Dark. Same game. Better Graphics. Terrible storyline. Ok Gameplay. 
 I expected an evolved version of the original Perfect Dark. Same game. Better Graphics. Terrible 
 storyline. Ok Gameplay. I expected an evolved version of the original Perfect Dark. Same game. 
 Better Graphics. Terrible storyline. Ok Gameplay. 
  I expected an evolved version of the original Perfect Dark. Same game. Better Graphics. Terrible 
 storyline. Ok Gameplay. I expected an evolved version of the original Perfect Dark. Same game. 
 Better Graphics. Terrible storyline. Ok Gameplay. 
  I expected an evolved version of the original Perfect Dark. Same game. Better Graphics. Terrible 
 storyline. Ok Gameplay.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirboppel
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  yes it does i own it and i thought this game was gonna own the halo 2 game but i was wrong o boy 
 was i wrong its so blain and the macanics dont quite work well the multi playere was horrble u 
 shoot off the armor lol super gay this game is far from perfect they just slaped this game together 
 grats rare u made a crappy game wit lil to no story line i wish this game was good but wen it came 
 out me and my friends were playin halo 2 instead of perefect dark and the game is super short with 
 a annoying L trigger system whitch take down ur sencetivity did the makers try this game????????? 
 its alright i have nothin more to say alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright 
 alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright 
 alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 4, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  i buy this game after i see the Gamespot's review and it told me that this game was amazing... are 
 you sure?
  
  Be Joanna Dark, a professional assasins on the future... and there's nothing i can tell you more. 
 the game didn't tell you the story quite well. No subtitle and bad voice casting (great...) .
  
  The gameplay: PDZ supposed to be a stealh game but, the gameplay doesn't allow us to do that. 
 On First Person point of view, it's quite hard to be unnoticed. Joanna doesn't have enough agility 
 to be an asssins. She can only flip by pressing LB (which doesn't help much) . NO JUMP button! but, 
 at least she can cover but... you can't move while you in cover (unlike Rainbow Six) what a mess! 
 let's talk about the gadgets, Joanna equipped with high tech gadgets that can help her to hack 
 computer or open locked doors, it's very useful, the problem is, it can be very difficult for the 
 first time to use those gadgets thank's to our guide, Chandra. She and the game only explain about 
 what button you should press or push, that's annoying. the shooting part is quite frustating, especially 
 the reload proccess. She can do auto-reload but she won't do it until we stop pulling the trigger. 
 other annoying thing is the fire rate mechanic, when you aim from the scope (pistol, smg, and assault 
 rifle) the gun suddenly change the fire rate into single fire! What the hell is that!? the game 
 doesn't allow us to save in the middle of the game too, rarely there are checkpoints on this game 
 too. Too many annoying things on this game that make it so frustating! the co-op system play doesn't 
 help this game too.
  
  The Graphics: nothing awesome i see. Just ordinary and far from realistic, it's too 'cartoon'. 
 But i love the design of the weaponry. all of them are imitation to the real weapon such as uzi, 
 mp5, glock, magnum, desert eagle, g36c, ak 47, p90, famas, m249, m4a1, m14 and remington. that's 
 cool. the pre-rendered video is ugly and the mo-cap seems to be limited.
  
  so... what can i say? i really dissapointed. I hope Rare can fix those problems i said 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  There isn't that much that can be said for this game, either good or bad. Its merely a shooter 
 from start to finish. The plot isn't deep or clever but just gives the player plenty of reasons 
 and locations from which to unleash the large arsenal of deadly (and cool looking) futuristic weaponry. 
 There is a good diversity in levels from stealthy sneaking around apartment buildings to blasting 
 your way out of a jungle crash site. All in all, what more do you want from a shooter? While the 
 graphics aren't incredible, being made by Rare, there is a cartoony feel to the game making it 
 more of a fantasy shooter, not on par with Call of Duty games or those seeking a more realistic 
 feeling shooter. There is also fun co-operative play that can be incorporated to on or offline 
 which adds to the fun, particularly in driving sequences. 
  Multiplayer is interesting with large maps, plenty of weapons and vehicles at your disposal. Lacking 
 much replay value the game is still worth at least one play through, if not only to see how rareware 
 combined shooter with cartoons. 
  A perfect Dark game from start to finish, worthy of it's predecessor played and enjoyed by many. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonmcsweeney8
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  i love this game because it has great hd graphics the best graphics in any video game great multiplayer 
 great replay value xbox 360 exclusive sorry sony great music brillant gadgets lovely scenory best 
 launch title 2005 great modreniesd weapons better than goldeneye and syphon filter togethter buy 
 it for cheap nowadays because its 2008 get in the bargin bin cheap and if you to contact me about 
 help for the game email me free for that goes for anyone even got in to xbox 360 classics next 
 to gears of war plese buy it dont buy a stupid game like viva pinata or ill open you up haha joking 
 if you pinata wait for halloweeen and gregk is great for opinons watch his video reiewon gamestop 
 joking [GAMESPOT] buy it best game for xbox period 10 out of 10 itll make top 10 list under gears 
 of ar watch out for gear of war 2 coming out in november should be a classic sorry sony again ha 
 ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beavisbond
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I remember the first time playing Perfect Dark for the N64 and I thought it was the best game the 
 system had (besides GoldenEye 007) . It was probably one of the last best game in the N64 library. 
 I really liked the gameplay, the graphics, the sound and music was incredible. Now that those days 
 are over, 5 years later comes the second Perfect Dark game (which is a prequel) . Well since I have 
 finally gotten a 360 over a month ago, I had finally gotten the chance to play this game (I bought 
 it used for $8 bucks) . I think this game is great to play. The graphics are good, the audio/music 
 is fine, the gameplay itself is great. This game I think could do better in some parts. The voice-acting 
 is one of them. They could've done a better job at it. Some parts it made me laugh because the 
 acting was just dull. They could also make this game longer. You know, for more shooting fun! Of 
 course, that's just me because I like playing long games. It gives me something to do on my spare 
 time. Overall this is a great game to play. If you really like playing the N64's Perfect Dark, 
 then I would say you should own this game for your 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Deepblue
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is the second console installment in the Perfect Dark series. The first game 
 was released for the Nintendo 64 back in 1999. The game was a commercial and critical success praised 
 for its great single player, co-op, and split screen multi-player modes. I never got around to 
 playing the first Perfect Dark game, so I won't be able to compare and tell you the plus and minuses 
 to the series. But comparing a game to its predecessor that was made about 6 years before it makes 
 no sense. As a first person shooter launch title for the Xbox 360, Perfect Dark Zero is a good 
 game that could have been better.
  
  As good as Perfect Dark Zero is, it does have a lot of weaknesses. The saddest thing of all is 
 that the game has "wasted opportunity" written all over it. There's also a bit of "What were they 
 thinking", and "Why didn't they fix that?" The game controls like any other console first person 
 shooter would. Move with the left analog and aim with the right analog. Joanna ca hold up to three 
 weapons at once. You can also duel wield two one handed weapons. The weapons are stylish and fun 
 to use, but they require too much reloading. Every couple of seconds you'll find yourself reloading, 
 reloading, reloading. It can be frustrating when fighting off a hoard of enemies. The enemies also 
 take too many hits to kill. The average enemy (who is human) may take up to 5-6 shots to kill. 
 And up until the final fatal shot, the enemy will still be a deadly and healthy as he was before 
 you shot him the first time. Head shots are usually a one hit kill. But even head shots don't even 
 take some enemies out in one shot. The enemy character designs are quite lame. Most of them look 
 like they just walked out of a gay bar. And the enemies never stop coming. There's hardly any moment 
 in the game where you don't hear gun shots zipping by your ears. Perhaps the most annoying thing 
 is the bad guy's dialog. Not only their dialog, but most of the dialog in the cut scenes are cheesy 
 and lame as well. Perfect Dark: Zero is a difficult game. Or perhaps it's not as difficult as it 
 is unbalanced. The game simply doesn't give you what you need when you really need it. Ammo is 
 a pretty big issue. You'll often find yourself running low. The game also does not have enough 
 checkpoints in its missions. Aiming is also a bit too loose. The cursor has the tendency the float 
 right by where you are trying to shoot. Even with all my complaining, Perfect Dark: Zero is not 
 a bad game. Just a good game with bad moments. The game is best enjoyed when playing cooperatively 
 with a friend, or taking advantage of the split screen multi-player. I can't get into what Xbox 
 Live offers in Perfect Dark: Zero, because I don't have Xbox Live. So what is good about Perfect 
 Dark Zero? My favorite thing about the game is the ability to stand against any kind of wall or 
 projectile and use it as a shield, or a place to peak around the corners at your enemies to shoot 
 them. The "cover" works very well in many action and stealth situations. The game's weapons are 
 also stylish and fun to use. And the game's challenging difficult makes for a good feel of accomplishment 
 when you complete a hard objective or mission. The game could have been better if it did just a 
 few more things right. Just a little bit of tweaking could have put it over the edge as a great 
 Xbox 360 shooter. I think the game fails at capturing its own unique identity.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is a good looking Xbox 360 launch title. You'll notice some graphical spoofs 
 in some areas. It's main problem is its bland style. A lot of the environments are plain, simple, 
 ugly, and boring. The same can be said about most of the character designs in the game. The music 
 in Perfect Dark: Zero mostly consists of some fine guitar riffs, some jazzy sounding stuff, and 
 heavy electronic. It ranges from decent to down right nauseating. You can find Perfect Dark: Zero 
 at a cheap price almost anywhere you go. At Gamestop you can find it as cheap as $7.99 used. At 
 that price I have to give it my recommendation. If it weren't that cheap it would be a rent. But 
 renting a game that cheap makes no sense. If you're looking for something very unique in a shooter, 
 don't bother with this game. Go try "Call of Duty 4", "Halo 3", or "Bioshock" instead. Perfect 
 Dark: Zero is just a good shooter and not much else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 18, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Wow how amazing, IM giving this game a 10 out of 10. Oh wait never mind I thought this was resistance 
 fall of man or Halo 3. Now I guess I must have lost my train of thought playing such a crappy game. 
 I felt like going out and hanging mysefl after playing a supposed next gen game that left me more 
 depressed then the beating my mother use to give me. Now dont get me wrong I completely loved the 
 original perfect dark on the nintendo 64 and it is one of my favorite games of all time. However 
 like most games coming out, It was just shovelware and didnt live up to the hype. 
  
  Now for this game calling itself a perfect dark zero it has the zero part and score right on there. 
 However this is like a kid getting a baseball thrown into his eye and having a skunk come over 
 and skunk him while hes rolling on the ground. This games graphics looked like an average nintedo 
 64 game. The original had better graphics. Plus the voice acting sounded like a b rated home made 
 amutuer film and made my ears bleed like nails on a chalk board. Also for hardcore fans such as 
 myself, you will notice in the first perfect dark the main character Joanna Dark was british. All 
 of a sudden she lost her accent and thought it would be better to change her identity and have 
 her voice changed to american.
  
  This game has one or two positives such as good varitey of online multiplayer levels but you probably 
 wont get a chance to play them cause youll turn the game off as soon as quickly as you turn your 
 beautiful xbox on and then run out of the room screaming like youve seen a ghost and would want 
 to sleep with mommy and daddy for a week. Now just to be nice I will give this game a good score 
 that is higher then what it deserves.
  
  Point Blank Dont get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doubalfa
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  The Zone Reviews : Perfect Dark Zero.
  
  ok, a little words from your reviewer. All my reviews as stated in my blog are on fully played 
 games, so you can be sure all my opinions have fundamentals, and also I review games for the game 
 itself, not taking into account if its a sequel or not, so new gamers to a franchise can play them 
 in full experience, so dont be surprised if I give high scores to sequels that do not improve lots 
 on the series, enough said lets get it on.
  
  The comment.
  
  Perfect Dark, a launch title on Xbox 360, was promoted as the first big game on the console, showing 
 some of the power of the console, with a medium campaign and a great multiplayer the game didn't 
 failed to deliver a great experience on the 360.
  
  Gameplay.
  
  Perfect Dark is a FPS shooter from rareware, it's like your basic shooter but with really interesting 
 additions, first of, almost every weapon has an alternate fire, and this plays an interesting role 
 in strategy, because most guns have very different alternate fire, so you can deploy some as turrets, 
 fire guided rockets, use a grenade launcher, turn invisible, jam enemy radars, use x ray vision 
 all this just in the weapons, you have a pretty complete arsenal, with all the options you may 
 need in the game, also you can melee, others implementations are, the use of a dodge button, basically 
 you press the LB and do a roll to the side you are tilting the left stick, you are also able to 
 take cover on some walls, pressing just the triggers to pop out and shoot, in some parts of the 
 campaign and in some maps on them ultiplayer you are able to control some vehicles a kind of jet 
 pack and an overcraft, the control on this two is not great, but at least it doesnt suck, you also 
 use soe other gadgets as binoculars, a demolition kit, and a gadget that opens locks.
  The Good 
  +the dodge button and cover system works fine
  +some alternate fire is really cool
 
  The Bad
  +sometimes is more effective to melee than shoot
  +some weapons are unbalanced
  
  Campaign
  
  The campaign in Perfect Dark Zero is not too short or too long, but it is not 
 as good as you would hope, because it doesnt involve you and does bad narrating the story, and 
 almost every character is bad developed, it has some action packed scenes, but nothing to be rememebered 
 the characters feel a lot out of place, you will have cool moments like the sniper mission, but 
 nothing that makes you say wow!!! lets do that again, a thumbs up for the campaign is that you 
 are able to play it coop locally or via xbox live, so be ready to play as a team because believe 
 me, you will need it, and as the games of old the secondary player is inserted by force
  The Good
  +some missions and objectives
  +you can play co op
  The Bad
  +almost every missions 
 will have you only getting from point A to point B
  +character development
  
  Multiplayer
  If I should give PDZ a Silver Star it has to be for his multiplayer, you get to 
 choose many options and you have many game modes so lets start by describing them, ok you have 
 two main game modes dark ops and deathmatch, each game modes has some variants lets start with 
 some of the modes for deathmatch, killcount and team killcount are your classic deathmatch mode, 
 capture the flag is self explanatory, in territories you have to take control of marked zones in 
 the map, ok so in this game modes you can always respawn and play with a determined set of weapons, 
 now lets explain the dark ops variants,
  ERADICATION is a survival mode, the last standing team wins the round, ONSLAUGHT, one team defends 
 the base, the others attack, the defending team has only one live and can buy weapons, the other 
 teams have unlimited spawns and simple weapons. 
  INFECTION there are two factions the minority who are infected (skeletons without armor and carry 
 just a gun) and survivors (who are well armed) the objective here is that every infected player 
 must kill every survivor but any survivor that get killed becomes an infected simple as that, survivors 
 must remain alive as long as possible
  SABOTAGE each team has its own base, and the objective here is destroy as much as you can the enemy 
 base, its not to complicated
  In Dark ops, you have credits, wich serve to buy weaons and equipment, you get credits, for winning, 
 assisting or killing.
  ok so this is all about the game modes, also I want to talk about the maps, most of them are pretty 
 huge, and have many important spots, and different strategies you can appy, not every map is for 
 snipers or for close range so figure this out depends on you, other good thins in PDZ multiplayer 
 is the possibility to have 32 players in a single match, and also the option to add bots, each 
 one with an independent difficulty setting
  The Good
  +many players humans or bots
  +really cool game modes
  The Bad
  +some maps are just to big you will have to walk like 5 minutes 
 to get to the battle
  +its not bad but try defeating a bot in dark agent without cheap tactics
  
  Presentation
 
  
  The Good
  +the soundtrack of the game is pretty good
  +the sound of the weapons is above average
  +some textures look pretty amazing
  
  The Bad
 
  +characters look ike plastic action figures
  +and they also move like action figures
  +some thing need more detail and physics
  
  closing comment
  Nowadays is not he best experience, 
 but I will assure you that if you a re a FPS player you will have a nice time playing PDZ, and 
 will notice many things that games of today lack, and alos things that need improvement
  
  SCORE 7.5 of 10 possibles
  I'd give Perfect Dark Zero 7.5 wich in my rating is not bad, beause 
 is above average (remember from 1 to 10 the average is 5) hope you like my review and if you do 
 or dont, post in my blog your opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KarelTheSword
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is the prequel to the original Perfect Dark on N64. It was one of the Xbox 360's 
 launch titles, and one of two shooters. Even if you happened to have missed this game at launch 
 it is still worth a buy nowadays. From its competitive price (I got it a mere 20$ tax included) 
 to its sharp gameplay, this game strikes a chord for most shooter fans.
  This year, many people found themselves satisfyed with big name shooter releases such as Call of 
 Duty 4 and Halo 3. So what makes this 3 year old game stand out amongst the competition? We will 
 start with the gameplay. Perfect Dark Zero starts off in a tutorial hologram, a labratory which 
 you will eventually come back to in the real game world. You don't really get what the game is 
 all about until you are farther in, as the tutorial seems to be quite uninventive and really sets 
 a bad first impression on the user. You get a taste of a couple guns in the tutorial but you really 
 don't get the broad scope of the complete vastness of the weapons arsenal in the game. There are 
 several great weapons to use, each with a very natural and organic feel to them, even the ones 
 that are Sci-fi. Most weapons have a secondary fire mode and some even have a tertiary fire mode. 
 It really is fun to test out what your weapon can do and adds depth to the gameplay when you can 
 do more with your weapon like: fire around corners, throw your ammo clip turning it into a turret, 
 and firing grenades. You can also take cover and blindfire or aim which adds a great strategical 
 depth to the action. The aiming sights in the game range from a standard looking view over the 
 barrel of the gun or a scope which are even on some pistols. How hard you hold the LT button changes 
 your level of zoom which really works nicely when you want to aim then zoom in for a headshot. 
 All in all the weapons in this game are finely crafted and are one of the many high points of this 
 game.
  The graphics however, aren't the highest point of the game. Some of the environments and guns are 
 fairly detailed but what you are getting in this game is three year old graphics, do not forget 
 that. Gameplay may be timeless but graphics will only get better as time goes on. Some of the city 
 environments, character models and guns just can't compare to sleek, modern shooters like Call 
 of Duty 4 and leave something to be desired. Enemy character models can also get quite foggy looking 
 but Joanna looks very sleek when she hides behind cover. Obviously Rare worked hard on making her 
 body just perfect for the game, but put less detail into enemies as a result.
  The soundtrack can be very good. In battle you will ocassionaly get a wonderful and melodical acoustic 
 drive which sends you off into the world of Perfect Dark and really hightens the gameplay experience. 
 Guns sound just right and for the most part the voice acting is well done (although the story isn't 
 exactly the best) .
  Overall, I urge you to give Perfect Dark Zero a chance. Try to turn a blind eye on all the negative 
 reviews and be positive. Go out and pick up your copy, put it in your 360 and let the world of 
 Joanna Dark thrill you... to the very end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdwolf260
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Having never played the original Perfect Dark title for N64, I really did not have any high hopes 
 or expectations for Perfect Dark Zero. Maybe that has helped me enjoy this title more than most 
 people who played the original did. Graphically this is a crisp, clean looking game but not a stand 
 out among other Xbox 360 games. Gameplay is also serviceable but not anything to rave about since 
 it's been done so many times before by so many other shooters. Controls seemed a little frustrating 
 to me, almost as if your character was floating around and moving without any sense of urgency. 
 Not being able to run or sprint combined with the lack of being able to jump in this game really 
 limits your strategy whether you're playing single-player or mutliplayer modes. Not being able 
 to throw off enemy aim by changing your rate of speed or hopping around like mad really doesn't 
 help this title. The single player story starts out promising but never really takes off but just 
 ends up fizzling out and becoming convoluted and very forgettable. There are plenty of different 
 multiplayer game modes available with a good variety of arsenal at your disposal, however, you 
 are limited to carrying only 2 or 3 weapons at time. There are plenty of achievements to earn as 
 well, but that means grinding through all game modes over and over again, which gets repetitive 
 and boring real quick. To sum up, this is a solid and decent looking shooter that is fun to play, 
 it just feels a little stale and uninspired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperB56
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I really am not a great fan of FPS (First Person Shooter) games but I am impressed by Perfect Dark 
 Zero. The Single Player mode had breathtaking graphics along with a intriging storyline. It is 
 up to Halo's Level of Entertainment because it takes place on in the future and two, it has futuristic 
 weapon designs. Thank Goodness, I was glad it was not a WW2 video game. So actually all of the 
 other reviews are wrong. Because it has developed more into odd game that no one really knew about 
 unless they played the original game. Thanks to this game probably people decided that since this 
 game came out great, why not get the first game. I can't stop playing the multiplayer modes, especially 
 Team Killcount. Because it is so entertaining. And also with that mode you are able, yes to pick 
 your character. You have a choice of some of the main characters from the game such as Joanna Dark, 
 Jonathan, Jack Dark, Killian, Mai-hem, and Chandra. (I still want to play as Carrington and Zhang 
 Li old man Version though) . The multiplayer mode is a whole lot better than Halo could ever imagine. 
 There are plenty of modes like capture the flag, and sabotage.
  But Perfect Dark Zero is not the greatest game in the world though. There is one big thing about 
 the game that I dislike greatly. That is the fact that they always during co-op mission modes they 
 never let you pick your character. Same for Single player mode, You always play as Joanna in Single 
 Player. Then in Multiplayer you play as Joanna if you are player one. If you are player two you 
 either play as Chandra and a Carrington Soldier for most of the game. I think it would be better 
 if you got to choose which character you wanted. Also I believe they could have made a better soundtrack. 
 I hate the music so much that I turned off the music and played my own. They also could have done 
 a lot better on the animation. Such as when they are running, It looks kind of stupid that they 
 run with their fist up in the air ready to punch the air. Also if you are playing multiplayer mode 
 it usually shows in the other players view that the guy is not reloading when he should. so all 
 in all Perfect Dark Zero is not a horrible game, it just has some very minor problems that could 
 have (and should have been fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 17, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  When Perfect Dark came out it was a landmark N64 title. The futuristic setting wasn't diluted yet, 
 and the experience of online multiplayer was something found only on the PC. 
  
  Six years and two console generations later Perfect Dark Zero sets out to tell the story of Joanna 
 Dark and her father, in events that precede those in PD1. The style from the original has been 
 preserved and updated and Joanna looks sexier than ever. The mission structure is the same and 
 the story melds well with what we already know about the franchise. Just like all Rare games the 
 graphical presentation is marvelous, with the Jungle level being an outstanding representation 
 of what the XBOX 360 can do. 
  
  The problems arise when you take a closer look at the overall package. The mission structure while 
 similar to the original is not welcome in this day and age of open world exploration. I simply 
 fell like I was watching a DVD TV show and I was simply selecting episodes to watch. Very little 
 to no background story was given and you still don't get much of idea who exactly Joanna Dark is 
 and who her father was. Perfect Dark Zero leans heavily on it's FPS mechanics and online play. 
 This is evident by looking at he list of achievements. The majority of them are online tasks. 
 
  
  The voice acting is terrible and the storyline is disjointed for about half the game. Towards the 
 end you start to understand exactly what is going to on, but it is jut too little too late. What 
 saves PDZ from being a complete wash is it's gameplay. The gunbattles (which make up the entire 
 game) are fantastic and the locales are detailed and easy to traverse. However when you get to 
 the higher difficulty levels you will start handling an absurd amount of enemies. 
  
  Overall PDZ is an update of a classic N64 game that doesn't stray too far from the mold set by 
 Goldeneye and the original. If you enjoyed the original, you will like Zero for the pretty graphics 
 and the familiarity of the experience. If you are looking for the next great FPS look somewhere 
 else. The only real value PDZ carries is the online aspects that were absent from the original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was one game that I really wanted to get for the Xbobx 360. I thought the demo 
 was pretty good, and when I picked it up at the store, I could not wait to get home to play it. 
 But perfect Dark Zero was a bit of a disapointment.
  
  One thing about Perfect Dark Zero is the game does not get fun and interesting until about the 
 ninth Mission, the first mission are really boring.
  
  The stroy is that this company called Data Dyne is trying to find this thing, that is suppose to 
 generate loads of power. This one guy is trying to get ahold of it, so he can become a God. So 
 you go through a bunch of mission shooting up Data Dyne soldiers.
  
  The game play is pretty much the same as all first person shooters. You run through levels shooting 
 guys. This game does nothing to change the first person shooter ganera. There is a cover system, 
 where you can take cover behind something while in third person. But Perfect Dark Zero does have 
 some cool gunfights in it that can get pretty intense.
  
  The graphics in Perfect Dark Zero look alright. Compared to other games that came out in that time 
 like CoD 2, Perfect Dark Zero's graphics look dated.
  
  The sound in this game is not that good. The music gets on my nerves, especialy when I was trying 
 to listen too a message fro one of my friend's, and I could not hear him because the music was 
 too loud. The voice acting is worse though. Some of the charaters have really fun sounding voice 
 that will get on your nerves after a few times you hear them speak.
  
  The multi player in Perfect Dark Zero is really kind of fun, you have a few modes. Deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, dark ops, etc. THe modes in the game are pretty fun, and will keep you entertained 
 for awhile, but this multi player comes no where close to touching other games multi player back 
 in that time period liek CoD 2 or FEAR.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is a good game, that is brought down by game play, graphics, and sound. But over 
 all this was not bad for 10 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reo-117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Many people thought this game was a dissapointment compared to the original Perfect Dark. I never 
 played the original so I think this is a game for people who never played the perfect dark series. 
 Thats what I think so now lets get to the review
  
  graphics 9/10
  really good environments I like the motion blur when you make a sharp turn
  
  sound 8/10
 
  voice acting is bad, cheesy, corny you name it but the soundtrack is amazing
  
  control 7/10
  it takes time to get used to it 
  
  gameplay 9/10
  they do it where it counts 
 it has some amazing battles and awesome weapons but sometimes the enemy AI is blind and deaf
  
  pros: great gameplay and soundtrack, multiplayer is a blast, cover system is a cool feature
 
  
  cons: bad use of stealth story and characters are forgetable, controls could have been better
 
  
  so in the end PDZ is a great FPS but dont expect it to go in a new direction
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 5
Date: May 20, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game, although the game crashed and burned. I found the conrtols very 
 very annoying. I felt like they should have just gone with a traditional control scheme, not a 
 very messed up, very loose, and anoying scheme they chose. The visuals were ok, but they are very 
 over-rated. Music and sound were the best aspects. But can't save the boaring, and very anoying 
 game. I found little to no joy from this title, and I bought it for $10. And I sold it after playing 
 it. Only play it if you absolutly have no better way to spend your money. Or if you loved the original. 
 I however did not like the original, so keep that in mind. the review is coming from someone who 
 did not like the original. Online play is very generic, and not very balenced. So for me, the game 
 fails on almost all fronts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalibusTheCrab
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 10, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a great FPS to get if you get your first 360, It's gameplay is pretty simple 
 and it will pretty much teach you what the FPS's will be like on the 360. The story is set before 
 the events in the N64 version of Perfect Dark where Joanna first joins the Carrington Institute 
 in a bid for revenge against Mai-Hem; DataDyne's manager's daughter who kills Joanna's father.
 
  The Skedar are possibly mentioned in a scene later on in the game but no one except Jonathan and 
 Mr Carrington from Perfect Dark N64 makes an appearance.
  The gameplay is ok and graphics are fine, Music is great but for some strange reason it feels a 
 little rushed for the 360's launch?
  Either way, Its only my opinion so dont let it discourage you if you want to get it.
  Perfect 
 Dark Zero is a good game that will stay with you on your shelves until the next best thing comes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OdieTheDoby70
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Amazingly detailed graphics, huge open enviornments, awesome multiplayer and online options, 
 cool music and sound effects.
  
  Cons: Character animations are messed up and aren't very detailed, storyline is very hard to follow, 
 game is some what short.
  
  Perfect Dark for the Xbox 360 is an amazing game and a blast to play! The levels are so big and 
 they take place all over the world making each level feel unique and differen't, plus the main 
 game can be played on single player or with a friend, dispite the game being some what short. Also 
 when you are done you can play online with incredible matches that are extremely addicting. But 
 to me the best part of the game is how impressive the game looks and sound. Everything looks so 
 realistic and crisp and the music is awesome to listen too! The only downside of the game is that 
 the characters don't look detailed and the story-line is whack. But you will undouptfully have 
 a fun time with the game and it is diffently one of the best launch games on the Xbox 360!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carl_may_cry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Do you remember the perfect dark game that came out in 2000 for the N64? This one is as good... 
 Truly, the graphics are really good, it has a lot of fluidity and the storyline is... weak. But 
 it doesn't matter because the action and stealth is non-stop and you won't have time to mind about 
 the story. You are a woman, named johanna Dark, who is a secret agent for an agency. After one 
 of her missions, she finds out about a big industry who wants to take over the world. The story 
 is as simple as that but with the good controls and excellent graphics, it balances out everything 
 I guess. What is cool about this game is that the main character is a girl... compared to most 
 other shooters like gears and splinter cell and unreal tournament III. This is a pretty cool feature; 
 it changes a lot of things... to the better. So I recommend this game to anyone who likes good 
 FPS and next-gen graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf-1992
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  Like some sort of crazy A-Team-style plan involving hammering in a garage, close-ups of pipes being 
 cut, sheets of spiked metal riveted onto a van, and some hilarious one-liners from Face-man, Perfect 
 Dark Zero has actually come together. And we love it.
  
  You'll begin, unless you want your arse handed to you by an online ninja, with the 14-level single-player 
 adventure. To anyone skilled in counting, it should come as no surprise this is a prequel, but 
 there's absolutely no need to scour charity shop bargain bins for game cartridges; previous knowledge 
 of the N64 classic is unnecessary. You're Joanna, a wet-behind-the-ears special operative with 
 a Yankie accent (bizarrely, she spoke with a plum in her mouth in Perfect Dark) . Your father is 
 Jack Dark, a mercenary with vocal chords that have gargled glass. Your chum back at mission control 
 is Chandra, a dreadlocked hottie with a viper wit and a body that old men go to prison for leering 
 at.
  
  Through a somewhat convoluted plot that you won't be spending too much time remembering, this motley 
 crew begin to track a Mekon-headed old Chinese man called Zhang-Li, and his  
 daughter, Mai Hem ('mayhem', geddit?) . This is achieved by killing hundreds of thugs, most with 
 comical oriental accents. Good, wholesome fun is guaranteed. This is the game at its least impressive; 
 the voices range from passable to offensive, later on enemies sound dangerously close to South 
 Park's Terrance and Phillip, and the slightly 'wacky' nature of the enemies fails to amuse, especially 
 when almost everything else in the game is so polished.
  
  The gigantic level structure of PDZ simply could not be recreated on a last-generation console. 
 By the time you've struggled out of a lift, and gawked at the flippin' great rocket on a launch 
 pad, battled across a floating ocean platform, ridden a gantry bay, been attacked by bad bastards 
 in jetpacks, and realised this is still the first mission, you'll be praising Microsoft's Rare 
 purchase as a stroke of prescient genius. And the level design never deviates from 'impressive', 
 except towards the realm of 'astonishing'.
  
  Aside from a return to this floating fortress later on, each of the missions is significantly different 
 from the next. You'll spend some time blowing up a boat in a rundown warehouse, then scale a phenomenally 
 lit nightclub, realising the epilepsy warning in the instruction booklet wasn't a hollow threat. 
 The action moves on to a dash along the tops of skyscrapers, tagging foes and keeping on your toes 
 as a manic boss named Killian sweeps down in a dropship brimming with rockets, and two large, minimally 
 protected engines.
  
  A night-time assault on a Chinese temple during a fireworks celebration is a particularly choice 
 bit of fun with a gun. The infiltration and escape from a laboratory and a hovercraft ride through 
 enemy compounds is classic heart-pounding action; pant-crappingly intense. But it is the jungle 
 trek through a native village and a jetpack ride over Mayan ruins that left us pointing at the 
 screen, agape. The action never lets up - it simply goes from one epic locale to the next. It's 
 the assault on a massive temple exterior, followed by a banzai charge over a huge bridge swarming 
 with wave after wave of enemies that really leaves you bewildered and utterly ecstatic at what's 
 possible in games nowadays.
  
  The advancements in level design also leave you little concern over that dreaded (and invented) 
 word: 'replayability'. Because, like the N64 sequel, Rare has ensured you'll be charging through 
 each mission dozens of times. Why? Well, for starters, there are four difficulty settings: Agent 
 for the absolute beginner; Secret Agent for the casual or inebriated gamer; Perfect Agent for veteran 
 first-person aficionados; and finally, Dark Agent, a mode so horrifically hard you'll be shouting 
 all manner of rude words at your television screen.
  
  The way you complete each mission also adds to the replay value: the easier the difficulty, the 
 fewer objectives you'll have to attempt. And in almost every single room, there's a different way 
 to play. Go in guns blazing, or snipe from a balcony? Or use the Cover mode to hide behind a wall, 
 using your target reticule to line up a kill? Or you can always find a second player (either online 
 or System Link) to partner up with, and waltz through each level yelling radio messages at each 
 other, catching foes in the crossfire, and solving puzzles that only appear if there are two agents 
 on the case. This is, quite simply, the best co-op action since Doom 3. Bloody hell, is that not 
 enough for you? Then how about collecting the new weapons each mission has, then using them on 
 previously unlocked levels, thus creating a whole set of new opportunities for wanton destruction?
 
  
  Ah yes, the weapons. All 25 of them. And most of them have two or three modes of fire; some can 
 be dual-wielded, and almost all of them have a novel and potentially devastating tactic you'll 
 spend weeks perfecting. There are just so many ways to pummel, eviscerate, skewer, or cleave your 
 foe that you'll go giddy figuring out which is your favourite. Each weapon, thanks to months of 
 finetuning at Rare, is reasonably balanced to all the others, but it still didn't stop us over-using 
 our homage to GoldenEye, the FAC-16 assault rifle. Dropping foes with a grenade burst or bullets 
 has never been so much fun. Well, except when you try the RCP-90 with its threat detector, effectively 
 turning everyone orange and allowing you to see in the dark. Double-magnums you can fire independently 
 or at the same time? Machine-guns that turn into sentry guns to stick to exits and catch adversaries 
 out? Rifles with a special visual scope turning the entire playing field into Arnie's X-Ray scanning 
 scene from Total Recall? Some of the OXM team had to be slapped to stop them squealing. And we 
 don't even have the room to tell you about Joanna's gadgets; three types of goggles, a demokit 
 for blasting through weakened walls, a Locktopus for opening gates and dropping ladders, and a 
 DataThief for hacking terminals.
  
  Then there's online play for up to 32 players. Our initial disappointment (only six levels?) was 
 well and truly crushed under the insane number of options to try. A Counter-Strike-based method 
 of armament purchasing drew us in; two vehicles with which to trundle over enemies brought home 
 great memories of Unreal Tournament 2004; masses of game modes fed our insane hunger for Xbox Live 
 carnage. The destructible nature of each zone brought home the teamplay and tactics needed to succeed. 
 We then started hyperventilating at the countless tactics you can employ with any of the weapons, 
 the custom armament selection you can tweak in the options, and the fact you can shrink or enlarge 
 any map from tiny to gigantic.
  
  And don't get us started on the Gamerscore points you can accrue. We had to have a lie-down after 
 that. We really weren't prepared for how good this game is. PDZ is easily the most graphically 
 gorgeous first-person game ever seen on a console. But it's the exceptional replay value both offline 
 and on, the multitude of weapons you'll entertain yourself with for weeks, and the balls-to-the-wall, 
 last-second way this game came together without imploding that makes you glad to be a gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percypoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure how well you will receive this game if your a fan of the N64 smash hit "Perfect Dark" 
 becasue I've never played it but I know that this is a game that is great in it's own right. 
 
  
  As I understand it, the female protagonist, Joanna Dark is a sort of freelance secret agent. The 
 game is set in the year 2020, so don't be surprised to be equipped with a cool assortment of high 
 tech spy gadgets and weapons. This gives the game a sort of James Bond flavour, as you may have 
 heard before but it's true, complete with dazzling, beautifully detailed locations around the world. 
 This is refreshing for those of you who play alot of bleak shooters like "the Darkness", "Doom 
 3" or "Gears of War". The controls work beautifully. The cover mechanic is spot on. You press the 
 "A" button to hug a wall and the camera switches to third person, then you can aim at your enemies 
 while you're completely safe behind solid cover. Only when you pull the trigger will you pop out 
 of cover and by then it's too late for that poor foe. In other first person shooters, you either 
 have to leave cover to shoot, or you have to lean out from the wall in first person, then aim, 
 so the cover system in PDZ works alot better. enough said. The second great gameplay feature is 
 the arrows that show you where to go that are sent to you by your intel person. You may wish they 
 came a bit earlier to save you time but they save alot of time as it is. You'll never get lost. 
 You can turn this feature of if you regard it as cheating, but hey, shooter games are about shooting 
 people, not fumbling around for hours, wondering where to go. Hit detection is also perfect and 
 the game physics are realistic. The only thing that bothers me is that the game should have been 
 longer, because it seems like you could beat it's 14 missions in under eight hours on the standard 
 "Secret Agent" difficulty setting. It will kill alot more time if you beat in on all 4 difficulty 
 levels however and there is a multiplayer component of course which has a decent variety of game 
 types and is a nice distraction. Now I'm no big fan of online gaming, unless it's World of Warcraft 
 or such like, but if you love playing shooter games online then chances are you'll find this part 
 of the game more entertaining than I did, even if it's not a reason in itself to buy the game. 
 What really redeems the short length of the single player campaign is that you can play it in co-op 
 which is great fun and can be done locally, via system link or online over xbox live. You may know 
 this but let me assure you It's as fun as gamespot say and the levels really ARE built with co-op 
 in mind.
  
  The gamespot review stated that the game has excellent graphics. It does, even today. The textures 
 are incredibally detailed and you will find no pixelated textures here. The flip side is that there 
 is no anti-aliasing (edge smoothing) , so the game sadly has alot of jagged edges. It's not bad a 
 problem if you run the game in 1280x1024 pixels but too make it at it's least noticeable you're 
 going to have to run it in 1920x1080 pixels, the screen resolution you may know as 1080p. If you 
 don't have a TV that good, which I don't, then as i said, it's not too bad a problem. Now if you 
 only have a standard definition TV, do yourself a favour, scrap it and get a better one, they don't 
 cost alot more than your 360 did trust me. 
  
  Now as you'd expect, that brings us to the sound department. Great music, great sound effects and 
 good voice acting. That's right it's good not great. Some lines are delivered better than others. 
 Don't be surprised to hear Joanna blurt out some crummy one liners on occasion. It's that style 
 of game.
  
  Overall, a great game, worth your money and your time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: declasse
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 15, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  
  Perfect Dark Zero is far from a bad game. The graphics are nice, physics seem pretty solid. The 
 levels are well designed, Guns and gadgets are alot of fun to use. But it just feels like such 
 a chore to play through it all. Maybe it's the difficulty (Which is difficult) or the lack of checkpoints, 
 but it just feels like this game is missing something.
  
  The storline for example. It is difficult to stay interested of follow it. The attempts at plot 
 twists are predictable and bland. But it manages to give you enough motivation to keep at it and 
 play through.
  
  Gameplay is fun and you have plenty enough to shoot and kill. Although movement and gunplay do 
 feel a little slow. It really could have done with some faster paced gameplay.
  
  Which brings us to the multiplayer aspect of the game. The worst you could say about this is it 
 is too fast. Up to 16 players with a veriety of different gameplay modes (All of which you will 
 be familiar with) It is very fast action and there isn't too much strategy involved here. Just 
 Run, Gun, Kill
  
  So to conclude while it isn't the best game of it's type ot cetainly not the worst. Pick it up, 
 Between the slow single player and the incredibly fast multiplayer you're bound to find something 
 satisfy your gaming needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectlyDark
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Rare made Goldeneye 007 and Perfect Dark on the Nintendo 64 back in the 90s and help revolutionize 
 the console shooter world. Rare was recently bought out by Microsoft when they were starting the 
 Xbox gaming branch. Sinse then, rare has been developing Perfect Dark Zero, a prequel to the epic 
 original. Does it live up to brand name? In short, no. In the long run, HELL NO!
  
  Graphics: It's 2008 and this game came out in 2005, and the fact that it's STILL one of the best 
 looking games is kinda freaky, but it's true, PDZ looks amazing! on an HDTV it's seems like someone 
 made a CG movie instead of a game, thats how insanely good PDZ looks. The textures are detailed 
 to the grit, the levels are colorfull to no end, and the effects amazing. The Audio however isn't 
 as polished, and as a result, the game sounds less immpressive next to the visual componet. But 
 graphically, its amazing. The best example is watching the weapon reloads. The Rifles shine in 
 the lighting, the game blurs at a liquid smooth 60FPS. Still some of the finest graphics on Xbox 
 360. It's a great show off game for your new HDTV.
  
  Gameplay: huh... Well, this is where Rare dropped the ball. The Gameplay is clunky and slow. Shooting 
 opponets is just to un exciting. The single player levels are actually designed very well, it's 
 just the shooting action isn't as good as one might want. This does not mean PDZ is a bad game, 
 in fact, the Co-Op is hell awesome. The levels were made for Co-Op, so make sure you got a friend 
 to play with, be it split screen or Online. The game takes Joanna across alot of parts including 
 Night clubs, Caynons, and even snowy valleys. Its fun, but the clunkyness kinda bogs it down. nonetheless, 
 its fair enough to be playable.
  
  Overall Expressions: Rich detailed worlds and a pretty good multiplayer help keep this one on its 
 feet, just don't expect another Halo here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sallyherz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  as i said before perfect dark zero has sick guns which makes you feel as if it was in your hands 
 and the animation and visuals on the gun are as i said before perfect dark zero has sick guns which 
 makes you feel as if it was in your hands and the animation and visuals on the gun are outstanding. 
 perfect dark zero is a bit of a long game which can take up to a dozen hours or more, and it is 
 wroth the money for a game like that. it also has a wide and a big amount of different kinds of 
 areas in it and after you end killing lots of guys in the battle area or whatver you can still 
 see the bodyes laying on the ground. to be honest i dont really like your health for this game 
 because if your new to that sort of thing you can die quickly. but this is a good game and highly 
 recomend it and if you like this game get gears of war and halo 3 ( i have them) GET THEM!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hex_Of_A_Nation
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 23, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  Well I rented this from Gamefly and sent it back within the first hour. I popped it into my 360 
 and was kinda excited since I've heard so many great things about it. I started the first level 
 and realized that this was an ordinary shooter with nothing really different to set it apart from 
 the others. The guns were not awesome, not very good level design, enemy AI was average, etc. I 
 was disappointed. I recommend not buying this and avoiding it.
  
  BTW I just got done with the campaign on CoD4 so that might have something to do with it. Also 
 the achievements were horrible. It was almost impossible to get all of them. Now I'm no Gamerscore 
 hog, but when achievements have no details, then you know somethings not right.
  
  Also, the whole spy story has been overused. It felt like a chick version of James Bond, but with 
 more acrobatics. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nehine
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  The only reason why it had a high review is because the Xbox 360 just came out. the graphics are 
 strange. they're not bad but they're not great either. people's faces just look plane weird to 
 me. don't really like how few guns there are in this, didn't the 64 have like 40 guns or something. 
 this one doesn't even compare to the original. at least they have bots thats a bonus... if gamespot 
 came back to this game now and reviewed it they'd give it a bad review. i played it for a while 
 on launch but i found COD2 much more enjoyable. co-op was good there were no lag issues it ran 
 great. pretty much only good thing about that game for me, was the use of bots and the online co-op. 
 sometimes you would fight bots in multi and be like, ok how did he do that? the rolling in the 
 face is super annoying. you aim at there head then they roll at our feet, stand up and melee you 
 and kill you. the hardest bots are impossible to beat. its possible to kill them but they get headshots 
 every time. the guns just seem a little off as well, something about them just doesn't make them 
 feel powerful even though a lot of them are. for me this game just doesn't compare to the original. 
 i'd recommend the original over this one any day, there's just WAY more stuff on the 64 version. 
 so i give it a 5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Perfect Dark Zero is the sequal to the orginal Perfect Dark game, which came out for 
 the Nintendo 64 about ten years ago. In the sequal you play again as Joanna Dark an agent who is 
 dispatched by The Carrington Institute to infiltrate the mysterious dataDyne corporation, which 
 is suspected of taking part of a dirty government cover-up involving aliens and advanced technology. 
 Though out the game, you get to experiment with diffrent and intresting gagets and have a multitude 
 of firearms to use. All this is really quite fun and you go though 17 single-player levels (plus 
 four bonus) including a futuristic Chicago, an alien crash site, the bottom of the Pacific Ocean, 
 Area 51, and Air Force One, to name a few. There is also of couse a multiplayer which feature Four-player 
 support -- different deathmatch scenarios like King of the Hill, Capture the Case, Hacker Central 
 and more 16 multiplayer arenas including three classics from GoldenEye.
  
  
  Graphics: Running on an enhanced version of the GoldenEye engine which looks absolutly great. Everything 
 looks realistic and well polished, but things look a little bit too shiney to be real at times.
 
  
  Sound: The sound is amazing from the sound effects like the gun fire to the sound score which really 
 suits the game. Also the voice acting is very well done in this game.
  
  Value: All in all there is lots of replay value in this game from the multiplayer to the replayability 
 of the single player. I would highly recommend getting, playing and keeping this game. I give this 
 game 9.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JiveT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:06 am PT
Review:  One of the more controversial games in the last few years in terms of critical praise Perfect Dark 
 Zero is in fact a hardcore gamer's delight. If you like brutal difficulty, ridiculously demanding 
 achievements, and a belly full of Rare-style schtick this is your game.
  The game features a Single Player campaign with quite a few levels and 4 different difficulties 
 one of which does not unlock until you finish the seemingly impossible "Perfect Agent" whereupon 
 you find the impossible becomesfreakishly difficult for lack of a better description. Those who 
 have defeated the game on Dark mode in SP and Co-op are the chosen few on this planet. I myself 
 am just now muddling my way through Perfect after a long time away from the game but I am dedicated 
 to achieving that goal.
  Many complain this game is not enough like the first game on N64. The fact is it is very similar. 
 You have multiple objectives some of which become required on higher difficulties and each weapon 
 has a secondary or tertiary mode. There is everything from a sword that projects a shield to a 
 sniper rifle that sees through walls to a Krull-style glave plus all the usual suspects are included: 
 AK's, silenced pistols, magnums, and even a Rambo style M60 are to be found laying about the sometimes 
 labyrinthine levels. 
  Weak points of the Single Player mode include a story that fails to draw you in and one of the 
 most annoying voice acting jobs ever by a "voice in the ear" person. You really start to hope something 
 horrible happens to her, like they rip out her tongue. Another annoying point is the AI which can 
 be blind, deaf, and dumb or omniscient. 
  Overall though I think most people would find the Single Player an interesting, different experience 
 as there is nothing like it with its combination of stealth, gadgets, and gunplay. When you complete 
 a mission whatever weapons you have on you at the end become a permanent part of your arsenal and 
 when you start your next mission you can choose whatever ones you like. 
  (A must have for higher difficulties that you don't acquire until late in the game is the Plasma 
 Rifle that not only whoops some serious butt but has a secondary cloaking mode that comes in very 
 useful. Gotta throw that in there.)
  The game also has an expansive multiplayer with up to 32 players on a map fighting it out in team 
 or solo deathmatch, ctf, and a few other modes one of which plays a lot like Counterstrike in that 
 you earn money and buy weapons, armor, and other accessories between rounds. The main gripe about 
 the multiplayer is how many shots it takes to kill someone even if you shoot them in the head and 
 a lack of some basic customization options. You can play System Link, local, or over Xbox Live 
 in all these modes and it supports bots as well in every mode save for one.
  The Co-op mode is kind of strange. A lot of the Campaign does not seem to be designed with two 
 players in mind and for the higher difficulties, unless you are both well versed in playing the 
 game, you will basically want the other guy to just sit there because in some levels the moment 
 you are spotted it's game over. Stillit's always fun to play with two people if nothing else just 
 to have someone to talk with.
  So in conclusionI give this game an 8.5. I can easily understand someone giving it a 9 or an 8 
 but anything lower or higher than that seems way off IMHO. The graphics are still impressive on 
 some levels. The Rooftops level in particular has a great look to it. The sound for the weapons 
 is well designed. The gameplay is very solid but some complain about the aiming and the lack of 
 a jump button. Get over it is all I can say because not only is the aiming easy to get used to 
 the lack of jumping is replaced with a roll dodge move and when you press up against objects that 
 aren't too high you scale them. 
  If you are looking for a game that offers something different and a HIGH degree of challenge you 
 can't go wrong with Perfect Dark Zero. A hardcore gamer's game if there ever was one. 
  
  PS: Good luck getting 100% Achievements :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: juliomarim
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  PDZ is a great game, but is one of the most that generate so many mixed reviews, but i think that 
 Gamespot nailed, 9.0 and a Editor's Choice label.
  
  Have the same feel of the N64 PD, making a solid sequel. It's all there, the hi-tech ambient, nice 
 guns, nice looking graphics and a good action. I thought the single campaign is just right, and 
 the difficult too. The last boss is so old school, the way to kill him, i like, very nostalgic, 
 besides he appears to be more powerful.
  
  The multiplayer is addictive, the vehicles add some nice tension to the game. The variety of the 
 modes are fine, CTF and Infection are great, and the tradicional free4all and teamkill. And you 
 got to love Rare, making always solid games, it's a company that you can trust. But they need to 
 make a masterpiece yet to the X360, i think that will come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360pauly
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  The lack of save points, the repetitive gameplay, ugly character models and the uninteresting story 
 makes this game disappointing ( i mean you can't even JUMP for God's sake) . Gamespot overrated this 
 game too much, maybe because the launch titles weren't that good so they needed to give at least 
 one terrific critic to the slightly better game. I paid 12 euros for this so its not too bad. The 
 fact that you can't save mid mission is VERY frustrating because this game can be pretty difficult. 
 Another frustrating factor is that the enemies are kinda hard to spot, you could be standing in 
 a room and not even know where the guy is. Perfect dark zero's got some exciting fire fights but 
 they can get repetitive. The AI is awesome, enemies try to flank you, they also take cover, but 
 they never seem to want to die even after a swarm of your bullets. The length of the game is alright 
 and the multiplayer give it good value. It's a good game with all the missing stuff, but a killer 
 title if you can look past it's numerous flaws. That's my opinion and if you don't like it, replay 
 through it with my review in mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhmin
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 23, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty bad. : (
  
  It was not like "Perfect Dark 1" at all! Not only did this game not improve from "Perfect Dark 
 1", it downgraded... it was one of the biggest dissappointments I have ever witnessed in gaming 
 history.
  
  The best part in this game was where you respawned. It respawned you in a safe place instead of 
 out in the middle of the battlefield.
  
  The gameplay sucked! It was not fun, all you did was run in circles and shoot the enemy while she/he 
 did the same thing. Even the weapons were not that great, some of the old weapons weren't in it 
 either. The AI was really bad as well, nothing like it was in the original. 
  
  I suggest not playing this game at all, especially if you have played "Perfect Dark 1" for Ninetendo 
 64. This game had no effort put into it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  If this was a stand alone game, I would just say, "Hey, this is a pretty cool game, but its got 
 some problems". However, this isn't a stand alone game, this is a sequel to what many including 
 myself consider to be one of the best shooters of all time. So this game is going to be held up 
 to higher standards, and it is going to suffer for it.
  
  The graphics are very good for a launch game, and showcase the potential of the Xbox 360 well. 
 Lighting is heavily used in this game, and seems to be what they focused on the most when developing 
 the graphics for this game. As a result, everything shines like crazy, even the plants are shiny. 
 They used a lot of color this time around, not unlike Halo's art style. It gives the game a refreshing 
 look that is much appreciated. Some of the character models are very strange looking and disproportionate, 
 which doesn't make any sense because other character models look perfectly normal. 
  
  The soundtrack is pretty typical of Perfect Dark. It is essentially the same one as the original 
 but remixed and expanded. Gun effects and explosions all sound fine, but aren't really anything 
 special. The voice work is pretty cheesy, it even makes me wince with embarrassment sometimes.
 
  
  The game-play, while solid, isn't really improved in any way from the first game. In fact, sometimes 
 it even feels a little worse. What I mean by this is that it doesn't control very tight, so it 
 takes some getting used to, but once you've got the hang of things it's a perfectly fine shooter. 
 The game features pretty the same weapon set as the first Perfect Dark. The storyline is your pretty 
 average FPS campaign, nothing special. The plot itself is really stupid, and the ending is atrocious. 
 The campaign does however, feature a couple really cool moments, even so, it only lasts about 6 
 hours. This brings me to multi-player. It's pretty interesting with some neat ideas and innovative 
 game modes. This being said, they could have taken the multi-player a lot further and made it more 
 competitive, increasing it's longevity. It's basically the same game as before but in HD.
  
  Rare really let me, along with a lot of other fans down with this one. It's still a very solid 
 shooter with some nice ideas, but it really wasn't executed well. It makes me wonder what they 
 did with all that development time. This game is still worth at least a rent, if for no other reason 
 that to see how the the prequel to one of the best shooters ever turned out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rene9ade520
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  Over three years ago a title comes out and is hyped to be the release date killer app. for the 
 360. Only months later gamers and even a couple of critiques begin to slander it saying that it 
 was poorly conceived, had bad character models, awkward controls, .... and blah blah blah... But 
 being as that the first Perfect Dark made for the 64 is still one of my three most favorite games 
 ever, I not only bought the title as soon as it came out, but purchased a 360 just to be able to 
 play PD Zero (though that was not my only reason, 360 has always been at the top of my console 
 list even after all the product errors) . Well, I will be honest... while Rare is also my most favorite 
 developer, I WAS IN FACT DISAPPOINTED. Yeah, you see I had expected this game to rate at least 
 a 9.5 when in fact I felt after many hours of single-player, co-op, and multi-player not only was 
 it not the quite the killer app it was said to be, but I also felt the game only deserved a, get 
 ready for it, a.........9.2. Yeah, it was that bad. Seriously, this is an excellent game and is 
 one any true FPS fan should pick up. I was playing Conker: Live and Reloaded (also one to pick 
 up if you like.... urm, well games in general) with a friend when I began talking about how good 
 of a game Perfect Dark Zero was. I suddenly felt an incredible desire to play it. So I throw the 
 power off and through it in. Ok, so here is the thing: I've been reading all these **** reviews 
 all you gamers have wrote about "poor mechanics" and "horrible graphics". Well over three years 
 later, this is still in the top five for most polished FPS (as well as most all other genres) graphics. 
 And that is just the tip of the iceberg. The AI is great; though it does get a little sticky at 
 times, the AI also excels at other times. The weapons set is the best I've seen this side of the 
 360 and the title offers many more game types than most other FPS the 360 has seen thus far adding 
 plenty of replayability. Live alone is worth the buy although I am more particular to the single 
 player campaign and therefore spoiled once again by Rare. Another consideration is that Rare tried 
 to create a prequel to a game that was made two generations prior to the current, or rather next, 
 generation of consoles. Though a few small changes could have made the game a bit better, it is, 
 was in my opinion not only a success in contrast to the previous title (which is still somewhat 
 superior) , but is also a success as a stand alone title. Although I understand this may not be 
 the type of FPS for every gamer, it is beyond me why some of you can not see just how solid this 
 game is. I studied game design and development for two and a half years and now have a BA in Game 
 Design. I have seen not only horribly crappy titles as well as impressively cutting edge titles, 
 but I have seen and know how such titles come into existence (for the most part as many developers 
 like keep special techniques to themselves gaining an upper hand in the industry) even so I am 
 very impressed by ALMOST every aspect of this game. My further concern is that, due to all the 
 slander people loosely throw out about this game, Rare will throw the towel in on the series all 
 together which would be a crying shame as PD Zero still has so much potential that has not yet 
 been tapped. So to all you have spread such poor criticism; please knock it off, your going to 
 ruin it for those of us who truly enjoy good, WELL DESIGNED AND DEVELOPED titles. And to everyone 
 else, PICK IT UP, ENJOY IT, don't be afraid to form YOUR OWN OPINION instead of jumping on the 
 band wagon like these other guys, ENJOY IT SOME MORE (its one you will keep coming back to) , and 
 look for me online. Peace.
  
  P. S. I also understand that it is a fairly difficult title (especially on harder settings) and 
 how that may waiver the opinions of some. But some more hardcore games such as myself tend to like 
 such a challenge. Don't be too quick to write a game off as being bad just because you have a hard 
 time beating it. Maybe you should just practice a little harder before bad mouthing a great great 
 title and making it harder for good companies to stay afloat (though I'm sure Rare is in better 
 than excellent standings at the moment) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 122985
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  I was going through all these reviews and realized how some people should not write reviews!! Almost 
 all them were saying that the graphics were bad..... have you seen the game on a HD TV?? still cutting 
 edge and its a first gen game. Others say its cheesy; thats what its going for!! A cheesy Bond 
 like story.... just like the first game that came out for the N64. And how people can give a game 
 such low scores!! don't write a review if you know nothing about games!! In this age of gaming 
 no game should be below a 5. even if you think the story is bad and the and you dont like the controls, 
 the graphics and the levels them selves should still be looked at as well thought out and worth 
 playing. but I've seen people give the game a score under 5 and some are more like 2s!!!??!! The 
 only way that a score like those could be valid would be if they are releasing NES or txt based 
 games as new titles for the 360. Just because you dont care for a game doesn't mean it should be 
 considered the worst game ever. I would give this game a 9 but i could understand why some give 
 it a lower score. I do think the AI can be a little dumb but not enough to make this a bad game. 
 Graphics are great and the story is just what it's supposed to be.... over the top action! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrachulaX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Seven years ago we were blessed to play one of N64's best games, and one of the finest FPS to come 
 along in a long time. And that game, ladies and gentlemen, was Perfect Dark. Acting almost as a 
 successor of Goldeneye, Perfect Dark took all the fun gameplay and awesome weapons, and wrapped 
 it all in a cool futuristic storyline. And after a long wait (and lots of set backs) , the sequel 
 has finally arrived. Sadly, the wait might not have been worth it. 
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is actually a prequel to the first game. The story follows Joanna Dark, who works 
 as a bounty hunter alongside her father and a woman named Chandra. Together they battle an evil 
 corporation called dataDyne. It starts out fine, but eventually the story gets too silly and over 
 the top to be taken seriously. The characters are one-dimensional, and the soap opera-eschew twists 
 are contrived. 
  
  What really bugs me, however, is the fact that Rare decided that having a 70's vibe would be cool. 
 I don' see how it fits, since the game takes place in 2020. Yet the game lavishes in 70's jive 
 music and "girl power". It gets to a point where it just becomes ridiculous. The fact that the 
 game overall has a drab look to it doesn't help either. 
  
  Being one of the first games on Xbox 360, the graphics are something that must be taken into account. 
 The game looks good for the most part: shiny surfaces and nice lighting. But the character models 
 are absolutely horrendous. Slow and wobbly, characters are actually a pain to look at, and even 
 more of a pain to shoot. 
  
  Speaking of shooting, here's something that is actually fun in the game. Despite lame gadgets and 
 vehicles that fail to please, the gunplay is solid and fun. Running and gunning is as much fun 
 as ever, although sometimes it feels archaic to shooters nowadays. The weapons are not as creative 
 as the selection in the first game, but there is still a good variety of them. 
  
  The single player campaign is short, but its fun while it lasts. The multiplayer recently took 
 a hit; due to Microsoft closed a lot of the servers after the game's launch. It's hard to connect 
 to any matches that contain more than four people. But the matches are fun, and the maps are quite 
 large in size. There is also a lot of customization that can be done in the matches. If you have 
 the patience, the online is a fun diversion. 
  
  This prequel in whole is disappointing, but there is a little bit of fun to be had here. Just don't 
 expect anything as good near as the original. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narnyfied
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 20, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  I found perfect dark to be well,.......... boring for starters and then really REALLY annoying. 
 From the pause music to the menu, to the game music, to the voices of the characters and the rubbish 
 plot: everyone of those was a reason to just throw it in the bin for me. The game play itself i 
 found too restrictive, if you take too long arrows appear in front of you to tell you where to 
 go and/or this woman radios in "subtle advice", not being able to jump is just patronizing these 
 days and she handles like a wax model (a bad one at that) Graphics are good but do not help the 
 argument GS made for giving this game a 9.0. It's quite hard to die but if the wrong person sees 
 you from the corner of his eye from a mile away the whole mission is over, not a satisfying way 
 to loose a level. If i had paid more than 7 for Perfect Dark Zero I would be far more annoyed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesfitz8482
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 19, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  When I played this game, I knew it was a disapointment from the moment I first started controlling 
 Joanna. The original perfect dark for the n64 was an absoloutly brilliant game, and an amazing 
 expireience. Perfect Dark Zero however, is not. It is NOTHING like the original at all.... It has 
 a completely differant (and dull) feel to it... the characters are all new, and are just plain awful. 
 The gameplay is at such a slow pace, and the shooting is just...... bad. There is no content from 
 the original game, which would have been good, like the classic facility level. They didn't bring 
 the good old combat simulator back, with bots. I can't even belive this is a perfect dark game.... It 
 is not ANYTHING like perfect dark. This game gives the Orginial Perfect Dark a bad name. The levels 
 are short and poorly made. To sum it up... it's an absoloute dissapointment.... I just wish I still 
 had my N64 so I could play the originial.
  
  DON'T BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Putzwapputzen
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 18, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  First of all this game got a rating of 9.0 out of 10.0 Many of you might think that this game must 
 be really good to receive such a high and generous score. Wrong! This game was outright horrible. 
 it was one of the worst games i have ever played. the storyline was corny and cheesy and the game 
 play itself was amateurish. the reason i believe this game got such a high rating was because of 
 the simple fact that this game was one of the first games to come out for the newly released xbox 
 360. once a new console comes out it is practically useless unless there are games to play. however 
 this is where the problem lies, if the game is not rated good, then no one will buy it. so perfect 
 dark zero got a generous rating of 9.0 in order to increase sales. the weapons in this game were 
 mainly two pistols that did everything except fire like normal pistols. the maps and storyline 
 of the games were seriously boring. the mission and objectives were seriously flawed. mainly the 
 little things added up made this game the worst game i have ever played. seeing the high rating 
 of this game made my opinion and thoughts about it even more critical and makes me believe the 
 rating of this game should seriously be reconsidered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyboy898
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Very Fun Multiplayer
  In the missions, if you don't know where to go, a track of arrows will guide you to the next place.
 
  Good selection of weapons, there are more tertiary functions than the original.
  Great Graphics
  Excellent music
  Superb gameplay
  More functions, like the roll and cover
 
  Health regenerates
  
  The Bad:
  When you die in the game, it doesn't look realistic.
  In the main menu, why is there a Samsung logo in the top-right corner?
  Not a big selection of 
 characters in multiplayer, like in the original.
  If you're a veteran of the original, this one might be a bit herder to get used to
  The Story 
 is just plain crap
  
  Overall: If you loved the original, you'll love this one even more. The AI is good, lots of new 
 gadgets and in this game there are more hazards, like cameras and alarms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karma0666
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 9, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Personally I didn't like this game that much, sure others might enjoy it but once you play games 
 (such as Halo 3) that have better graphics and controls the game loses it's attractiveness. However, 
 it does have some redeeming qualaties, it has a cool sword that you can use that stops bullets 
 that are fired at you, and some unique vehicles that are not in any Halo game. All in all though 
 I am sticking to my rating of a 3.0 out of 10.0. After all I've had more fun watch grass grow. 
 But if you are in to that kind of stuff and think it is more fun to play Perfect Dark's sequal 
 then go for it, if not buy a Halo game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pittfan666
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 6, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin by saying that Perfect Dark Zero was well not worth the $9.99 that I spent on it. 
 To begin with, the game has absolutely no connections with its older and better version which can 
 be found on the N64. First off, the graphics while much better than the N64 version they are somewhat 
 dissapointing for being on the 360. I understand that it was one of the first games for sale on 
 the system, but the graphics are so ugly that I personally cannot stand them. I hoped that the 
 plot of the game would've made the gaming experience more enjoyable, but there is no plot. You 
 are Joanna Dark and you do random missions with your father, however there are really no connections 
 between one mission and the next. Just walk around or sneak around and kill everything in your 
 path. Very little variety is found in the mission objectives. Overall I cannot stand to play Perfect 
 Dark Zero and when I do feel like causing myself pain I can only manage to play this game for 15 
 minute timespans before I just give up. Do yourself a favor and don't pick up Perfect Dark Zero 
 no matter how cheap your local video game store is selling it for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phundude
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I got this game real cheap from gamestop, and as a fan of FPS and the original i picked it up... 
 But this game just didnt do it for me. The graphics were excellent and the sound was really good, 
 but the controlls were just..... i cant put my finger on it. But the controlls were not right for 
 a FPS and it ruined my whole expirience with the game. The cover system is pretty bad, and you 
 can tell that this could have been a really good game but came up too short. Probably rushed to 
 make the 360 Launch.... my advice for 360 owners looking for a good, cheap FPS, i would suggest 
 Prey or Condemned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  The long awaited sequel to perfect dark for the N64 does not live up to the hype that it was given 
 by people pulling for rare and Microsoft. Perfect dark starts off by giving you graphics that mimic 
 those of the late current generation. Honestly Halo 2 looks better than this. The sound also doesn't 
 seem to match up with the action at times and the the action really isn't that fun. You have a 
 ton of weapons but non of them seem fun. Using cover seems more of a hassle than any as it doesn't 
 even compare with the cover usage of KillSwitch. The story isn't told in a way that would make 
 you want to care for who you are interacting with and some of the objectives seem downright foolish. 
 The music is rival that of a night club and the only thing you will do is wonder how awesome they 
 could of made Ms. Dark and why this game sucks so bad considering all the hype that was placed 
 into it as rare was working on this sequel. I am hoping that this game doesn't hurt Rare to much 
 because this isn't their best work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironman1001
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 29, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark was one of the first games that came out this year and everybody saw the graphics 
 and said this is the best game we have ever played. Then they actually started to play it and it 
 was pretty bad. The campain was so easy and so short. But the multiplier is makes up for some of 
 it. The multiplier was a little weird and out of place. But it was still a little entertaining. 
 The only high point for this game is the selection of weopons. All weopons have a different special 
 move, like heat vision or silencer or a grenade coming out. This was a decent game. only get it 
 if its 15$ or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louder
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  WOW... What a shame. I enjoyed the first mission but after that it all went to pot. After ten attempts 
 at the second mission and having no clue what to do I ended up calling a friend round and fumbled 
 through the co-op for the rest of the game. Graphically the game is great and really shows off 
 the power of the 360 especially for a release title and really makes for good viewing pleasure 
 on a HDTV. The story is not the focal point of the game by far, as half of the time I lost the 
 story very quickly as it is rather weak and felt it was just there to attempt to give a reason 
 to all the encounters and fill the gaps between them and getting lost. The AI works well and taking 
 on a big group can be a rather daunting task.
  The features like the arrows that appear on the floor to tell you where to go are nice but only 
 appear when you track back over your own footsteps and a game surely shouldn't need features like 
 this. The arsenal of weaponry is nice and old favourites like the laptop gun make a nice return 
 but generally I found myself using the same gun layout through the whole game and only changing 
 for set pieces. The level layout has been thought through but they have over stepped the line of 
 the player hunting enemies and changed it to the player searching for enemies, which gives it a 
 jerky style of play but does create the tension of possible encounter around every turn.
  The online multiplayer is fantastic and can rival games such as FEAR and Call of Duty. The only 
 downside to the online play is that some of the maps are not worth the memory they take up which 
 is a shame as some maps have a great deal of potential with just that extra crate or two. All the 
 standard game types are included but death match tends to be the best with the maps catering more 
 for this then capture the flag or other such game types.
  Overall the single player could be good but is let down by the amount of detail put in which ends 
 up confusing the player and often the lack of instructions is infuriating but for multiplayer it 
 is a real gem. It not to hard but it is very frustrating at times.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mewt2021
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  This game was just god-awful. Given that most games released with the system tend to suck, theres 
 no reason why this game should be different. To start, theres the story. This game's story was 
 going nowhere fast.. most likely due to the fact that it really didn't have one. The weapons really 
 weren't that special at all. They really didn't try to make any super-weapons for this game. Graphic-wise 
 this game was... decent. Multi-player was just boring after the first two minutes. This creators 
 took the title of a fantastic N64 game and slapped it on this peace of crap so it would sell. Anyone 
 who could like this game and anyone who still plays this game must have been bribed a lot to speak 
 highly of this game. Words can not describe how much I hate this game and how I wish it was stripped 
 for store shelves so people wouldn't have to question how such a great title could go so wrong. 
 *When I talk about this game I have to do a lot of Lewis Black hand waving to get a point across. 
 All I can say is that I want every second of my life that I spent playing this hell they call a 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazychris90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  - Interesting level designs - Great vehicle/ puzzle sections to seperate the action - Fantastic 
 multiplayer - Custom matchmaking is a treat - Technically stunning graphics - Great soundtrack 
 and sound effects
  
  THE BAD:
  - Can be frustrating - AI are bullies in higher difficulties - Standard plot - Animation glitches 
 often occur - Poor voice acting
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is the sequel of one of the best first-person shooter 
  games of all time: 
 Perfect Dark. Perfect Dark resided on the Nintendo 64 back in 2000; this simply is one legend of 
 its genre (rated 9.9/10 from Gamespot) . Created and raised up by the company RARE (officially owned 
 by Nintendo at the time) , Perfect Dark showed a great example of a must-own game for many companies 
 in every aspect; brilliant multiplayer; stunning level designs; and even a great sense of character. 
 And now, five years of waiting, its sequel appears on a Microsoft console. This didn't send any 
 sign of confusion as we've all heard that Microsoft has purchased RARE (here comes the upset Nintendo 
 fans) , but by all means they have made the ultimate choice!
  
  For all shoot 'em ups, the game has to be fun to play, and Perfect Dark Zero does this just fine, 
 I mean what's the point in playing a game that isn't fun? The level designs are spectacular, and 
 provide a very interesting variety of Gameplay elements; Most of shooting; some vehicle sections; 
 stealth; even puzzles, which you need to solve to hack through doors and blow through walls. This 
 is a very interesting aspect for a FPS. The shooting is exciting, and definitely satisfying, but 
 it's not so fun most of the time; enemies can take a thousand bullets, especially in higher difficulties, 
 enemy AI is too smart, which leads to a simple demise on stealthy kills. Other than that, the vehicles 
 separate the frustrating shooting to a complex driving/ flying section and they work really well. 
 These sections also don't appear that often, so it doesn't overshadow the entire game (this problem 
 often appears in Halo)
  
  Length-wise, the game is short, but you can't expect a shooter to be more than 15- 20 hours long. 
 A rather standard plot, not spectacular, accompanies this but you can see the characters making 
 you want to play just to see the consequences. The whole storyline is a mixture of science fiction 
 and James Bond, a female secret agent (Joanna Dark) , on a huge mission to uncover the secrets of 
 "Death match", which was created by an evil genius named "Shang Li". It all sounds simple and pathetic, 
 but later on something goes terrible wrong, lets leave it with that. This is the strongest point 
 of the story.
  
  Now onto the multiplayer aspect of Perfect Dark Zero, this is next-generation supremacy! Even if 
 you didn't enjoy the campaign, it is worth keeping just for the multiplayer, even if it's just 
 a match with your friends in your room, it can be good fun. The true thrill of multiplayer is Xbox 
 Live, competing and playing against twenty or more players, unbelievably enough it is rare to see 
 slowdown. A large variety of weapons included, is a big treat, and they all differ in many ways; 
 Sniper Rifles with Radar Jammers; RPG's with custom control; Machine guns with night vision, Perfect 
 Dark Zero has it all! Vehicles are also added into the multiplayer, adding more variety to the 
 maps, these can be fun to play around with at first, but you will often see yourself switching 
 them off as they are a cheap way for players to earn kills, and overused way too often. Custom 
 matchmaking is one of the stronger multiplayer aspects, allowing you to create your own games with 
 custom modifications. You will be playing this "a lot", and I mean "a lot", making online matches 
 your own game and playing with people from all around the world!
  
  The graphics are magical, and it really is a leap from last generation visuals. Technically the 
 graphics are brilliant and even two/ three years on it is still candy to the eye, sadly enough, 
 you'll find yourself enjoying staring at a wall. You've probably already figured out that the terrain 
 visuals are outstanding, as it looks as good as reality: walls look like real walls (yes, I like 
 the walls) , floor looks like floor etc. you get the point. On the other hand, Facial visuals and 
 animations disappoint. Characters faces are littered with "cel-shaded", and cartoony coloured features, 
 and there is an overuse of shine effects, which really looks ugly when the locations are superb. 
 Animations often don't appear, especially in fmv sequences, which look odd as you hear gunfire 
 and nothing appears out of the weapon. When the animations do respond, it does make the game feel 
 like a scene out of some flashy science fiction film, which is exciting when you're placed right 
 in the centre of the action.
  
  Perfect Dark's sound is another positive, and the music is awesome! Listening to the intro music 
 really readies you to go into battle. In-game music also works very well and perfectly suits the 
 situation you're in, for example, you're running through a space ship in silence, and then you 
 break through a huge steel door into a massive room full of enemies; the music will change to a 
 high tempo, action style tune. The sound effects are another aspect that makes you feel like you're 
 really taking part in the exhilarating action, the sound of the weapons, explosions, vehicles are 
 all so satisfying! It's that good; it will make you plan on buying a surround sound system, just 
 for Perfect Dark Zero. Leaving the sound effects aside, the voice acting is fairly average, maybe 
 it isn't a blockbuster movie, but points like voice acting should not be ignored. The main few 
 characters voice acting is great; it's just others that sound terrible. One of the main problems 
 with the voice acting is that there is many "emotion-less" characters, at the worst, they don't 
 even sound upset in sadistic moments, even the same happens with anger.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is by all means well-worth getting game, even if it's just for the outstanding 
 multiplayer features. In terms of a sequel to the original, it does "extremely" well with very 
 few cons that draw it back. Perfect Dark Zero is simply a must-buy game for every shooter fan and 
 one good reason for PS3 and Wii followers to stop by and think of adding a 360 to their collection.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ligerz76
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a 360 prequel to the N64 original. The original was amazing but man oh man 
 is this fun. Let me break this down.
  
  Plot: 9/10-Takes place a few years before the original. I don't want to give anything away.
  
 
  Gameplay: 10/10-Very fun. Guns are very satisfying to shoot and there really is a good variety. 
 Vehicles are smooth to control and fun to drive. There is a melee attack which comes in handy. 
 Single player is fun but multiplayer is awesome. The maps range from small to huge with jungle, 
 desert, and inner city environments. There is even a bot option if you don't have Live.
  
  Controls: 10/10-Just general shooter controls with some extra stuff.
  
  Graphics: 8/10-Pretty 
 good. You can see that they are a little shiny and a few glitches but other than that they look 
 really good.
  
  Difficulty: 10/10-You can choose the difficulty so there is something for everyone.
  
  Overall: 
 9.5/10-What it comes down to is that this is an awesome, fun shooter. Nothing revolutionary, but 
 it is very fun and has great multiplayer. Hope they make another.
  
  ESRB: M for Mature
  Blood-When you shoot someone there are puffs of blood but it doesn't splatter. Headshot kills will 
 result in a little more blood. When you headshot someone, there is the blood puff and a giant spurt 
 coming from the head. The blood isn't excessive or realistic, but it is noticeable.
  Language-Some hells and damns but nothing bad.
  Violence-Mostly futuristic sci-fi action violence.
 
  ESRB recommended age: 17+
  My recommended age: 13+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GotRustyB
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  I was excited about this game, and it was pretty good. The multi player was really pretty fun but 
 it didn't have any ind of party system which made playing online with friends kinda tough. Other 
 things that bugged me were the fact that the controls were choppy which make the game a lot harder 
 than it should have been and the game play was pretty drab because of it. The best way to play 
 this game was split screen against some of your friends. The single player is definitely lacking. 
 I would try to catch this game cheap but definitely don't pay full price. I have to have at least 
 a hundred words and honestly I'm done but I'm gonna write a few more lines so that I can submit 
 this review, I hope you don't mind. Of coarse I don't really expect that any body is gonna read 
 this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthonyb12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I got mixed messages from this game. Half of everyone said it sucked and the other half said it 
 was really good. Well at the time it came out I didn't have $60.00 to burn (because I just bought 
 my 360 lol) I finally bought it on amazon for $10.00. I liked it. True-to-life guns. The AI can 
 be really dumb at some points of the game. I don't like the fact that there is only like 2 checkpoints 
 to a level so if you die you have to start over. I still liked it. I'd give the story like a 6.5... 
 the story line can get a little unentertaining but the gameplay covers that pretty well. I also 
 liked the soundtrack. I actually bought the soundtrack on cd. So lets add everything up, The story 
 line is a little crappy. 8.0 gameplay, 8.5 soundtrack. As you can see I give the game 7.5. WAY 
 worth $10.00 on amazon lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bermudabrian
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark: Zero has been very popular and has received great reviews, but I wasn't a big fan. 
 I'm a huge sci-fi fan, and a FPS fan (but one of average skill level) . The setting and art design 
 of this game was a bit comical for my tastes, and the difficulty level was far too high.
  
  From the beginning of the game, you can tell that this isn't as much a serious sci-fi franchise 
 as it is a fanciful, comedic one. This may appeal to some, but if you're a fan of the harsh realism 
 of the Star Wars galaxy, then this will not appeal to you.
  
  The big problem that I had with this game, however, was the difficulty. From the first missions, 
 it was obviouse that tactics were less important than running around and shooting as quickly as 
 possible, making this a bit too twitchy for my tastes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigsmokingman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  let me start off by saying that the graphics are fantastic. the sound is alright but there are 
 too many instances where the annoying music's volume will soar over the characters voices and you 
 can't hear whats being said. If you were to beat this game all the way through on one try, it would 
 probably take about six hours. however, if played on Secret Agent mode (the so called "regular" 
 mode) it can be painfully annoying, as you will find yourself attempting levels over and over again, 
 because there is only one checkpoint in the level. The enemies' AI is about as smart as the average 
 gamer, and it takes plenty of bullets to take them down. Head shots work, but in the later levels, 
 almost every damned enemy is wearing full body armor and a helmet. I finally got to the point where 
 i tried the game on Agent mode, and i was shocked at the drastic difference between difficulties. 
 it took me ten minutes to beat the level i had been trying.
  
  overall, it's an okay shooter, but highly overrated by gamespot. and the new cover and fire system 
 does NOT work like you would want it to. in fact, it's rather retarded and i usually don't end 
 up using it at all. if you want a shooter that's all style and no substance, Perfect Dark is your 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was a launch title for the Xbox360 and now a few years later I must say that 
 it hasnt aged all that well, especially in terms of its and controls and enemy AI.
  
  Story goes that you are a sexy woman named Joanna Dark, who is a secret agent doing some secret 
 job. Unfortunately thats all I can tell you about the story, because the game itself or the manual 
 gives you pretty much zero amount of information about 1) who you are, 2) what you are, 3) who 
 are you working with and 4) what are you doing. It seems that the game assumes that everyone has 
 played the original Perfect Dark for the Nintendo 64, but unfortunately I havent.
  
  Graphics are the best part of this game. Environments and gun models look very good and detailed, 
 but when you get up close and personal youll notice that most of the character models are not 
 good at all. Joanna Dark herself has been modeled good, but I still think that Samus Aran in her 
 Varia Suit is much more believable as an action heroine than Joanna Dark in a skin tight cat suit 
 or something.
  
  Sound is good, but not very remarkable either. Luckily the most important thing  shooting  sounds 
 as satisfying as it should be.
  
  Controls are stiff and clunky. I was very disappointed to notice that Samus is a lot more flexible 
 in her Varia Suit than Joanna Dark, who doesnt have a heavy armor on her. Cover system especially 
 is a joke: it takes several seconds for Joan to take that cover and in a heavy fire fight you really 
 dont have several seconds to spare.
  
  Enemy AI is another failure: usually they just stand in the open letting you to take aim and shoot. 
 Even if you are just standing still in the middle of 6 to 7 enemies it may take nearly a minute 
 for them to kill you.
  
  Save system uses checkpoints, which in my opinion are too far apart from another.
  
  There 
 are multiplayer modes included, like co-op in the campaign and some regular deathmatch through 
 Xbox Live, but I never made it that far: its just not that interesting game.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is a disappointing game: it looks good, but the storytelling is either a) not 
 good or b) non-existent. On top of that the enemy AI is not so great and the controls are stiff 
 and clunky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  Alright, as most of you know this is the sequal, or should I say prequel to the N64 Perfect Dark 
 game. If you haven't played the N64 game you may be missing out on one of the best shooters on 
 that system, but that doesn't mean this game shouldn't be for you. This game, like a lot of system 
 games out now, is a first person shooter. What makes this game stand out is the awesomeness of 
 the types of weapons you can use. Some of the classic goes that we love have come back along with 
 some other interesting weapons. 
  
  GamePlay- 
  the game play is truely worth the buy if your a fan of FPS (First Person Shooters) . The game is 
 easy to handle with bottons in easy locations to quickly get to with out having to think about 
 it. I know how people hate to compaire games to Halo 2 but if you understood the controls in Halo, 
 this game should not be to hard for you to handle
  
  Graphics- 
  one of the two lowest scores. The reason for this is not that the game has horrible graphics and 
 it doesn't. The game just lacks in Graphics compaired to most of the other 360 games i've seen 
 or played. 
  
  Sound- 
  Another one of my lower scores. The reason for this is because of the voice acting. Voice acting, 
 being one of the main things to keep a good story going, was shocking. Some of you reading this 
 already know that Jonna's voice doesn't fit with the voice of the N64 version's. This may disapoint 
 most of you but it surely isn't a reason not to get this game. 
  
  Vaule- 
  I Havn't played the Multiplayer or xbox live but knowing that this game will have live and that 
 it came from, in my opinen, one of the best mulitplayer games of all time, i'm sure that PD0 with 
 have great online and also for those with out live will not be dispointed in the offline multiplayer. 
 The singleplayer has it's times that keeps your heart going and will bring you back for more to 
 try improve on your last score on the level. 
  
  The game is truely awesome, it has it's few minor things that could be tweaked, but other then 
 that it's a great FPS action game. With the Difficulty that can be childishly easy to you having 
 to be a Perfect Dark Agent just to live on any level makes the game injoyable for old and new players 
 of FPS. 
  Beast 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Well, the Xbox 360 is finally here. And the game that everyone thinks will pwn the Xbox 360 launch 
 titles is Perfect Dark Zero. Let us see:
  
  On the positve side: The game has a lot of weak points, but the co-op and multiplayer make up for 
 most of that. As well, it has Hovercrafts.
  
  On the negative side: The final boss in the game is Ridiculous, but I won't say why, because that 
 would be a spoiler.
  
  Verdict: Depends. Okay, it totally doesn't matter, but its still a sweet game that I think is best 
 FPS Xbox 360 launch title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MYSTROW1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  this game is good to say it came out 2 years ago. the single player isnt very good and is quite 
 hard in some places. i dont like your health because sometimes it goes up and sometimes it goes 
 down. but you can do the campaign online and split screen. the best thing about this game is the 
 multiplayer. you can go against the machine or you can go against people and put in "bots". i like 
 playing infection best because your in a little room and all these zombies are coming at you with 
 hand guns. i wouldn't buy this game but i would borrow/rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck02623
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for $15 at Gamestop, and I was pretty excited about it given the great Gamespot 
 review.
  
  First of all, let's get one thing straight: the graphics are good even now. The soundtrack is annoying, 
 the cutscenes... well, there really aren't any, you just have to stare at a blue screen while you 
 listen to someone talk to you over a comlink.
  
  There's something quirky about the controls that I can't really put my finger on, but they just 
 feel weird. The cover system was a nice idea, but it's broken. You have to find a tiny, perfect 
 place on an object and move back and forth for the game to prompt you to cover, spam the A button, 
 and even then it might or might not let you cover on that object.
  
  The futuristic "flying-car" themed setting really wore on my after about five minutes.
  
  Online 
 Coop sounds great, but it glitches now and again, saying the mission is over, but you can't select 
 any of the menu options so you have to restart it.
  
  The enemy AI is ridiculous. First of all, it seems like your regular grunt enemies take more hits 
 to die then you do. Secondly, they strafe back and forth on the same twenty foot path, making the 
 frustratingly difficult to kill. 
  
  The tutorial level tells you that rolling (which is also broken and awkward) will keep you from 
 getting hit. This is a lie. The only difference rolling makes is that when you're getting shot 
 you can't fire back.
  
  The difficulties are VASTLY different. Secret agent feels almost impossibly in the China level. 
 Not only that, but most achievements are impossible to get, and are in multiplayer.
  
  I feel that, even though I spent only $15 on an xbox 360 game, that I wasted my money. I really 
 can't say why, but I really despise this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BruinFan33
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is fair but It could be better it can be entertaining with fun and innovative with all 
 the cool guns and all the special James bond style accessories the story of the game isn't very 
 special and the graphics are poor for the 360 but you have to be a little lenient because of this 
 being a launch title. But the highlight of the game MULTI PLAYER the game modes are fun and you 
 can add bots to make things more interesting so I'm gonna say this is a great "group Game" but 
 other than that kind of a dud : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slintpong
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  When I say Rent It First I really mean it. This game is short! And I mean SHORT! And fast players 
 could probably complete it in under an hour. There's only 13 levels.
  
  This game is beautiful. Really good graphics and sound. There's not alot of music in the single 
 player campaign and in the multi player games there's no music at all. Which kind of sucks. But 
 I still spend most of my time in the multi player game anyways because it's really fun.
  
  I recommend this game to both those who's played the original Perfect Dark and to those who haven't 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejackal465
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying this: When God created the world, I am absolutely certain that he defined 
 perfection very differently than game designers do currently. While God's view on perfection may 
 be something holy or flawless, game designers are often content with sending me outdated, overzealous 
 Barbie goes to the Mall hybrids that procede to suck all the joy and wonder out of my already flamboyantly 
 colorful life. While I would love to continue to detail the feelings I have for the hit mature 
 game, Mary-Kate and Ashley's Barely Legal Tween Bathing Party to you, I should really save you 
 the trouble and say this, it was fun, I am ashamed, yes, I would do it again. 
  
  On the basis of Perfect, PDZ is far from as far as single-player goes. Gameplay was good -- it was 
 fun finding new weapons to finish the level with to add to my ever-growing arsenal -- finding proper 
 uses for these weapons was even more enlightening as I soon found that for covert operations, the 
 M60 was not a good gun to carry into the mission (contrary to popular opinion) . The addition of 
 a cover move was excellently done -- players could look around corners to get a bead on enemies before 
 firing -- especially useful in the later levels of the game. However, there are problems with the 
 gameplay. The maps are not too confusing to navigate, however, when players get lost, there appears 
 on the ground a trail of arrows to follow to set people on the right track. It is a novel idea, 
 but it appears so often that players are dumbed down slightly. One other problem is the classic 
 cliche of the FPS -- exploding barrels. I dont know how many games have had these clearly marked, 
 out of place containers, but PDZ is no exception. Enemies are relatively intelligent -- great shooters 
 with great perceptions (especially in later levels) , but they often seek cover behind these toxic 
 deathtraps when met by Joanna Dark's gun-toting. I thought that after a decade of FPS's, the hide 
 behgind barrels gene would be eliminated due to fatality. Not here.
  
  Since it is a launch game, it has its fair share of bugs... random glitchiness, spazzy graphics 
 (rarely) , and this weird thing that happens sometimes when you blow up an enemy -- he is thrown backward 
 and ragdoll physics come into play -- but then the dead corpse starts floping and flying all over 
 the place like superman on crack. While at first it is funny and amusibng, at times, it can get 
 annoying.
  
  However, the game really takes-off in the multiplayer aspect of things. There is something for 
 everyone here -- A wide-open, brightly lit desert level of caves and wide dues and canyons -- a subway 
 level with dimly lit corridors -- a city level complete with hotal, mall, and parking deck -- a jungle 
 temple -- there is something for everyone. Each level may be adjusted to open or close certain portions 
 of the environment. HeadshotJackal's Rating:
  I gave this game a 6.5/10, it has its flaws, but hey, the mulitplayer more than makes up for it 
 and hell, its that damn good... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_monkey_god
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  This is a poor sequal to one of the best FPS. Realy if the would have just remade the N64 Perfect 
 Dark it would have been better. But the one and only thing that helps this game is multiplayer. 
 Realy it is the only good thing about this game. The story sucks ass. It could have used more weapons. 
 It needed a better story. And it would have been nice if Rare would have fleshed it out more but 
 for $15 its a nice buy. Plus map packs are free! The only other thing I can think of is the bots 
 are way to good with snipers when you put the on the hardest difficulty. WAY TO GOOD. I mean come 
 on its hard to get a head shot with the flimsy snipers but they get it evey time they see you. 
 WTF. Its like if you see them you are dead. O well the price is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack_sparrow_28
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 2:29 am PT
Review:  Back on the N64 in 2000, Perfect Dark was released. Now, I never played it, but luckily, Perfect 
 Dark Zero is the prequel to Rare's (formerly known as Rareware) old school shooter.
  
  You play as Joanna Dark, a woman who seems to be in her early twenties, and has only just started 
 work in the field with her father, Jack Dark. Along with the assistance of Chandra, the team takes 
 on assignments from anyone willing to pay (with the exemption of evil corporations) . On a fairly 
 routine mission, a much deeper, more sinister plot is uncovered, taking Joanna across the world.
 
  
  The graphics are fairly awesome, but they still have a cartoony, comic book look to it, which isn't 
 necessarily a bad thing, it gives it a distinct feel. That being said, there are faults. The blood 
 looks like the PS2/XBOX spray can blood. But other than that, it's all pretty cool.
  
  The gameplay is great, but at the same time, awful. There will be scenes where you'll be under 
 fire, with two bullets left in your magnum (which is actually a revolver) , and you nail the two 
 snipers firing at you whilst peeking out from behind a wall. It's awesome. But then, at other times, 
 there is nothing happening, and your teammates will dissapear, and kill every bad guy, leaving 
 none for you. The game does have a guide, called way points , but these will only appear after 
 you've been wandering around for two minutes or so. It generally slows down the pace of the entire 
 game.
  
  The music is brilliant. For some reason, it just really nails the tone of the game. The voice acting 
 could've used a little work, but it isn't bad enough to become annoying.
  
  Along with story mode, you have the Combat Arena. This is a deathmatch mode where you can face 
 bots, or your friends, or bots and your friends. This is ok, but it seems like a really tacked 
 on feature to meet the standards of current games.
  
  Overall, Perfect Dark Zero is a fun game. It's nothing special, just fun. Fun. Nothing else. Fun. 
 Get it? Just fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthzew
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I got this game late and so I paid from the half-priced platinum edition. It's not a bad deal at 
 all. Here's why:
  
  We'll start with the graphics:
  
  Being one of the first next-gen titles, it looks brilliant. It's definitely nothing ever done before 
 on an Xbox. It's technically proficient with some great lighting and the guns are incredibly detailed. 
 However, to counter this... Perfect Dark Zero is colorful. Too colorful, in fact unattractively 
 so. It looks more like bad anime than an FPS. Sure, they are nice graphics, but it's just ugly.
 
  
  For the graphics, I give it a seven. Sure, it obviously has good graphics... but it's not nice 
 to look at.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Well, this game has some great intuition into it! There's a cover system that isn't hard to use 
 at all. You get up againt a wall and then you pop into third person perspective and you can shoot 
 like Scott Mitchell in GRAW. Well... it's there... but it's also pointless. You could easily just 
 pop in out of cover in First person mode. It's there and could come in handy, but there is no reason 
 I should see the A button every time I get near a wall. The health system is obnoxious. It's an 
 intuition, but it's annoying. You get shot and it drains a lot of your short term health and a 
 bit of your long term health. Your health will only recharge to your long term health's bar. In 
 other words, you lose as you go but not completely. You'll get used to having a lot of health but 
 then you'll lose a lot and the difficulty fluctuates. Not good.
  
  Shooting is easy and it's a breeze. It feels good to shoot people yet again (bluntly put) . However, 
 the people do not move or take damage like real people at all. They walk around like the biggest 
 bafoons this side of Arkansas (and there are a lot of bafoons there!) . Then it takes quite a few 
 rounds of anything to take down even the smallest grunts of enemies. There are a few other things 
 not worth mentioning, but they mostly just shy of being mediocre. I have to give the gameplay... 
 a four.
  
  Sound:
  
  It's actually great! I loved the upbeat, techno-ish soundtrack. The guns sounded just right and 
 the voice acting was great too. The sound gets a nice 10. As per value, as I mentioned above, it 
 was worth the purchase. Even with its shoddy gameplay. Value is a nine.
  
  Finally, we come to my favorite part: the TILT!!!! MUUAAAAAA!!!
  
  I'm tilting it a nine. Why 
 a nine? Well, the multiplayer is fun. Even by yourself it's fun. Let's say you really want to play 
 online, but your internet died. So what? Perfect Dark Zero is one of the few games on consoles 
 that still supports bots. It also has a lot of modes and it can be great fun. Therefore, nine. 
 On average, this game gets a SEVEN POINT EIGHT (7.8) . However, Gamespot has helped me adjust it 
 to 7.5. Why don't I round it up properly? Because an A game doesn't deserve a AA ranking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -D3MO-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero (XBOX 360) Review
  
  The Perfect Dark series has always been solid. Addicting gameplay, great multiplayer, hot chick, 
 what else could you ask for?
  
  HD?
  
  RARE's taking the series to HD, and exclusivley for the Xbox 360..
  
  How does it fare?
  
 
  PROS:
  
  - Great Controller Configuration
  - Awesome 32-Multiplayer action - Superb online play
  - Graphics are good
  - Story has its 
 moments
  
  CONS:
  
  - Story could be better
  - Can get laggy at times
  - Graphics are not mind-blowing
  
  Overall:
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is a great game. I reccomend 
 renting this game, or even buying it since its around ~$20 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmac66
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics just comepletely own no doubt about it 10/10 right there no flaws can be 
 done there to what i think. Because the graphics are so realistic if you look closeley and far.
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is good too. The gameplay makes you feel like you are actucally walking 
 in the game though thats the only difference to what most ppl would probably think.
  
  Storymode: The storymode is actually making sense just like halo 3 storyline is realistic this 
 game has a realistic storyline and actucally makes sense.
  
  Summary: It all adds up to a dream game of a life time like they say nitendo 64 use to have the 
 best games and perfect dark zero was a game from 64 now its improved in the future in 360 version. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendians
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is the prequel to Perfect Dark on the Nintendo 64. The story of Perfect Dark 
 Zero was okay, it start out fine when Joanna Dark (you) doing some training in dataDyne research 
 factory and then comes mission objective that you have to help out the scientist escape the building, 
 while out side, Joanna Dark's father: Jack Dark appears helping her and the scientist escape until 
 dataDyne's force came and tried to stop you after that you free. Mission you have to do is help 
 Jack cross and other variety stuff. Is even better, you can shoot not only white and Asian people 
 like Perfect Dark did, now you can shoot black people, which I think is good. Multi-player is fun 
 too, you have up to 16/15/14/13 bots (including you or 2-4 more player) , which you can play it 
 against with depend if your bros. or friend is playing with you.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10- It feels like SOCOM 3, just that is a first person shooter.
  
  Graphics: 10/10- 
 Everything is beautiful, except some mission stage like China.
  
  Sound: 7/10- Music was decent, and the voice acting was clear but it was low, barely enough to 
 hear it.
  
  Value: 9/10- This game might feel like Nintendo, but is not, it still have charms.
  
  Learning 
 Curve: 0 to 10 mins.- Only the controls are different, nothing big. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  when the xbox 360 was announced some of the first game's that were showed were elder scroll's 4, 
 gears of war, kameo and perfect dark zero. perfect dark zero is the sequel to the first game wich 
 was on the N64 i never played the first ( though i'am hoping that nintendo will put it on virtual 
 consle) so i never got the hole story but it doesn't matter cause this game is great not only was 
 it the first FPS on th 360 but it was the first superb game for the system. now over 2 years ;ater 
 how does it hold up well very well it's a fun shooter that will take you about 10 hour to finish 
 and you won't have to worry about getting attacht to the game cause the story is forgetable but 
 gamplay is great and the graphic's are superb. if your looking for a now buget shooter go for perfect 
 dark zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuartm11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This game was like the first out on Xbox 360! It is a bit like Halo minus the aliens and stuff 
 that is just Halo. In 2020 it is a great setting just a nice future sight for us about what could 
 happen. Great graphics and all. It's hard to believe that the people are meant to be deadly sercet 
 agents instead of cartoons. The multiplayer is great cause that is how i first finished the game 
 and it was fairly easy on the agent level but when you get to the perfect agent, my god ( I haven't 
 finished the first mission on perfect cause it is so hard) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sion_111
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a prequel to the 2000 hit N64 game Perfect Dark. It was regarded as one of 
 the best shooters ever made. Because Ive only just got my 360, I obviously have to play launch 
 titles two years after they were released. With Perfect Dark Zero, either the game hasn't held 
 up well, or it was just not that great to begin with. While the game has nice visuals, you can't 
 deny that Perfect Dark Zero just feels, well, dated. The gameplay here is pretty muc the same shooter 
 fans have been playing for years. On top of that, the game won't last you too long if you don't 
 invest in the multiplayer component of the game. I finished the main campaign in around 8 hours, 
 so that's all you'll get if you don't take part in the multiplayer. But, if you do, this could 
 last you a lot more. Then again, it really does depend how you take to the dated gameplay.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero follows mercenary Joanna Dark. She works a lot with her dad, Jack Dark, though 
 that sometimes is the reason her missions go wrong as he's trying to protect her. On one mission, 
 he gets captured, only to get killed. So now, Jo is on a vengeance track as she tries to take down 
 a business owner as he tries to find ultimate power. Ultimately, poor cutscenes and lousy talk 
 conversations make the story underwhelming. Poor voice acting doesn't help either.
  
  The gameplay in Perfect Dark Zero isn't that different from other shooters. You run-and-gun through 
 levels, trying to complete objectives like finding the containment cell with Jo's dad or getting 
 to the plane to evacuate Jo. To be honest, if you haven't played FPS this is a great place to start 
 as the game doesn't try anything drastic like walking on walls or going through portals, it's pretty 
 much like any shooter before it. If you have, well then prepare to be not dazzled. The game really 
 isn't that hard, thanks to the health system. Basically, if you get shot once and can get to cover, 
 you'll be fully healed. Granted, if you get shot too much you'll die eventually, but if you're 
 carefully you could get through the whole game without dying once. The game is split up into the 
 single player campaign and the multiplayer modes. The single player is probably the worst thanks 
 to the poor plot and, to be honest, the single player shows off the generic gameplay most. The 
 multiplayer is a little better, because some of the dark ops modes are pretty cool. Basically, 
 the multiplayer is split up into two modes-deathmatch and dark ops. Deathmatch contains all the 
 standard match types like deathmatch, team deathmatch and capture the flag. Dark Ops is more different, 
 as here you get match types where you have to destroy all of the other teams property before the 
 other team destroy yours, a match type where one team defends a part of land and the other has 
 to kill them all. A lot of these matches are fun, especially Infection where survival is the key 
 as you try and stay alive until everyone is dead. But, when people die, they go onto the infected 
 team as they try to take you down. Overall, the multiplayer is fun, but the single player isn't.
 
  
  There's also nice co-op here too. Basically, rather than cloning Joanna Dark, player two takes 
 the role of another person, like your assistant, Jo's dad and more. It's also cool because sometimes 
 the game puts the two players into different places, and give them different objectives. It's pretty 
 cool, and adds something interesting to the otherwise generic campaign.
  
  The best part about Perfect Dark Zero is the graphics. You can tell Rare really tried to take advantage 
 of the system, as the textures are great, lighting is nice, characters are detail and there are 
 some nice touches, like motion blur when you swing your gun around. But it's not all perfect-some 
 of the characters look ugly thanks to odd looking skin. Also, the frame rate, especially in multiplayer, 
 can chop up quite badly. Still, this game looks nice and, while nowhere near as good looking as 
 Gears of War, shows off the system.
  
  Sadly, the sound isn't as good as the graphics. The voice acting is horrendous. It's obviously 
 trying to rip off spy films like James Bond, but it's done very poorly as people just sound corny. 
 The gunfire is standard; though better thanks to it being more forceful and powerful. The music 
 is too absent to take much notice of it. It's pretty much drowned out by gunfire and speech. Don't 
 bother with custom soundtracks either.
  
  The game won't last you long if you don't do the multiplayer. A good seven hours later and you're 
 done with the storymode. However, there are some achievements to maybe tempt you to do the multiplayer, 
 if not to play through the single player again and co-op is worth a try.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is disappointing. This game is seriously overrated, as there's little new Perfect 
 Dark Zero brings to the genre. While the game looks nice, and the multiplayer is decent, the poor 
 plot, lacking single player and iffy value make this worth a rental at the least, if not to be 
 ignored. Try Gears of War or Prey if you want a 360 shooter, not Perfect Dark Zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercenary-73
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  As i told it's not the n64 version wich is really good but this version has another story of (stealth) 
 based misions with a large selection of weapons with secondary and thrid attacks wich makes it 
 more fun.
  
  Joanna Dark and all the other girls are really hot.
  The evil guy is kinda bad but he's funny.
  
  Nice graphics nice sounds also.
  Highly addictive 
 online gameplay but its really easy after a while and the good thing is that u dont have to be 
 really good cuz you just can put something called bots to get all your achievments easier and faster.
 
  
  Talking bout achievments the story ones are really hard in the perfect and dark agent difficulties, that's 
 bad really bad.
  
  But anyways you should try this game concidering it was one of the first xbox360 games and its 
 worth to play even if you dont feel like you should try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevernight490
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is CLASSIC. It was a great way to start the 360, and is still a great fun game. Singleplayer 
 was ok, but multiplayer made the game.
  
  Singleplayer was pretty straight forward, a little bit of stealth, some espionage but a heck of 
 a lot of shooting. Also, with different objectives on different difficulties, replayabillity was 
 there. Its a basic James Bond game, it really doesn't do anything new and exciting but insteads 
 focuses on maintaining a classic and lovable experience.
  
  Multiplayer introduced some nice options to customize your game to a great limit. Want 5 bots or 
 14? How about humans versus bots? Want your map small or 3+4 open? Go ahead, customize the weapons 
 in the match. The modes are simple, Deathmatch, TeamDeathmatch, CTF ect. Also customizing the skins 
 of your characters is a fun option.
  
  At heart this is a true classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 15, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  The story is a little quirky but some of the dialogue is simply not necessary such as the cussing, 
 it just does not fit with this game.
  
  I play Kameo and PGR3 more than this game but I keep picking it up waiting for it to do something 
 to me that makes me go WOW (because all of the hype)
  
  Don't get me wrong because it is graphically and acoustically awesome but I just keep thinking 
 to my self it could have been so much better. It's like going to the movies and seeing a movie 
 you could not wait to see, you like it but you know if they only did this or that it would have 
 been so much better.
  
  I put Halo2 into my 360 to get a sense of what I am missing here , and there really is no comparison 
 as far as the WAY the story is told.
  
  I have played it online and it is ok.
  
  It is a good game and I just want it to be better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shakezulah
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  After hearing both good and bad things about this game, I decided to check it out for myself. I 
 thought the original Perfect Dark was a pretty good game back in the day. Most of the reviews for 
 this game were very good, as well, so I thought, how bad can it be? .
  
  To answer that question, this game is pretty bad. Where do I even begin? The level design is boring 
 and bland
  The missions are boring, as well as being poorly structured
  The story is incoherent and uninteresting
  The missions are very short, and there aren't that 
 many of them
  The auto-aim feature is completely broken and useless
  Some of the enemies take an absolutely rediculous amount of bullets to kill
  Head shots only 
 work about half the time
  The friendly AI is terrible
  Checkpoints are few and far between, and are badly placed
  The game can get extremely frustrating 
 at times, due to all of the above.
  
  The graphics are at least decent, and some of the weapons are pretty cool, too. Sorry, but those 
 alone do not save this game in the least. I'd like to know what the hell compelled the GS reviewer 
 to give this game a 9. I couldn't think of a game less deserving of such a high score, except for 
 Gears of War. Try reserving those scores for games that are actually worth it. Perfect Dark Zero 
 is a total let down. There are countless other shooters that do what this game tries to so much 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hessticle
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  The single player mission is a little disappointing, which is what keeps this game from being one 
 of the best games out for the 360. However, running through the missions on split screen co-op 
 is a vast improvement over the single player. Multi-player is where this game really shines. There 
 are tons of game play options, some cool weapons, vehicles, and AI bots can be added to beef 
 up the in game numbers. The Bots have their own options that make game play interesting. If you 
 have not played this 360 title, I suggest you pick it up. It can be had cheap. If you havent played 
 it in a while dust it off and give it another whirl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaintusMaximus
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Well the story was interesting and the missions were fun. You could easily challenge yourself to 
 try to get every weapon in the game. The weapon system was done excellently. The inventive weapons 
 are each able to accomplish the little tasks that each mission presents you with. Achievements 
 are pretty non creative. Multiplayer is split into two modes. One is the well known death match 
 which includes team deathmatch, every man for themselves, and capture the flag. The other mode 
 focuses on the spyish portion of the game. Some games cant be played locally due to the fact that 
 in some scenarios you cant get computers to play with you. AI is very good. Just trying to beat 
 the first three levels on the 2nd hardest difficulty will take longer than the easiest version 
 which is for FPS beginers or people that have yet to play the game and want an easy first go at 
 it. All in all its worth its cost now. It goes for about $20 and can give you up to 40 hours of 
 amusement just to try everything. If you love the game and have nothing else to do the multiplayer 
 could take up a weee bit more of your time. But its worth it. The controls are seamless, and though 
 some parts of the game are annoying you quickly forget about it due to the visuals and sound effects. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Tretiak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Over seven years ago, Rare unleashed Perfect Dark for the Nintendo 64. It was an instant classic, 
 providing gamers with unprecedented visual and gameplay advances such as the inclusion of a variety 
 of bots to play alongside players in multiplayer matches. Perfect Dark, in combination with Rares 
 other hits  Goldeneye 007 (N64) and Banjo-Kazooie (N64) - served to put Rare on the map as one 
 of the premier game developing companies in the world. However, with the success of Rares two 
 lucrative first-person shooter titles for the Nintendo 64, a large portion of the team responsible 
 for creating these classics decided to leave Rare and form another company  Free Radical. In subsequent 
 game releases, this departure has shown. Rares games have since lost their unparalleled polish 
 and flare of old. With Perfect Dark Zero, the former king of the genre is looking to start fresh 
 and reclaim its name as one of the best software developers today. The question is then, has it 
 succeeded?
  
  Immediately players will notice how appealing Perfect Dark Zero is to the eye. Clearly the Xbox 
 360 hardware is being used wonderfully. Perfect Dark Zero presents a beautifully realized, lush, 
 organic world for the players to interact with. The textures are almost uniformly crisp and colourful 
  quite the contrast to most games being released today, which all seem to be favouring a grittier, 
 more monochrome palette of colours. The textures, however, are not without one glaring fault which 
 may annoy players to no end; almost every surface in the game is reflective. Walkways, weapons, 
 vehicles, mountains, bricks, even ancient desert ruins produce a glaring shine. While this does 
 serve to give Perfect Dark Zero a rather unique look, it is also used far too much and often comes 
 across as a cheap special effect cop-out. Despite this flaw, however, Perfect Dark Zero is otherwise 
 a pleasure to look at. It runs at a smooth 30 FPS in High-Definition with hardly any noticeable 
 slowdown or stuttering. As with most Xbox 360 games, Perfect Dark Zero also presents itself in 
 glorious Dolby Digital 5.1 surround sound. All of the weapons sound appropriately powerful and 
 deep. The sounds around the player  gunshots, explosions, and vehicles  all sound great as well. 
 The musical track in Perfect Dark Zero is no slouch either, particularly the tracks that play during 
 the games loading screens.
  
  Enough talk about Perfect Dark Zeros technical mastery, however. The sweet-spot of Rares titles 
 has always been their gameplay styles, and this is where Perfect Dark Zero, sadly, falls flat on 
 its face. After completing the first mission, I could tell Perfect Dark Zero was inherently flawed. 
 The movements simply arent natural, the gunplay no fun. It just isnt a good time to fight this 
 games enemies. In fact, it becomes quite frustrating as the non-existent storyline drags itself 
 along. The problem, for me, was simply that Perfect Dark Zeros AI is ridiculously bad. Clearly 
 Rare has made zero strides in this department since the original Perfect Dark seven years ago. 
 Enemies will constantly prove erratic; they will chase you blindly around corners, leave themselves 
 blatantly in the open with hopes of just getting a shot at you. This sort of suicidal style of 
 AI only serves to further the inherent frustration I experienced during Perfect Dark Zeros singleplayer, 
 thanks also in part to its age-old health system. Each one of these suicidal enemy runs will more 
 than likely take some health away from you (assuming you arent playing on the easiest difficulty 
 setting) , and Rare has decided to include  at max  one health pack per level. On top of this, 
 the game offers players almost zero checkpoints along the way. The inherent frustration in almost 
 completing a level, only to be blindsided by one of these suicidal bots with no checkpoints or 
 health packs to be found, is maddening. Countless times I had to force myself to restart a level 
 from the beginning to complete it. This isnt just challenging. I like challenges, but this is 
 utter frustration. Also frustrating is Perfect Dark Zeros unbelievably awful storyline, for 
 lack of a better word. Honestly, this games plot is laughably poor. I frequently found myself 
 dumbfounded as to what, exactly, I was trying to accomplish  even after a second time through 
 the game. Something about the year 2020 and a corporate conspiracy ends up in some remote desert 
 ruin and  get this  a floating arena in the sky. Its completely ludicrous to think that Perfect 
 Dark Zeros storyline was written by someone who was actually paid for his, err, contribution.
 
  
  Perfect Dark Zeros one saving grace, however, has to be its online multiplayer over Xbox Live. 
 The implementation is simply brilliant, and we start to see how good Perfect Dark Zero could have 
 been with some decent AI to fight against. Rare again has allowed users to use any number of AI-controlled 
 bots to fight against. While these bots arent an improvement over the singleplayer AI, they are 
 nevertheless a very welcome addition in the online arena. As usual with Xbox Live, Perfect Dark 
 Zero supports full stats-tracking, friends features, and voice chat over a microphone. Perfect 
 Dark Zero goes online with several different variants of a few choice levels from the singleplayer 
 campaign. They range from vast desert areas suitable for vehicles and snipers to dense, overgrown 
 temples suitable for a good old-fashioned deathmatch slugfest. On top of the traditional deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, and capture the flag options, Perfect Dark Zero also includes a number of unique 
 multiplayer modes, all strewn together under the name of Dark-Ops. There are four Dark-Ops selections: 
 Eradication (think Counterstrike) , Onslaught (in which teams take turns attacking and defending 
 their bases) , Infection (in which killed players are transformed into skeletons until only one 
 person remains) , and Sabotage (in which players attempt to damage select structures within one 
 anothers base) . All of these options make Perfect Dark Zeros multiplayer portion consistently 
 fresh and fun  a stark contrast to its singleplayer offerings. Perfect Dark Zero also allows for 
 a large number of players, scalable to 40+, to join one online game. One can almost never run out 
 of things to shoot at with whatever customizable weapons loadout the host so chooses to include. 
 Perfect Dark Zero also delivers with its arsenal of usable weaponry. Ranging from a small pistol 
 to the gargantuan Superdragon rifle to the close-range melee Viblade, this game has something for 
 everyone. Each weapon also comes with at least a secondary function, and often a tertiary function 
 on top of this. Suffice to say that, at least online, Perfect Dark Zeros gunplay is an awesome 
 time. In combination with the top-notch graphics and sound mixing, each weapon serves to truly 
 pack a punch and is a joy to fire. Truly the online arena is where we can see just how much potential 
 Perfect Dark Zero had to be great  and how far it fell in the end.
  
  Overall, Perfect Dark Zero is still a solid title. Its singleplayer component may have been an 
 utter disappointment given the success stories of Goldeneye 007 and Perfect Dark, but the online 
 features do serve to redeem some of Perfect Dark Zeros worth. In the end, this games value to 
 you really depends on how you plan on playing it. If you are looking for a wholesome and fulfilling 
 singleplayer campaign, dont give Perfect Dark Zero a second thought. On the other hand, if you 
 are looking for a fun and varied multiplayer experience, definitely consider Perfect Dark Zero 
 the next time you go looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ibboinvader
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I got this game as a kind in the moment on the cheap from getting a discount so I made a quik 5 
 second choice and went for it. I put it in my xbox 360 and it id't really stand out but then once 
 I really got into it, I said to myself hat this is an awsome game!
  Good graphics, such a rane of weapon, an a young girl who kicks ass!!!!!
  What more could you 
 ask for really?
  I'm really glad I made this choice and it should be in everyones collection!!
  
 
  Rare have produced a very good game that is going to be a classic and if you are buying an xbox 
 360 then this should be your first game.
  BUY IT!!
  And now its only &pound;9.99 from anywhere!
  That has to be a bargain really, doesn't it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatginger3600
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Perfect dark zero has been around from the launch of the xbox 360 and has been pleasing gamers 
 every minute it's played.
  
  The storyline has a good rythm to it and has many twists and turns throughout the game including 
 many character deaths...... The gameplay flows extremly well and can be challenging on higher difficulty 
 levels.
  
  There are a few minor glithces on the game including the cover system where you can sometimes dissapear 
 into the wall completly also while on xboxlive there is a slight problem . When you have died and 
 the camera automatically zooms onto a player but you cannot edit or turn the camera so sometimes 
 you are left just looking at someone shooting and not able to see what they are shooting , this 
 can leave gamers slightly frustrated.
  
  The great gameplay comes with lots of achievments that after some slight practise you can get most 
 of these. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is now a common find as a used item and in bargain bins. A lot has been said bad about 
 this game and most of it isn't true. The game isn't the greatest looking game by todays standards 
 but it is still ok. The fun comes in the gameplay. The multiple difficulty settings make this game 
 very hard to finish completely giving it much more replay. Achievements are spread out over the 
 multiple game modes.
  
  The multiplayer might not have as many people playing on it now, but it was definitely fun when 
 I played it. If you have any friends who have an xbox 360 there is little reason why they wouldn't 
 be able to afford this game. With Halo 3 coming out soon this game might well be forgotten, but 
 it stands on its own as a great overall experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  Development
  
  Rare's two N64 first-person shooters, GoldenEye 007 and Perfect Dark, received strong acclaim from 
 critics and players, and demand for another title in the Perfect Dark franchise was high. Development 
 of Perfect Dark Zero began on the Nintendo GameCube. At the time, Nintendo had a 49% stake in Rare, 
 making Rare a Nintendo second-party developer. The game made a small appearance at Spaceworld 2000, 
 an event exclusive to Nintendo. But apart from the confirmation that it was in development, few 
 official announcements were made. Perfect Dark Zero, along with several other Rare games, was intended 
 to be finished in time for the Gamecube's launch, but for unknown reasons did not.
  
  In September 2002, Rare Ltd was purchased by Microsoft. Around the same time, Rare released several 
 images of Joanna Dark, the protagonist of the Perfect Dark games. The cartoony style of these pictures 
 incited speculation that the final game  then intended for the original Xbox  would employ a 
 less realistic graphical style than the original game; possibly an anime like cel-shading technique, 
 (RARE had hired UK Manga artist Wil Overton to work with them, after seeing an anime-like image 
 of the Original Perfect Dark game he had created for the cover of N64 Magazine.)
  
  Development of the title was later transferred to the Xbox 360. Perfect Dark Zero's senior designer 
 Chris Tilston (also one of the project leads for the game) later revealed that the Xbox version 
 was about twelve months away from completion when the switch occurred.
  
  In 2005, one of the rewards in the OurColony viral marketing campaign for Microsoft's next Xbox 
 video game console was an image of Joanna Dark. At the official unveiling of the Xbox 360 on May 
 12, 2005, it was revealed that Perfect Dark Zero would be a launch title for the new system in 
 the fall of 2005. The game's development has therefore spanned three platforms: the Nintendo GameCube, 
 the Microsoft Xbox and the Xbox 360.
  
  Limited Collector's Edition
  
  Zero was released in two forms: the standard version and a Limited Collector's Edition. The collector's 
 edition features a second disc of content, a black metal game case, images of the staff and most 
 of testers which gave a glimpse to behind the scenes into Rare, a comic booklet set in the Perfect 
 Dark universe, which sets the scene for the game, and one of nine holographic collectible cards.
 
  
  Soundtrack
  
  The official game's soundtrack was produced by Nile Rodgers through his Sumthing Else Music Works 
 label, whose past credits include the soundtracks for Halo: Combat Evolved, Halo 2, and Halo 2, 
 Vol. 2: Original Soundtrack, among many others. The original score was composed and arranged by 
 David Clynick. Additional songs include Kepi and Kat's Limelight , a popular club favorite, as 
 well as two songs by Nile Rodgers prot&eacute; ges MorissonPoe entitled Glitter Girl *Evil Side* 
 (the game's opening number) , and Pearl Necklace (the game's closing credits) .
  
  Story
  
  The story is set in 2020, three years prior to the events of the original game. Joanna Dark 
 is a bounty hunter working with her father Jack and her friend Chandra. On Joanna's first mission, 
 they rescue a scientist named Zeigler from the hands of a Triad crime lord: Killian. Zeigler uses 
 a neurodrive to implant information into Jack's mind. Jack gets captured by a megacorporation known 
 as 'dataDyne, and Jo rescues her father, only for Jack to die at the hands of Mai-Hem, whose father, 
 Zhang Li, is dataDyne's founder. Jo is then sent on a mission to find Dr. Eustace Caroll, who then 
 uses the same neurodrive technology to extract any memory of the words her father said concerning 
 Ziegler's secrets. Dr. Caroll is then killed by Chandra, who is secretly working for Zhang Li. 
 Jo joins the Carrington Institute and infiltrates a mining operation in an ancient Peruvian Temple 
 where she discovers the conspiracy.
  
  Zhang Li and Mai-Hem are searching for an ancient artifact known as the Graal, which imbues its 
 possessor with superhuman powers. Traveling to Africa, Jo rescues prisoners including Jonathan 
 and several other Carrington boys, before running into Mai-Hem again. Jo avenges her father's death 
 and kills Mai-Hem and the party is air-lifted out. The Carrington Institute plans an offensive 
 on dataDyne forces with the battle taking place on a large bridge. Jo infiltrates an arena and 
 faces off against Zhang Li after he dispatches Chandra. Defeating the seemingly invincible power-hungry 
 genius, Jo is met by Jonathan and Daniel Carrington. When Jo asks, How did I do, Boss? Carrington 
 replies: Perfect. 
  
  
  Weapons
  
  Close Combat Weapons
  
  The Shotgun
  
  Definitely the best close combat weapon, the Shotgun in Perfect Dark Zero works in a similar manner 
 to a real life shotgun. When you fire a real shotgun, a whole pile of pellets will come out which 
 spread over a wide area but only being effective for a short distance. In Perfect Dark Zero the 
 shotgun causes immense damage at short range, often one shot is enough to kill if you get the range 
 correct. Another great feature is that if the shot pellets get a chance to spread out you inflict 
 damage on multiple enemies with just one shot. Just don't bother using this weapon in anything 
 other than close combat because it will be totally ineffective at medium or long range.
  The shotgun has both secondary and tertiary uses. The secondary use will enable you to see all 
 enemies on your radar whilst the tertiary use will fool the enemy by making you appear as friendly 
 to them on their radar.
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 2
  Damage Inflicted: High (at short range only)
  Accuracy: Medium (at short range only)
  Range: 
 Short
  Armor: Medium (at short range only)
  Amunition per clip: 6
  Maximum Rounds: 80
  
  The Combat Shield
  This is not a weapon but rather an effective method of defense. It will 
 give protection against bullets for a limited amount of time. Beware though, if an enemy fires 
 at you from the side of the Combat Shield, you will be hit!
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 2
  Damage Inflicted: None
  Accuracy: Not relevant
  Range: Not relevant
  Armor: Not relevant
 
  Amunition per clip: Not relevant
  Maximum Rounds: Not relevant
  
  Viblade Sword
  An interesting weapon this, which is extremely effective at very close combat. Use it as a sword 
 when you are literally upon your enemy and it will slice them in two with little problem. But getting 
 that near most enemies is very difficult. This is where the secondary function of the Viblade Sword 
 plays its part. Press the secondary fire button and a very effective (but temporary) shield will 
 appear which protects you from bullets. More than that, the bullets will bounce off the shield 
 and hopefully inflict damage on your enemy.
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 2
  Damage Inflicted: High
  Accuracy: Under your control
  Range: Hand to hand combat only
  Armor: 
 Medium
  Amunition per clip: 1
  Maximum Rounds: 1
  
  Pistols
  These are the most useful general purpose weapons in your arsenal so get used to handling them. 
 It's possible to use two pistols of the same type simultaneously or any one pistol with a shield 
 or grenade.
  
  P9P
  When you start perfect Dark Zero this will be the weapon you will first have in your arsenal. It's 
 reasonably useful for attacking many enemies and it's silencer (it's secondary use) enables you 
 to use it against targets without always giving away your position. This is a mid-range weapon 
 which has only one significant drawback, the ammunition in each clip is a rather miserly 9 making 
 frequent reloading necessary. On the plus side, reloading is a relatively speedy operation and 
 the P9P has a scope fitted as standard.
  The P9P's tertiary function is a Flashlight which is very useful in low light conditions.
  
 
  Weapon Slots Used: 1
  Damage Inflicted: Medium (less powerful with silencer)
  Accuracy: Medium
  Range: Medium
  Armor: Medium
  Amunition per clip: 9
  Maximum Rounds: 
 200
  
  Falcon
  The Falcon has three advantages over the P9P: it's more accurate, it has a far larger amount of 
 ammunition per clip making reloading a less frequent task and it has a rapid rate of fire. Having 
 the said that, the damage potential per bullet from the Falcon is lower than the P9P. The general 
 view is that this is the pistol of choice for most situations in perfect Dark Zero. The secondary 
 function of the Falcon pistol is: You eject a loaded clip and throw it, it will hit the ground 
 and eject all the bullets out in random directions. The bullets rarely hit an enemy and even when 
 they do, they inflict minimal damage. On the other hand, the bots are tricked into thinking a person 
 is shooting at them, and when they are distracted you can go and kill them.
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 1
  Damage Inflicted: Low
  Accuracy: High
  Range: Medium
  Armor: Medium
 
  Ammunition per clip: 18
  Maximum Rounds: 200
  
  MAGSEC 4
  With it's high-powered scope the MAGSEC 4 is a good pistol for for long distance sniping. It does 
 lack a silencer but this is not too much of a disadvantage at long distances. The secondary function 
 is to magnetize the bullets which exasperates the ricochet effect when aimed at walls - the result 
 (if you are sufficiently skilled) it to enable you to fire at enemies round corners.
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 1
  Damage Inflicted: Medium
  Accuracy: Low
  Range: High
  Armor: Medium
 
  Ammunition per clip: 9
  Maximum Rounds: 200
  
  Magnum
  Raw firepower that can kill an enemy with only two shots but it is fairly inaccurate and has a 
 delay between shots. Extra bullets for your Magnum are not easily found. The only way to get more 
 bullets is from other Magnums dropped by enemies. The secondary function is: the Magnum bullet 
 will be silent when it is shot, but it then expodes very noisily when it hits an enemy. The effect 
 is to draw attention away from your position and attract attention to where the enemy is.
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 1
  Damage Inflicted: High
  Accuracy: Low
  Range: Medium
  Armor: 
 Medium
  Amunition per clip: 6
  Maximum Rounds: 200
  
  Psychosis Gun
  The Psychosis Gun fires tranquilizer darts which may be of limited use in some situations. The 
 reload time is quite long.
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 1
  Damage Inflicted: Low
  Accuracy: Medium
  Range: Medium
  Armor: High
  Amunition per clip: 6
  Maximum Rounds: 200
 
  
  Sub Machine Guns (SMGs)
  RCP-90
  You won't come across this SMG until late in the single-player game and it's at this stage that 
 the RCP-90s functions will prove most useful. In it's basic mode the RCP-90 has an impressive rate 
 of fire and a clip size large enough to make this useful. The downside is that it's not too accurate.
 
  The secondary function is a Threat Detector which blurs normal vision but highlights enemies in 
 red and friends in green. The tertiary function is to confuse the electronics of the enemy and 
 cause them to fire at enemy positions rather than you.
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 2
  Damage Inflicted: Medium
  Accuracy: Low
  Range: Medium
  Armor: Medium
  Amunition per clip: 
 40
  Maximum Rounds: 200
  
  DW-P5
  A tricky SMG to get to grips with at first because when using the silencer (the secondary function) 
 the damage inflicted on an enemy decreases but the accuracy increases. Probably the best use for 
 this SMG is long distance shooting with the silencer on. The DW-P5 is ready-equipped with a good 
 quality scope. The tertiary function is a flashlight for dark conditions.
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 2
  Damage Inflicted: Medium
  Accuracy: Medium
  Range: Medium
  Armor: 
 Medium
  Amunition per clip: 24
  Maximum Rounds: 200
  
  UGL Liberator
  The most easily available SMG in the early part of the game, the UGL Liberator, it's definitely 
 not the best of the SMGs. Use it at short to medium range though and it's reasonably effective 
 with a good fire rate. It has one neat trick, throw it away (when you are finished with it) and 
 it will turn into a land mine and explode soon after. The trick is to lure your enemies towards 
 it as you run for cover.
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 2
  Damage Inflicted: Medium
  Accuracy: Low
  Range: Low
  Armor: Medium
  Amunition per clip: 24
  Maximum Rounds: 200
 
  
  CMP 150
  A good alternative to the UGL Liberator where accuracy is more important than raw fire power. The 
 CMPs secondary function is the Hologram. The idea is that the Hologram will distract an enemy, 
 while you shoot at them!
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 2
  Damage Inflicted: Low
  Accuracy: High
  Range: Medium
  Armor: Medium
  Amunition per clip: 24
  Maximum Rounds: 200
 
  
  Assault Rifles
  Laptop Gun
  A very useful rifle because of it's high rate of fire, accuracy and it's ability to knock off armor 
 from enemies. it's downfall is that it inflicts a low amount of damage.
  It runs on Windows 2020! (A Microsoft joke added into one of their many loading screens!)
  The 
 secondary function is: The Laptop will transform itself into an automatic sentry gun.
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 2
  Damage Inflicted: Low
  Accuracy: High
  Range: Medium
  Armor: High
 
  Amunition per clip: 30
  Maximum Rounds: 200
  
  KSI-74
  Best used when fired in short bursts otherwise the accuracy is too low to be of much use. The KSI-74 
 is a powerful rifle equipped with a bayonet (or Harpoon) which, in secondary mode, can be silently 
 fired, this deals a powerful blow to an enemy. You only have one bayonet/harpoon however, others 
 must be picked up along your way.
  It is also fun, when playing multiplayer (or even playing by your self) to Say - or Shout - HarPOONED 
 when an enemy is hit by the Bayonet/Harpoon. The Pooned coming from the end of Harpoon, and a nod 
 on to the gamers 'Leet' (1337) term Pwn3d.
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 2
  Damage Inflicted: High
  Accuracy: Low
  Range: Medium
  Armor: Medium
  Amunition per clip: 
 30 plus 1 Bayonet/Harpoon
  Maximum Rounds: 200 plus 1 Bayonet/Harpoon
  
  Superdragon
  This is the best gun for long distance shooting. The Superdragon has a powerful built-in scope 
 and it's range and accuracy are impressive. What is even more useful is that automatic fire can 
 be used with the scope.
  The secondary function is a grenade launcher which cause sever enemy damage. Bounce the grenades 
 aff walls with accuracy and this grenade launcher can be used to great effect. The tertiary function 
 is night-vision.
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 2
  Damage Inflicted: Medium
  Accuracy: Medium
  Range: High
  Armor: Medium
  Amunition per clip: 20 plus 6 grenades
  Maximum Rounds: 200 plus 
 12 grenades
  
  FAC-16
  Similar to the Superdragon above but lacking in a couple of areas. First the range is not so high, 
 second you can only fire semi-automatically when using the scope and thirdly the delay between 
 launching the secondary function grenades is longer. On the plus side, each clip has 30 rounds 
 as opposed to the 20 of the Superdragon. The tertiary function is a silencer.
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 2
  Damage Inflicted: Medium
  Accuracy: Medium
  Range: Medium
  Armor: 
 Medium
  Amunition per clip: 30 plus 1 grenade
  Maximum Rounds: 200 plus 6 grenades
  
  Sniper Rifles
  Jackal
  The Jackal sniper rifle will kill most enemies with a single shot, this 
 is a truly powerful mid-range rifle. A cornea tracking zoom ensures total accuracy. The reload 
 speed is extremely slow, so if you miss your target first time, take avoiding action immediately! 
 Also remember that although the tracer is small it may give away your position in some cases.
 
  The secondary function will deactivate the enemies radar for a short time. At the same time the 
 enemy positions will be seen on the radar of all friendly players.
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 3
  Damage Inflicted: High
  Accuracy: Low
  Range: Medium
  Armor: Medium
 
  Amunition per clip: 1
  Maximum Rounds: 30
  
  Shockwave
  The Shockwave is not quite as powerful as the Jackal but it will allow to get off a few shots in 
 quick succession. Beware though, the rifle can overheat and it will then be several seconds before 
 it can be fired again. The tracer will give away your position clearly to the enemy so don't stay 
 in the same spot for long after firing it.
  The secondary function allows you to see enemies through walls and other objects.
  
  Weapon 
 Slots Used: 3
  Damage Inflicted: Medium
  Accuracy: Medium
  Range: High
  Armor: Medium
  Amunition per clip: 1
  Maximum Rounds: 30
  
  Heavy Weapons
  Note that 
 whilst using any of the heavy weapons below you will be significantly slowed down so have an exit 
 strategy ready in case you run out of ammunition before you have slaughtered most of the enemy.
 
  
  Plasma Rifle
  A very handy weapon to be armed with in most instances, the Plasma Rifle has only one drawback 
 which is the speed of firing the plasma - it's much slower than a bullet which allows the enemy 
 to dodge it more easily than a rifle, hence the low damage rating. But when you do hit an enemy, 
 it will be an instant and deathly blow.
  Another unique feature of the Plasma Rifle is that it creates splash damage all around the initial 
 area of impact. This gives it the potential to damage multiple targets in one go. But beware, the 
 splash goes all over the place and you could well end up damaging yourself in the process.
  The secondary function is the invisibility cloak. Click this button and you will be invisible (well, 
 nearly invisible!) for a period of time - if you stay still you can remain invisible for some time 
 but once you start moving the invisibility soon wares off.
  The Plasma Rifle has unlimited power but it does require periods of no-use for it to charge automatically 
 back up again.
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 3
  Damage Inflicted: Low
  Accuracy: High
  Range: High
  Armor: Medium
  Amunition per clip: Unlimited but it needs recharging
  Maximum 
 Rounds: Unlimited but it needs recharging
  
  Rocket Launcher
  One of the most destructive weapons in Perfect Dark Zero. When the rocket hits a target everything 
 the surrounding area will be destroyed. What makes this weapon extra special is the secondary function, 
 the ability to fly the rocket remotely straight to a given target using the flip out target finder. 
 The downside to this is that you must direct the rocket to the target before it runs out of fuel. 
 If you fail, it will explode in mid-air.
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 3
  Damage Inflicted: High
  Accuracy: Medium - High with the help of the target finder
  Range: 
 Medium
  Armor: Medium
  Amunition per clip: 4
  Maximum Rounds: 30
  
  M60
  The most powerful weapon in Perfect Dark Zero, an M60 is best kept for close range destruction 
 because at medium range the fire power is spread over such a large area that it is mainly wasted. 
 A huge capacity of 80 rounds is available and the ammunition is belt-fed for maximum speed and 
 effect. Once the ammunition is exhausted it takes quite a while for the machine to reload as you 
 would expect.
  Use the secondary function and caltrops will be let loose which don't damage the enemy but slow 
 them and their vehicles down considerably giving you a more time to shoot them up.
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 3
  Damage Inflicted: Medium
  Accuracy: Low
  Range: Medium
  Armor: Medium
 
  Amunition per clip: 80
  Maximum Rounds: 200
  
  Hand Thrown Weapons
  Frag Grenade
  Very damaging fragmentation grenade with a fuse set initially set to 4 seconds. Hold down the fire 
 button for four seconds or more (it will not explode in your hands) the grenade will explode on 
 impact with whatever it hits with a blast radius of 5 metres.
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 1
  Damage Inflicted: High
  Accuracy: Depends on your aim
  Range: Medium dependant on how thrown
 
  Armor: Medium
  Amunition per: clip 1
  Maximum Rounds: 1
  
  Hawk Boomerang
  Fling the Hawk (anti-gravity tungsten alloy bladed boomerang) at an enemy and if you hit them it 
 will slice them up. But hitting an enemy is the problem, it's quite hard. What's more while the 
 Hawk is flying you can not change weapons or put them away, the best thing to do if you miss the 
 enemy, is to melee attack them. (The 'B' Button)
  If you hold the 'Left Trigger' then the enemy will be highlighted yellow, and the Hawk will try 
 its best to hit this target. NOTE: This auto locking function does not lock on to the skeleton 
 in the Multi-Player 'Infection' Mode.
  The secondary function button will protect you against shrapnel wounds from grenades and rockets.
 
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 1
  Damage Inflicted: Almost certain death
  Accuracy: Dependant on your aim
  Range: Medium
  Armor: High
  Amunition per clip: 1
  Maximum 
 Rounds: 1
  
  Flash Grenade
  Throw a flash grenade at an enemy and it will not harm them at all, but it will produce a blinding 
 flash of light which will blind them for five seconds or so. The advantage comes in that you can 
 use these grenades at the same time as a pistol or some of the SMGs. Whilst the enemy is blinded 
 you can shoot at them with your other weapon.
  NOTE: Look away when you throw the flash grenade otherwise you'll be blinded as well.
  
  Weapon 
 Slots Used: 1
  Damage Inflicted: None
  Accuracy: Dependant on your aim
  Range: Medium
  Armor: None
  Amunition per clip: 1
  Maximum Rounds: 1
  
  Multi-mine
  Multimines are close-proximity 
 mines which detonate when an enemy comes into range. They cause severe damage or death.
  In secondary mode you place mines where you expect the enemy to pass and then detonate them by 
 remote control.
  
  Weapon Slots Used: 1
  Damage Inflicted: High
  Accuracy: Low
  Range: 2 meters
  Armor: Medium
  Amunition per clip: 1
  Maximum Rounds: 1
  
  [edit] Multiplayer
 
  
  In Perfect Dark Zero there are two versions of multiplayer, and within each version are four different 
 game modes.
  
  DeathMatch
  
  This is a standard gametype where players spawn in rooms, collect weapons, and continue to the 
 actual map. Weapons are also available on the map itself. Bots are included in all DeathMatch game 
 modes. * Killcount: This is a free-for-all where the winner is the player that achieves the most 
 kills. * Team Killcount: A team based version of Killcount where the team with the most kills wins. 
 * Capture the Flag: A team-only match. Each team tries to grab the enemys flag and return it to 
 their base. The winning team is the one with the most flags captured. * Territorial Gains: A team-only 
 match. The goal is to capture and hold several neutral hills until they generate points. The team 
 with the most territories held is the winner.
  
  DarkOps
  
  This is a round-based, team-only gametype that was heavily inspired by the popular PC FPS Counter-Strike. 
 It is generally slower-paced, and is more tactical than DeathMatch. Weapons must be purchased from 
 a player's stock of credits. Credits are earned by killing enemies and obtaining objectives. Bots 
 were implemented in an update on May 4, 2006.
  
  * Eradication: A team-only game. Teams take turns trying to eliminate each other. The team that 
 stays alive the longest, or that kills the other team while still living wins. * Onslaught: A team-only 
 game. Teams take turns defending and attacking a base. The defenders get one life (but can be revived) , 
 and can purchase weapons. The attackers have unlimited lives, but have basic weapons (choice of 
 a Falcon, CMP 150 and a DEF-12 Shotgun) . The team that holds the base the longest wins. * Infection: 
 A free-for-all game. Players start as either infected or uninfected. When a player dies, they become 
 infected. If the uninfected stay alive for the duration of the round, only they get points. If 
 the infected eliminate them, then only they get points. The player with the most points overall 
 is the winner. (This can seem like a team game as uninfected huddle in a room to survive, or as 
 infected team up to eliminate them) . * Sabotage: A team-only game. Teams take turns attacking and 
 defending certain pieces of property on the map. The team that destroys the most property or eliminates 
 the other team wins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xx-CLOUD-xX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Graphics, Fun FPS gameplay, fun modes to play in, and the variety of weapons you can pick.
 
  
  The Bad: Campaign mode is pretty short, and not alot of replay value.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero makes its way as one of the newest titles for the 360 and is a prequel from perfect 
 dark 1 from the N64. But how good is it?
  
  The gameplay for perfect dark zero is a solid and fun FPS for the Xbox 360. One thing thats really 
 fun about the game is all of the cool guns and gadgets you can pick. There are tons of guns to 
 choose, from pistols to rocket launchers. Although the game is alot like other FPS for all systems 
 it manages to be unique with the differint types of weapons you can pick. The campaign mode is 
 pretty fun and has an okay storyline but is just a bit too short. One thing thats really cool in 
 the game is the mode infection . Its basically you are a skeleton and you have to run around and 
 try infecting as much people as you can before time runs out. Also the deathmatches and dark-ops 
 games were pretty fun. Another thing you have to try when playing Perfect Dark Zero is the online 
 (especially with infection) . It manages to be fun and addicting at the same time. You can also 
 invite a friend over or family member to play co-op missions with you which is lots of fun. Overall 
 the gameplay for Perfect dark zero is just like anyother FPS but is still solid and fun.
  
  The graphics for Perfect dark Zero arnt the best for the 360 but they still are very good. The 
 games also flows through pretty good. But the graphics are still very, very well done although 
 to me have a small cartoonish tilt.........................
  
  The audio for the game is pretty averaged out. Nothing sticks out in it thats bad and nothing sticks 
 out in it thats good.
  
  Overall Perfect dark zero is a great solid, fun FPS. It is also a great game to play for when friends 
 come over. Definetly a must buy for 360 owners and for only $25 you really cant go wrong? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pianoman4life
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  I didn't get my XBox 360 until later on. And honestly, it is a great title to start off the XBox 
 360. It's wrong to compare this game with other titles. But this title truly doesn't put the 360 
 to it's true potential. Still, the outcome of this game is great for a shooter and a lot of fun 
 with friends. Story mode will have you hooked and multiplayer is pretty addictive.
  
  Gameplay
  Dark: Simple and straight to the point shooter. Some puzzles.
  Datadyne: You can 
 get lost, but they have a tracking system to point which way to go. AI is kinda bad, but decent.
 
  
  Control
  Dark: Easy to use and fast to pick up... especially if you are a first-person shooter fan.
  Datadyne: 
 Slow characters. Slow reload, but makes up the challenge.
  
  Sound
  Dark: Great sound effects, especially reloading sound effects. Really good secret agent soundtrack. 
 Voices cast is pretty good.
  Datadyne: Some tracks are terrible. Some voices can get annoying because they clash with others 
 telling each other what is going on. (ex: She's reloading or Get on me .... Right away )
  
  Graphics
  Dark: Decent graphics. Guns have some futuristic detail.
  Datadyne: Explosions are 
 a weak. People are a bit cartoonish.
  
  Multiplayer
  Dark: If you have no one to play with, you have the option of bots! Lots of modes and great achievements 
 for each to keep coming back for.
  Datadyne: A. I. is a bit weird and sometimes not even realistic.
  
  Overall:
  It's a great 
 game to have. It is one of the first launch titles for the 360 and lives up to it's predecessor, 
 Perfect Dark. If you like first-person shooters, this is a must have. If not, it's still a good 
 game to try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluey2323
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  This is a very fun game with great multiplayer. The singleplayer in this game is really short. 
 The missions take about 5-10 minutes and there's only 13. Where this game gets really great is 
 in the multiplayer. This game has an amazing multiplayer. You can go against bots or xbox live. 
 Also this game is very cheap. I got it used for $13. i would have payed $40. The multiplayer is 
 up to 32 online. It has all the essential things you need for a great fps and more. My favorite 
 game mode is Team Killcount. It is just the average team deathmatch. This game is a game that you 
 should get if you have some extra $ laying around and live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I have heard so many mixed reviews from this game. Some good some bad. I think this game is a pretty 
 fun that didn't quite surpass the original. You play as Joanna Dark (obviously) and you kill a 
 bunch of baddys. Well the story's a tad lame. Well you go through enemies shooting everyone down 
 in your way with a variety of different weapons. I like the laptop myself. Anyway you do different 
 missions on 3 different difficulties. You use plenty of cool weapons and kill a lot of enemies. 
 Now what makes the single player mediocre? Well I have a few complaints. To start, for an M Rated 
 shooter.. well this games difficulty is far too easy. I died about 5 times the entire game. Another 
 issue is that I myself like boss battles. Sadly the boss battles in PDZ are probably the most forgettable 
 boss battles ever. They are too easy and too quick. The last boss is an extreme disappointment 
 because, well they're supposed to be hard. The enemies are also repetitive. There is a small amount 
 of enemies. Well if you want to be specific. A lot of them look different, but they all are pretty 
 much the same difficulty level. Imagine Gears Of War if all of the enemies were as easy to kill 
 as the other. Not a great game, huh? My final complaint is my main complaint. The single player 
 is way to short. The game can be beaten in under 10 hours. So the single player is very forgettable 
 especially compared to the last massive achievement. Now to move on to the multiplayer. Why do 
 I prefer it? The amount of game types to start. Their are so many different things to play that 
 you don't find on normal online shooters. It has the basics like Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, CTF, 
 etc. It also has other games like Infection and some others my memory can't remember too well. 
 Another thing this game has that Xbox Live games normally don't have is bots. You can add as many 
 bots as you want to this game and beat the down. The multiplayer is great and will be played for 
 quite a while. To move onto the graphics and sound. The graphics are great for the time it was 
 released. The characters look great and the environments are beautiful. The voices are a little 
 eh. Some are a bit stereotype but you can probably stand them. The soundtrack is forgettable but 
 not terrible. Also I just gotta throw out something. If you are a parent who doesn't know to get 
 this for your kid or not, don't worry. I honestly think the M rating is not exactly necessary. 
 Its about as violent as the Call Of Duty franchise and it includes some naughty words. Overall 
 this is a fun game but the single player is short, and too easy and its not a very memorable game. 
 Its above average but not by a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbond904
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  STORY: graffix: amazing, phenomenal graphics with good textures and lighting. The way she worked 
 the gun was a little queer since it is impossible to operate a gun so swiftly. sound: awkward but 
 exceptional, the sound was weird by the way the enemies screamed and shouted but i just turned 
 the volume down when it got annoying. Gameplay: there was no stealth involved in this game, u couldn't 
 sneek by someone with out the noticing u and/or u couldn't grab them and use them as a human sheild 
 :- (. I wish u wouldn't go into 3rd person everytime u rolled and the whole cover thing felt 'taged 
 on last minute'. Xbox live: I am ggetting tired so i'll make this quick. u MOVED way to FAST. I 
 couldn't snipe someone for beans!!!! I wish they made the motion a little bit slower so u could 
 get a headshot.
  
  thats it realy, everything else was smooth going.
  
  PS: sorry about the crappy review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W30bball
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  As the console's first first person shooter, a lot was expected from it. Before it came out the 
 screenshots looked great and gameplay looked compelling, so it was one the games I was most looking 
 forward to for the XBOX 360. I put a reserve on it and was in line at midnight to buy it, but when 
 I brought it home, I could not have been more disappointed.
  Don't get me wrong, the graphics were still great, not amazing, but great. I loved the way each 
 weapon looked as well as each friend or foe. Scenery was great, too. But the problem is, after 
 a while, that was the only reason I kept playing. The story was very typical of many FPS: kill 
 everything in sight and beat the big bad guy. Sound wasn't bad, but it wasn't anything special 
 either. Multiplayer was fun for a little while, but it became boring after a while. But despite 
 all these things wrong with the game, there was one thing that could have potentially saved it: 
 gameplay. But, this is where I believe the game lacked the most. Everything about the gameplay 
 was so boring and typical. Running was incredibly slow and you can only carry up to 3 small guns, 
 one small and one medium, or just one big gun. Levels were completely linear and It never really 
 made any sense what my next objective was, but after I killed enough people, I seemed to have acomplished 
 my mission. I'm giving this game a generous 3.5, merely because of the graphics and multiplayer 
 aspect of the game. If you really want to play it, don't bother renting it. You can go to any Gamestop 
 and purchase it used for less then $5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 12, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a superb FPS game from Microsoft Game studios and Rare Ltd .Its a prequel 
 to original mega hit Perfect Dark . The game is extremely stylish a. k. a like a James bond movie 
 . Joanna Dark is a young lady and very beautiful secret agent who is thrown into battle of corporate 
 conspiracy and corruption of future 2020 . She is assisted by her dad and lady assisstant Chandra 
 in her missions . She has to expose and put stop to DataDyne corporation boss Zhang Li and his 
 daughter Mai Hems evil plans . But in the proccess she has to lose someone very close to her and 
 at the same time betrayed by another close one to her . She has to save mankind anyhow by hook 
 or by crook. Joanna gets hi tech futuristic sleek weapons , gadgets , vechiles , jetpacks , hovercrafts 
 , mechs for survival against onslaught of enemies and kill them . The game has perfect mood and 
 techno music in the background to fit right into action mood . Joanna can take cover and fight 
 too. The gameplay is lenghty and you get to do primary and seacondary objectives in each missions 
 . The games has got variety of colorful levels .The games graphics and visuals rocks . AI is fine. 
 Soundquality rocks . Cutscenes , voiceactings , character presentation , storyline very impressive 
 . It has got fine multiplayer modes too like Deathmatch , Darkops etc . I recommend this game very 
 highly to Xbox 360 owners .Its a must play and not to be missed by Action lovers . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treyballard
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  First off let me say the Perfect Dark for the Nintendo 64 was amazing. Now the version for the 
 Xbox 360 is anything but that. This game is so bad that after playing it for 25 minutes I totally 
 hated the game and wished I had never bought it. the controls are ok but when you are trying to 
 aim at somebody it is almost impossible to keep them in your targeting reticule. The only upsides 
 to this game is that you could stick to walls for cover and the graphics were pretty good, even 
 with that said the downsides totally outweighed the upsides. This game is horrible and I would 
 NOT recommend it to anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 14, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Its Perfect Dark next-gen!!, fun single player, even better multiplayer, graphics are 
 pretty nice, amazing soundtrack
  
  The Bad: Single player can get repetative, character models look bad up close
  
  Perfect Dark 
 Zero was one of the games that I bought while I was in GameStop purchasing my Xbox 360. Now even 
 though I was a huge fan of the original (I still play it from time to time to this day) I was a 
 bit doubtful as Game Informer had given it a 7 out of 10. Well curiosity did not kill the cat, 
 because Perfect Dark Zero is absolutely amazing and a must have 360 shooter.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is set before Perfect Dark on the n64 and it shows how Jo ended up working for 
 Carrington Institutes in the war against DataDyne. Now if what I am saying makes no sense, than 
 that really doesnt matter. The beauty of this game is that you don't need to know anything about 
 the original Perfect Dark, even though its still to this day a phenominal game that every one should 
 play. The game plays perfectly like any shooter should these days, and the duel wielding is as 
 cool as ever.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero has some amazing looking environments and explosions. The main problem with the 
 graphics is the character models. From far away the character models do actually look pretty good, 
 but up close the characters seem to have a fuzzy outline.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero has some pretty awesome sound effects. The voice-overs are pretty good as well. 
 The briefings sound good, but during the missions the voice overs are kind of muffled. The Perfect 
 Dark theme is in tact as is some cool action music that builds the suspense and this game has easily 
 one of the best soundtracks I have heard in a while.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero has value coming out of its rear, but hey its a Rare game so what did you expect. 
 The amazing single player game lasts about 10 hours and there are chances that you might play through 
 it again through co-op on the same Xbox. You can also play the multiplayer online or off. The multiplayer 
 comes in two forms. There is the average Capture the Flag, Territories, Team and Solo Deathmatch 
 options which are loads of fun. There is also DarkOps which is basically Counter-Strike in the 
 Perfect Dark world. Either way you look at it, the multiplayer is a blast and a must play for those 
 with Xbox Live or four controlers.
  
  The Xbox 360's library is filled with lots of first person shooters, but that doesnt mean that 
 Perfect Dark Zero should be left in the dust by newer games like Halo 3. Its cheap now and its 
 an absolute must have if you have the console and are somewhat interested in shooters, because 
 this game is a must own. Perfect Dark Zero is just another shining example as to way Rare Ltd. 
 is my favorite developer of all time, and I can only pray that the do the same with the Jet Force 
 Gemini series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7-ate-9
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for &pound;10 today I played it for about 40 mins and have no intention of playing 
 it again. The game play feels very sluggish and imprecise. The guns have no oomph to them. The 
 music and voice acting are absolutely terrible. It's sponsored by Samsung (!?) . I was expecting 
 a slicker performance out of the game but I got irritated by the dodge animation, the inability 
 to jump and the awful cover system that only allows you to use cover from a certain angle thus 
 limiting tactical fire-fights. The game also does a very bad job of letting you know what the hell 
 is going on. The HUD and feedback are confusing at best. I guess this game was good a couple of 
 years ago when it was released but I'd opt for Doom, Half Life, Time Splitters, Golden Eye, Wolfenstein, 
 Deus Ex, over this game any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YONMAC
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 5, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I loved the first Perfect Dark. I rarely spent any time in the single player game because the multiplayer 
 was the best on the N64. But when I picked up Perfect Dark Zero, I was expecting the same great 
 action. I was disapointed. The single player is pretty good, with the exception of lacking a worthy 
 story, poor voice acting, and lack of checkpoints. It is a pretty long campaign, and four difficulty 
 levels, plus co-op. Unlike Halo, different difficulty levels just doesn't mean enemies are better, 
 there are also added objectives. On most levels their are multiple ways to your objective which 
 is good. The final boss is a bit of a joke, seeing how he is easy to beat on the hardest difficulty 
 level. But now to multiplayer. There are many gametypes to choose from, customizable weapon layouts, 
 as well as maps that can be set to a size from small CQBs or very very large, that make Contaiment 
 from Halo 2, look like a one-bedroom apartment. Plus you can set up to 16 bots in a game, depending 
 on the size of the map. But the problem with the multiplayer, is the fact that most of the weapons 
 are weak and very inaccurate. The graphics are great but a little rough in places. But the worst 
 problem in the game is the fact that everything is shiny. Even the grass, sand, and dirt are shiny. 
 So overall, if you want to reap achievement points go ahead and buy this game. Or if you want to 
 kill some time go ahead and purchase it. And since it's a Platinum Hit, it's only $30 new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devil_1994
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  okay let me start by saying this game could have been much better it has its moments but there 
 is no reason to go through the 13 levels campaign again cause it gets old quickly the fights are 
 so repetitive and in real life you cant kill around 50 guys by yourself example: level 12: bridge 
 assualt its ridicoulos
  gameplay: the story is well writen but not that much, fights gets so repetive
  graphics: okay the 
 looks of the weapons are incredible desings of the charecters are so ugly
  sound: it has its moments but its not that good
  multiplayer: multiplayer is really fun you got 
 deathmatch: every 1 against every one
  darkops: same thing but its team death match
  i beated the game on normal but i didnt play coep so i cant say anything about so overall its a 
 good game its worth renting if you like a game which has so manyyyyyyyyy soldiers to kill and repetive 
 fights this game is for you
  thanks for your time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buying1999
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Rare it the mark this time around. With the pressure on to get this game out by the launch date. 
 This was an ambitious title especially considering the time frame for getting it out. Graphics 
 are great here. With cutting edge tech, great animation, dynamic lighting, normal mapping, and 
 many other shader techniques in use here the game just reeks next gen. The frame rate takes a little 
 hit now and again but nothing that is really distracting. The engine runs smooth, for the most 
 part, and generates some stunning visuals.
  
  Sound is pretty good here. It makes good use of surround and the ambient effects help to immerse 
 you into the world of Joanna Dark.
  
  Replay value is good too. With great online play and many different game modes Rare has really 
 done their homework on how important multi-player is to Xbox owners.
  
  Good job Rare 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Perfect dark zero, where do I start? One thing that astonishes me about the game is how well the 
 IGN and gamespot reviewers thought of the game. Having said that, let's get right down to the gameplay 
 itself. You're Joanna, the mildly attractive super-spy-girl out to take out the bad guys. The originality 
 speaks for itself... Let's put it this way, one of the bosses you fight is named Mai Hem... The 
 gameplay doesn't bring anything new to the table, it's kill everyone, go into the next room, kill 
 everyone, kill the boss. They tried to use some abilities on doors like the locktapus (Yes... locktapus) 
 to make things interesting, but it feels no more than a carbon copy of splinter cell's door lockpicking 
 with less detailed graphics.
  
  Oh yeah, the graphics: It looks like ps2 graphics, not detailed at all, nothng particularly astounding 
 at all. The voice acting is mediocre but don't expect anything mind blowing.
  
  The game took about 12 hours for me, nothing much else to do unless you want to even try the multiplayer... 
 Is there anything good about this game? It does have its amusing moments, particularly in the voice 
 acting. Other than that, it's just a normal decent shooter. I expected more but if you're a hardcore 
 joanna dark fan, you'll probably be buying it anyways, so go ahead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2_the_xtreme
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say this. Perfect Dark is one of the N64's best games next to Goldeneye. I've been 
 waiting 6 long years to play the sequel, and I have to say I'm VERY DISAPPOINTED!!!!!!!
  
  First off the story. The story is told as a prequel, which I think is a dumb move there. Why not 
 just start where the original Perfect Dark left off?!?! Anyways, the script is just god awful. 
 Second: Gameplay
  This is just another first-person shooter with the same game mechanics as any other one, yet lacks 
 the depth or stradegy to it. This game requires no skills to play due to stupid enemy A. I., repetitive 
 gameplay, and the rag doll physics that look rediculous. Rare also took out most of the weapons 
 from the original that were some of the best, and just bring back a few. Another thing that ruins 
 it, are all the hit detection issues and many glitches that ruin the game for many people.
  
  Third: Sound
  The best part of the game have to be the weapon sound effects. Otherwise, everything 
 else blows. The voice-overs are just god awful!!! Who's idea was it to give Joanna an American 
 accent instead of a British one?!?! COME ON RARE!!!! On top of that, I was laughing out loud at 
 the voice acting!!! IT'S THAT BAD!!!!
  
  Conclusion
  In the end, Perfect Dark Zero is just a game that should have been left in the dark. I'm disappointed 
 with Rare. Six years and the best that Rare can do is this?!?!?! I just hope they don't go and 
 ruin another franchise...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDC92
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge Perfect Dark fan. I played the original Perfect Dark all the time. I loved that game. 
 When I heard that a new PD came out, I was like OMG! But I didn't like how they took out blood 
 splattering on the walls. Pretty intense campaign. Insane multi-player battles. The game's not 
 very realistic, (not the future part of the game, that's cool) the part that isn't very realistic 
 is you have a little too much health. In multi-player, you shoot a grenade at someone and they 
 don't die. Tons of health in campaign makes sense because there's a lot of guys and a lot of strong 
 weapons. PDZ is a great game, and I'm really hoping for a 3rd one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rome_212
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 26, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This is my first Perfect Dark game. A friend told me that it isn't good but I doubted that because 
 of its score. Trusting the score, I bought it and I'm really happy with it. What I loved is the 
 many weapons. It's pretty cool to have two blazing SMGs. There's just a lot of guns to use, and 
 they're awesome. Flying a spy cam is pretty fun and there are some cool jetpacks that you can shoot 
 from. The controls were pissing me off, but I set them to standard and it was much more relaxing. 
 The multiplayer kicks ass.
  
  Lookin' good. The game has some really sharp graphics. The environments are really well done and 
 shiny. The lighting effects are absolutely brilliant. The characters could have used some more 
 work though 'cause they look ugly when you zoom in on them,
  
  A real downer is that the game was so short. They could've made it a bit longer. It was also pretty 
 easy. Other than that it's a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LombardiCO
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Any game based on stealth is a great game, cuz I'm a sneaky guy. The weapons were plentiful and 
 the secondary function were amazing. My favorite is the superdragon ( a super powerful gun with 
 grenades is the best) . The radar system is also great. Firing a shot makes you go red same to your 
 enemies. If halo had this radar system, Halo would just pwnt every other game. The worse part was 
 the music and characters. The music was awful and the characters were like some fat white kid tried 
 to draw a manga. I always play this game with Rammstein, cuz nothing beats bashing someone's head 
 in with a assault rifle while listening the german industrial. Took me a while to use the denators 
 and single player wasn't that great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steve_dude10
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 17, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark, my favourite game of all time, gets a sequel. You think I would be happy as hell 
 to see one, but, not until you've seen what Rare has done with it.
  
  Basically, I could sum up perfect dark zero in a 2 words, standard shooter. Nothing in this game 
 is unique. The only thing that was a cool change to the series was leaning against walls. The problem 
 is, they messed everything else up in the game-play also.
  
  Lets look back, Perfect dark for the N64 was one of the best games Rare has ever released. It has 
 smart AI (even for todays standards) , tons of weapons, tons of multiplayer game modes, tons of 
 customizations, and a pretty decent story line. Now, everything I said here... does not appear 
 in Perfect dark zero. Basically, if you buy this, your getting a pretty standard FPS. If you could 
 get it for $19.99 CND then I'd say buy it if you don't have anything else to play, but, please, 
 do not waste $60 on this, there is way better games you could be playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horror_spooky
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 15, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 is so far on a great start, with games like Dead Rising and Kameo: Elements of Power 
 showing off kind of titles the 360 can offer. However, those two games really lacked a truly great 
 multi-player experience (in fact, Dead Rising was totally void of multi-player) , so thankfully 
 Rareware brings us Perfect Dark Zero to ease the anticipation for awesome Xbox 360 multi-player 
 titles.
  
  Obviously, if you've played one FPS, you've played them all. Sadly, Perfect Dark Zero doesn't really 
 stray from the FPS formula enough to really make it a perfect game, but it does add some interesting 
 quirks and features that make it a lot more fun than most FPS titles are anymore.
  
  For example, nearly every weapon in the game has a secondary function that adds a lot more life 
 and interest into the battles. Some weapons will allow you to create a shield around yourself or 
 make you go invisible, which is pretty fun to do and really makes what could be a mediocre FPS 
 into a truly entertaining game.
  
  Sadly, the single-player campaign really falters in Perfect Dark Zero, but Rare probably designed 
 this game with mostly the multi-player in mind. There are a ton of multiplayer options, including 
 a Capture the Flag mode (which can get pretty hectic if you put a ton of bots on versing just a 
 couple of real players, damn it's fun) , a standard Deathmatch mode, and a pretty entertaining Infection 
 mode which is basically like a game of tag (except there are skeletons involved) . Sadly, some of 
 the multiplayer modes just aren't that fun at all, only frustrating, but the great ones really 
 make up for the areas that the other modes are lacking in.
  
  One thing I absolutely loved about this game was the vehicles. Mechs are available to you, and, 
 just like the weapons, it has two functions: a walker mode, and a flyer mode. You can really gun 
 down waves of bots on this baby. There is also a hovercraft available to take control of, which 
 just adds more to the experience. Couple that with the amount of bots you can shove in a single 
 match, plus the ability to change the size of a multiplayer map, you can create some pretty awesome 
 battles.
  
  Hopefully, an Xbox 360 game will be released that showcases both a great multi-player and single-player 
 experience. Until then, the combination of Dead Rising, Kameo: Elements of Power, and Perfect Dark 
 Zero should tide over 360 owners as we wait for some new titles to come in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingcole225
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  its really wasn't too great.
  the only time i have played it was because
  of the 1st level its really fun
  but only if you turn the music up.
  cool graphics at some 
 points.
  the vehicles aren't fun besides the jet pack which has its limits. i wish i had gotten G. R. A. W 
 instead. only one of my friends likes it and he
  likes evry game. if i cood go back in time i wood
  not get this. its had its moments but
  isnt 
 going far, and so far it hasnt gone
  far. if you want a good game then get fight night or
  gears of war 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarnaath
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jul 9, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I believed the hype and was excited to try out this game. What a disappointment. This game is lame 
 beyond belief. I had more fun with Freedom Fighters on Xbox than with this mishmash.
  
  My friend and I get together to play Xbox 360 every week or so. We like co-op. That's the only 
 reason we bough this game. After Gears of War, we tried PDZ. First, the co-op mode on system link 
 isn't voice synchronized. We heard a really bad echo of Chandra's voice walking us through the 
 initial training mission. We couldn't understand a thing. Chandra, your mission guide, talks waaaaay 
 to much, has terrible, terrible voice acting, and generally won't shut up. Every time she comes 
 on you cringe. Taking her out of the game would have been a huge improvement.
  
  We got stuck for 20 min or so twice in the first 4 or 5 missions. In one we were separated and 
 my friend didn't realize he had to activate the fire alarm. In the second we couldn't get past 
 a door because the game told us we needed some key cards. But it wasn't until we realized that 
 we both needed to hit the door buttons at the exact-same-time that we could get through. That's 
 40 min or so running around looking for key cards and ways out. Not intuitive. Not fun. Very lame. 
 Overly talkative Chandra was of no help.
  
  And the story is lame. After 5 missions my friend and I didn't care. Didn't care about Jo, her 
 dad, the bad guy, or anything. We were not having fun just doing the levels. We stopped playing 
 and started Gears of War over again.
  
  I tired PDZ on solo hoping the game would redeem itself, but objectives were vague and confusing. 
 Doing something wrong meant restarting the whole level. I was just frustrated more than anything. 
 And Chandra still wouldn't shut up.
  
  The 3rd or so mission I had to protect Jack as he made a bee line for every enemy in the area. 
 I can't count how many times I had to restart that mission due to his stupid antics. Then he'd 
 say, 'cover me!' without telling me where he was. Took a few reloads to find out he was in the 
 building across the way and not on the ground. Level design is bad, NPC behavior is bad. They could 
 have made this a lot better.
  
  I made it through the difficult first half of the 'infiltrate mansion' mission only to die in the 
 'deathmatch' section just after. Restarted the checkpoint which should be no problem. But objectives 
 I had achieved in the first half weren't counted, so Chandra couldn't get me a key weapon to use 
 in th the 'deathmatch' game. Lame. It's certainly possible to save these key details. Freedom Fighters 
 did it.
  
  I also discovered that solo missions on Secret Agent difficulty are handicapped to be hard. In 
 co-op on the above mission we had the locktopus, and you get it on easy, but not on the 'normal' 
 difficulty level. Lame. The ability to change your load out on mission start is really an illusion. 
 You don't really get much choice when it comes to gadgets at all. So instead of flexibility to 
 pursue the mission the way you want, you are forced into a predetermined path. That's not what 
 I got out of the advertising for PDZ.
  
  I was also never clear if stealth is supposed to be used in this game, or if stealth is just a 
 bit of false advertising. After playing Splinter Cell, PDZ by comparison doesn't really have any 
 stealth capabilities. Yet it tells you to do some missions with stealth. I don't understand if 
 the game designers expect you to ignore that, or if there's an actual way to proceed through any 
 of these missions using stealth. Very vague.
  
  All in all, I felt this game was a huge let down. Co-op blows and single player isn't much better. 
 I may return to this game eventually, just to get my money's worth, but honestly I don't know if 
 it's worth my time.
  
  I honestly can't understand why this game got rated 9/10. I'm baffled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthonyActon
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Being a huge fan of Goldeneye 007 and the original Perfect Dark on Nintendo 64, I was eager to 
 get this game on Xbox 360. I finally purchased it at EB Games for a low price of $25AUD (new!!) , 
 which was a great price for overall quality. Perfect Dark Zero (PDZ) is almost a completely different 
 game compared to it's predecessor, however, that doesn't make it a bad thing. It's hard not to 
 compare the two games in places, but I shall do the best I can to give a review of the game as 
 a standalone title. In PDZ you play Joanna Dark, and up-and-coming female spy in the world of international 
 espionage. She and her father are, at the core, just mercenaries, but as time goes on Jo becomes 
 less hotheaded and more mature, as she is depicted in PD. The story becomes more involved and complex 
 as it goes along, but it's mainly just an excuse to take you around the globe and kill people.
 
  
  Without guns, a shooting game wouldn't be a shooter, and I have heard PDZ referred to as 'gun porn'. 
 There are several classes for weapons such as pistols, smgs, rifles, heavy, thrown and close range. 
 Each gun has it's own distinct look, feel and capabilities, with some weapons packing up to three 
 functions, such as attaching silencers, firing grenades and so on. Needless to say, there is a 
 huge amount of selection but I don't want to name them all. Some of the more memorable ones like 
 the laptop gun and RCP90 turn into an auto defense turret and can reprogram enemy defense turrets 
 and security cameras respectively. While not boasting as many weapons as the original PD, PDZ still 
 offers a respectable and awesome collection.
  
  Not being the first Xbox360 game I ever played, I can't really judge the graphics fairly after 
 playing games like Gears of War and Call of Duty 3. They definitely aren't bad, and do a good job 
 recreating the areas you visit, such as a jungle, Hong Kong, China, Africa, etc. The highlight 
 of course are the guns, which look awesome right down to the muzzle flash. The sound is a mixed 
 bag, but overall good. The voice acting leaves something to be desired (Jo now has an American 
 accent, as opposed to her English one in PD) , but the guns rock. They sound as they should... powerful. 
 Besides completing the good single player (which should last you about 8 hours) , you have the multiplayer. 
 There are a lot of game types beyond your regular deathmatch and ctf, and a buying system similar 
 to that found in the popular Counter-Strike. Infection is still the most popular online mode, where 
 one team is 'Infected' and must try to infect the entire other team by killing them. Dying makes 
 you become infected, at which point you try to kill survivors. It's similar to the Virus mode found 
 in TimeSplitters2, but is still good fun. There are many other modes but I'll leave them up to 
 you to play.
  
  Live up to the original Perfect Dark (which is in no way an easy feat) , Perfect Dark Zero may not. 
 But it must be said, Perfect Dark Zero is an excellent game regardless, and should be picked up 
 by fans of the original and those that enjoy FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerohour38
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 7, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  When Gamers bought an Xbox 360 mainly in their first batch of games would Lie Pefect Dark Zero 
 a game that takes place in 2020. You play as Joanna Dark a bounty huntr now working for her Father 
 Jack Dark. Datadyne a multi-Billion Company Is takig over cooperations around the world and even 
 has it on private army. Mainly the Gameplay in Perfect Dark Zero is pretty amazing due to the Xbox 
 360's Power like being abe to shoot guys from cover in lke any obstacle you can see on the map. Also 
 when you shoot guys there armour shreds into pieces which is pretty immpresive for an Xbox 360 
 game. Although the Gameplay is Good the only con is that the game is Actually quite short but the 
 developer have put in new objectives that you would not see in the easiest mode and completing 
 levels with diffrent weapons lets you use them from the start of any level in the game. Joanna can 
 hold up to only a certain number of weapons at once this includes carrying 4 handguns,2 Assualt 
 Rifles, Oe heavy weapon and one Handgun or a Assualt Rile and two handguns.
  
  The Graphics n PDZ are actualy very well done with its very shinny enviroments and Geogeous Lighting. The 
 Character detail in PDZ is well its ok but it could have been a littile better if it ad went throuh 
 some last minute polishing.
  
  
  
  The sound in PDZ is astonishing it uses somereal music by real artists which really makes a scene 
 in the game and blends in with the gameplay its even better if you use Dolby Diital5.1 surround 
 system to make it even more real than it already is.
  
  The Multi-Player in PDZ is one of he bst it plays up to i think its 32 players at once over Xbox 
 live i myself won once Over a huge deathmatch with 321 kills and 43 deaths so i was pretty proud.
 
  
  The only flaws with Perfect Dark Zero are that it delivers very bad voice acting and that the game 
 is quite short for an average Gamer.
  
  This game has its moments and should be worth a buy and even if you wan't to save a few quid then 
 why notconsider renting it or borrowing it off a friend if they have it of course.
  
  A must Buy for the Xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Links14
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite game. The single player is awesome. There are different game difficulty and 
 when the game difficulty gets higher you get to do more things. There are 13 missions for single 
 player and co-op. Most of them are long. You can play somebody offline and online for co-op. The 
 multi player is great for offline and online. For offline 4 ppl can play on the same system and 
 you can put a lot of bots in the match and there are a lot of different game modes to play so you 
 won't get bored. There a lot of weapons and each weapon has a secondary function. Instead of just 
 shooting you might have night vision or a silencer on your gun. Online is great. There are plenty 
 of ppl to play with and there is barley any lagging. This is a great game for ppl with and without 
 xbox live. I highly recommend you buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StonyShred420
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a another good FPS, but again that us also the problem, it doesn't excell 
 nor does it fall short. Anyone who likes FPS games will enjoy this, if your not a FPS fan at all, 
 this is not an FPS that will change your mind, maybe wait for Halo 3? The guns are nice looking, 
 the environments are also very nice looking. I will say the best aspect of this game is the sound, 
 given a good sound system or decent speakers and at times the background music/ambience makes you 
 have a feel of being Joanna Dark, but the lack of anything new and revolutionary will put you back 
 in your place within' a few momments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is one of the best first person shooter games made for xbox 360. The game allows 
 the player to find different weapons throughout the leves and play spy. Its most definately a worth 
 while game and a very addicting one at that. Nothing says fun as Joanna Dark returns for this electrifying 
 sequel. The gameplay is outstanding and the graphics are superb, if you liked the original then 
 your gonna like this one as well. The graphics are also amazing, but the weaponry hasnt really 
 changed, there are still some returning guns and I wish there had been new ones but that has not 
 yet stopped me. The solo missions are extremely fun and difficult allowing the gamer to follow 
 Jo as she takes on DataDYNE one last or first time in this first person shooter. This game definately 
 set the toll for the xbox 360 and hopefully more games like this one come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halolegend35
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 3, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  with the 360 releasing with two dozen games there was a lot of competition for the top spot but 
 perfect dark beat them hands down. whilst the single player had annoying save times and frustrating 
 levels. and a weak plot which all in all made you only want to play it through once. was compensated 
 by superb graphics and highly detailed levels. and without the brillaint multiplayer this game 
 would be worthless. this immediatly became a success on live with thousands of players playing 
 on the wide varieties of maps and custom game types makes this playable for months on live. overall 
 this is a brillaint game and definatly the best of the launch games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mad_Hatter
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jun 30, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  don't get me wrong, i loved the first Perfect Dark, but this game is lame, the graphics aren't 
 bad but it feels like a clone of 007 GOLDEN EYE. the controls are a mess, Joanna moves like a statue, 
 the change of weapons is way to slow. the game have a lot of flaws i don't know why everybody loves 
 it. this FPS is all wrong, nothing new, no inovations, no nothing, i feel like i'm playing a FPS 
 of PSX. doesn't feel like NEXT GEN.
  
  is a rental, i got for free in my purchase i know why now. is just a clumsy game, i don't like 
 it. i can compare it to N3 because was a total let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR71halo
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2009 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest, I actually thought this game wasn't going to be worth but since it was only $20 
 (used) and I love shooters, I thought I'd give it a try. It actually turned out to be really fun, 
 especially the multiplayer.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, especially the environments. There is so much detail in each level 
 in both single and multiplayer and the lighting is beutiful. However, there is an exception in 
 the character models. Some of them look rather ugly up close.
  
  Singleplayer can be fun to play around in but it can be kind of frustrating. First off, you can't 
 save midmission. This can get kind of annoying at times as you have to do it all in one go (the 
 checkpoints still help though) . Second, the plot isn't so great. I don't want to spoil anything 
 but I'll just say that the plot could use a little work. Other than that, singleplayer can still 
 be kind of fun.
  
  The best part about this game is its multiplayer. There aren't that many levels to choose from 
 (offline) but the game modes and the given levels are all fun to play with. I like how you can 
 customize your weapon selection and there are plenty to choose from. There are only two vehicles 
 (a hovercraft and a robotic suit thing that can fly) but both are fun so you don't really need 
 anymore. The other thing that I like are the bots. The A. I. is actually pretty good but they don't 
 seem to play capture the flag very well. Other than CTF, the A. I. is quite intelligent.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is a fun shooter that you don't want to miss, especially you FPS fans. If you 
 are looking for a new shooter, you may want to pick up this one and give it a try, you won't be 
 dissapointed... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HummaKavula
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  Before I begin, let me say that I have not played the original Perfect Dark on N64. I had no expectations 
 and I wasn't very hyped about Perfect Dark Zero, I just bought it because it looked fun and it 
 had co-op.
  I'll keep this as short and sweet as possible.
  
  The gameplay is imprecise and dull, the actual shooting is unsatisfying and boring. Not only is 
 it painfully boring, it's the worst FPS on the Xbox 360.
  While visually impressive at most parts, the game is clearly showing its age.
  Most of the environments 
 are pretty to look at, but the character models look ridiculously plastic and unrealistic.
  
  I don't know how long the game is, but I sure do know I do not want to play the game ever again. 
 It's a braindead shooter with a terrible story that doesn't even make sense. The characters are 
 not very interesting, the voice-acting isn't very good and the game is an allround mish-mash of 
 bad and mediocre.
  The level design isn't very joyful either, they're repetitive as hell and not very fun playing 
 through.
  
  The multiplayer sure adds to the longevity of the game, but would you want to play it? The answer 
 is simply: no. The multiplayer isn't as bad as the singleplayer, but it sure is bad enough to not 
 want to play it.
  The levels are as dull as the game itself. The weapon designs are kind of cool though, but that 
 doesn't make up for the boring gameplay the game provides.
  
  It seems gamers were more hyped about a new console than a new game, and then not being able to 
 see what terrible game this is.
  Rare has lost its magic, they're out of the game. Every recent game they've made hasn't been all 
 that great. They simply do not live up to the hype anymore, they might have made some great last-gen 
 games, but I'm certain they won't be making very good games in the future.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is unaddictive , it's a repulsive braindead shooter you are recommended steering 
 away from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimmow
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  When the xbox 360 was first released back in November 2005, Microsoft wanted their next gen console 
 to start off with a few games from one of the most recognised developers in the industry, RARE. 
 Along with Kameo: Elements of Power was Perfect Dark Zero, a prequal to one of the best shooters 
 to ever grace the N64. You are Joanna Dark, a secret agent who goes on her very first mission to 
 uncover the plans of Data dyne, a company run by a ruthless emperor called Zhang Li who seeks power 
 beyond anyones imagination. However PDZ isn't an instant classic just because it shares its name 
 with one of the best shooters of the past. Read on to find out why.
  
  I'll start with gameplay. It's a slower paced shooter than what you might be use to playing. Reloading 
 looks fabulous on screen but takes longer which in a game where you're getting shot at every time 
 isn't helpful. You are compensated however with a regenerating health bar but for some reason doesn't 
 seem right. Your health doesn't slowly regenerate but instantly does it and your health limit decreases 
 too which is wierd. There's also a cover system where if you're standing next to a surface and 
 press the A button when prompted on screen the camera zooms into 3rd person to get a wider view 
 of whats up ahead. And leaping is especially helpful for dodging bullets to compensate for the 
 slow pace of movement.
  
  What this game does have to redeem itself is guns and loads of them. Pistols, sniper rifles, uzis, 
 machine guns, each weapon is classed into groups and you can choose to pick more than one weapon 
 before starting a mission but you have to collect that weapon when you beat a level to use it in 
 the next. And a lot of the guns have secondary functions too which helps spice the single and multiplayer 
 up. Ragdoll physics is also used which actually looks pretty good. Shoot at an enemy's arm and 
 he reacts to that shot and if you blow them up with a grenade they flop in the air. It helps to 
 add a bit of realism to the game. Graphically, this game looked good for a launch title but it 
 might seem a bit dated compared to the more recent shooters you've probably played. Character models 
 look a bit ugly upclose but from a distance don't look half as bad. Gun models look pretty good 
 though and there is a nice blur effect that occurs when you turn around fast. Theres a really good 
 draw distance too, lighting effects are good but surfaces may look a bit too shiny.
  
  The sound is where this game fails to impress me though. Voice acting is some of the worst I've 
 heard from a shooter. It's very unrealistc, Joanna and her father Jack have terrible voices and 
 the enemies sound annoying. It's like they used the same voice actors for Kameo but forgot to tell 
 them to sound a bit more serious. It's hard to take this game serious when it's acting too cartoony. 
 Shooting sounds alright though and the music in the background is good too but it could have been 
 better.
  
  What will keep you coming back to the game if you're interested is the multiplayer. Ths is basically 
 where all the achievement pionts are at too as there is very little in the single player campaign. 
 There is a big community of people to go up against and there is quite a few maps to play on. And 
 you can customize game modes such as having only rocket launchers and anything like that.
  
  RARE's attempt to bring the Perfect Dark franchise to the xbox 360 may or may not have been 
 a big success with some people. For me, it's a good shooter and it can be fun to play co-op splitscreen 
 with my friends. Sadly it's short on the single player and the story is less than interesting to 
 keep you hooked. The game does offer variety in guns and they are fun to use in multiplayer. This 
 game still is worth checking out, maybe a rental first to see if you like it. Just don't have high 
 expectations for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  I'll buy Xbox 360 for this and Gears Of War until Halo 3. When i began playing this at a friends 
 house, i couldn't believe how much it's improved since Perfect Dark for the N64 and i don't just 
 mean because of the graphics, i mean because of everything. Joanna looks soo much better even if 
 she is a computerised character. The guns look awesome and so do the reload animations and the 
 features are awesome. My favourite part of Perfect Dark on the N64 was always the multiplayer. 
 I loved the Bots, the game modes, the maps and the characters. Perfect Dark Zero has all of this 
 and more. Plus, PDZ has more unlockable features too. The bots now have names unlike what they 
 did on the first game, and the maps are much bigger than before.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is a game you NEED for your 360 to make it complete, simple as. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ds_radeon9200
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  I am bewildered at the idea of this game recieving a 9.0... Usually I am determined to complete 
 a game that I have started, but with this game, I was just too disappointed to play, hell, I didn't 
 even feel obligated as an ex-Perfect Dark fan to even finish the game. For a next generation game, 
 the graphics weren't so great. Every single piece of conversation was corny as hell. I couldn't 
 bear to listen to what they had to say. I just wanted to throw my controller at the TV everytime 
 someone spoke &gt;. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas830
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero offers good gameplay and great graphics, but someone expecting to play something 
 as good as the N64 game Perfect Dark will be disappointed, because this offers a similar yet less 
 enjoyable experience. It's hard to pinpoint why, but it's probably because this is a similar game. 
 After all this time, something new is expected. Perfect Dark Zero is still a solid game, with tons 
 of multiplayer options making Xbox Live possibilities endless. The campaign is good, but the storyline 
 and characters are annoying and adolescent. Beware of the weapons too, because they have first, 
 second, and sometimes third functions that people unfamiliar with the game will not like until 
 they figure it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve12992
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero, follow up to the legendary Perfect Dark for N64, was an ambitious attempt by 
 Rare. But it just didn't do it. The game delivers a standard single player experience, but makes 
 up with it's fantastic multiplayer mode. The multiplayer mode allows the player to add up to 16 
 bots, and it also allows you to change the map size. Unfortunately you can only add up to 2 teams, 
 however you can also give your bots 4 different levels. The map designs are alright but nothing 
 special. A very disappointing factor to the game's multiplayer was the vehicle selection. The Jetpac 
 is good for traveling, but has a weak firing function. And the hovership is unnecessarily large 
 and too easy to kill people with. It will just suck all the fun out of the game. But if you want 
 to have some real fun, play this game online. If you don't have anywhere you can hook this game 
 up to the net, put some bots in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  When I first picked up my 360 this is one of the games I picked with it. It was the first 360 came 
 I played and was very impressed with the graphics and enemy AI. However I had read all the reviews 
 and believes the hype a bit too much. Although it was a nice looking game it made you very dizzy 
 when turning around corners and the plot and voice acting was terrible. The weapons were fun and 
 being a fan of the original on the N64 was nice to see a prequel. The game was very long and some 
 of the levels were beautifully done. But due to bad plot and travel sickness when playing this 
 game I cannot give it a high enough rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  I never played the N64 Perfect Dark, I generally took impressions from all the fans... earlier in 
 development I wasn't too excited, however a couple of friends informed me this game online was 
 great... so i picked it up.
  
  They were right, the game online is incredible... customization and gameplay are the two main factors. 
 You can basically customize the matches however you want with tons of modes and challenging bots. 
 The maps range from small to massive, depending on the amount of players in the match. 32 player 
 online and i never once experienced lag... and if the host leaves the match, instead of kicking 
 players out the server chooses the next best host. The weapons are incredible, all supplied with 
 secondary functions (that are actually relevant) . Only 2 modes of transport, the flyer is just 
 fun and easy to control.
  
  Single player is pretty weak but adds enjoyment when wanting to play offline.... it will last about 
 10 hours. It's easy to just pick up and play.
  
  Pros:
  -Incredible texture and environment details
  -Music rocks
  -Multiplayer is incredible, lag 
 free
  -Bots are worthy of your time
  -Maps A+
  
  Cons:
  -Single player is average at best
  -Only 2 transportation vechiles online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baileyjr
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 7, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  I have to point out that I have only recently purchased this game --which is many, many months 
 after its release. That being said, I think I can be much more objective than what everyone else 
 has been in reviewing this game. There is NO WAY this game is deserving of the high praise represented 
 in the scores on this site.
  
  Gameplay:
  Let me start with the good stuff. This game has some really awesome weapons. I was definitely impressed 
 with the quantity and diversity of the guns available. In addition, each weapon has 1 or 2 alternative 
 functions which adds value to each. In fact, nothing is more satisfying than using the secondary 
 fire on the rocket, which allows you to fly your rocket into your enemy's face.
  
  Unfortunately, the rest of the game is lacking in every single department. At best you can call 
 this game uninspired, or a total mess. It plays like a sad attempt at rushing out a next-gen game 
 with a bunch of nothing new. 
  
  For example: the game features a cover system reminiscent of Gears of War, but much much (much) 
 worse. You cannot slide along your cover to get a better viewpoint, it is sometimes difficult to 
 enter and/or exit the cover, etc. The AI in the game is pathetic. The level design is horrendous. 
 And the levels themselves are just not fun. What's the point of having stealth missions if you 
 have to eventually break your cover and kill everyone to advance anyways? And don't even get me 
 started on the non-existent checkpoint system. If you make the slightest mistake, you have to restart 
 the mission in order for the game to track your mission stats.
  
  All in all, this game is pathetic in the gameplay department. It isn't fun and it is frustrating. 
 I think people were just too excited that this was one of the first 360 games.
  
  
  Graphics:
  You can sum it up in one word: uninspired. The levels are bland and predictable. Maps 
 are often too large. Overall the game looks like a regular Xbox title. You will be treated to the 
 occasional cinematic that will remind you this is a 360 game -- but you wouldn't know it from playing 
 the game.
  
  
  Value:
  I find little value in this pathetic title. The multiplayer modes can be fun -- but only when you 
 can play with real people. The maps are massive and intended for very large teams -- which means 
 that most matches are currently filled with several bots. Depending on the match settings, these 
 bots range from ragingly retarded to god-like. Neither is very fun.
  
  The main value here is the weapons. The variety in guns and secondary fire modes can make this 
 game. But everything else is so poorly done there is little I can say positive about this game.
 
  
  I wouldn't even recommend that you rent this game. Play a friend's copy so you don't have to waste 
 any of your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ebaumisnoob
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 6, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  With a good selection of hardware, gadgets that allow you to exploit a level and find hidden items 
 and quirks, useful weapons, good AI, but useless secondary and trertiary functions and repetitive 
 gunfights, PDZ makes for a fun time and lovely and well-done multiplayer. The graphics are phenomenal, 
 and textures are realistic, with beautiful scenery and good-looking people, I often found myself 
 staring at the background thinking, Life looks like a picasso painting compared to PDZ's visuals. 
 The soundrack is rather stereotypical for an agent game, which isnt really an agent game. I'd much 
 rather have some gunfight music or no music at all. Gun sounds could have been better, but the 
 character voices were exellent and crisp. The campaign is short and the storyline is butchered 
 and not that of a prequel, and it has no replay value, except the fact that the multiplayer is 
 awsome and co-op is better than single player.
  
  Overall, it's a good game with good core fundementals, but it isn't as good as PD64, still, a good 
 standalone game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResidentEman
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 6, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Just wow. This game did not meet the hype. Not at all. This game was purely a run and gun 
 first person shooter that grows old so fast, it's just amazing. As good as the first game was, 
 this does not match up. Let's start with the graphics. They're good, but not Xbox 360 good. Maybe 
 Xbox, but not Xbox 360. The character models are unimaginative and plain stupid. The fire effects 
 suck, and so does the voice acting. This is probably some of the worst voice acting on the Xbox 
 360. The characters all have corny and forced dialogue that doesn't match the situations or feel 
 of the game at all. Scientists tend to have the same weezy slightly high pitched panzy voice as 
 all their friends, and the enemies all have deeper voices and say the same things over and over 
 again. Like when someone says Give me covering fire three times in a row, even when all his buddies 
 are dead, you know you're in trouble. The reticule system is cool, but the weapons are just the 
 cookie cutter assault rifles, SMGs, a shotgun, a sniper rifle, and a rocket launcher. Some of their 
 abilities are cool, but the gameplay is too broken to make good use of them. The weapons sound 
 awful too. Instead of bangs and cracks, there are roars, squeaks, and the standard unoriginal 90s 
 action movie style full auto staccato. And at about five hours to beat, this game isn't even worth 
 the effort. Especially when your hard and easy difficulties are equally easy. The unoriginal Halo 
 2 ripoff multiplayer doesn't help either. Overall, don't waste your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Although every one of my friends told me this game is horrible i still went out to purchase it. 
 looks like my friends were wrong. Perfect Dark Zero really impressed me graphicaly and gameplay 
 wise. The single player campaign is nice, although i thought the story was bogus. its story mode 
 was similar to a James Bond film wich was Die another Day. the reason why i say that is because 
 just like the mivie one of your assistant spys betray you and die in the end. What really made 
 me like this game is its online feature. you are able to play against bots and human players online. 
 The maps in this game are greatly detailed. The campaign is only 13 missions long but on higher 
 difficulties it gets intense and the objectives change. The game has 50 achievements wich are quite 
 simple to get if you frequently play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellosnolvr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Having been a highly anticipated launch title, right off the bat Perfect Dark Zero shows its face 
 at E3 2005 with people predicting Game of the year . What made such a downfall was not a delay, 
 or any cancellations or denied content of PDZ, it was the game itself. As high the expectations 
 were for this game, barely any game could receive the full credit, and this being a prequel to 
 one of the best N64 games (trust me, there were a lot of N64 games that are 10/10s) , Perfect Dark 
 Zero had nothing wrong with it. So lets just break it down into little sections, shall we?
  GAMEPLAY- Being a first person shooter, the genre is mainly judged on gameplay. In this case, the 
 combat in this game can provide intense scenes whether it may be located at a night club, desert, 
 mansion, underwater base, or a subway platform. The thing is, most of the action you will get is 
 from Joanna's nice body. You are usually a lone wolf throughout the whole game battling often stupid 
 enemies, getting headshotted out of nowhere, or just blowing things up. The linear combat in the 
 game does get really old... However, there is plenty of good sides to the game. The numerous weapons 
 give you a great deal of possibilities for killing your enemies. You can blow someone up, slash 
 someone with a sword, headshot your enemies with a sniper, or blow your enemies away with the famous 
 Superdragon which reappears in PDZ after making a great first performance in the original. You 
 also cant say anything bad about the multiplayer gameplay, usually people turn all the explosives 
 off to make a really fun game. But what needs a very honorable mention here is the gameplay mode 
 Infection . Where a group of survivors face off against a group of zombies, the humans get to buy 
 weapons and the zombies are stuck with a pistol. It gets really fun and intense when there are 
 2 or 3 survivors left and their only chance is to camp somewhere, and whats even better is when 
 the zombies overflow the base and the humans have to run for their lives to another place to camp. 
 Other gameplay modes are fun as well, like Sabotage and the control point capturing mode (i forgot 
 the name) . The multiplayer can be very fun, plus there are numerous achievements that can be obtained 
 in every game mode, so this game is an easy 400 or so points at the least. What else makes the 
 multiplayer so special is that the host has basically total advantage at changing any option and 
 making a perfect game with the right rules, few other games provide that many choices for customization. 
 The host could include bots, vehicles, and disable weapons just to name a few. The multiplayer 
 is a lot better than Halo 2's just to tell you...
  GRAPHICS- The plastic models can be a draw-back at first sight. But when you see that there's more 
 to that than the characters, you start to appreciate the power of the 360. The level detail on 
 many maps, including the Temple map, have amazing detail and quality. And you remember the sweet 
 screen effects from the first game? Well, the motion blur is really well made. Its not too blurry 
 and not too light, so you get a great effect on the screen. Another plus in the graphics department 
 is the jaw dropping detail on the weapons. Remember when all your guns seem to be a bunch of boxes 
 with textures on it? Well, now the guns are amazingly made with a lot of extra detail with credit 
 going to the 360's abilities. Yes, I know, i made this a short section, since you could really 
 sum everything up in a couple sentences...
  SOUND- The muffled sound of the blaring music in the nightclub on your first real mission was great, 
 and even better on surround sound. The small percentage of time the developers put into the sound 
 increased now that the capabilities increased with all of the extra space on the disc. Each gun 
 has a unique sound, with realistic sound detail, rather than merely fake sounds for reloading etc. 
 One of the few things in the game that the developers really nailed was the sound. Voice acting, 
 gun sounds, sound effects, and other small details that the developers can put in there really 
 came alive with the extra disc space, and it gets even better with the built in surround sound! 
 This is one of the better sound performances on the 360, but undoubtedly bowing down to Call of 
 Duty 2's performance with layer upon layer of excellence.
  From the shorter - but definitely replayable - campaign, to the endless fun of the multiplayer, 
 the value can be great for some Xbox 360 owners, while others will be left in a whirlwind of thoughts 
 trying to figure out why Rare even bothered making this prequel. Well, we all have to admit it, 
 it does have some value, but not that much - on an average. I do admit, there are other games that 
 are more worth your while and I guess its safe to say you wont get as much time out of it with 
 all of the other great games coming out... Well, here's the end of this review. One quick note, 
 co-op is really fun so try it :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarge_Maximus2
Rating: 3.4
Date: May 31, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who don't know, Perfect Dark was an N64 game that revolutionized the FPS genre. 
 Specifically, the multiplayer. Here was a game that allowed for an immensely customizable session 
 of utterly gleeful carnage, because YOU had made it what you wanted.
  
  Fast forward to the current generation of console games. Among which is Perfect Dark Zero, the 
 long anticipated sequel to that great olden-days game.
  
  Unfortunately for those of us who knew the standard , the standard which was set for games more 
 than five years ago, Perfect Dark Zero is yet another example of a money making scheme rather than 
 a for-the-fans project.
  
  Since the original game is held in high regard, I am going to compare the two and see just how 
 superior a game from the future is compared to a giant of 2000. Perfect Dark 64 (PD64) had customizeable 
 AI bots. You could set their personality which would dictate their accuracy and health. You could 
 also pick what they looked like by choosing each individual bot and choosing any of a vast number 
 of costumes and heads.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero has AI bot teams . You pick the team you want which dictates what the characters 
 look like. And thats it... pretty pathetic if you ask me.
  
  PD64 had customizable options. You could set the human player's health, you could pick what the 
 individual weapons you wanted in the map were, and you could make your own teams.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero? Well... you can pick your own weapons, just like in PD64, and... you can choose 
 which team you are on. None of the other stuff though.
  
  PD64's weapons were POWERFUL!
  
  Perfect Dark Zero's weapons... look powerful...
  
  PD64 had really good music which could 
 be chosen. In other words, you could choose which tracks you wanted to play.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero doesn't let you do that...
  
  PD64 let you control your AI bots on your team. 
 You could tell them to hold, attack certain players (including other AI bots) , you could get them 
 to follow you, or just go off as they normally would.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero doesn't let you do any of that.
  
  Truth is, Perfect Dark Zero is a good 
 game on it's own. But as the sequel to PD64, a game which came out two generations ago and was 
 better... terrible. They would have been better off just remaking PD64 exactly how it was, just 
 with better graphics. Instead, we got a game with better graphics, but less-worthy gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reali_T
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 31, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Where should I start... Perfect Dark Zero is first person shooter that is insanely fun to play 
 and I had a blast playing it let start with the main stuff.
  
  Gameplay- This game has great gameplay, every weapon is fun to use and not too overpowerful, every 
 control feels how it should, except for the way you zoom in on a scope, who thought a good way 
 to zoom with the left trigger? But tht is just a tiny mishap that doesn't stop from gett ing a 
 10. Graphics- Graphics are pretty good in this game, but it does have a few graphical glitchs, 
 and characters do look pretty ugly sometimes. Especially Mai Hem she looks like a Jak and Daxter 
 character. I give them a 9.
  
  Sound-The reason I give sound an eight is for two big reasons. One, the music is horrible and extremely 
 repittive, and I swear to god if I hear that same guitar riff one more time I going to rip my ears 
 right off my head. And two, the voice acting is horrible, one of the characters sounds like a twelve 
 year old going through puberty, his voice is always cracking. I give it an 8.
  
  Value-As old as this game is you can get it for a good twenty bucks so i think it is a good deal.
 
  
  All and all this is a great game that you should check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornInFlames
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 29, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  I had high expectations for this game, and it's not hard to see why. Perfect Dark for N64 was the 
 best shooter out there for a long time IMO, and featured great single player campaign, tons of 
 challenges and game modes, and splitscreen action that couldn't be beat. This game, however, is 
 an example of why next-gen doesn't necessarily mean better. The graphics are nice, but eventually 
 you get sick of how glossy they are. Joanna is too girly now, with purple painted long fingernails 
 and an uberpetite frame like a little anime girl, you wonder how she can even pick up some of the 
 guns she uses. There are no aliens in this game, just hordes of incredibly stupid AI enemies who 
 will rush you at first sight of you. You can even just hide by a doorway and mow them down just 
 like in the old games, only now we expect better. My list of gripes goes on and on..... the small 
 clip sizes and long reload animations, the awful voice acting, pointless story, poorly implemented 
 cover system, or the unbalanced difficulty in campaign mode..... Multiplayed is what was so awesome 
 about the original, and the multi on this game is unimpressive, although better than the single 
 player. Only a handful of boring maps are available, and your connection is frequently dropped. 
 If you liked the first one, don't buy this, it will only tarnish Joanna Dark's good name for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 25, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  This game takes place near future, all over the world. There are urban levels, where you fight 
 hoodlums, war levels where you infiltrate buildings with your squad, and there is a super-natural 
 level where you fight a magic dude. So this game has a lot of variety in terms of level design 
 and levels. The graphics are stunning. They are absolutely awesome! The gameplay is what makes 
 this game shine, though. Other than the basic FPS gameplay, there is a GOW-like cover mechanic 
 which makes the game look cool. The game has a cinematic look which makes it awesome. The gameplay 
 would probably be most like Halo, but almost better. The weapons are some of the most unique and 
 coolest weapons Ive ever seen next to Halo and Half-Life. The story is lame though. You might 
 as well skip the cut-scenes. The multiplayer is the star. It is cool because it is like Halo 2. 
 It is VERY fun and if you dont have any friends to play with, you can play with about 15 other 
 BOTS. You can make the only weapons the old western six-shooter, and put the environment as the 
 old west (desert) and its like you are in an old western. Or you can make it like your favorite 
 action movie, and so on and so forth. The multiplayer is very fun and it is worth playing. You 
 should buy this game because it is about $18 used and is awesome!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rayquaza75
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 27, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing Graphics and sound, Now a $30 game ( increasing its value tremendously) , Very 
 Fun and a lot of replay value ( Bots ) , Best 360 Launch title, My 2005 Game of the Year.
  
  The Bad: Horrid ( though funny ) Voice acting, aiming can get nasty in close-quarters combat, difficulty 
 can spike in certain areas.
  
  The Opinion: This is the game that made me get my 360, it really shows off just what Microsoft 
 invisioned when creating the console. Good Graphics, Sound, Gameplay and Price. You just can't 
 go wrong with Perfect Dark Zero.
  
  The Review: You take the role of Joanna Dark, hot superspy, in her time before the original Perfect 
 Dark. It sums up how she ended up with the Carrington Institute. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 27, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  This game has great graphics and is really a pretty fun game. You can get tons of awesome weapons 
 and cool ways to kill your opponents. The shield and a mini-mac machine gun is a n awesome combination. 
 You can hide behind your shield until they reload and then unless a barrage of bullets on them. 
 If your a head on attacker just take a superdragon or two mini-macs and unleash hell. If you are 
 a sharpshooter then take a shockwave and blast your opponents away through walls from a safe distance. 
 The swords are pretty cool too. The secondary fire modes are completely awesome as well. The pistols 
 is awesome as it can kill tons of people if you take their health down first as Jo takes out the 
 clip and throws it and the it spins around spewing bullets everywhere. The one player is a bit 
 of a dissapointment in some areas but other than that the game is basically perfect in every way 
 except for the sound. It isn' t that great but is not terrible either. PDZ lives up to it's reputation 
 in almost every way. I have fun playiong this game I hope you 2 !: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camper_On_Creat
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2007 2:19 am PT
Review:  The game's shooting is defintly nothing special. Compared to games like Gears of War, F. E. A. R, 
 and others, PD0 is extremly lacking. There is nothing that makes itself seperate from the rest 
 of the average pack in this aspect. It is very straightforward, and dull. The thing that saves 
 this game from this aspect of the gamplay is its very cool style that is accompanied by a story 
 that actually makes the gamer excited to plunge into the next mission. The story can also unfold 
 while you are in the middle of a mission. The cool scenarios and environments that come along in 
 this game is because of it's great story. The game is very stylish because of it's cool gadgets, 
 and interesting look. The game is very pretty graphically, and the environments are simply breathtaking. 
 The game really shines when it employs it's gadgets. They are that cool. If you are a fan of espionage 
 and stealth, this is a game that should not be missed. It makes Sam Fischer look like an idiot. 
 I have not had so much fun with a stylish game like this since 007: Everything or Nothing and 007: 
 Nightfire . It is so stylish, it feels like a next-gen Bond game. That is the best way to describe 
 it. The game enables you to bring up to four guest online, online can go up to 32 players, bots 
 can be added, four player co-op is also possible within the games absolutly breathtaking campaign, 
 a great variety of gametypes so you will defintly find something you like, loads of guns and gadgets, 
 and much more. It should be hard to run out of things to do in this game. For all of you Halo guys 
 out there, this could be your game to play with your friends until the next Halo comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GungraveZero
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 13, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Let's start it off.....
  Graphics: Amazing. No question about it. It holds up quite well for a launch title. Sometimes the 
 characters mouths and expressions are no where near what they are saying. Not much more to say 
 about that.
  
  Sound: I love the soundtrack for this game and the sounds effects are also good too. However, the 
 cut scenes tend to mess up every now and then and it's very annoying unless the volume is already 
 loud.
  
  Story: It fails. Yeah, it fails. I have no idea what's going on in the game except for the fact 
 that I'm now helping some Scottish guy.
  
  Single-player game play: Besides story, this is the only other category where the game fails. While 
 it's not horrible, it's quite frustrating in my opinion. Think of a lot of these missions as a 
 fps version of Splinter Cell, however when you get discovered it quickly turns into Halo. And you 
 will get discovered often because enemies seem to pop out of the wild blue. It does not work well. 
 It just doesn't feel right. I was never a big fan of Tom Clancy games and when these missions come 
 up, the whole stealth annoys me, but some people like that sort of thing.
  
  Multi-player: This, without a doubt, is where the game shines. Sure there aren't a lot of levels, 
 but each level is so unique and changeable that it adds a lot of variety. If you ever get a chance 
 to play a 32-player match, I guarantee you will have a blast. The ONLY thing it messes up in when 
 it comes to multi-player is character speed. For some reason, you move a lot slower in MP than 
 in SP, but it's not that big of a problem.
  
  Other: Weapons: Hands down. These weapons are my favorite in ANY fps I can ever remember playing. 
 In my opinion they rival Halo's and give Unreal a run for it's money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shmiity
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 12, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Multiplayer is where this game shines. -Forget the campaign, which makes no sense whatsoever.
 
  -The Graphics go from very good, to very bad.
  (Environments are good, characters are yucky)
  -Mediocre cover system.
  -Multiplayer is intense, 
 especially players vs. bots.
  -Lots of game types.
  -Multiplayer achievements are good.
  -Single player achievements are terrible, because you get one for beating the game, and one for 
 every next difficulty you beat. Because the campaign isnt fun at all, these achievements arent 
 worth it.
  -Coop campaign isn't good either.
  -Sound is alright, but the quality isnt that good either.
  
  Final judgement: Playh the multiplayer 
 only, the campaign is not good. If your into games for achievements only, forget this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 12, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Back in the days of the N64 Rare was owned by the Big N and came out with a sequel to Goldeneye, 
 Perfect Dark. The graphics were clean, the controls were about the same. But it didn't really feel 
 like the expanded upon the following that was Goldeneye for the 64. Then the big N sold Rare to 
 Microsoft, and without Nintendo's heavy hand to guide them, Rare hasn't really lived up to what 
 they once were.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is a prequel to the game Perfect Dark on N64. You once again play as Joanna Dark 
 getting your start as an agent in an organization. Perfect Dark was known for it's excellent array 
 of weapons, great graphics, and futuristic surroundings. Well Perfect Dark Zero does that... again. 
 There isn't too much new that has been added to the series. It is essentiallly the same game as 
 the first just on a current console. The story is a little more fleshed out, but it doesn't really 
 inspire to continue to play. The graphics are clear, and they have more of a anime type style to 
 them rather then a realistic feel. The controls are complicated and you need to study the map out 
 of the controller in order to even get a general idea of what to do when. The score is forgettable 
 and the sounds don't feel out of place. But there are plenty of bad guys to blow away in this game. 
 The AI is relativley smart. Overall we have already played this game two console's ago, it's just 
 been jazzed up for this generation. Rare needs to bring something new to the table to make the 
 hardcore gamers happy. This is more of the same jargon that has been floating around since Wolfenstien. 
 Rent or demo it before purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marklarmer
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  I think this game received bad reviews because of the single player. But when youre on Xbox live 
 is the multiplayer not more important? This is where Perfect Dark Zero delivers. The amount of 
 weapons available its pretty impressive, as well as the fact all have secondary functions and some 
 tertiary functions. The infection game type is pretty unique and especially good online. The aspect 
 of this game that does let it down is the single player, the levels are pretty good and mostly 
 original designs, but the storyline is not as gripping as it could have been. Also its very easy 
 to get dragged into just killing everyone in sight rather than making an attempt to take a bit 
 longer and a more stealthy approach.
  The hard difficulty settings can also be a bit frustrating if you advance before your skilful enough 
 and on the hardest setting you will probably only die from headshots against bots.
  Overall the graphics are pretty good if you dont set out to pick holes in. Animations on dying 
 in the multiplayer can be poor but also pretty amusing.
  However, if you want a huge range of weapons and some pretty insane multiplayer that is fun the 
 hundreth time around this is probably worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyDonut360
Rating: 4.8
Date: Apr 29, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I was all about playing the new PD game entitled Perfect Dark Zero, a prequel to the N64 
 title. I played it. One of the things that stuck out to me is all the bugs and glitches. When I 
 first played it I didnt know that all it was is a souped up original xbox game. I guess they decided 
 it would be a good launch title. The story line was really bad and so was the voice acting. The 
 visuals were right on par w/ what was out at the time. Nice but not jawdropping. Online gaming...... FLAT 
 OUT GAY All in all id have to put a cap at 5.0 and shouldnt let it get any higher than that. If 
 you want to play this game make it a rental or let a friend who got duped let you borrow it. Save 
 your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicalmac
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 22, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Maybe it did, and maybe it didn't deserve that official AAA status. All I can do is speak for myself, 
 and accept the fact that it WAS, in fact, AAA.
  
  The gameplay is quite good, nothing to complain about here. I wish the controls were as responsive 
 as those in Call of Duty 2, but they're not bad. It is about half way between COD2, and Farcry 
 for the 360 (which had horribly unresponsive controls :? ) . The action is fast, and being a good 
 shot is rewarding. Love those head shots ;)
  
  Graphically the game is pretty impressive, especially since it launched with this game. The textures 
 are shiny at the right places, and detailed in the right places. The gun models also look spectacular. 
 He wasn't joking in the official review.
  
  The sound is pretty good, a wide array of never-before-heard effects. None are like what you're 
 used to hearing for gun sounds, etc... It's a refreshing bit of sound. (Plus, there is a great 
 music video when you turn the game on, that I find difficult to skip) .
  
  The value of this game easily makes it worth every penny, regardless of the price you paid. I managed 
 to get the limited edition from Walmart for 30 dollars, and I'm pretty sure you could, too. The 
 single player is satisfying enough, if not somewhat confusing. It mixes in the game variants, though.
 
  
  The multiplayer is where this game's value really shines. I have gotten more hours out of botmatches 
 with my friends than I have with the single player. There are so many variations, so many interesting 
 weapon abilities, and so many customizations, that it is easily a winner. I have TimeSplitters 
 2 for my original XBOX, and Perfect Dark Zero is the clear winner on the multiplayer side. If you've 
 played the former, you can understand what a compliment that is to the latter.
  
  I would recommend it now, especially since the price has all but dropped off the map. 30 US dollars 
 is a steal. Go grab it for some multiplayer action, and a fairly good single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcs565
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I wish I had played this game before Gears of War. It is really not fair to compare any previous 
 game to GoW. But I picked PDZ up cheap ($16) used and decided to give it a go. Some of the missions 
 seem too easy while others (the jungle) are simply too long to have no save points. Some people 
 have also complained about difficulty with aiming. It can be frustrating especially when you are 
 getting swarmed by enemy from every angle and they seem to have no trouble hitting you even while 
 they are at a full run. Just try to stay behind cover and take your time. I was most frustrated 
 by the take cover action. GoW really simplified this and made it ultra easy to slide behind the 
 nearest cover and take aim. In PDZ you have to crawl along until the take cover icon appears. Then 
 once behind cover, there are times when you will be getting shot but unable to shoot back without 
 coming out into the open. I lost a lot of health because of this. Otherwise, the game is pretty 
 fun. Don't forget about using your infrared binoculars and scope. You REALLY need those in some 
 situations (i. e. the jungle) . I think this would be much more enjoyable in the co-op mode but I 
 have not tried it yet. I have also not tried the multiplayer but I understand that it is quite 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EchoFlame
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 22, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero Review -
  
  lets start off with the extremely corny storyline in which i wont spoil, lets just say the original 
 PD story line was alot better.
  
  the graphics are great for a launch game, i was amazed at the details on the weapons models (plus 
 you get quite alot of guns) . with amazing looking graphics you'd outta think that the game would 
 be realistic. but its not. its FAR from realistic.
  
  the gameplay wasnt so great either, the turning seemed a bit delayed compared to other FPS games. 
 because of this problem i just couldnt get into it, lets just say the gameplay for me, almost ruined 
 the whole game.
  
  sound... was okay, the speeches the characters had was terrible and to me, sounded very sarcastic. 
 weapon shots were awesome, it really brought back old memories from PD (like Super Dragon) . Overall 
 -
  Because its a launch game, i guess game spot were quite generous with the rating that this got, 
 not knowing what to expect from a 360. lets end this review with this, if your expecting something 
 like PD, you wont get it from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grenadepin88
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay is a lot of fun with great looking graphics and explosions. The environments and look 
 of the game is awesome. It feels just like the near future. The aiming isn't great, but not bad 
 either, but eventually after a few hrs. you get used to it. The secondary functions of the weapons 
 help the action feel better than most shooters and make the weapons feel different and unique, 
 unlike Black. An annoying part of the game is the inability to jump. Sure there's a roll, but I'd 
 rather jump, but it's not that big a deal. Antoher weak thing about the game is the stupid ass 
 story. I didn't know what was going on half the time because of the crappy voice acting and lack 
 of cut scenes, and the cut scenes that were there were too short and badly done, unlike Gears of 
 War. The standout part of the game is the multiplayer. Lots of options, weapons, bots, and online 
 play as well. Even though the story is pointless and stupid, at least the missions are fun and 
 action packed, although they are often too short. All in all the game is no where near the original, 
 but that doesn't mean it's a blast. And why does Joanna not have an accent and why does Jonathan 
 look like a prepubescent panzy? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Yevon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 19, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why everyone things so poorly of this game. For some time, it was arguably the best 
 shooter on the 360. The gameplay in this game lack in the single player campaign, but makes up 
 for it's mediocre single player in it's expansive and enjoyable multiplayer. The weapons are amazing 
 (minus the super-dragon) and well balanced. The modes of gameplay are excellent, but everyone seemed 
 to stay centered around eradication, kill or be killed, and Team Killcount, which is what it says 
 it is. Being a launch title, the graphics should have been 'beefed' up a bit. Though still bearable, 
 there were some issues with red and blue colors in-game. Otherwise, this game was quite enjoyable. 
 The version for the N64 was much better, but this version WAS a force to be reckoned with. If you 
 don't buy it for it's $30.00 price tag, then at least rent it if you're unable to obtain Gears 
 Of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSim117
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 18, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  The original Perfect Dark for the N64 was a milestone in gaming. An engaging and interesting story 
 filled with conspiracy and sci-fi elements, a dark and heart pounding mood and soundtrack, and 
 terrific run and gun gameplay combined to make one of the most enjoyable FPS's to grace the N64, 
 and for that matter the gaming industry itself. I was very excited when Perfect Dark Zero was announced, 
 but unfortunately Perfect Dark's prequel did not live up to its predecessor at all.
  
  Gameplay: The original Perfect Dark combined gadgets and terrificly designed futuristic weapons 
 to form a very unique experience. The different weapons and their creative secondary functions 
 provided hours of fun just playing around with them. PD0 however seems to have almost no futuristic 
 and creative weapons compared to PD, and instead the game has only the few normal SMGs, machine 
 guns, pistols, snipers, and rocket launchers with a few creative exceptions. The story of PD was 
 truly fit for a movie or a book, a dark government/big business conspiracy with help from an evil 
 alien race is slowly uncovered by an up and coming agent of the Carrington Institute. This amazing 
 story is scrapped in PD0, with barely any intelligent writing or interesting plot twists or development. 
 Besides the awesome single player mode, PD had an amazing multiplayer which I have personally spent 
 days of my life playing with my friend. The sheer amount of alien weaponry, maps, game modes, AI, 
 and other customizable options allowed someone to play almost infinitely without becoming bored. 
 While PD0 does now include online multiplayer support, It's multiplayer aspect is severely lacking 
 in the amount of customizable options that the original had and is just not as fun.
  The few additions that PD0 did add to the franchise gameplay wise (only carrying a select few weapons, 
 cover, and online support) seem terribly tacked on and are not executed well.
  
  Graphics: This is one area where PD0 could really be arguably better than the original, but I still 
 prefer the original's very dark and spooky graphics more (they fit the the whole feel of the game 
 better) . PD0's graphics look very cartoonish and do not seem to fit in to the whole feel of the 
 game. The character models do look a lot better, but really they could use a lot of improvement.
 
  
  Sound: PD had an amazing assortment of heart pounding, dark themed techno that set the mood of 
 the single player mission of multiplayer game perfectly. The sound effects from bullets and the 
 voice acting from other characters were also top notch. This is a drastic difference from PD0, 
 while the sound effects aren't bad, the voice acting is downright terrible.
  
  Value: PD0's single player is very short, and it's multiplayer offers no where near the customization 
 of its predecessor. That's all there is to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _WolfMonkey_
Rating: 4.6
Date: Apr 17, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Not one of my favorite games. It is very unbalanced with all of the different types of weapons, 
 most machine guns have only a few more bullets than the pistols causing them to run out of ammo 
 extremely fast, extremely ridiculous achievements, and boring repetitive campaign. The online is 
 the only semi-positive aspect of this game that I can see, other than the 250 hours that you would 
 have to put in to get your points. Also, is it just me, or is it mostly spanish people that play 
 it? I can't even communicate with my team on a sometimes very team oriented game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilzy_ccfc
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 12, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game recently seeing as its fairly cheap now as a 'classic'. ( about &pound;24.99 
 ) . Gamespot gave it 9.0 so i though 'great, a good bargain'. Unfortunately however i think gamespot 
 got it wrong. I think because it was a launch or close to launch game for the 360 they over-exaggerated 
 it. To be fair to it, the graphics are quite good. Its not a touch on Gears of War or Oblivion, 
 but they are quite nice and fit the bill. But unfortunately it seems that Rare quite simply gave 
 up from there on. For a start, the story deserves a few more words but to sum it up it is AWFUL. 
 You never feel involved at all as its like a really shoddy kids book but with added guns and it 
 just creates a feeling that your shooting the repetitive clones for no good reason other than to 
 create some variety in their ranks by giving a few of them a shot-up deformed face. The gameplay 
 is decent in parts (i. e the shooting) but the lack of a jump function really is utterly frustrating. 
 The main mission thing is fairly short too ( its a bittersweet thing really ) but increasing the 
 difficulty adds alot, simply because its so damn impossible. Multiplayer, unfortunately, is more 
 of the same. Some of the modes are imaginitive and are potentially quite fun (e. g Infection) but 
 seeing as no-one is ever on Live to play it it is wasted. For a bit i wondered why that was but 
 then i managed to have a match with about 12 people and it was so awful i am really not surprised. 
 I know some people will disagree with this review as i have seen some other player reviews and 
 they are really positive but i just cannot agree with them. At launch i guess this would have been 
 good as there was little else to play but now it is a disastrous mess. Avoid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BestGame92
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 7, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  PDZ is probably one of the best Launch titles that the Xbox 360 had to offer once it dropped it's 
 release. This game comes to show how the Next-Gen of gaming, and Shooters itself, has finally arrived 
 with this action packed title. From the guns to the explosives, everything about this game is just 
 plain fun!
  
  First lets start off with the Graphics-Straight up excellence! The enemies, the environment, the 
 lightings, the guns and the colors of every aspect are all fabulous, though, Joana could have looked 
 a little more decent. But your partners, vehicles, and etc. look very well developed and makes the 
 Xbox 360 live up to it's potential.
  
  Gameplay- Throughout the game, you will need to hide and cover from as much enemies in the game 
 as possible, which was a very fun feature, but once your caught, you have to give it your best 
 and shoot as many bullets as you got to kill your opponents as they raise the alarm! Its very exciting, 
 and its campaign mode is decent. Though, Rare could have developed a little more better story line 
 and made it a little more longer, but overall it's great and it's multiplayer is probably the best 
 aspect in this game, and PDZ also features a very fun Cooperative mode to play with friends.
  
  Sound- To me, probably the best part! The guns sound terrific as they're shot, and the explosives 
 sound even more thrilling. Also, the Voice-Over work was made well for this game, though it can 
 sound cheesy as some points.
  
  Value- Eh, the single player mode is alright as you can you earn high points through levels and 
 upload them onto the leaderboards of Xbox live and also there are 4 different difficulties that 
 will keep you busy, though the Multiplayer and Xbox Live is the feature that will keep you playing 
 for days, weeks, and even months. There are also many Acheivements you can unlock while playing to 
 make your gamerscore higher!
  
  Overall- Simply amazing, this game is very well developed and even has Maps to download on the 
 Xbox LIve Marketplace that will keep you playing Xbox Live. Though in my opinion the Story and 
 Campaign needed a little more work, though its still fun to experience!
  
  This game was very good to be honest, but it's certaintly my opinion. If your a shooter fan, than 
 of course you would want to try this game out! Well that's it, hope this review helped!
  -BestGame92 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Canas-
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 4, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  In the wake of GoldenEye for the N64, nobody ever thought a better game could be made. The 2v2 
 multiplayer was one of the most trilling experiences of my life, and the single-player was engaging 
 and challenging. GoldenEye set the standard for all FPS shooters, and it was doubtful that another 
 game would ever capture the genius again.
  
  Late in the life of the 64, a God amongst games was born. Perfect Dark was released to near perfect 
 ratings, and deservedly so it was well received by not only the critics but the public. For what 
 felt like the first time in console history, a whole truckload of players could engage in multiplayer 
 games. The human factor was still limited, but never before had a game incorporated so many sim 
 characters with so many personalities. Aside from the absolutely ridiculous Combat Simulator (multiplayer) , 
 Perfect Dark brought back the nostalgia of GoldenEye with it's similar style, yet explored the 
 genre even further with it's own flair. Their was an outcry for a sequel, and years and years later 
 Perfect Dark Zero emerged.
  
  My first reaction to the game was simply, Why isn't she British, and where the hell is Carrington 
 ? Only one of those questions was really answered, as Daniel showed up later in the game. But despite 
 the storyline attempting to tie in as a sequel-prequel , their seemed to be a huge gap between 
 this game and it's predecessor. Where Perfect Dark fit somewhere in the near future, PDZ felt like 
 it was hundreds of years down the road, something that made little sense for a game supposed to 
 take place prior to the other. Clashing storylines aside, Joanna seemed no where similar to the 
 old Ms. Dark we all grew so fond of years ago. Now, Rare would say that she simply grew up in the 
 N64 version, but players still felt awkward even attributing the characters together. It could 
 be best attributed to any old television show, where an actor was completely replaced by a different 
 actor portraying the same character, and the studio never acknowledged any change. The gameplay 
 was perhaps the only thing well done. It's was quite satisfying spraying bullets in to my helpless 
 victims, and the AI was noticeably smarter than usual. The actual game itself looked like somebody 
 accidentally switched it to 800 x 600 resolution, as everything seemed awkwardly big and clunky. 
 At least the sound was done brilliantly, as each gun seemed to have it's own distinct personality 
 . The online play could be best described as weird, as I couldn't help but laugh at the way users 
 rolled and ran. The actual play was quite entertaining, despite how different it was from it's 
 predecessor. After all the bumps and bruises, PDZ is still a decent shooter. As one of the original 
 360 games, it's evident the creators weren't too sure on what the system could actually pull off. 
 The entire game, although I've said it several times, felt completely awkward. And when one considers 
 the original Perfect Dark, this game feels more like The Godfather III , than a true sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadameMoo
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 3, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  Yes all the hype was true, the graphics are great in that they are realistic. However, this game 
 is too damn short.
  I shouldn't have been able to pass it in 4 hours, especially if GameSpot considers it to be a 9.0.
 
  In my opinion, if a game is going to have a rating over 6, then it should bloody well entice me 
 for at LEAST 10 hours.
  As far as a FPS goes, the guns were awesome, because of the detail put into them. The enemies, 
 however, could have had a little more AI put into them. The only thing challenging about them was 
 that if they used the stun gun, you were dizzy or couldn't see anything for a while. This game 
 is better played on the multiplayer setting with others, or on Live. Otherwise, you can't really 
 get that much satisfaction out of playing it, unless you make your own personal achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-cubano
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  Well this games story mode was great but offline game play sucked bottom. I still haven't got past 
 the first mission yet, and it been the first game i ever bought on the 360. Online play is freaking 
 amazing though, i remember when there was about 37 players on the same map, i unlocked 5 achievements 
 faster than anything in the world on just one map. This game was addictive for awhile but i can't 
 just stick with one game my whole life, but i play this game atleast 3 times a week. I love this 
 game and you can meet a whole lot of people there, and it never gets boring unless you're real 
 tired or sleepy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orakk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Like the top text said, this game reminds me of Killzone. In the singler-player part and in the 
 multi-player part. The campaign is almost the same gameplay experience and not to talk about the 
 multi-player.
  
  This game has some good animations and models. The rag-doll is amazing and that also reminds me 
 of Killzone. Killzone is great and this is a great game also.
  
  This game has a long lasting single-player campaign and I keep getting back to the multi-player 
 for the achievements and for the fun. Time to talk about the achievements. The achievements in 
 this game is pretty hard to capture. That's a bit crappy, but in the other hand more gameplay time!
 
  
  This game is at the moment pretty cheap so if you like first person shooters and good multi-player 
 this is your game.
  
  Graphics: 9
  Gameplay: 9
  Sound: 9
  Overall: 8.7
  
  -Orakk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iku94
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 2, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  I really didnt like this game. First impressions were good, it had a quirky introduction and outlines 
 of joanna looked hot. I was pleased to hear some revamped original music from the 64 version in 
 there.
  
  I decided since I have a huge amount of first person experience I would try it on secret agent, 
 little did I know this game would become the most irritating game I've played for a long time.
 
  
  Lets start off with the visuals, the colours and the level designs are pretty nice to look at, 
 but, one thing I noticed that annoyed the hell outta me was that all the enemies looked the same. 
 They were all chinese and bald with insanely toned bodies, six-packs bulging out there to the max. 
 I really dont think all gangsters in HK (Hong Kong) look the same. Another sad draw-back was when 
 you shoot a person the game seems to have lost the visceral satisfaction of the blood moving through 
 and spreading onto the wall, that was such an entertaining aspect of the N64 game and I don't mean 
 to sound sadistic for saying it! Annoying thing is, all the gangsters are the same throughout the 
 game! They all just change their clothes...
  
  Onto the sound, I would say the music was pretty damn good. The songs were catchy, had a good beat 
 and reflected the setting of the game nicely. Then again it was ruined by the seriously irritating 
 audio coming through your headset every two seconds. joanna you're hurt, be careful! joanna move! 
 as a gamer I think I know when I'm getting shot! The strange girl who talks to you in your ear 
 has one of the most annoying voices I've ever heard! Not to mention all the gangsters sound the 
 same too. The guns seemed interesting enough but to keep with the times they have now decided to 
 allow you only two main guns or one giant machine gun, this is rubbish as it was always fun to 
 carry lots of weapons with you as you played!
  
  The actual game play was pretty rubbish, one level involves you blasting a bad guys airship engine 
 with your pellet bullets for about 15 minutes. So you have to put up with him insulting you ALL 
 the way through, just annoys the hell outta you. Not only that but when he eventually starts losing 
 he comes and flames you with his engines which on anything more than agent pretty much kills you. 
 Then you have to go back and try again. There are no frequent checkpoints in the game so if you 
 die from the masses of same sounding cloned chinese guys you have to start again! On one level 
 I walked through an arch and got shot by a sniper which took off half my health, I killed him and 
 then proceeded to walk forward and get shot by another sniper which killed me. Back to the beginning!
 
  
  This game is not a patch on any of the current games for the 360, go buy gears of war if you want 
 a decent shooter and leave this frustrating piece of junk out! I just don't know why gamespot gave 
 it 9.0! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superdude475
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 25, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  It's safe to say Perfect Dark for the N64 IS the best FPS ever. Eventhough it's out-of-date it 
 can still stand up with the likes of Halo. So when I heard of PDZ I had high hopes.
  
  Gameplay 7/10 - I had high hopes and they were dashed away. First and foremost Joanna moves tooooo 
 damn slow, in a fire-fight you would be running not jogging. Second, the multi-player, the thing 
 that made PD sooo great is a huge letdown. It's not as customizable (weapons &amp; bots) , the bots 
 are dumber than a special-ed kid (even on hard) , &amp; the levels are as dull as dirt. The single 
 player isn't much better. Like I said the bots are retarded, altering the difficulty only changes 
 their accuracy. The missions are sometimes confusing but, there is an option that activates an 
 arrow which tells you where to go but, it makes things too easy.
  
  Graphics 9/10 - Of course it's next-gen, so the graphics are awsome, though the characters look 
 ugly up-close. The enviroments are beautifully designed as well
  
  Sound 8/10 - The sound isn't as great as PD though the quality of the background music is nice. 
 The voice acting is decent, &amp; the guns sound super powerful.
  
  Value 8/10 - If it wasn't for XBOX Live I probably would've dropped the game right after I beat 
 the mediocre Story missions.
  
  Tilt 7/10 - The thing is when PD came out it was revolutionary it was spectacular. It was the reason 
 why so many people kept their N64's. PDZ doesn't really make any new advances, it's not revolutionary, 
 PDZ is comparable to a decent PC FPS. With all it's pretty graphics and weapons PDZ isn't as great 
 as it should've been
  
  Don't get me wrong PDZ is good but, there are better FPS's out there. *coughhalocough* but it does 
 grow on you after a while but it will never top the first Perfect Dark 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NicAgent
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Even though Perfect Dark Zero is over one year old now, it still remains one of the top FPS shooters 
 to hit the Xbox 360. You play the role of a girl named Jill Valentine, and you are sent on many 
 missions of various types, much like Goldeneye 007 and 007: Nightfire. The gameplay for the most 
 part is good, with a fair share of guns and gadgets to use. Weapons include shotguns, SMGs, pistols, 
 and even machine guns. Additionally, each weapon has a secondary mode that helps the player in 
 some way, i. e. an enemy radar screen, flashlight, night-vision, etc. However, something that I 
 would have liked was better controls. The x-axis is not inverted unlike in most games, and you 
 might have to do some adjusting to fit it to your settings. But aside from that the game plays 
 fairly well. Its all good stuff and is much like Goldeneye 007 in excellence, though not quite 
 as good.
  
  There are some pretty nice graphics I must say. The guns all look stellar, and cannot look much 
 better. Many of the textures are near picture-perfect, and breathtaking. However, the one major 
 drawback on the graphics are the characters, which look rather bland, 6th generation. Even 007: 
 Nightfire has better graphics on its characters. Additionally, some of the vehicles when seen moving 
 in cutscenes does not look all that realistic. But still overall the graphics are about as best 
 as you can get for an Xbox 360 launch title.
  
  The sound is good for the most part, though the voice of your boss can get annoying. The futuristic-sounding 
 music could also have been done better, too. I cant say anything too bad about the sound, but 
 it could have used some improvement.
  
  The campaign is fairly long and even after its been exhausted, theres plenty to do in multiplayer 
 modes. The ranking system no longer works, but there are still plenty of multiplayer games going 
 on to try your skill in.
  
  Overall Perfect Dark Zero is kind of overrated (9.0 is a bit excessive) and it doesnt quite live 
 up to its perfect name, but it is still a recommended title for FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurninNitrous
Rating: 2.7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game has the graphics that are simply average to the 360's capabilites, even in 720p HD. This 
 game has more bugs than a termite nestt. The plot is terrible, the controls are awkward, and overall 
 gameplay sucks more than Paris Hilton. There is no way this game is worth $30.00 much less the 
 original price of $59.99. This game is so bad it was given to me for FREE. My friend wouldn't even 
 take money for it. If you get a choice between Perfect Dark Zero and spoiled chocolate milk, take 
 your chances with the Poison Control Center.
  
  -Official Review-
  SerialSniper14
  Feer my leet skillz biznatch 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halomassacre
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This game has great graphics and is really a pretty fun game. You can get tons of awesome weapons 
 and cool ways to kill your opponents. The shield and a mini-mac machine gun is a n awesome combination. 
 You can hide behind your shield until they reload and then unless a barrage of bullets on them. 
 If your a head on attacker just take a superdragon or two mini-macs and unleash hell. If you are 
 a sharpshooter then take a shockwave and blast your opponents away through walls from a safe distance. 
 The swords are pretty cool too. The secondary fire modes are completely awesome as well. The pistols 
 is awesome as it can kill tons of people if you take their health down first as Jo takes out the 
 clip and throws it and the it spins around spewing bullets everywhere. The one player is a bit 
 of a dissapointment in some areas but other than that the game is basically perfect in every way 
 except for the sound. It isn' t that great but is not terrible either. PDZ lives up to it's reputation 
 in almost every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Pros- Great graphics, Excellent gameplay, Soundtrack is ok, Controls are tight and aiming works 
 most of the time. Missions are legnthy. Weapons are good to
  
  Cons- Graphics are ok except for sometimes when chars. die the phsyics in the game make them flop 
 around like crazy. Sound is ok except that their is no sound in multiplayer at all. Sometimes zoomed 
 in Aiming sucks. Not enough missions. Weapons sometimes have crappy Secondary fire options
  
  Value- Silver, for an ok game except with some issues
  
  Tilt- game is Fun for hours..... with 
 multiplayer. Downloadable content dosent really add much... especially the extreamly small Facility
 
  
  Overall- Fun with multiplayer and Missions are kinda bland but, still a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanfwlr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of first person shooters (FPS) . So, since I play a lot of them, I tend 
 to see a lot of repeated game designs and level structures. With Perfect Dark Zero, I got a lot 
 of the same stuff I got from various other shooters, but PDZ does it a little better and features 
 some interesting and stylized graphics. Not to mention one of the more interesting assortment of 
 weapons in a game yet.
  
  The graphics are pretty darn good. The look of the game is an interesting blend of great lighting, 
 great textures, and some incredibly shiny surfaces. Everything in the game has an interesting shine 
 to it. This works really well in the sections of the game that take place in building and futuristic 
 metallic locations, but it gets a little weird when you see plants and dirt that shine. Also, I 
 would have to agree with other reviewers in that some of the character models' faces look a little 
 funky. This keeps the game from being a truly great looking game. But, the environments are truly 
 amazing. Overall, the graphics are pretty impressive, especially for one of the first games to 
 be released for the Xbox 360. The sound is pretty good too. Each of the weapons has a sound that 
 fits it well and the music is a cool blend of rock, orchestral, and techno. The music really helps 
 add to the feel of the game especially when the intensity of the action goes up and the music does 
 the same. But, as good as the music is it isn't the best I have ever heard and sometimes doesn't 
 fit the feel of the action. Most of the time it does the job. Overall, the sound is good and fits 
 the game well.
  
  The gameplay is really great. It is pretty standard FPS stuff. Lots of running and gunning but 
 the PDZ does it much better than most other shooters I have played. The A. I. isn't particularly 
 smart but it does a good job of taking cover. Also, at the higher difficulties, your enemies become 
 incredibly good shots. They will take you out if you spend even just a second longer than you need 
 to. This creates an incredible amount of challenge. Luckily, the weapons pack a good punch and 
 help to equal the playing feild. Plus, all of the weapons have a unique and interesting twist to 
 them. Some weapons have up to two alternate firing modes. A couple of the weapons are standard 
 but some are really out there, like one that turns you completely invisible and another that has 
 an X-ray vision attachment. The weapons are all pretty darn cool and help to distinguish the game 
 from other FPS's. I felt that the unique feel, look, and firing modes of all the weapons helped 
 to elevate the gameplay above other shooters.
  
  The multiplayer is really where the gameplay shines. This is the mode where you can really take 
 advantage of the various modes of each weapon. There is a good assortment of game types and online 
 play is pretty fun. Plus you can still do split-screen play. The multiplayer isn't really different 
 from any other shooter but the fact that the action is fast paced, the levels are large and varied, 
 and the weapons are unique and fun to use. Overall, PDZ is very much like other shooters but it 
 distinguishes itself with a unique assortment of weapons, a interesting look, and fun multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nkc124
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 7, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  this is perfect dark zero. u play as joanna dark who is in a secret organization called perfect 
 dark zero. this game is a good game and might be worth buying. the gameplay is like golden eye 
 and james bond games with karate chop and shooting action. joana has a big butt. graphics are pretty 
 but when u zoon into the characters face they look ugly up close. joanas father, jack kicks ass 
 with his revolver. hes sometimes with u in the game but something tragic happens to him later in 
 the game. her friend which im not going to tell u betrays her and works at datadyne which is another 
 organization trying set a nuclear war. the sound is pretty good but sometimes gets glitchy. if 
 ur smart dont buy a used game because i bought this game used and i cant even strt mission 10 sad 
 aint it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madglee
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 6, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I've read the reviews and I'm a bit confused. First off, the game doesn't look particularly gorgeous. 
 The graphics are relatively nice, the environments pretty lush and what not, but the game is in 
 no way stunning.
  
  Secondly, the enemy AI is ludicrously stupid and all-knowing. Considering the amount of missions 
 where stealth is supposed to come into play, the game fails miserably - sneaking is next to impossible, 
 as one cannot tell when the enemy will be able to see you. I've played a situation over and over 
 - sometimes the guards see you, sometimes not. It's impossible to tell and much easier to just 
 sprint in and start firing. Also, when someone DOES see you, guards you can't even see, from really 
 far away, just start shooting you. Even if you run and hide, they magically find you.
  
  Third, the aiming sucks. No matter how much you adjust the sensitivity, you feel like you're all 
 over the place with aiming. It's pretty difficult if not impossible to be super accurate unless 
 you are totally concealed, zoomed in, and tracking a guy's head. Multiplayer suffers from this 
 same problem. I realize this isn't a mouse and keyboard but c'mon - halo2 plays nicely and so does 
 gears of war.
  
  Fourth, the missions are pretty boring with one or two exceptions. The backstory is basically non-existent, 
 and the missions entail killing everyone and getting to the end. There's no intrigue or excitement.
 
  
  The best thing going for this game are some interesting multi-player matches, but the aiming thing 
 I previously mentioned makes these not for very serious players.
  
  I kept trying and trying to play this game but got so bored by the 5th mission that I rarely play 
 anymore. I wouldn't recommend buying this thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CronoJKL
Rating: 3.1
Date: Mar 6, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Remember back in the days of 64bit graphics, when we were shocked when we saw the incredible detail 
 of DKs fur in Donkey Kong 64? And the greatest First Person Shooter out at the time was 007 Goldeneye? 
 I know I do, those were the days... But then, one day Perfect Dark comes, and we see video game 
 graphics and game play at it's best. We all said, Good bye Bond! Helloooo Diana! Diana Dark was 
 a sophisticated, well trained, professional, smoking hot British secret agent who kicked ass and 
 took names on the Nintendo 64... Years later, when we have the ability to make 360 bit games, the 
 greatest game ever on 64 bits (Right next to Legend of Zelda) gets a sequel. With great anticipation 
 we await our Secret Agent hubby... But then, we get Perfect Dark Zero... Zero is what it should 
 get for a score every time it's reviewed... Our British secret agent is replaced, with a slutty, 
 retarded, American teen... What were you thinking creators?
  
  I must run, but please, heed my words, if you have to flip a coin between Perfect Dark Zero, or 
 Lego Star Wars... Please, in the name of all that is good and holy... GO WITH THE LEGOS!
  
  You're Pal, Damaris 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pangobahn
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 4, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  This game, perhaps got a 9.0 because it was the first batch out for the 360 - but a year in, this 
 game looks weak. It's really not much fun to play, and offers very little new or exciting. I didn't 
 like it when it first came out, and I can't see what everyone was going on about. It was way below 
 my expectations for the 360 when i bought it in March 2006. No one's talking about this game anymore 
 (at least no one I know who owns a 360) - but I imagine that more recently released titles like 
 Gears of War etc. will still be high on the replay list of more gamers. PDZ somehow puts you to 
 sleep, with everything being a bit too clean and shiny in the graphics department - you can definitely 
 see how game developers have learned a lot about what can be done on the 306, and it's sure a lot 
 more than this game offers. There are many better games to spend your money on, so don't be fooled 
 by the 9.0 rating, which didn't have much to compare to when it came out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackShadow-GS
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a decent FPS game, the campaign mode is decent but I do like how each time 
 you change your difficulty for each level you have to take a different road in order to finish 
 it which sounds like realistic. The Co-op mode which is pretty fun but not much people playing 
 on now these days. The multi-player part is kinda hard because of the aiming, you need to pre-aim 
 for the head and do lots of burst shots in order to kill a player easily unless she/he is very 
 close at range. The achievements takes really long to earn in this game, pretty much like one achievement 
 per month if you already gotten the easy ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morphumax
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 28, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I'm reviewing this game a good 14 or 15 months after it's release, so I'm taking that into account. 
 Perfect Dark Zero was a long awaited sequel/prequel to N64's Perfect Dark. Can't say I've had the 
 pleasure, but FPS's are among my favorite games, so I had to check it out. I'm a huge fan of the 
 360, having gotten it in November 2006. I love the graphics and I think it has a great library -- even 
 the now-old launch games and ports, such as Oblivion and F. E. A. R respectively, have impressed me. 
 So I figured there was no harm in trying out Perfect Dark Zero. I took the very favorable reviews 
 from launch time with a grain of salt, because what impresses people a year ago may not impress 
 as well today. Keeping this in mind, I have to say I have a high opinion of PDZ. Even by current 
 standards, it's pretty nice to look at despite a few flaws. In fact, I found the level design in 
 particular to stay fresh, level after level. PDZ did not fall prey to the tendency of even some 
 of the best FPS's: repetitive level design. Level after level, the game delivers new locales and 
 varied level design, feeling at different times like Splinter Cell: CT, Project: Snowblind, F. E. A. R 
 and several others. Appearance aside, the shooting action itself was great. I was a bit put off 
 by PDZ being another game with no jump (Black, anyone?) , but I got used to it (like Black!) . The 
 shooting action is intense and challenging, with sometimes great AI, sometimes limited ammo, and 
 sometimes overwhelming numbers of enemies. If I had to compare, it reminded me most of Black because 
 it was similarly easy to get overwhelmed or surrounded. The game has frustrating moments for different 
 reasons. One reason is the things you have to get used to. Limited ammo at times, sometimes having 
 to save an NPC's ass, having to get used to minigames associated with your spy gadgets, having 
 to get used to the cover mechanic and the fact you can't jump. The other major reason is a slightly 
 unforgiving checkpoint system, as the checkpoints are too far between and force you to do some 
 less interesting parts before getting to the really good stuff. Are far as getting used to things, 
 it'll happen. It's part of what makes the game feel unique, and some of the features are actually 
 quite effective in the right places (the cover mechanic especially, which may remind players of 
 GOW in execution) . The weapons feel great and all have strengths and drawbacks, adding to the strategic 
 aspect of choosing your weapons. Even some of your most basic weapons (including a couple of pistols!) 
 never lose their charm. The sound is so-so. There are actually some great sounds, but they mess 
 up a bit on a few things here and there. The music is a little too gung-ho and over the top for 
 my liking. There are nice touches to some of the music, but it was often distracting at it's default 
 volume, which I chose to turn down. Anyway, I likes my shooters and I liked PDZ. The fact that 
 I dug in and put up with a few flaws feels like testament to the game's strengths. Paced out a 
 bit more correctly, proper checkpoints could've forced me to do quite a few parts of the game over 
 and over again, and I would've been happy as a pig in, er, mud. Lots of the action is great and 
 intense, which is part of what makes a FPS worth playing. Definitely worth checking out for the 
 FPS fan. (For fans of the original Perfect Dark, controller setting can be changed from default 
 to classic controls) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runemaster190
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was suppose to be a huge hit for the launce of the xbox 360, sadly it wasnt.
 
  
  Perfect Dark Zero was released awhile back but i didnt want to touch it simply because it didnt 
 look good, i was right and im very glad i waited til it hit 30 dollars. The story-line is the basic 
 james bound type, with some old Chinese guy bent on destroying the world. During the story-line 
 you run around using these high-tech gadgets to spy on their plans, and sometimes you shoot some 
 people, all of it was really boring and was not really interesting at all.
  
  The sound was ok, the voice acting was terrible and there wasnt really any music in the background, 
 sometimes theres this pop type music when your in the clubs and other areas but thats about it. 
 The guns sounded pretty good for the most part, but overall the sound was disappointing.
  
  The graphics is probably the best thing about Perfect Dark Zero, all the character animations are 
 really good but sadly some of the guys look the same, and the environments seem like they repeat 
 themselves, which is another disappointment.
  
  The online is terrible, nobody ever plays, and its just really bad.
  
  Thats about it, this 
 game was such a disappointment, and the creators could have pulled off a good game if they'd put 
 some effort and more time into it, sadly they did not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MUG3N999
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 26, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero has no redeeming qualities whatsoever. The gameplay is outdated. Graphics could 
 have been done on last generation's consoles. Interface and menu system is needlessly complicated 
 and cheesy. Sound is nothing special. And, finally, the story may have been written by a thirteen 
 year old WoW player. Some people might try to argue, don't listen. I have been playing video games 
 for fifteen years now. I know a steaming pile of sh*t when I see one. This is said steaming pile. 
 Whoever deemed this a 9.0 was definitely more impressed with their shiny new console than this 
 game. If a fresh review came about it would be a different story.
  
  To the people who, after reading this review, BUY this game: YOU are the reason that there is a 
 market for this kind of junk! Do a bit of research before you support developer's who don't care 
 about their product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimreaper20001
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 22, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  I dont think the game deserves its 9.0 rating but its also not like a 7. This game has some great 
 multiplayer especially with the downloadable content allowing bots into dark-ops which makes infection 
 the best gametype in this game. I think they should have added more single player achievements 
 rather than having everything so you have to beat the game on 4 difficulties. I love getting achievements 
 and when you dont have xbox live (my account expired) it can make getting some achievements difficult 
 because playing with bots to 100 flag captures is boring. The maps are to easy to get lost in on 
 single player. If that arrow on the ground wasnt there i would have probably never beat the 4th 
 level or something. Its not that i dont like wandering around but its no fun when you have to find 
 an object the size of a keycard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beutlich99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was my first experience with the 360, so I wasn't sure what to expect. I was 
 pleased at how real everything looked in PDZ. Everything seemed so much more crisp, and things 
 ran a lot smoother too. The graphics in PDZ are very well done, and all the weapons in the game 
 look great in your hand. The sound as well seems to fit well with every gun giving them sufficiently 
 powerful sounds and not any of that wimpy popping gun noises. The cover system is a nice addition 
 to the game as well. Although it can be finicky at times, and not allow you to take cover behind 
 certain objects you would like to take cover behind, it still is really cool when it works. I mean 
 ducking down behind and object, not getting hit, and then popping up to blow away the guy while 
 he is reloading is cool however you want to look at it. The story line is a bit convoluted, and 
 at times is nothing more than just a bunch of missions strung together randomly. Yes, I know there 
 is a story, but you never really get pulled into it, which is probably my only complaint with the 
 game, because everything else looked and ran beautifully. I'm not the biggest fan FPS's, but I 
 have to say that this is one of the better ones I have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BritishHierarch
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 18, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  Well what can i say first. This game is amazing.
  
  With an amazing array of weapons to unleash havok with it is obvious why this is such a good game.
 
  
  Firstly there is a long and varied campaign. With cutting edge graphics you can really feel like 
 you are trying to save humanity from those damned corparations.
  
  And even then the multiplayer function is brilliant. Huge variety of maps to play on, and with 
 many gametypes this will keep you busy for hundreds of hours. Even if you have no friends to play 
 with, you can play with up to 16 bots of which you can customize.
  
  And on top of that there is XBOX LIVE in which you can compete with other players online. The huge 
 amounts of weapon selections, maps and gametypes will keep the online experience new everytime 
 you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BraindeadRacr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Remember those good old days on the Nintendo 64? Perfect Dark? Mashing them buttons, you and three 
 others. N-bombing to disable others, placing mine traps and if they survive you fill their guts 
 with well-crafted lead.
  
  Now, that was over 8 years ago. And there we finally have it: Joanna Dark, as the twenty year old 
 female gunner. Now, don't get too exited.
  
  I had too much hope in this game, cause, what they all had stored on that N64 cartridge, was simply 
 awesome.
  
  But then, it was here! In November 2005, i got the call of my preorder being in... Gone to it right 
 away. Played it and kind-of felt let down.
  
  ~~~~ GAMEPLAY ~~~~ The gameplay is lacking. You're not really able of doing much rather than shoot 
 'n kill. Sometimes a task here and there, but the gameplay could have been so much better. Almost 
 60% of PD's guns are gone, and you're left with a few SMG's, Assaults, Pistols and such. Not more 
 than 4-5 of each. The storyline just sucks, i don't get the meaning of it. Still.
  
  The Multiplayer was extremely good. But now PDZ's Xbox Live Features have been deserted. There 
 are rarely players ready.
  
  The gameplay is really bad. Comparing it to a game that was created eight years ago, it's really 
 bad.
  
  The main character, Joanna Dark looks like a 16-year old big-boobed chick instead of this killing 
 twenty year old. She barely wears anything. And c'mon, it's a actiongame, not a Look guys, my boobs! 
 game.
  
  ~~~~ GRAPHICS ~~~~ Very good, even tough it gave me the feeling that they only spend time on this.
 
  
  ~~~~ SOUND ~~~~ Extremely good. That's all i can say.
  
  ~~~~~~~~CONCLUSION~~~~~~~~~~
  I can't believe how a multi-billionaire company like Microsoft 
 has downgraded PD so bad. This game is worth buying now cause it's gone Platinum and only costs 
 30 bucks nowadays.
  
  ----- 7.5 - GOOD ---- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaDude253
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 14, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  This came with my 360 and i remebered when i use to own a 64 i had Perfect dark now that game was 
 perfect. one of the best shooter ever made back then. but now 6 years have past and this game is 
 just not fun any more it gets booring realy quickly and there there are lots of parts that don't 
 look like a next-gen game and there are the anooying glitches like when i first started it i got 
 stuck between the door and had to restart and saving you can't save during a mission only allowed 
 to be done AFTER the mission welll ummmm make sure u have atleast about 1 hour free to compleate 
 the last level and te stroy line is so lame and the stages arnt much of a challenge it seem ever 
 person who attacks you look the same but may change guns the gameplay can be fun but some thign 
 will come up and distoy your enjoyment so if you are used to pretty bad FPS then but this but if 
 you have high exspectations DONT BUT THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zexxo
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 15, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I've had a few weeks with my copy of PDZ and I must say, I have some very mixed reactions about 
 this one. First, i'll name what I liked about this FPS. For one, it looks absolutly MIND BLOWING. 
 The textures are so detailed, its a wonder how the game runs without lag!!! But even the most detailed 
 of levels, like seeing gum stains on cement and rough surfaces on walls, cannot save this game 
 from its very dull gameplay.
  
  PROS
  
  + Fantastic looking game
  + Pretty above average multiplayer
  
  + Some cool ideas...
  
  -... but are pulled off in 
 such aweful excecution
  - Boring Single player
  - Vomit inducing storyline and voice acting is very bad
  - Very few maps
  - NO JUMP? six years 
 in development and they can't even match games from last gen.
  
  I just simply couldnt get into the game, its boring and slow paced... But not a good slow paced 
 game like GRAW or Fable, but more slow paced as in did I just take a sleeping pill? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imrul
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 14, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that struck me about this game is its cartoon like graphics. After reading the 
 reviews in gamespot and other review boards, I had a high expectations from this game, specially 
 in the graphics department. Sure everything is shiny, but thats where the problem lies. The environments 
 does not feel real and has more of a comical feel to it. Also, you can set the brightness level 
 from the settings of the game. In my 50 inch plasma HD screen, I could never find the right brightness. 
 Either things got too dark and couldn't see the enemy in front of you, or things were so bright 
 that all night actions felt like day time. All in all, the graphics were disappointing. As far 
 as the game play goes, I can't say I was too impressed either. The game added or tried to add a 
 level of stealth to it. But I found it easier just blasting through everything in site. The game 
 is just a run and shoot setting with poor enemy AI. The only thing I liked about this game is that 
 it had a off-line co-op mode which is still lacking in many first person shooters (FPS) .
  
  Maybe it is due to my high expectations or the fact that I just finished Gears of War that has 
 one of the best graphics in a video game, I was truly disappointed with this game. If you like 
 FPS, then give it a shot but I wouldn't recommend it for newcomers to the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo9898_98
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 14, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  I had very high hopes for this game, and I wasn't dissapointed one bit. Of course it's nowhere 
 as innovative or ahead of it's time like the original N64 classic, but it's still one great game. 
 The story is fairly interesting and keeps you interested for quite a while, and the endless multiplayer 
 on XBOX Live will keep you interested for even longer. The graphics don't seem too impressive, 
 but still good looking. The music could use some improvement, as I don't recall any memorable tunes, 
 but the sound effects are great and sound very realistic. I suggest picking up this game if you're 
 a fan of fast paced shooters or a sci-fi nerd/nerdette. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tab132
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game is infact great, not suberb, not perfect, just great. It may not have done what perfect 
 dark did for the n64, but relise that the first perfect dark came out after the system had been 
 out in stores for 4 years, they had time to make that. this is new software for a new system so 
 it cant be as good as it could have been. The Gameplay works out, shoot to kill, solve the occasional 
 puzzle, and enjoy the action. If your a complete idiot that it doesnt just shoot to kill you shouldnt 
 of even bought the game. People who claim they cant even get past the first level should stop gaming 
 completely because they are big freakin' noobs. The Mutiplayer works great if you dont play on 
 a hudge ass map with only 6 players, the large maps werent designed to hunt down people, they were 
 designed for 32 players at once, so stop hosting large maps because the community in this game 
 is pretty damn low now-a-days.
  The Graphics are great, they could have been better. theres not much framerate lag and theres some 
 really cool effects used but its really only a step up from the orginal xbox's graphics (compair 
 it to conker's bad furr day graphics.) , 70% is mostly detailed, the rest are blurred or not easy 
 to make out because of the fast motion effect.
  Sound is the worst aspect of the game, its the casual fps gunshots (made digitally insted of traditionally) , 
 and is outlined with a annyoing ass techno soundtrack. Its not that its badly done, its that it 
 overloops. if your at the first level at the dance club, the music will make your ears bleed after 
 listing to it for around 5 minutes.
  Value, well this game is outfited with a 4 player difficulty single, and a 4 player difficulty 
 co-op, which ends up to be about 10 achivements. getting these achivements is a pain in the ass, 
 the only reason is still play it and get value out of it is to unlock more achivements, who seriously 
 wants to capture 1000 flags, get 1000 kills in two different game modes, and survive for 100 minutes,100rounds? 
 im pretty much trying to get that overwith.
  Tilt, when this came out it was the online mutiplayer sensation exclusive to the 360, the other 
 one is the still largely populated halo 2. Hi-Def is pretty cool also.
  
  other - THE COLLECTORS EDITION IS NOT WORTH AN EXTRA 10 BUCKS, YOU GET THE SOUND TRACK WITH THE 
 ABLITIY TO NOT CHANGE THE TRACK, SOME ARTWORK THAT WAS BARELY USED, AND A CRAPPY MADE IN 2-MINUTE 
 THEME PACK OF PDZ, i give the bonus disc a 3/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redboxa
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This game was over-hyped. No ifs, ands or buts about it. It gives me a headache to play the first 
 level! This game's graphics are excellent, but the gameplay stinks! If RARE (developer) would have 
 taken more time with this one, it would have been splendid. But otherwise :
  ONLINE MULTIPLAYER STINKS! - too slow, no fun. LEVEL DESIGN STINKS! - terrible, sloppy This game 
 was way overhyped, and I'm sad I had ever bought the game, let alone the collector's edition that 
 cost me 10$ more than the original one! Rare , Do yourselves a favor and take some more time with 
 the next one, okay? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaming_Smoke
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 9, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Wow, Pdz on the 360, i tottaly remember this game on the n64, and they sure upgraded it. I find 
 this game pretty amazing though and i will tell you why from my list of Graphics, Sound, and Gameplay.
 
  
  Graphics : I find the graphics good and somethings ok. But really amazing, from looking at the 
 textures, the shiny objects, and the objects around you really look good and makes sense on where 
 the place is at. Its a good 360 game to deal with though, if you want graphics. I would give the 
 graphics a 10.
  
  Gameplay : The gameplay is what just blew me away. So many guns to choose from, Poping caps as 
 you move along. Taking cover spots is all good to. This compared to N64s pdz Has just came up with 
 a totally better game play that owns. so i give it a 10. (Forgot to talk about the online, its also 
 amazing!, fun as hell.)
  
  Sound : The sound wasnt that great though. Some songs where ok, but not amazing to me. They had 
 to pop in some more tunes. But the good thing was is that it had a lil techno feel to it. But thats 
 just music, For the guns and the reloading sounds where pretty good. But could have been better. 
 So i give the sound a 8/10
  
  Overall it was a good FPS that everyone should have nowadays.. and if you dont have it to... Then 
 i should recommend this game to you.
  9.1. Is my final score hope ya enjoyed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CubeJL
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 5, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  So much controversy surrounds Perfect Dark Zero, with various sites and fans labeling the game 
 as a shiny shell of its predecessor -- a cheap cash-in on a great franchise from the folks at Rare. 
 However, Perfect Dark Zero offers a very compelling gameplay experience, both online and off.
 
  
  Graphically, Perfect Dark is perhaps the premiere 360 launch game, with absurd levels of polygons 
 comprising the game's main characters. Moreover, the aforementioned shiny appearance does hold 
 true, but for all the right reasons -- Rare has always detailed their environments with mind-blowing 
 textures, and their latest certainly follows, down to the brick; grains of sand, rocks, pebbles, 
 water ripples, light bloom, smoke, reflections, refractions.... one would be hard pressed to find 
 an artistic touch missing from the graphical arsenal of Zero. To this day (February 5, 2007) , Perfect 
 Dark holds up as one of the most impressive 360 games, and it looks absurdly delicious on an HDTV -- a 
 true poster child for Microsoft's much touted HD Era .
  
  Gamplay is equally deep, with some nice new twists that make the game feel like it belongs with 
 today's FPSs. Joanna is restricted to a somewhat weight/space-based backpack for her weaponry, 
 which adds a remarkable balance to the game, since the player must strike a compromise among power, 
 speed, and physical agility -- yes, the cumulative weight of the backpack actually works in tandem 
 with how fast Joanna can move across the battlescapes. Further, the game offers some really unique 
 weaponry like a throwing disc, land mines, assault rifles, and the classic Pefect Dark-patented 
 camera rocket launcher. What's more, is that each gun has a secondary function -- sometimes this 
 boils down to a stun effect or involves a free standing gun which fires on its own upon sighting 
 the enemy.
  
  Zero's sound is also worth noting. All of the game's sound effects sound remarkably crisp ---lasers, 
 trap doors, wooden floors, sliding gates, and the clank of a ricochets are brought to life in vivid 
 detail. The game also offers up a fairly diverse mix of techno and rock to accompany the espionage. 
 The music, whether the player is a fan of the genres or not, is extremely well done and enhances 
 the game's high paced feel.
  
  Possibly the most compelling reason to own Zero is its multiplayer -- again, over a year after its 
 release, the game is still a blast to play online. All of your standard fare are on hand: Capture 
 the Flag, Deathmatch, and the like. Yet, Perfect Dark has some really innovative online games like 
 Infection which involves one player killing other players in an attempt to infect the entire lobby 
 of players before the clock expires. Games like this shake up the traditional multiplayer dynamic 
 of pure killing for the sake of killing.
  
  All in all, a 360 owner can't find a better FPS, ore more compelling online experience than Zero. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gibsonstrat91
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 9
  Its a good shooter, and has other elements to it also. there are no combat knives anymore D: but 
 they have added swords. its always fun to hack people up when you get close to them. theres new 
 gadgets now and its a very fun game to play.
  
  GRAPHICS: 10
  Come on folks, this is Xbox360.
  
  SOUND: 10
  If you played the old Perfect Dark for the 
 N64, then these sounds will put a smile on your face. a lot of the SFX are identical to the N64 
 version (much higher quality, of course.
  
  VALUE: 8
  Its a pretty good price, and has some tantalizing elements in its arsenal, so i would have to say 
 you should add this to your collection
  
  MY TILT: 9
  yeh. 9.
  
  SHAZAM! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sensui1986
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 4, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  To be honest I expected something as good as or even better then the Perfect Dark we know on N64.
 
  It's still a great shooter nonetheless, but I didn't give me what it promised.
  
  Graphics:
  They are good but not THAT good. Slightly better then the graphics you see on the 
 first Xbox but not all the Xbox360 can handle.
  8/10
  
  Sound:
  As I expected, they did the sound well.
  The guns have nice sounds. And there is actually playing 
 good music in the background, music that really fits in.
  10/10
  
  Gameplay:
  Not bad, the guns have Secondary and Tertiary modes, like in the original PD.
  When unlocking 
 or blowing something up you'll have to solve a little puzzle , don't worry, it doesn't require 
 thinking really. It's just made up do you can't unlock things when you are under fire.
  Also you can play against bots in multiplayer, that's some nice thing huh? You can do multiplayer 
 with just 1 controller and you don't even have to get XboxLive.
  10/10
  
  Storyline:
  Well, unlike the original Perfect Dark, this one doesn't really have an intresting storyline, though 
 better then most shooters.
  PDZero is actually a PREQUEL to PD 64, as it plays itself in the year 2020, and shows us how Joanna 
 Dark helps the Carrington institute to dig deeper into DataDyne.
  8/10
  
  It is a good game, and it gave us the thing we like in PD 64 again in PDZ.
  But something is 
 missing, it just doesn't get you hooked like the original.
  
  Now, let's just hope there comes a sequel to the perfect Dark Story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnTheGamer
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was supposed to be the reason to own a 360 but this just wasn't worth owning 
 when it came out and it really isn't now either. The story is a prequel to the original Perfect 
 Dark on the N64. You play as Joanna Dark and help your father and a few other membners in their 
 mercenary team.
  
  The story is very cheesy and bad. It follows the Dark's adventure to get the typical bad guy. The 
 story is just terrible and cliche. There is nothing great about it.
  
  The game seems to move very slowly. You can run but you have to put your weapon up so you can't 
 shoot. Why you can't run with a pistol is beyond me. The bigger weapons will slow while with pistrols 
 you go a little faster. The weapons are cool and all have multiple functions. The machine guns 
 are very inaccurate, more so than they should be. The cross hairs also seem to be to small for 
 the characters making them hard to hit. There is a lot of weapons too, once you finish a level 
 with a weapon you unlock it for use in any other mission. Before each mission you can pick which 
 weapons or weapon you wish to bring. They also put gadgets in, little things that can unlock doors 
 or spy on others through fun minigames. There are a few vehicles but they are difficult to control 
 making them hardly useful.
  
  The game's graphics are decent. In places the game looks great but when you get closer to walls 
 and the ground you notice that about 70% of the texturing is next gen, the rest looks like blurry 
 last gen graphics. Now what is up with this? The character models look good as do the animations. 
 The music is like the graphics, decent. Most of the music is generic techno and hardly noticable. 
 The voice acting is bad too. Joanna sounds and acts really stupid, and the others aren't that much 
 better.
  
  There are plenty of multiplayer modes and I'd have to say multiplayer is the best part of the game. 
 You have all the standard modes and some unique ones. There is 16 player online but the empty spots 
 go to bots and if you're playing online I know I'd rather play with humans and play with bots in 
 local multiplayer. The biggest complaint about the multiplayer is there are only about four maps. 
 There is a free download on Xbox Live that has two maps from Goldeneye on the N64 but that raises 
 the count to six. You can scale the maps depending on how many people are going to be playing. 
 You can use vehicles in multiplayer but the only one that is kinda fun is the jet pack. Now a jet 
 pack should rock and be awesome but it's not, like all the other vehicles it's hard to control. 
 Overall it seems like it was rushed to get out of the gates in time for launch. The game doesn't 
 have a lot going for it but if you can see past this an FPS fan will enjoy it like I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevilslayerX
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  Hey everyone, this is my first written review ever on one of the best games ever made in. Perfect 
 Dark Zero redefines the FPS and espionage fused genre in so many aspects. The game is complete 
 with unbelievable graphics, the best soundtrack created for a video game, awesome multiplayer and 
 an unforgettable story that some people complained about... but not me. Ever since beating the first 
 Perfect Dark on the N64 not too long ago my gaming ego told me that it wasn't enough despite all 
 of the game's glorious features. As soon as I got Zero, I was so excited and thrilled that I couldn't 
 put it down. Hands down, this is one of the best video games out there and for all of you XBOX 
 360 owners who don't have this game... go down to your EB games, gamestop or whatever store and 
 get it... I'm serious get off the computer and go buy this game ha ha. All in all, this is an unforgettable 
 game that you won't regret buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastermuk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 30, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  This game is really excellent but a few important features are MISSING to make this game an addiction. 
 I will only name the minusses about this game (there are to many plusses) in the hope they will 
 be updated for the feature games. Please read and if you all agree mail Rare for (y) our request 
 on these features to come back !!
  
  editor@rareware. com
  
  #1. - SELECTINLIST SPECIFIC GUNS IN MULTIPLAYER ONLINE NOT THERE ! -
  As seen in the previous 
 Timesplitters games you could always specificly select guns for each Multiplayer session. Each 
 gun/ armor/ armor/grenaded could be selected with each other.
  In Perfect Dark Zero you are stuck to certain selections/combinations of guns and armorments. A 
 real minus : ( : ( : (
  
  
  #2. - WERE IS THE MULTIPLAYER CREATE YOUR OWN LEVELS FEATURE ?? -
  Many rever this XBOX360 Perfect 
 Dark Zero as the follow up for N64's Perfect Dark . By name this surely is but by actual gameplay 
 and design some must remember these Producers from Rare were also responsable for the Timesplitters 
 Serie ; Timesplitters , Timesplitters 2 &amp; Timesplitters 3 Future Perfect . As you can read 
 the Timesplitters 3 Future Perfect title might have been named this way to indicate The Rare Boys 
 were back on terms with developing a new Perfect Dark game.
  The same playing engine has been used from the start at N64's Goldeneye 007 but in the years this 
 game engine has been highly upgraded making the gameplay excellent and realistic.
  Many elements have been taken from the Timesplitters games but i mainly miss CREATE YOUR OWN MULTIPLAYER 
 LEVEL . As to be seen at a game like Far Cry Predator Instincts this is not a thing that is to 
 complicated to make. If you do not kown Far Cry PI than i will shortly explain this; you make your 
 multiplayer and create a game online, others than can download your map (in a few minutes) and 
 you can make others play your own designed Multiplayer Level. This great Multiplayer level design 
 feature was already possible on the Gamecube and PS2 (&amp; XBOX?) so i was really disappointed 
 when i found out this feature isn't on this Perfect Dark Zero game.
  
  Maybe we should all be mailing Rare that they need to use this feature in their new game..... Anyone 
 agree?? Please mail your request to editor@rareware. com to make this feature for the future!!!
 
  
  #3 : - CONTROLLER XBOX360 SUCKS -
  The Xbox controllersticks responds laterly, you easaly under or overpress the stearing wich doesn't 
 make controls easaly. You could have better control when you press the stick only a few milimiters 
 and it respons instantly to your movement. Now it respons not earlier than when you have moved 
 the stick more than (almost) half a centimeter. I definatly had much better control in use with 
 the more sensitive N64 and Gamecube's controllers.
  This is not to blaim this excellent game Perfecte Dark Zero but to the design of the controller. 
 I will be looking for another USB controller (probably and sadly with cord i must take) wich has 
 a better respons to the xbox official controller. I think any controller with USB can be used on 
 the Xbox 360 and i think many other players already do since they seem to have better control than 
 me. I'm not a great player but i ain't a rookie also. I played this serie from all the way up from 
 N64's James Bond 007 - Timespltters - Perfect Dark Zero. Maybe Microsoft, another company of even 
 a/the game developer could come up with a new or special game-themed controller......
  
  Guys all of you, if you agree on the multplayer feature (and/or selecting guns sceme) we need to 
 make the Rare boys implement these feature in the future shooters! It would be really could to 
 play own made levels online and with your friends!
  
  Mail to : editor@rareware. com
  http://www. rareware. com/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aisufi
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  And that's too bad because the issues with this game could have easily been corrected. The one 
 problem everyone seems to agree on is the lack of checkpoints and a mid-level save feature. The 
 first time i played through this game was on Secret Agent difficulty and i must say i really didnt 
 have a problem with either. During my first play through i did notice a few graphical bugs &amp; 
 glitches, but nothing that took away from the experience. (one bug in particular was too funny, 
 where a dead goon will be getting thrown all over the place as if he was a puppet) The weapon selection 
 was awesome. All the weapons in the game are present/near-future weapons that have some sort of 
 really cool secondary feature. Unfortunately, the story was pretty dull. But the good thing about 
 it is they dont force feed it down your throat. just hit the A button to skip the briefing and 
 get ready for action. Multiplayer is nothing special but it does have a neat option of selecting 
 bots to fill a room if there are only a few humans playing. Overall, my first play through was 
 a very positive experience. Then came my second, which really exposes this game for it's lack of 
 development. In order to unlock the single player achievements you must play through the game on 
 all difficulties. So after i finished it on Secret Agent i unlocked Perfect Agent mode. These are 
 the 2 main differences between them. Perfect Agent starts you off with less ammo for those really 
 cool weapons of yours. This wouldnt be a big deal if it had not have been for the non-exsisting 
 ammo you will find for them. THERE ISNT ANY! Start a mission, kill a couple of goons, run out of 
 ammo, throw your cool gun away and settle most of the time for their pistol. Boring! But the next 
 difference is the worst of them all. Remember how i mentioned there were a lack of checkpoints? 
 Well how they beef up the difficulty on Perfect Agent mode is by taking away all of the ckeckpoints! 
 What an artificial way of making a game harder. But the thing is it dosent make it harder, it makes 
 it overly frustrating. Who wants to play a mission, waste 20+mins getting to the hard part , die, 
 and restart the whole mission all over again? Not me, thats for sure. But if your up to it, your 
 reward will be 25 Achievement points for completing the entire Perfect Agent mode. Sadly, the game 
 was obviously hurried. Had it spend a little more time in development, they could've touched-up 
 the graphics, tightened up the controlls (Another slight issue. I found them initially to be a 
 little sloppy but did manage to adjust to them somewhat) but more importantly fixed the difficulty 
 to where the game is actually harder but remained just as enjoyable to play. (Difficulty rating 
 is for Secret Agent) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent1333
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  This game has really put into question the reliablity of gamespots review's for me though I suppose 
 I shouldn't have taken his word for to begin with? Oh and I admit I haven't played this game all 
 the way through but I'll explain why soon enough. Anyway, to the review.
  
  Well, what I got from the story was something that was just thrown together in the basement of 
 a mad man, it was just stupid stupid stupid. It got to the point to where I just skipped the cutscenes 
 and inbetween mission briefing. So far gamespot's review is right with the story being a little 
 crazy n' what not but then they went on to say the firefights were the highlight of this game... yea 
 for like 3 missions then it just dragged on. Though the music was kinda cool, the gunshots and 
 explosions were not all that impressive. The level designs were well put together though you can 
 get turned around here and there but eventually there will be little arrows pointing you in the 
 right direction which was a niffty idea. The graphics are really nice though the characters get 
 a little bulky up close, totally not matching it's surrondings. There are some pretty cool weapons, 
 though to me it seemed there wasn't enough to shoot at in the game from what I've played. But after 
 about a hour or two I just didn't want to put forth anymore effort into this game, a total let 
 down from what gamespot reviewed.
  
  Overall this is a OK game but should be rented first unless of course you've played the first and 
 were exposed to this kinda thing then maybe you'll enjoy it better then I. I didn't get a chance 
 to play this on Live but really I wouldn't have bothered if I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt_81108
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Graphics- The graphics were really stunning, for this launch title. Everything is so shiny that 
 the first time playing through I found myself dying because I was looking at the world of Perfect 
 Dark Zero.
  
  Sound- The weapons sound good, reloads sound good, and voices are decent. The music is god-awful, 
 unless of course you're into the whole techno club music scene. I did however think they did a 
 nice job on the Japanese Club level with sound of the club from outside and far away, then as you 
 get closer and get into the building it gets louder and clearer. Game play- Game play is alright, 
 nothing that innovative. There's a new third person mode that allows you take cover. I just doesn't 
 fit in this kind of run and gun game that we all know and love from the N64. The health system 
 is new and interesting. The health regenerates over time if you get out the fight and stop getting 
 hit, but the more damage you take the less it can regenerate; slowly your max health drops throughout 
 playing a level. It makes you play more conservative at times and more cautious, things I wasn't 
 looking forward to in the new Perfect Dark prequel. Another new feature was the weapon systems. 
 Horrible. Just... plain... awful. It definitely doesn't fit this game. They only allow you to carry 
 a limited amount of firepower. There are four slots, pistols take up one, SMGs take up two, some 
 assault rifles take up two but most three, snipers three, and big weaponry is also three. There's 
 no room for versatility with this halo-like weapon system, which hurts the games run and gun experience. 
 The AI could have been better, sometimes the AI are scared and hide, other times they charge at 
 you, or strafe which is really annoying. On a different note, there is insufficient ammunition 
 in the levels for a run and gun type. I feel a lack of speed when running, it might just be me 
 because in the last game you get a sense that you're actually going to get to your destination 
 in a reasonable time, but Joanna needs to go for a jog in-between games. The game is relatively 
 easy on the first two difficulty settings but when I tried to increase the difficulty it seemed 
 like you were fighting super soldiers.
  
  Features- I was hoping that the single player story would have been better, it's poorly played 
 out. The multiplayer on Perfect Dark (N64) was one of the best multiplayer's ever in my opinion. 
 This review is my opinion so deal with it if you disagree. There's no customization of anything 
 like bots, your character, no challenges, no ranking system at the end (unlike the last one) , not 
 as many weapons, and level design is also kind of lacking. The multiplayer is not nearly as good 
 as the previous installment of Perfect Dark. It's not fun alone anymore (ha-ha) and I miss that...
 
  
  Now that I think about it, this isn't a run and gun game anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karljv
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 23, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Starting with gameplay - The aiming in this game doesn't relly have the right feel for it, but 
 no matter because you'r going to encounter lots of AI who just aren't as good as you hoped. In 
 fact their barely normal! They can handle shooting and their quite accurate at higher difficulties, 
 but they lack tactics. They all run in from the same door and then stop, take a quick look around 
 and shoot! Otherwise the gameplay is good but the weapons don't really feel so good, at least some 
 of them don't!
  
  MP - now i'm just gonna say that don't play with BOTS online... Theire dummer than i don't know 
 what. Otherwise a solid MP and it adds the game loads of replayability, especially in the co-op 
 part...
  
  Graphics - I don't know why, but everything in this game has a shiny bump-map slapped on it... EVERYTHING! 
 Otherwise it looks mid-high with some choppy parts. And DAM does Joanna have a sexy ass and nice 
 boobs :D!!!
  When shes climbing the ladder and it switches to 3rd person, i don't know if this is meant to be 
 this way, but shes ass goes from one side to another a bit too naughty :D!!!
  
  Sound - It's good nothing bad to say!
  
  Value - i didn't really live up to the story. It just 
 does not say anything to you! Your father is an idiot and it's a wonder why hes still alive! You 
 go around saving him. BTW he's specially idiotic in escort missions... For god's sake don't just 
 stand in the middle of the street in sniper fire!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koal_Jadian
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 21, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  only 2 teams in multiplayer?
  
  This is only one of a list of 30+ retardations with this pre-gen game with only better graphics. 
 Guns are terrible and weak, gameplay is not even remotely similar to the first perfect dark, and 
 functionality is a mere fraction of what PD64 offered. And let's not even get started on the horrible 
 controls.
  
  This game doesn't offer anything to warrant actually 'wanting' to go out get it and play it.
 
  
  Very few maps
  Can't even chose you character
  Cannot even customize Character
  Cant change heads and bodies of character like previous game
  
  PD64 had a window for each 
 person in multiplayer where they could instantly change any part of the match, or their character. 
 And here's a good one, when changing your name (which you could do whenever you wanted) all you 
 had to do is hold down the R-button to have the letters go to caps, then let go to get back to 
 regular alphabet. All these 'next-gen' games including ths one require you to move over and actually 
 click on a shift button, how stupid and retarded can people get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  Though the XBOX 360 has way better graphics than the n64, I remember that the n64 game was a lot 
 more fun than Zero, even if it does have better graphics and all that good stuff. Still this is 
 a game that won't disappoint. With good graphics, sweet guns, and nice multiplayer action, this 
 game really leaves nothing out. (except for why the same amount of SMGs and rifles have scopes...) 
 Nothing is more fun than sneaking up behind your friend and nading him right in the back, then 
 listening to him get mad at you. If you liked the first one, or any first person game, than you 
 should get this game: Perfect Dark: Zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pantera320
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best launch titles i have ever played. It is a great sequal to the amazing N 
 SIXTY 4 game. The plot of this is to get revenge after ur father gets..... u guessed it murdered. 
 The story mode is solid but not that long and the final battle is awesome. The multiplayer is also 
 very solid. it has a few different game types like killcount team killcount and capture the flag 
 (ur standards) . there is also another type called infection and there is 2 infected players and 
 a team of uninfected players. the infected people are skeletons wtih only pistols and the uninfect 
 can buy wat they want in the begging of the match. The point of the game is to last the match without 
 getting infected (being shot by an infected player) . The infected players are trying to infect the 
 other players (kill them) . once they are infected they turn into a skeleton aswell. This game has 
 a lot of replay value. aside from the gameplay the graphics and sound are awesome even on a normal 
 tv. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  This is the most highly anticipated titles of 2005, its the prequel to the highly acclaimed fps, 
 Perfect Dark.
  
  Gameplay wise, its still intense, and fun, it has a good cover system, only thing I had against 
 it is that you would always get down to slow, risking youself of dying.
  
  Graphics are pretty shiny, but thats nothing to what it has to show for it, There realistic weapon 
 modeling, also some new weapons that are completely out of the blue. Sound is sometimes lacking 
 but nothing you can't get used to, weapon sound effects are strong, and the voice acting... well, 
 its lacking I guess I can say.
  
  Multiplayer wise, its still extremely fun, nothing about the multiplayer isn't fun, I did lay it 
 off cause I overplayed but its still fun in its own right,, combined with a good singleplayer game, 
 this is an all in one package for a good 360 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero5link
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 8, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  This game has put me into the campaign alot but its way to short. wen u start playing its like 
 its finished before you know it. im not saying its a bad game, its great but if youre looking for 
 boostion your achievement scores then stay away from this game. the multilayer is enjoyable if 
 you can find anyone else playing. The only reason that people dont like this game is because of 
 the short campaign but this game is really enjoyable. you must get this game if u have xbox live 
 but if youre looking for a short campaign run and a pretty cheap price then you should check this 
 game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  I think I lost my thumbprints playing Perfect Dark on the Nintendo 64. For multiplayer options 
 (well before consoles went 'live') , the original Perfect Dark was the greatest. With it's roots 
 in James Bond's Goldeneye, it had incredible gameplay and fantastic come-back-for-more action. 
 So I was holding my breath for Perfect Dark Zero, and I wasn't disappointed. Tons of style and 
 always eye-popping visuals, the game carries on the original with obvious dedication and respect 
 to the fans. Now with Xbox Live, co-op is better than ever, and the deathmatches are intense. Given 
 what we've seen in games like Gears of War and Rainbow Six Vegas, it's telling that the makers 
 of Perfect Dark decided to stick with a more comic book presentation, with lots of brillinat colors 
 and vibrant environments. Joanna looks great, and her weapons are just as inventive and powerful 
 as ever. This is must-have for any Xbox 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fun2shy92
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  With a hint of awesome game play and the natural experience of graphics of the 360, this game is 
 perfect. Although only being borrowed by me, I still am stuck to it playing almost everyday. I 
 recommend this game to ANYONE, especially people who like first-person shooters.
  Even if you do not like first-person shooters, this game still is addictive. Not to where you will 
 be playing 24/7, but close to there. The learning curve is very short as when you begin your first 
 mission everything is explained to you. Since you do not know how to play yet, it may be difficult. 
 (the first mission )
  With the incredible graphics of the 360, you are automatically driven to play this game. Every 
 little scratch or mark appears visually, and every detail is explained to the crispest.
  A pretty good soundtrack that is available to buy also compliments the game play of Perfect Dark 
 Zero.
  All in all, this impressive game, is one to look forward to, and to look back to in the future. 
 With many more Sci-Fi Games like this one, players` gaming experiences will be at their best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIJesse77
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Well, in this prequal, you play this badass character we all know from our N64 days, Joana Dark, 
 and she and her dad are bounty hunters who end up taking on this huge corporation called dataDyne. 
 This takes you to all these places in the world like these desert and snow themed places. You even 
 go to an underwater facility which gets to lookin pretty cool. So, ive got down that it has these 
 really nice enviorments with beautiful scenery, in which the graphics just makes it all the better. 
 You're not going to be dissapointed with how this game looks, its amazing with all this technology 
 i've never before seen in a game such as something called parallax mapping where it gives depth 
 to the bumps on the walls and stuff. Whatever with that complicated mumbo jumbo, it just looks 
 real nice and probably still pretty nice compared to some of the xbox 360 titles that have recently 
 come out.
  
  Now, the gameplay itself id pretty intresting. You have a wide variety of guns that each have a 
 special ability such as one's secondary function that is used to take out eletronic devices like 
 cameras and stuff. They sound pretty good too, borrowing sounds from the first perfect dark. I 
 did notice that the all the guns recoil a lot, which makes them a bit inaccurate. This is particularily 
 a problem for the multiplayer where you will fight in these large open areas and its hard to hit 
 someone who is real far away. And the aiming is a bit weird too. It gets hard to aim when you have 
 to turn sharply around in where it goes slow at first and then picks up a lot of speed. They have 
 an adjustment option for this, but however you adjust it, you get the same problem.
  
  The mission designs are pretty good. The higher the difficulty, the more objectives you get. There 
 are also side objectives you can do in which you get a high rating for. That is especially good 
 becuase you can upload your score for a level and compare to a huge scoreboard of other players. 
 Though the missions are well thought out, the ai tends to just do the predictable. The ai doesnt 
 really cover or do a lot of communicating with each other, they just stand there and shoot, mabye 
 run around a bit. You can say that the ai is just as smart as the original version. Thats a bit 
 of dissapointment for such a good game. Even in the multiplayer, the bots don't have many actions 
 and will just run out, shooting everything.
  
  I really have to get something out of my system about this game, and that is the storyline is just 
 horrible. I found myself laughing about how corny some of the cutscenes are. It feels like i'm 
 whatching some animated saturday morning cartoon. I can't believe about how cliche' and kiddish 
 this game's storyline is, and yet it got a mature rating. Its almost like, what were they thinking?! 
 What happened to that dark, mysterious feeling you got when you played the first one. And also 
 the fact that the maiyans have nothing to do with its plot. I wanted to see some alien action like 
 the first one.
  
  Well, thats the singleplayer, now the multiplayer. Both the singleplayer and multiplayer are slowpaced, 
 and the same problems you had playing in singleplayer, you get in multiplayer. I'm mainly talking 
 about that aiming problem. There is a cover system in the game, but it does'nt a bit help out while 
 playing online. When you go into cover, it goes third-person so that you can only see around the 
 corner, and not someone coming at you in front. Most the maps are pretty big, there's an option 
 to make them big or small, mainly if you want a big vehicle battle or a small infantry fight. You 
 will find a favorite gun that you are good with playing online, I found that i was pretty good 
 with the revolver and i could get headshots pretty easily with it. Dual wielding seems to be pretty 
 mandatory becuase you have to load tons of bullets into the enemy in which you can't really do 
 with one gun/ There are a ton of multiplayer options like your basic ctf, deathmatch, and teamdeatchmatch. 
 There is also a darkops mode in which i felt like i was playing counter-strike. There are a couple 
 of modes you can choose in darkops, one thats pretty fun is that there is a defending team and 
 an attacking team. The defending team has to defend this spot for an amount of time, while the 
 attackers ( who respawn ) try to kil al the defenders.
  
  So all in all, its an okay game. There are some minor things like the aiming that make it hard 
 to enjoy the main mechanics. You will definatley like the original one better, so this game is 
 just fun up until a point. Its defininate that you should buy it, just don't expect too much of 
 it. Thats it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivalaneta
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 4, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  Obviously the Xbox 360's most anticipated launch title, many had high expectations for Perfect 
 Dark Zero, the follow-up to the Nintendo 64's Perfect Dark, arguably one of the greatest games 
 ever made. While Perfect Dark Zero is far from perfect, the game is also far from being bad as 
 well. Let's get it out there right off the bat, the story is the game's weakest point by far. I've 
 completed the campaign once and am currently going through it again on a harder difficulty, and 
 could care less what's going on. I believe I actually finished the game for the first time without 
 a clue of what's happening, and it didn't bother me one bit. Why? The game, when it's at its best, 
 is intense and delivers great shooting action. The guns in PDZ are fantastic, with each having 
 an incredible amount of detail into the look and reloading animation. I often find myself reloading 
 guns on purpose just to see the great animations again. There's also quite a variety of guns for 
 you to pack in the game, so gun junkies will probably never grow tired of the game's stock. Graphically, 
 PDZ is also very sharp. While some character models can tend to look ugly at points, the weapons 
 you carry, the gadgets you use, and the surrounding areas all look amazing, especially if you're 
 playing on a HDTV. Sound wise, PDZ is also fantastic. Each weapon sounds accurate, the sounds you 
 hear around you are great, and the voice acting actually isn't too bad throughout, combined with 
 a pretty good original score. And while the game does nothing amazing or new gameplay wise, what's 
 there still gets the job done. Multiplayer is obviously where you're going to have the most fun 
 with PDZ. The online is enjoyable, provided you know what you're doing. Once you get used to the 
 game and the controls, you'll have a blast playing online in the various game modes available. 
 Aside from your typical deathmatch and CTF game modes, PDZ also adds some fresh game types as well.
 
  
  Sure, PDZ does nothing to revolutionize the FPS genre, but what's there is still great, provided 
 you give the game time to grow on you. If you don't run away from PDZ right away because it's giving 
 you nothing new or revolutionary, you'll be missing out on one great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mistwaver1985
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero isn't a stellar game, but it's not a bad game, it's one of those games that's 
 fun to play, but it's hard to enjoy it as much as other next-gen shooters since it doesn't take 
 advantage of a lot of the advanced features on the Xbox 360.
  
  The graphics are good, but they're not superb. The textures are decent and it has good lightning, 
 but the overly colorful textures make the game look more cartoony than other games of the genre 
 on the Xbox 360. It does run at a steady frame rate, which is always a plus.
  
  Sounds effects are awesome. The guns really sound like they have a punch to them. Everything sounds 
 natural, from bullets hitting armor and walls, to cars and the ground.
  
  The story in PDZ isn't bad, but of course, it's not phenominal either. The cut scenes are quite 
 interesting, and usually you'll enter and leave each level with a cut-scene, which gives the storytelling 
 a nice cinematic feeling. You play as Joanna Dark, who is an agent that takes care of business 
 in these various areas in PDZ. You'll see areas like Hong Kong to the Pacific Ocean, and many other 
 areas. The environments range from lush jungles, to sniping from skyscraping buildings, to corridored 
 areas. I don't want to talk about the environments too much, since it may spoil the game for those 
 who haven't played PDZ, but expect to see a lot of different areas. If there's one thing done right 
 in PDZ, it's the fact that every mission takes place in a completely different environment. There 
 are about 16 different missions, so the campaign takes about 10 or so hours to complete. Once you've 
 done that, there's also multiplayer support over Xbox Live. If you get tired of the campaign and 
 happen not to have Xbox Live, you can also play the multiplayer modes against bots, which is a 
 good change of pace.
  
  One of the bigger let downs of PDZ is instead of giving the player clues and have them explore, 
 there's an arrow that takes you from checkpoint to checkpoint. The constant in-game music also 
 takes away from the immersiveness of making it feel like a story-based campaign. Instead, it just 
 feels like an arcade game. While the game using a go from checkpoint-to-checkpoint approach doesn't 
 cripple the score for PDZ, it definitely hinders it. I don't know about anyone else, but I like 
 my games to give me clues on where I need to go, and encourage me to follow these clues and explore 
 the areas of the game-world. For example how the story is in MGS2 -- there's that sense of freedom 
 that is unfortunately lacking in PDZ.
  
  PDZ is worth buying if you own an Xbox 360, but it's definitely not a reason to get an Xbox 360 
 if you don't already have one. It's a quality shooter with decent graphics that look a bit dated, 
 with a fun story and some awesome multiplayer modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  When Perfect Dark Zero first released it had a lot to live up to. Not only was it supposed to live 
 up to Halo as the 360's launch killer app, but it also had to live up to the original Perfect Dark, 
 a game praised as one of the greatest console FPS ever made. At launch, this game opened up to 
 mixed critical response but now, a year later, the game is available as a budget-priced Platinum 
 Hits package. Is the game worth it? Read on.
  
  One of the most important aspects of an FPS is how the guns feel. In this case, the guns feel fantastic. 
 Every time you find yourself emptying clip after clip of rounds in a heated firefight, it just 
 feels great. Every enemy you shoot at reacts to wherever you hit them, the sound and feel of each 
 gun is unique and satisfying, but even though the guns are fun to shoot with, firefights seem just 
 a tad lifeless because of how the enemies strategize against you. There isn't really any strategy 
 to it, actually, it's more like just the way they shoot you and shoot you and shoot you without 
 thinking at all about their own safety. There's no realism at all, I realized this more than ever 
 when I let my 6-year-old nephew play and he was having trouble aiming at the enemies with the crosshairs, 
 yet the enemies were just standing there waiting to be targetted. This kind of thing takes away 
 from the urgency and immersion of the game. Not only that but each mission has very little variety 
 to it, it's just the standard running from point A to point B while shooting at whoever gets in 
 your way and maybe protecting one or two people from being killed. The game makes up for this by 
 staging some pretty intense firefights that are actually exceptionally cool and make the game seem 
 more frantic than the average console FPS.
  
  The single player campaign definitely needs improvement, but the area I think needs the most improvement 
 is the storyline. Each mission has a cut-scene at the beginning and a cut-scene at the end, sometimes 
 one in the middle too. Very few of these cut-scenes make any clear sense of what's going on though. 
 A couple of missions you'll be in an urban environment, then you'll suddenly be on a station in 
 the middle of the ocean, then a snowy Asian mountain range, a Peruvian jungle, and finally a sandy 
 middle-eastern desert. None of it has any logical connection to each other and it all just feels 
 random.
  
  The most robust part of the gameplay in the game is its online. Perfect Dark Zero's online modes 
 have a lot of variety, options and customization in them that make the online features in the game 
 long-lasting and fun. Deathmatch offers the basic run-and-gun shoot-em-up gameplay that can be 
 expected from any FPS, and it remains fun here with modes like capture the flag, killcount and 
 team killcount. There is also a second mode of multiplayer mode called DarkOps which offers team-based 
 strategic multiplayer for serious players. Online mode is quick and easy to use over Xbox Live 
 and a good connection and the majority of the time you spend with this game will be in the online 
 mode.
  
  One impressive thing about Perfect Dark Zero is the visuals. This game is very pretty and was one 
 of the best looking titles on the system when it launched. A year later though, if you've already 
 seen and played games like Gears of War you will be just a bit underwhelmed. The graphics in this 
 game have a very bright, colorful, almost cartoonish feel to them. Every gun in the game looks 
 amazing, the animations are great and the explosions look awesome. Everything is very shiny, as 
 if everything in the game was coated with several gallons of nail polish and as strange as it looks 
 it's still very attractive. Part of the great feeling you get shooting the weapons comes from how 
 awesome it looks when you're shooting things. When you shoot these guns, they don't look or feel 
 like you're shooting BB guns, they really do look extremely powerful and deadly. Still, there are 
 some things that need tweaking, like the fact that the enemies look like they're running in slow-motion 
 and it looks very strange. Also, sometimes you'll probably see some screw-ups in the physics, like 
 a downed soldier suddenly flying all over the place like it's being punched around by some huge 
 invisible monster. In the end though, it all looks very good.
  
  In the sound department, there isn't much to complain about. The voice acting is pretty good for 
 the most part, the guns sound as powerful as they look and the music is catchy and varied. The 
 only problems come from the multiplayer deathmatch which has an annoying announcer guy who has 
 to say everything that's happening in the match out loud. Flag taken! Flag dropped! Flag returned! 
 Territory contested! Territory lost! It gets pretty annoying pretty fast, but not so much that 
 you stop playing, the wrost it will do is make you turn down the volume on your TV.
  
  There's a lot to do in Perfect Dark Zero too. With loads of great options in online, a co-op mode 
 and a single player campaign with 13 missions on three difficulties, with an unlockable fourth 
 difficulty, there are hours and hours worth of things to do in this game. For a launch game, it's 
 pretty packed with content, not to mention there are plenty of achievements to unlock over Xbox 
 Live as well. At the price it's at now, you'll definitely be getting your money's worth.
  
  With all of the hype that this game had, it really didn't live up to anything. It didn't live up 
 to the impressive innovation of the first Perfect Dark. It also didn't live up to being the killer 
 app that Halo was. Still, as its own game Perfect Dark Zero doesn't do anything terribly wrong. 
 It has great gameplay, great graphics, great sound and great value. With that in mind, despite 
 the game's flaws, it's a worthy purchase for fans of console FPS games and gamers who want something 
 to do over Xbox Live besides Gears of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tmills_basic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero has been labeled as the Love it or Hate it game of the Xbox 360. However, alot 
 of the hate it's have been derived from gamers who have made inaccurate comparisons to other games 
 and also from gamers unable to adapt to the gameplay and tendencies of the game. While not perfect, 
 PDZ is a game that every Xbox 360 owner should play, if not own.
  
  The story, while not entirely strong, does give you a reason to keep moving forward. It doesn't 
 always make sense, but it does provide the player with more story and character to that story than 
 most games these days. It's nothing to write home about, but it serves its purpose.
  
  The most important thing though is that the action in this game is top notch. The new cover and 
 roll systems work great, and are purposeful enough that they don't become gimicks. The weapons 
 all feel great and differ just enough that its easy to recommond different weapons for different 
 situations. For example. the P9P is a great pistol with a scope and decent power, but its small 
 clip won't do you much in a close fight, for that you will probably need the Ak47 equivalent, which 
 features more bullets but no scope.
  
  The graphics are great. they are a few inconsistencies, but overall you can tell this game was 
 made for the Xbox 360. The graphics style can be descibed as stylized realism with players looking 
 slightly exaggerated but you can tell that they are based on real life conterparts of people. The 
 only way I feel you can discount these graphics is if you ONLY care about ultra-realistic graphics, 
 and to that I say, go look at real photographs, because apparently thats what you want. This is 
 a videogame, not a movie or photoalbum.
  
  In the end, this is a must have game for the Xbox360. The single player is fun, the multiplayer 
 is addictive, and it has lasted me for 5 months of play and still is being played in my Xbox360, 
 in addition to Gears of War and Fight Night Round 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdc1394
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  I bought this game thinking that it was going to be another average shooter and boy, was I wrong.
 
  This game is amazing, Right off the bat you will expierience its top notch graphics. Even though 
 this is an old 360 game it keeps up graphically with todays games.
  The gameplay for this game is really good. It has some great firefights and the AI is pretty smart. 
 The problem is that the checkpoints are far apart. Normally their is 1 per mission. This can be 
 cumbersome at some parts due to the fact that some firefights are relativly challenging. Other 
 than that this game has great gameplay.
  The sound is good. All the unique futureistic weapons sound distinctive from each other. This game 
 does have some mediocre voice acting in some parts.
  This game has a lot of value since it has superb multiplayer and co-op. Have your friends come 
 over and play. They will enjoy this amazing game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truth_Hurts_U
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  This game is very short. Just to get it out right now. There are few maps to play multiplayer without 
 buying more. But its the funnest part of the whole game.
  
  There are many guns to play with. Each level you complete gives you guns to collect. Collecting 
 guns and keeping them at the end of the level... Lets you keep them in your stash permanently.
 
  
  Unlocking stuff in the game brings up a mini game. The harder the lock, the harder the mini game. 
 Booms too have this mini game. There really isn't much to this game. Just a lot of fun. It's a 
 rent for most, because of the controversy surrounding it. It is a game not to be missed however. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame-Sama
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was my first 360 game, I must say it's one of the best 360 to date.
  
  The first thing you may notice when you begin the game are the intense graphics, topping any Xbox 
 one title. But beyond the graphics lies a great first person shooter with much replay value due 
 to the interesting cover and roll tactics, the large amount of weapons ranging from the simple 
 pistol to the Hawk Boomerang and the halo-esque Plasma Rifle, etc.
  
  But the game does have some faults, one would have to be the AI system that makes the enemy have 
 the skill of a band of toddlers. Another being the subpar vehicles.
  
  But despite a couple problems here and there, the game has replay value with it's achievements, 
 unlockable weapons, unlockable difficulty levels, etc.
  
  And the multiplayer is pretty fun, easy to unlock achievements, and bots so you don't have to play 
 with yourself... eww.
  
  So I recommend this game if you are just picking up a 360 and want an FPS to kick off. 8.9 out 
 of 10, it's a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thryon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 28, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Back when the Xbox 360 was nothing more than a twinkle in a PowerPCs processor, there was great 
 hype over this title. This is the prequel to the second highest rated N64 game of all time, produced 
 by the same development team that created Golden Eye, the third highest ranked N64 game, and you 
 could see why people got excited. This game was originally intended for the Nintendo GameCube, 
 then ported to the Xbox, finally redone for the Xbox 360 (just like Rares other Xbox 360 launch 
 title, Kameo) . The plot of the game has Joanna Dark (you) taking on the evil dataDyne Corp in 12 
 action packed missions. The single player game features great visuals and amazing sound, but little 
 more. The storyline does not grab you, or entice you to continue playing to complete the game. 
 But we care not about single player, we want to know about multiplayer, and that is where things 
 take a turn for the better . . . if only a marginal improvement.
  
  Multiplayer is divided into two main formats, and then subdivide into small categories; DeathMatch 
 (Killcount, Team Killcount, Capture the Flag and Territorial Gains) , and DarkOps (Eradication, 
 Onslaught, Infection and Sabotage) . Deathmatch is just that, every player for him/herself, and 
 DarkOps is more akin to the style of CounterStrike, where you must work as part of a team too win. 
 Both are fun, but not overly spectacular. Microsoft made it a priority that every single Xbox 360 
 title must support Xbox Live (even if it is just for downloads) , and Perfect Dark Zero utilized 
 the service perfectly. You can play online with up to 32 other players, or if you do not have enough 
 people to play with, fill the game with bots. On the highest skill level, they will challenge you 
 plenty. When this game was announced for the Xbox 360, everyone was expecting this game to be the 
 new Halo. This may have doomed the game, as it never did live up to the hype, although it did receive 
 very positive reviews. Now a year later this title can be found in some bargain bins, which makes 
 it very attractive to bargain hunters. You could do worse than PDZ, but you could also do better.
 
  
  -BWW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fkholmes
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 22, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  As the start of the review stated It gets a bad rap, when really it is quite a good game , its 
 not an amazing game and can sometimes be boring or hard, but usually it will give a fun, solid 
 experience.
  
  Gameplay: Nothing really new here, its quite fun even though its not very long. Also there are 
 quite a few cool weapons which vary and a decent amount of replay value. The physics are quite 
 good except when they glitch up (one of these examples is when I shot someone with a Plasma Rifle 
 they went bouncing around the walls for around a minute, very funny) .
  
  Graphics: They were nice for launch, something to show off the Xbox 360's power and it did it quite 
 effectively. The glossy effects are occasionally annoying and the character models are not amazing 
 or anything but they are nice when in cut-scenes or looking at the background.
  
  Sound: Muffled voices, uninteresting dialogue and the music doesn't always fit. You ask why I gave 
 it a 8 then? Well, when you can hear it the voice acting is quite good, the guns make cool sounds 
 when firing and sometimes the music is quite good.
  
  Value: Well I would have given this a seven because it is quite short in the single player campaign 
 (probably around 10-15 hours) but you can usually get some time playing it co-op or in the multi-player 
 also as I said earlier the weapons can add some replay value.
  
  Tilt: I enjoyed this game, it was fun espicially in Co-op. I'd recomend it if you plan to play 
 it in Co-op or like multi-player, but if you ONLY ever plan to play it one Single-Player wait until 
 its in the bargain bin. I'm not exactly sure why it gets such a bad rap a lot of the time, it could 
 be because of all the hype it got? I don't know unfortunately.
  
  Well I hope my review has helped you decide if you'd like to get this fun game, and thanks for 
 reading :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: God_Adopted_Son
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  Ok this is my first game i bought for my Xbox360, And my expectations where high for this game, But 
 it didnt live up to by know means. Perfect Dark Zero is the prequel Perfect Dark by Rare Ltd. Ok 
 to start off i have to handed to them for the Graphics, it just looks great on a SD-TV late alone 
 a HD-TV. The lighting and shadow effects are amazin and the guns look very good also, overall the 
 graphics is the high point in this game. But the story on the other hand is kind weak and confusin' 
 they dont reallt flesh out the whole story and the cut scenes and dialog dosent help that they 
 are pretty bad compared to other xbox360 titles, The level design to say the least is horrible, So 
 bad that they use blue arrows to show you where to go on the floor, They make this levels that send 
 you in loops tell you see the arrows to go to the linear path, Like on a level in the game they 
 put you inside this base where this spider like robots are going crazy and all you hear is this 
 man saying to protect a couple of people and go through a door...... ok, the problem is they never 
 tell you where the guys are and when the door is clear to open and all the rooms are in order so 
 you keep going through killin little robots tell you find out thats it's ok to go on...... very 
 confusing and i expect better from a great devloper like Rare. On the bright side the guns sound 
 and feel very good with futuristic alt fires (which is always nice) . I havent really spent that much 
 time with the online part of the game cause not to meny gamer's where on, but the few matchs i did 
 play was smooth and balance right, very fun. Overall a ok game but dosent hold up to it's name maybe 
 next time they can take there time on the next one and fix the issues that Perfect dark zero suffers 
 from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NS_Spartan_666
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 20, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  PDZ was my first game on the xbox 360. When I first played it I thought it was fine. It didn't 
 meet all the hype, but was still decent. Multiplayer is fun and may be the better part, with sound 
 and graphics. However, later, it became old. Story was O. K. first, but isn't worth playing a secound, 
 third or fourth time, as it will require if you want achievments. Dark mode is fairly hard, though.
 
  
  Sound: Good. All weapons are easily identified by it.
  Graphics: Alright for the time.
  Gameplay: Fun for awhile. gets old and worthless.
  
  Pros:
 
  -Wide weapon variety
  -OK multiplayer
  -Good sound
  
  Cons:
  -Gets old
  -Poor music
  -Poor voice acting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  This game is really good from the range of weapons to the greatness of the graphics. This is a 
 pretty lengthy game depending on how good you are. Some things in the game are a little complicated 
 but otherwise its a wicked fun game and in my top 10 for my favorite xbox360 games. There are so 
 many weapons in this game and if you have the booklet that comes with the game, you'll see that 
 there are like 5 pages of different weapons. If you like 1st person shooters, you should get this 
 game because its only like $20 in some places, so bottom line, BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish_gibbor
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 12:10 am PT
Review:  About 10 hours of gameplay unless you play it on the hardest setting. On the hardest setting it 
 really becomes a whole different style of game-play. More of a stealth thinking game. Graphics 
  over all they look very good. The textures are some of the nicest looking ones, although some 
 look lame like they came out of regular xbox. Polygons are smooth, and character animation looks 
 nice. The way people die however is pretty lame and unrealistic. The settings are the best part, 
 and the environments are cool. Gameplay - gameplay is fun, even the online is fun. I like that 
 you have two different games in one if you play on the hardest settings verses normal settings. 
 On normal settings it is easy to run and gun, using some tactical strategy, but this will not work 
 on the hardest setting. You must think, use stealth, and strategy when fighting. Sound  nothing 
 really stands out to me, but there were some nice songs. I really liked this one Arabic sounding 
 one. Physics  Nothing that stands out. The bodies have a realistic weight to them unlike at times 
 in gears they feel like air bags full of light weight material. However I am most positive the 
 deaths are animated which suck and are unrealistic. Story  When you cannot really remember the 
 story you know it was not that good. I remember the story, but it still was not that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopsfun
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 19, 2006 11:18 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game from a local pwn shop for cheap, and got a deal on it because there were 2 copies. 
 I can see why they had 2.
  
  Gamplay: Not bad, but the cover system was spotty. Multiple times I tried to get into cover, only 
 to feel dumb as I blankly stared at a brick wall, while the **** enemies were shooting at me (but 
 missing) . Of course, then one would hit me, and my controls would freeze up, so i wouldn't be able 
 to move out of the way. Then another hit me, and so on.... Feels old....
  6
  Graphics: While I was string at the wall, I realized that it looked quite pretty.
  9
  Sound: 
 Those enemies not only look like fags, but sound lke fags, too. Saved by good weapon effects.
 
  6
  Value: Considering the price, it's ok. But the storyline &amp; gameplay kill it.
  4
  Tilt: Seriously, unless you like shooting at pea-brained inbeciles, over -powered bots, or some 
 kid in Australia over Live, don't pick this up. I personally enjoy the single player and it's story, 
 but this game has about no story. The achievements for 360 are one of my appealing points, but 
 if you are an achievement hog you will be offended by the by-the-numbers multiplayer requirements. 
 I returned it and got my $20 back.
  4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thagodfather69
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 19, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero came out as one of the launching games when the X-box 360 first came out. Gamespot 
 reviewed it gave it gave it a 9.0 which got me excited to purchase it. I bought this in December 
 of 2006 and as slightly disappointed.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in PDR is probably its worst attribute. Dont get me wrong, its gameplay 
 is great but not nearly as good as Call of Duty 2's or Saints Row's, who both got lower reviews 
 than this game. You get plenty of different guns to chose from and many diverse levels. The online 
 play is better than the single player, and the achievements on this game are hard to achieve.
 
  
  Graphics: Perhaps the best attribute in this game is the graphics. Beautiful enviornments and greay 
 character animations. AI is very challenging and make it complicated to complete some missions. 
 Sound: Average gun noise quality and loud sound effects that sound life-like.
  
  If you like games such as Call of Duty or Rainbow 6, you should pick this game up. After all, its 
 only 30 dollars brand new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icthereed
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 17, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid fps. This game was pretty dissapointing to most because of all the hype... well 
 here is how it turns out. The graphics look great there shiny the look next gen only the enimies 
 sometimes dont look very good ..... but you dont notice it that much when your just going around 
 and shooting.... the gameplay is good... but it feels a bit clunky at times.... and the aiming 
 might piss some people off... the single player is good... but mainly only on co-op. multiplayer 
 is where this game shines... Its tons of fun.... Theres lots to do in this game.... for its cheap 
 price as of now its deffinatly worth getting if you like fps.. So at least give the game a rental... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azaiel
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 16, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Let me get one thing out of the way here first, if your intending on getting Perfect Dark Zero 
 for an awesome story with great voice acting and cutscenes inbetween awesome action levels then 
 turn away. One thing is true the levels are awesome and full of action but the story is pathetic 
 and the voice acting is worse still. If you can ignore the storyline and keep enough in mind to 
 work through the awesome action then its all good.
  
  The visuals in this game are amazing, the weapons look as close to perfect as can be, the levels 
 look awesome and are well made and very varied from cityscapes to jungles and ruins there is something 
 for everyone here. The characters dont look overly amazing but do look really good and animate 
 superbly and convey a good kinetic sense as when they get shot it looks like a bullet really hit 
 them and they react accordingly to where they were struck.
  
  The sound is aside from the horrible voice acting is superb, the weapons sound great and everything 
 fits into place really well. All the ambient sounds come together to make a believable world to 
 roam around and it can be quite immersive especially in the club and jungle levels.
  
  The gameplay in this game is fantastic, the controls are tight and it really feels like you are 
 using these weapons like a pro. Add onto that some really decent enemy AI that does a very nice 
 job of giving you a run for your money especially on the higher dificulty settings.
  
  Online is where this game shines though, there is a huge XBL community and always tons of games 
 available and it is just seriously good fun letting rip in a killcount match or a dark ops team 
 based event. Just for the online modes alone this game is worth the cost alone and anyone who enjoys 
 shooters really shouldnt miss this one.
  
  Ignoring this games shortcomings it is still one of the finest shooters I have played since Halo 
 2 and really should not be missed at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moule
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 16, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  it was cool needed to have more veriety and it could have had a lot more variety with the characters 
 and the ai was kinda terrible lol jk jk so ya was really awesome a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mobius5010
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 16, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  In the realm of first-person shooters, there are many notable franchises that have renovated and 
 set the bars for future releases in the genre. Even though the formula has reached its peak in 
 terms of new ideas, it is still an addictive genre. Of the notable franchises, one of them to come 
 out during the last years of the Nintendo 64 was Perfect Dark. After being put in the backburner 
 for a couple of years, Perfect Dark finally saw the light of day and instantly became a classic.
 
  
  It was with little surprise that Perfect Dark became as successful as it did. With the same development 
 team (Rare, Inc.) that released the original FPS masterpiece for the N64, Goldeneye 007, as well 
 as pushing the systems graphic capabilities to the limit (even requiring the expansion pack to 
 play the single player campaign) and introducing a solid, science-fiction themed story, Perfect 
 Dark was surely a game that would stand the test of time in terms of establishing what future FPS 
 have mimicked and will mimic.
  
  The game offered a perfect blend of action, sneaking, espionage, and an engaging story for players 
 to battle through in a large assortment of beautifully rendered levels and environments with a 
 plethora of weapons and gadgets to achieve whatever mission needed to be accomplished. Your character, 
 Joanna Dark, is an agent for the Carrington Institute that is battling the evil dataDyne Corporation 
 from working with dangerous extraterrestrials (the Skedar) in uncovering a devastating alien weapon 
 buried beneath the Earths ocean. The result ends with the fall of dataDyne and a final showdown 
 with Skedar warlord. Unfortunately, this prequel for the Xbox 360 does not live up anywhere near 
 the standards set by its N64 predecessor. Suffice to say, with so much firepower to offer from 
 the Xbox 360, the game does little to make do with the obviously superior technology of the next 
 generation console to make a awesome game out of it.
  
  The story features Joanna in her early years as a mercenary, before she teams up with the Carrington 
 Institute. She is an aspiring mercenary following the footsteps of her father, named Jack. Things 
 go haywire during a mission when it is revealed that dataDyne is working to recover another ancient, 
 alien weapon and when Jack is killed by one of their henchmen. Joining the Carrington Institute 
 unconditionally to avenge her fathers death and to prevent dataDyne from accomplishing its goal, 
 Joanna goes single-handed against an army of foes with the fate of the world in her hands.
  
  All this sounds exciting and it rightfully should be, but unfortunately the presentation is 
 just not that great. The single player turns out to be rather short and there are several plot 
 inconsistencies in linking up with the N64 installment. Whereas the N64 version had a cast of serious 
 and dark characters, this installment seems to have characters inspired by a Saturday morning cartoon 
 show. Even the characters that make appearances from the N64 game arent properly presented  with 
 Carrington strangely wearing a Scottish tartan throughout the game.
  
  Despite the unrealistic aspects of the connections between the two stories and the bad presentation, 
 it doesnt go without saying that PDZ does have its pluses. Strangely, even though the characters 
 are represented a bit comically, the game does boast some pretty nice graphics and some neat touches 
 to make the combat feel more real. Fast turns with your analogue stick will blur your vision a 
 small bit, creating a sense of disorientation. Although, going back to the character models, they 
 are a bit ugly when looked up close. But with so much action and fighting youll be doing, you 
 wont really notice unless you try to look.
  
  The game does a decent job in offering a large assortment of weapons, with each weapon having multiple 
 firing modes or uses which adds to creativity and unique game play. Along with that, the audio 
 for the guns is done pretty well. All this adds to a fairly exciting, but short-lived game play 
 experience that may keep you on the edge of your seat, at least for several hours. Youll find 
 that once youre done, however, its done. Some missions are worth playing again with the new weapons 
 you earn. Other than that, theres not much to get pumped for.
  
  What the single player lacks in substance, the multiplayer portion does a good job in making up 
 for it. There are multiple game modes to keep you and your friends occupied and happy. If youre 
 going solo, you can turn on combat bots (AI controlled players) to battle alongside or against 
 you. With a nice collection of different multiplayer levels and games, you may find the multiplayer 
 to be a lot more fulfilling than the single player campaign.
  
  Overall, Rare, Inc. tries to capture the nostalgia from its first installment on the N64 but just 
 does not quite capture it. You may find plausible amounts of entertainment and game play in the 
 single player campaign and by all account there are. Just dont try to expect the same hard hitting 
 game you once played before. On the other hand, if youre just an online shooter fanatic, then 
 PDZ has you covered. Find PDZ to come in a standard version and collectors edition, which doesnt 
 really yield in any benefits other than some free stuff that youll be throwing away shortly afterwards. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broodgrunt117
Rating: 2.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  This game has some of the most glitchy, irritating, and repetative gameplay. the graphics are like 
 colorful crap with pixelated environments. the online is varied, but the bots suck, because they 
 either are rediculously good shots and get one hit kills with the weakest gun in the game, or they 
 shoot at the ground and the bullet goes up. I looks and feels like the developers threw the game 
 together at the last seccond, and they are laughing all of the way to the bank because they tricked 
 us into thinking it would be a good game. The single player story is Dull and non-involving, and 
 the only really good point about the game is there is a lot of weapons and some have cool features. 
 other than that, it is a discrace to the original game and deserves to be burned. Oh, and the cover 
 system is tacked on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LilLefty34
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 15, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  this game has every thing you could want from a great shooter... good campaing... good multiplayer 
 and good weapons. the sci-fi technology is fascinating and there are so many interesting weapons. 
 this game is a shooter -gaming fans dream. this is the only 360 game that allows you to play bots... like 
 i said this game is like goldeneye of the next generation. this game i think suits everyones wants 
 and needs in a quality shooter and the endless multiplayer options keep this game worth every penny 
 you spend. not many systems have launch titles this good. even though this game is great theyre 
 are a few cons... there is a lack of grenades being thrown and the bots sometimes seem like cartoons 
 and it gets hard to aim. the graphics could improve in both multi and single player. also you see 
 the same faces over and over again. if they come out with another perfect dark i think if they 
 improve on those little cons it could be the best shooter on 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goldbergfan1110
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is the long awaited Prequel to Perfect Dark on the N64. This game you are Joanna 
 Dark before the original Perfect Dark. Your a Bounty Hunter along with her Father Jack Dark. The 
 games controls are fairly easy but the rolling can be irritating at times because you can easily 
 get killed by a head shot by doing so. The games multi-player can be annoying once you start playing 
 on X-Box live. At times you can shoot people multiple times in the face and they never die and 
 you end up being killed. The game does have an issue of picking up kills and at times your wasting 
 entire clips into people and they never end up dying. The vehicles are very annoying and come to 
 the point of being obnoxious. Players will pretty much get cheap kills by using the vehicles. vehicles 
 include a jet pack and also a hovercraft. overall Perfect Dark Zero is a decent shooter but doesn't 
 live up to the ability that it should be. Perfect Dark Zero is a rental at best not something thats 
 worth buying if you want a realistic. If you want a good shooter should try out games like Gears 
 Of War and possibly even Splinter Cell Double Agent are always worth trying out. Perfect Dark is 
 only a good shooter nothing more then a decent shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 13, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  No, its not. But it is made by most of the talents behind goldeneye and they do make fps very well.
 
  
  First of, slick graphics accompanied by fast fluid movement. The speed never drops and keeps you 
 on your toes. While not the best weapons in a game they look nice and do their job well, as they 
 should.
  
  This game is mainly a fps but you can duck for cover etc and you will then get a view of joanna, 
 this works great and looks good too. The sound is typical but again sounds very good and fits in 
 with everything.
  Theres variety along the way but not as much as it could have been, not a massive game but an enjoyable 
 one while it lasts.
  
  SLICK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabien822
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  First off, i wouldnt recommend buying this game if you don't have Live Gold. And overall the game 
 is really hard to get achievements, so if you get games just to boost your score, you won't get 
 much out of this game without a lot of time. It's worth the rental regardless however. The campaign 
 is okay but gets really hard on the higher difficulties. Thankfully theres co-op though, both online 
 and split screen. This makes any game better for me personally. The online multiplayer is really 
 fun, unless you have the full 32 people it really doesnt lag at all. Co-op has really good frame 
 rate as well. Other than a lame checkpoint system (1 checkpoint per level) and a really cheap gun 
 in multiplayer (assault rifle with a grenade launcher, guess which parts gets over used) there 
 arent any major flaws. But multiplayer (including co-op) is easily the best part and what you'll 
 get most value out of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game, I have to say I love the gameplay, the similar feeling between PD1 and PDZ, and I 
 love playing against bots, I love how you don't have to put up with cheaters and stand-byers in 
 a typical Xbox Live game (Halo 2) , and since you can play against against bots you don't get those 
 ****ing little kids screaming in the mic. The single player is also challenging or it can be easy. 
 PDZ is a game where you can have fun anytime online or off. You don't need friends to play the 
 game with, even though co-op is one of the best features of the game. Overall, PDZ = Sweet Game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lebbsouljah
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 5, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I was really hoping this was going to be good... It was okay for about the first day. Online was 
 pretty bad too in my opinion, the maps are too big and you don't run fast enough (actually you 
 don't even run, it's more of a light jog) . The weapons arent really that impressive, and the music 
 is very annoying (I had to turn it off because I couldnt stand it anymore) . At first I thought: 
 Finally a new Perfect Dark game , but it's not anywhere near as good as the one for the N64 way 
 back when that had come out. Not recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grvdggr272
Rating: 4
Date: May 14, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This isn't just the worst game for the 360, but it is also one of the worst games I've ever played. 
 There is one thing good to say about this game. The multiplayer is good. Well, that out of the 
 way, let's get to the bad. To start off, this game has the worst physics engine I have ever seen. 
 When someone gets shot in this game, they don't just fall down, NO, Rare didn't want that. So when 
 someone gets shot, they fly in the air and it looks like they are having a seizure. Next, the campaign 
 has a stupid way of directing you to your objective. Instead of having a map in the corner of the 
 screen and having a star for the objective, like COD, they have glowing arrows on the ground pointing 
 to where you need to go and an X at the objectives or when you need to open a door or something 
 like that.
  
  Like I said before, the multiplayer is good, but don't mistake it for Halo 2 or Gears. This multiplayer 
 can't compare.
  
  Then, there's the graphics. For some reason Rare can't make a person look normal. Everyone looks 
 either retarded or cartoony.
  
  When I rented this game and then played it, I quickly regretted it.
  
  NEVER BUY THIS GAME!!!! 
 Go buy Gears or Dead Rising instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude141
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I think the game is over rated. in my oppinion the gameplay is kinda fun but the character faces 
 are terrible they look plastic. other than that though the graphs are rly good especialy the weapon 
 models. but the sound is mostlikely the worst . every weapon sounds almost the exact same . and 
 the voice acting is not so geat either . the value is ok . a good length story that is not that 
 great either . plus multiplayer feels week. overall the games is a good rental but def not worth 
 60$ i would probley pay 25$ maybe 30 and thats pushin it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hgsmjsje
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  the ninteno 64 had perfect dark and it was perfect!!! so i decided to buy this game and see how 
 it turned out. and boy was i suprised it passed living the hype because it was so cool!!! the new 
 cover feature pefectly blends in to the game because your a spy right or a undercover agent whatever. so 
 you are johanna dark and you must infiltrate dadadyne who is the bad guy company and stop a madman 
 names xhang li. and the characters do get ugly up close but who cares. has a few graphical errors 
 like sometimes when you think a character is tlaking when they dont move their mouth and the gunshot 
 sounds sound like they are shooting but there is no gunblast. so overall i would highly recommend 
 buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liverpoolraj
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 4, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark is an amazing shooter this one just about lives up to most of the past games. It looks 
 extremely realistic and every detail has been put into this game. It is first person and that adds 
 to the effect. It is set in the future with some amazing guns. There are special features you can 
 do with each gun witch makes this game even better. For example you can control the bomb on the 
 rocket launchers. If there is someone in the way you can dodge them. There is lots of diffrent 
 guns you can use to do special things with. This game is good with multiplayer there are a few 
 ways you can go about. In a team, capture the flag, teritorial games and on your own. There are 
 a few disopointments; the story is too quick, some of the earlier levels can be more diffucult 
 than the later on ones, there is no blood and it could have a bit more in it like levels, people 
 and other various things you will notice as you play. The N64 version is better but hopefully they 
 will make more and now they are used to the 360's power it will make a game like the famous N64 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 1:34 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero For Xbox 360.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ===========================================================
  THE GOOD : The Multiplayer Is Just 
 Awesome, Graohics Are Great, Sound Is Good, The Achievements Are Worth Getting.
  ===========================================================
  THE BAD : Campaign Is Lacking Alot 
 Of Things, The Story Is Just Silly, The Music Isn't Very Good.
  ===========================================================
  
  
  
  Perfect Dark Zero = 
 Good Game With Some Bad Flaws.
  
  Graphics : Now, taking this from a console standpoint only, this is one of the most impressive 
 looking games you can find on the counters of any store. How does it compare to PC games also? 
 Quite well, although not as greatly. The framerate is crystal clear and smooth, and only slows 
 down 1-2 times in game, and that's only for SP when all of the action is happening at once. The 
 small little details like bullet holes, and water look great, although some textures aren't up 
 to par, and the grass is horrific. The character models are quite good, although aren't up to the 
 par they should be. Now, the weapon skins are just unbelievable. Simply stunning, the best I've 
 ever seen in an FPS, any game in fact. They have real time reflections and lighting, and reload 
 and sound with great style. There are some classics, as well as new ones. The cutscenes are nowhere 
 near the quality where they should be, and even have some bad framerate for no apparent reason. 
 The character models do not move and look as well as they do in game, and they almost seem like 
 they were rushed. Also, while in 3rd person viewpoint, you get to see your character models who 
 are also great.
  
  Now, the graphics in Multiplayer are noticeably downgraded, but still fare well to the SP experience. 
 The good thing about this change is that there is absolutely no framerate problems in MP, at all. 
 The weapon models look a bit less jawdropping, as do the character models. The textures are also 
 a bit less dramatic and eye-pleasing, but still get the job done. Overall it is a small downgrade 
 in the MP, but nothing to get all fussed up about up. Overall the graphics are some of the best 
 you can find on the consoles, and are definitely one of the best you can find for the 360 launch, 
 but they still do have some texture problems and a few graphical glitches.
  
  
  Sound : The sound effects are some of the greatest you can find in a FPS, and the Audio sounds 
 are excellent. The guns pack a new variety of sounds: Silenced, Rockets, Grenades, Reloading, etc., 
 they all sound magnificent. The soundeffects of punches, bullets hitting things, melees, and other 
 actions are are well rounded, and sound great. The menu sounds are great, although the music just 
 keeps repeating, and isn't anything to rave about. That brings me to my next point, the music. 
 Some will love it, some will hate it. It has a techno/70's/80's kind of feel to it, but it just 
 doesn't fit in with the game's slow paced action. In some instances it does, others it doesn't. 
 The enemies in the campaign sound great, and I have even noticed a few quote changes in some of 
 the scripted parts, such as communicating into a radio. These actually change the gameplay, and 
 make it more suprising, and add replay value. The enemies talk to eachother and discuss taking 
 cover, telling their other AI friends where Jo is located, and even give groins of pain when and 
 where they are shot. The voiceovers are over-dramatic, and even annoying at sometimes. Why Rare 
 changed Jo's voice to an American one still haunts me. The other actors such as Jack, and Mai Hem 
 seem overacted, and not believable at all. This and the music are my only problems with the Audio, 
 the game soundeffects are just unbelievably defined. Thanks for keeping to your old sound effect 
 roots Rare.
  
  
  Gameplay : The gameplay is really where PDZ shines. PDZ is a total improvement over the orignal's 
 gameplay, while keeping to it's roots and adding new, and helpful features. The SP is not cream 
 of the crop, and has almost no story. It jumps around too much, and seems very rushed. But the 
 story isn't where it's all at, it the gun-play, the introduction of gadgets to objectives, the 
 multiple routes, different objectives for different difficulties, added weapons, Co-Op, and many 
 other great things that keeps PDZ fun, time after time. Let's start off with the good ol' gunplay. 
 The variety of different weapons add to the nostalgia, and make the game what it is, and excellent 
 FPS, you discover new weapons, and get better ones as you progress through the game. In fact, they 
 even have this nifty little feature that adds to the replay value, and lets you play levels in 
 different ways each time. The weapons you beat the level with, (in your inventory when the level 
 ends) get added to a choose-able weapon set that you get to choose to use before you take part 
 on the mission. You start out with the little P9P, but once you've gotten to the last level of 
 the game, you can have pretty much every weapon in the inventory, that is if you kept different 
 weapons until the end of the the level! Now to the gadgets, they allow you to go different routes 
 in levels, sometimes to bypass some enemies, and sometimes they are needed for objectives. You 
 don't just go up to the objective with and press A though, you have to perform a mini-game with 
 each of the gadgets before it is possible for the gadget to do it's trick. Another thing that the 
 game introduces to add replay value is not only increasing the enemy difficulty on higher difficulty 
 levels, but also adding more, and harder objectives. They don't incorporate into the whole story 
 of the level, just minor objectives meant for the more advanced players. On higher difficulties, 
 the enemies take much more damage before dying, and their accuracy increases by a lot, almost too 
 much. These difficulties have sometimes been so overwhelming, they seem almost impossible, by the 
 number of enemies, the low amount of ammo given, it keeps you on your feet the whole time. That's 
 the only way the SP can be experienced in my opinion. Multi-Player.....
  Now this is my favorite part of the game! Although there are some flaws, most are overlookable, 
 and don't change the gameplay that much. First of all, there are ranked matches and player matches, 
 and ranked matches come equipped with a leaderboard! Now this may sound good and all, but the ranking 
 system is very, what would you call it? Crappy? Ya that's it. One thing it quite frequently match 
 players up against eachother unevenly, number wise. You get a match going with 5vs1 or even 10vs1. 
 It does this because of the different ranks everybody has. If you are higher in rank, you will 
 be the poor guy playing all by yourself against all the other players. This is easily fixable, 
 and I can see it happening soon through an update over Live. Now let's talk about the connections. 
 The multiplayer has almost NO lag whatsover, at least none that I notice. I have even had 500 ping 
 one time, and still noticed no difference. This game has one of the best netcodes I've seen in 
 quite a while. One problem is that sometimes it's quite a hassle to join online games. When trying 
 to connect sometimes it automatically won't let you join the game, saying there is a network problem. 
 This happens to around half the games you try to join, and gets very frustrating. Also, you can 
 change the team colors to Teammates: Green, Blue, or White. While enemies always stay Red. Overall 
 I think everyone who enjoys slower-paced tactical FPS's will enjoy this game. I wouldn't get the 
 game just for SP, as the MP outshines it. The game brings forth a new game to compare FPS's to: 
 PDZ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tto55619
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, period. If you own an xbox 360 you owe it to yourself to buy this game! The 
 charater models do get a bit ugly when you get really close, but most of the fighting is done at 
 medium to long range anyway, the single player is great, the storyline is a bit weak, but its just 
 an exuse to get Joanna Dark around the world to firefight hotspots, it is the best FPS on the Xbox 
 360 in my personal opinion.
  If you have xbox live, that makes the comabt arena mode so much better, it is amazingly fun when 
 you know you just beat a person from the other side of the world! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKL06
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  It was better the first time around. This is a good game, but it could have been a masterpiece. 
 The gameplay was good, graphics are, well for the weapons they are excellent, but the characters 
 all look like big play-doh figures. The story line is really not explanitory has no real catch 
 its just boring. it has nothing that made you want to keep going to find out whats gonna happen 
 next. But my biggest complaint.... the secondary functions for weapons. Oh my god. They are useless... 
 absolutly useless. for some of them at least.
  
  well overall here's the pros and cons
  Pros: Great graphics, good gameplay, Replay value through the roof, good sound FX
  
  Cons: 
 crummy story line, weird character models, secondary functions that shouldnt be there
  
  Try renting it, but u should just buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmaster3823
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  when i bought my 360 at July, the game i thought would be my favourite was perfect dark zero but 
 it didn't (it was Kameo) and that's because i think it's an awsome FPS but it has some problems 
 that just blow it up.
  first, the stay behind cover button is terrible, it's not like in Gears of War that you need to 
 just find cover and press the A button but on perfect dark zero you need to wait for a sign and 
 than you can take cover and that's the main problem. onther problem is that becuse enemy react 
 to where you shoot them gives the game a more rialistic felling but if you are not a good aimer 
 like me than you will always shoot the legs and you will lose a lot of bullets for just one enemy. 
 that's the bad thing but this game is still an amazing FPS and for gamers that has problems but 
 it's good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_Freak3
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  The long awaited Perfect Dark Zero is finally out. This game was more of a prequel than a sequel. 
 The game was left undone and look where it is now. It's nothing but a memory of the xbox 360 launch. 
 The gameplay is all but good. When you play the character moves slow and the shooting is very choppy. 
 Though the guns were sweet though. The graphics in this game were amazing, but it was more of cel-shaded 
 than real. The character models can look very ugly up close. The sound in this game was great, 
 and the soundtrack was superb. Perfect Dark Zero is overall a mediocre game with all talk and no 
 gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  The gamespot editors gave this game a 9.0 rating, but if this game was released today I don't think 
 you would agree. The graphics are not really that great when you compare to the rest of the current 
 Xbox 360 games. It looks more like a game you would see on the Wii. There are also a lot of glitches 
 in the game (dead bodies flying in the air, wtf?) . I thought the soundtrack was corny, yet it fit 
 the game.
  
  However, the game has a lot of nice features. It has a great co-op and multiplayer, tons of high 
 tech gadgets and futuristic weapons to choose from, and a lot of variety in the levels. Some times 
 you sneak around like splinter cell, other times you are just shooting it up like any other FPS. 
 The game is actually really fun to play with a friend or online. It was worth the money. I think 
 the franchise has a lot to offer in the future if they can polish up the glitches and improve on 
 the graphics to todays standard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystoval
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Perfect dark zero is close to perfect and had details that is woth to mencionated ,,, First at 
 all is the very first shooter of the next generation consoles and is very good game to the launch 
 of the 360, the gra&acute; phics are very good to be the first game but not very good to the real 
 power of the console maybe this game can pass as a superb game of the xbox console with espectacular 
 graphics you dotn apreciatte the real difference between xbox and xbox 360 until gear of wars but 
 thats truh is a very entertain game and is worth of playinf the gameplay is very original and the 
 strategy agregate much more emotion and more thinking when you are playing compare that other games 
 that only shoot and kill in this game agregate shoot kill and think,, so is very careful when you 
 shoot somebody in a public place full of enemies jejje,, the sound is very good you feel more insede 
 in the game with the sound and the music integrate you more insede in the game the tool s that 
 johanna dark has are very futuristic as tha world and weapons so is because you play in the future 
 and some times really you feel that you are in the future to with the next generation console maybe 
 at this time (dec 2006) much peaople say that is a game with regular graphics and its true but 
 before maybe dont say the same including theres no much diference with the anterior console but 
 is very worth of playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: livethemusiclif
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I never owned Perfect Dark for Nintendo 64. I know, I hear it's amazing. Of course I played the 
 multiplayer at friends houses, but I never owned it and played the campaign. Yes, I got Perfect 
 Dark Zero very late because I'm cheap, but I just finished the campaign. It was pretty fun and 
 not too hard, so it doesn't get extremely frustrating. The first level is a bit of a drag, but 
 it gets better and better as it goes on. I've only played multiplayer a bit but it's fun as well. 
 I would definitely recommend this to anyone, especially since it is now cheaper and a greatest 
 hit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strayhuman
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  I have tried to like this game. The reviews were all good, the graphics are nice. But I just cant 
 play it. Let me explain. I have come from a PC where shooters with a mouse and keyboard rule. I 
 buy and XBOX360 and wanted to try a shooter on that so I bought PDZ. It is easily the most uncontrollable 
 game ever. I have read other reviews that say the same thing but just give it a chance and you 
 will get used to it. Well after about 10 hours of trying to get used to it I give up. I cant shoot 
 a thing, nor run around very well. All I do is end up looking at the sky and running into walls 
 half the time. At first I just figured it was my inablility to get used to a game pad versus a 
 mouse and keyboard. Then I got Halo 2 and I love that. I just got fears of war, and again no problems. 
 This game simply has the worst control mechanics I have ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baroncx
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  perfect dark is a fun pick-up and play type of shooter, with impressive graphics, large selection 
 of unique weapons, and user-friendly controls. but there are a few things that really bother me 
 about this game.
  
  - LOS, or, Line Of Sight . in most shooters, as it should be, if you are completely conceled, you 
 will not be getting shot at, well, because you are completely concealed. but, in perfect dark, 
 this seems to not apply as you are crouching in a (or so i thought) concleaed location for cover, 
 and getting hit by guys with pistols 150 yards off. -Hit A for take cover . Please. for gods sake, 
 dont add little extra button moves for the sake of adding a fake layer of depth. On some levels 
 there are a handull of places to take advantage of this tactic, while on others it is completely 
 abandoned, as if the designers forgot what game they were working on.
  
  - WHERE IS HE?! . Often times i find myself saying that as i am running around searching for the 
 guy that is owning me with his assualt rifle. oh, there he is, across the map on a 350 foot messa 
 that would be impossible to get to without a helicopter.
  
  -The Story . the storyline, at best, was meh with me until the scottish quilt guy started directing 
 the missions in his annoying scottish accent, and is so wacky and thrown together it makes grandia 
 3 look somewhat immersive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkxzachman
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is fun in away. The story is not so great and the multiplayer isnt either, but 
 its a launch game so you have to give it some leway but seriously dont buy it if you havent alreay. 
 p l e a s e do no o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o n o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oot but it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMuffin_man
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 27, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Gameplay is good. The controls may feel cluncky to you at first because there is no auto 
 aim. this game requires you to practice to get good. Theres lots of guns single player and multiplayer. 
 Graphics- All there to say is that the graphics are excellent.... The gun models are just plain 
 awsome. the textures are awsome. The only bad looking thing is some of the eneimies look bad up 
 close.
  
  sound- solid sound . But the story is horrid and so is the voice acting .
  
  value- Good replay value here because the difficulty levels make you want more. And co-op is probablly 
 were its best at.
  
  tilt- Overall its a great combination . If your looking for a cheap fun game . Then you need to 
 check out perfect dark zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PDZ007LEE
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 9, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  For FPS fans there is no finer game on the 360 than PDZ. PDZ has it it all from a good single player 
 campaign to a great co op campaign and the best XBOX LIVE game there is. SINGLE PLAYER CAMPAIGN 
 is a good game its got alot of interesting missions with a wide variety of objectives to complete. 
 I would say out of the 13 missions at least nine of them are excelent, some of them even compare 
 to the stroke of genious that was GoldenEye. The game in every aspect be it in single player or 
 the amasing multiplayer is visualy breathtaking. Take it from me that you have never seen better 
 weapons in an FPS to date, i still find myself checking out the amasing weapons and BRICKS that 
 is PDZ. Once you have finished the game on single player try the co op its a whole new ball game 
 baby! PDZS XBOX LIVE MULTIPLAYER is the best multiplayer i have ever played simply because an FPS 
 is all about the weapons and what you can do with them. What you can do with PDZS weapons is out 
 of this world from pistols ,smgs, assault rifles, sniper rifles and heavy weapons the uses are almost 
 limitless.
  MY TOP 5 WEAPONS ON PDZ ARE:
  (5) p99 scope, silencer and flashlight.
  (4) cmp 150 holographic emiter, awesome rate of fire, stupidly acurate.
  (3) superdragon 12 round 
 ricochet grenade launcher, scope, night vision and a decent fully automatic weapon.
  (2) fac 16 five round grenade launcher (impact sensetive) scope, silencer and selectable rate of 
 fire.
  (1) laptop accurate, awesome rate of fire and transforms into a deadly sentry gun (esentialy a second 
 line of fire 2 vs 1) .
  All the weapons in PDZ look, feel and sound amazing. There is a sniper rifle called the Jackal 
 with the lengthiest zoom ever for those snipers out there. Overall the multiplayer is brill, with 
 great maps such as Urban, Desert and the long awaited Facility, also if you can think of a game type 
 you can create it, which sets this game apart from other titles such as the legendry HALO 2.
  FINAL THOUGHT if your an owner of a 360 then you owe it to yourself to purchase this gift from 
 GOD. After reading this review i hope i have given you some insight into how good this game realy 
 is, so ignore all the poor reviews and trust me play it you will love it!!!. PDZ RULES ALL!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxshenron
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero does not deserve a 9.0 by far. Its a decently fun game if you spend most of your 
 time in its online mode. The story mode however is very bad. Its a weak story that almost is not 
 there with voice acting so bad, it could make you cry. The guns are pretty cool as they do offer 
 nice features with their secondary abilities but its noting revolutionary. The visuals do look 
 nice at first since this was one of the first next gen games but really, up close, characters just 
 look really ugly. The online mode is where the game shines. It helps make the story mode a bit 
 better offering online co-op. But the multiplayer is what you will spend most of your time doing. 
 Its a fun online mode, but really, if you like shooting games and you've played many of them online 
 before, you won't find anything new or special here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martini78
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  Mixed feelings on this game.
  
  Pro's: The chick is hot, tons of action, awesome selection of guns
  
  Con's: 007 ripoff (been 
 there, done that) , aiming controls are hairy
  
  It's got a lot of action, fairly impressive graphics, and some fun gadgets... but, it's kind of 
 predictable. Like I said, it's 007 in a hot chick's body. Gameplay is very simple and there are 
 tutorials, hints, and help all along the way. The action is non-stop, but there's no aiming assist 
 and the human enemies move with non-human speed.
  
  To me, this game is very average... nothing to really complain about, but nothing really alluring 
 either. Buy it for $20 if you like 007 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SegaBeat
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  As a prequel, the game differs greatly from the first Perfect Dark releassed for the N64. Not only 
 are characters different, but the characters from the N64 game look and act very different as well. 
 Rareware was famous years ago for making successful and addictive console FPS for the N64, both 
 of them being 007 GoldenEye and Perfect Dark. Is this new FPS of theirs worthy of the classics? 
 Let's find out.
  
  The first mission of the game is basically a totorial half-way through, and you get used to the 
 basics once you complete it. Most of the FPS levels take place at bases from all around the world 
 (mostly in China and later in Africa) . You'll go through hallway after hallway. You'll get some 
 gaurds in the way, so you just shoot em down like in any FPS. There are some gadgets to use as 
 well. Some of them are a return from the first game, such as the Camspy. You're also equiped with 
 a hacker system which is used to open security infested doors, as well as a detonator, which you 
 match lines from one place or another, to blow up walls.
  
  It's pretty obvious that Halo influenced Rare to make some changes in their FPS formula. There 
 are a couple vehecles to drive in the game, but no way near as much as the Halo games, but then 
 again, it isn't a big deal. The vehecles here aren't very special anyways. When playing, your character 
 is also equipped with a recharging system which heals you if you stay out of gunfire, much like 
 Halo. You're also limited to a few weapons to carry for yourself. You can carry pistols, rifles, 
 plasma guns, explosives, and others. You can also melee attack your enemies, very much like Halo. 
 The Single Player Campaign is fun, but it does get repetitive after a while, and a couple of the 
 missions aren't very saticfying.
  
  The Multiplayer, or arena matches, is a lot of fun. Like the first Perfect Dark, you can customizes 
 your weapons, the number of points, the levels, ect. The arenas here are a fairly large size, however 
 there isn't much of a variety of levels at first. But the fun of the arenas, wether you play by 
 yourself or with friends, is what really shows the spirit of the game. Doing matches on XBL makes 
 things better surely. Downloads for new levels become available for making things fresh, which 
 is a nice touch. Now despite the fun gameplay mentioned in this review, there are a couple flaws 
 to go over.
  
  Your character that's moved in PDZ is a little too slow paced. It's even slower than the first 
 game. But you'll get used to it, since the game is still pretty fun. Another problem would have 
 to be the lack of variety of weapons. As said before, most of the weapons are just pistols, rifles, 
 and explosives. The first Perfect Dark had so much more weapons that were interesting to use. But 
 these flaws are fairly minor, so it shouldm't effect your time with PDZ.
  
  Graphics:
  
  A very nice attempt on the Xbox 360's graphical power for next-gen. The envioronments are large, 
 colourful and very detailed. Everything from the walls to the trees looks good. The frame rate 
 holds up very well with little to no slowdowns. Some of the faces on the random character models 
 are a little ugly though, so beware. Nevertheless, Rareware never dissapoints when it comes to 
 graphics.
  
  Sound:
  
  Unfortunitly, the audio is a bit messed up here. The soundtrack is more Rock infested with some 
 bits of techno thrown in. It lacks the spirit of the first Perfect Dark though, which mostly ends 
 just suiting the action, rather then keeping the players interested with the music. The voice acting 
 is very bad and annoying. The first Perfect Dark didn't have great voice acting ether, but in PDZ, 
 the level of voice acting quallity drops down a few levels. Some of the voices are very annoying 
 that you'll wish to turn them off, but sadly, there's no option to. The sound effects are standard 
 and get the job done. The audio presented in PDZ just didn't grab my attension like the N64 game 
 did.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  PDZ, despite the fun gameplay and some cool techniques, fails to live up to the FPS legends, such 
 as Halo, Half-Life, the oringinal Perfect Dark, ect. You'll still have fun if you just want a FPS 
 to play around with, but it will depend if you'll play this a lot. There's a good amount of replay 
 value for those that want to complete the single player campaign in Agent, Secret Agent or Perfect 
 Agent. Also, getting acheviements for your gamerscore takes time to accomplish. So PDZ is worth 
 owning to FPS fans that have a 360.
  
  Pros:
  
  -Solid FPS gameplay
  -Great graphics
  -Very fun arena matches
  
  Cons:
  
  -Gameplay gets a bit repetitive 
 in the single player mode
  -Very annoying voice acting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcmike1942
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  The once amazing Perfect dark is back and with new style, but I don't think it has what it takes. 
 Many changes have taken place between N64 version to now . Some good, some bad. I don't feel like 
 naming them. Back when the 360 came out this was the game to get. But now that we have seen Gears 
 of War and have enjoyed the Call of Duty 2 experience, PD really doesn't look to hot compared to 
 those. Its as if it was made for the xbox but put on the 360. Its really nothing special. But its 
 not a bad game. Last thing to say, it gets old quick and its no Goldeneye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShellShocker42
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a decent FPS for the Xbox360. The graphics are phenomenal and the gameplay 
 is extremely awesome. The missions are challenging enough to call them fun. The multiplayer is 
 pretty cool too, but settingit up is pretty damn complicated. The weapons are also extremely unique 
 but the amount you can carry is very low. Its annoying cause you can see a shotgun while your being 
 pelted and your trying to figure out what to drop. It will happen all the time so be prepared. 
 This game is the perfect item for anyone whos looking for a game. It may not be perfect, but still, 
 this freaking kicks ASS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheQuesoMan
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  ... not to bash on it but, it just doesn't match up to today's standards of FPSs (or my standards 
 anyway) .
  
  PROS: - Nice graphics - Decent weaponry - Co-op
  
  CONS: - Not much in the area of sound - Practically non-existent AI - No graphical detail - Useless 
 cover feature - What am I killing people for again? - Uhh... where is the jump button?
  
  Now I know that the original PD had no jumping... but come on! It's been like +5 years later and 
 jumping is just, like, a must.
  
  Sure the graphics are nice, but no detail seems to have been taken into consideration. The environments 
 seem to leave a lot to the imagination.
  
  Co-op is always a plus...
  
  Duel-wielding is neat...
  
  Story is... yeah...
  
  And one of the most useless features 
 in the game...
  
  *DRUMROLL*
  
  ... covering behind objects!
  
  Its practically a novelty. When you press A next to a wall, often times you end up on the opposite 
 side... facing your enemies. And whats the point in hiding from their cover if they just run at 
 you shooting anyways, the AI is pretty lame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemur911
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Remember the original Perfect Dark? Yes, yes... it WAS great. Now its going next-gen, and how much 
 greater that is.
  
  First off, I just can't stress enough how good the graphics are... the textures are beautiful, they 
 shine as they should -- they're just so gorgeous. Motion blurs are great, lighting is great, even 
 the art-style is great, which is now directed toward a more sharp, comic book like style.
  
  Gameplay is good as well, you can push over various objects over (using the pistol whip) for 
 cover, and certain cover breaks away after being shot. There are many, many guns to choose from, 
 all with secondary features. The voice acting and music aren't so great, but as long as there's 
 sound at all, I'm a happy camper. There are 12 missions to choose from, all with different difficulty 
 levels -- and get this; each difficulty will throw in different objectives bolstering the replay 
 value. Each mission is composed of great looking enviorments, a variety of enemies, and things 
 in the enviorment that you can interact with.
  
  Lastly there is the multiplayer... fantastic and crazy fun multiplayer. You can either play with 
 some friends offline against an array of bots, or go on Live. There are a handful of maps to choose 
 from, still looking fantastic, with windows that break away, and such. To conclude, I will talk 
 about the one thing I CANNOT get over: WALKERS. What FPS can you name that had walking friggin' 
 robot suits? They have mounted machine guns and can fly! How cool is that?
  
  Moving on...
  
  PDZ is a great prequel to the already great (yet old.) Perfect Dark for the 
 N64. Fans or newbies to the Perfect Dark franchise will have a crazy good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pulakeshgoswami
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2006 3:15 am PT
Review:  Really Amaizaing, Graphics is too good, Marvelous. It's single player gaiming is not so easy to 
 play. In my eyes I like to play those games which is heard to play. I think this is Perfect to 
 play. And moreover I prefer this game very much because it's multiplayer gaming is so recreative. 
 Sound has a new look like poliphonick. not only that the custom matches in multiplayer gave me 
 more inspirition to play it again and again. It's really awesome. I think the game has not much 
 violations as told by esrb (Moderate Violance) , In the multiplayer mode you can show your aiming 
 power. Ya that's an importent thing to play any multi player FPS game. The only difficulty in this 
 game is that you cannot see you like a TPS view. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tapiondbz1106
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is really cool, i think that it is a good improvment and the mission mode is fun. There 
 is alot of weapons in the game and its not a long game but not a short game. You can also do combat 
 arena offline and online. I think the best part is online. You can do alot of game modes and my 
 favorite is eradication. You can put bots online to but that is kind of stupid cause i hate bots. 
 And if you put them on dark agent for their difficulty all they do is head shot you and it gets 
 annoying. But overall this game is really fun . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckat609
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  When the 360 was about to launch last November I remember everybody going on and on about this 
 game. Being a die hard fan of the COD series I decided to pick the sequel instead when it came 
 out on launch. Having replayed COD2 several times and going on Live with it I had completely forgotten 
 about PDZ. I decided to download it last night to see what I had missed. To be perfectly honest... 
 I'm REALLY glad I didn't choose this over COD. I know they don't have anything in common except 
 being FPS but maaaan, i was really disappointed. The graphics are just lame... sure, they look 
 smooth and all but not much work went into detail... everything seems two dimensional when it comes 
 to textures. The environments seem a bit too clean for my taste. I don't know if the rest of the 
 game is the same but from what I saw almost everything has right angles... no smooth curves or 
 anything... kinda reminded me of the FPS' from back in the day.
  
  The sound wasn't that great either. There was no background noise to give you a sense of ambiance 
 to suck you into the game. There was a moment that, if it hadn't been for the sound of my machine 
 gun, you could've sworn the damn thing was muted.
  
  When my first impression of the game had dissipated (for lack of a better word) I kept saying to 
 myself ok, gameplay must be this game's strong point ... man I was sooo wrong. You can go around 
 getting shot at through the entire level and you probably won't die! What's that all about?!?! 
 I mean, if there's no need to take cover why the hell are you running around trying to kill these 
 guys?! You could probably just wonder around zipping a soda without worrying about getting killed!
 
  
  The one thing I can't review is the story since I only played the demo but at this point I don't 
 really give a damn anymore. I know some people liked it so don't take my word for it but before 
 you think about buying it, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth-Revan45
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  [NOTE: I would just like to say that I have based this reveiw on the last few day I have spent 
 playing at my friends house, I intend to get a 360 and this game next year] .
  
  Story: In a story that takes place 3 years prior to the N64 classic Perfect Dark , you play as 
 Joanna and see how she went from a 20 year old girl training to be a bounty hunter with her daddy, 
 to a one woman army for the Carrington institute. You see her experience death, betrayal, and pain 
 as she takes town the CEO Zhang Li of Data Dyne for killing her father.
  
  Gameplay: The game was done quite well with some improvements over the past game. There is now 
 a cover move where you can hide behind an object and fire out from behind it. You can also pull 
 off a roll menuver [though some complain about there not being a jump button] , I found this to 
 work well and it is a lot more fun than playing Halo against a kid spamming the jump button and 
 a Shotgun. There are also a lot of guns [not as many as in PD1 though] , each with a secondary function 
 and some have a tetridary function, like on the PP9 or whatever it is called, you can attatch a 
 flash light to the gun. All guns also have a melee move that can be used. My main gripe with the 
 game is that the AI does not feel changed enough, there are not enough levels, the story flops 
 around too much and and the Multiplayer is not customisable enough. But it is still a very fun 
 game and works quite well.
  
  Controls: The game uses standard 360 controls, I am more used to the N64 method for em than the 
 360 one on Consoles, but I adjusted quickly. I found everything to be placed well snd much easier 
 to use than the Octopus controler on the old XBOX. And some people complain about the Auto Aim 
 thing, but I like that they gave you a choice.
  
  Graphics: This game is stunningly beautiful, and proves how tallented the people at Rare are. I 
 was stunned by how good all of the weapons looked, they also used Parallax Maping the same thing 
 F. E. A. R. that was used to allow you to make holes in walls to give flat objects a 3D look. I found 
 the people to have a look that felt like a mixture of cartoony and realistic and some places were 
 overtley bright and blinding. Hell some characters could look like crap up close [Joanna can at 
 times] . And even though you need an HD Tv to get the best picture out of this game it still looks 
 great on a standard TV, but I can't help but think that the game would be possible on the old XBOX, 
 it might of been possible on the Nintendo Wii as well [now I just need to wait for that] with some 
 things turned down. But a few minor things do not detract from my score, I found the game to look 
 amazing.
  
  Sound: The game also sounds great. The music was a kind of techno, rock mixture and the song Pearl 
 Necklace is the best dirty song I have ever heard. The guns also sound amazing [rember, Rare brought 
 us the 44 Dolstovo in Goldeneye] , but some voices were annoying and seemed to lack emotion. And 
 Joanna lost her English Accent in this game.
  
  Multiplayer: Even though at times the single player mode felt tacked on, this made up for it. Sadly 
 you cant do as much as in PD1 but tue intensity of the games makes up for it. Rare beat Bungies 
 multiplayer for Halo, and we finaly have a Perfect Dark game online [now just get the first one 
 up and that would be a dream come true] . The games are intense and fun, and the AI is great. There 
 is also a CO OP mode, which can be played online as well if you dont have any buddies willing to 
 play with you.
  
  Replayability: You can keep playing and get achievements. And the weapons being kept after you 
 win a level with em let you replay for more fun.
  
  Overall: A tacked on story and some single player troubles hurt a little, but this game is damn 
 fun. And the Multiplayer makes up for any troubles you may have with the slightly boring Single 
 Player mode, and Co Op is damn fun, it makes up for the weak Single Player mode. And if you can 
 find it, the tin cased variant is very pretty and has a comic in it :)
  
  Rent or Buy: But it, it's 20 bucks and has 2 classic Goldeneye maps in it, Facility and Temple. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Darklance
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Besides a few innovations its hard to see where six years have gone. Having said that it is still 
 a great game, just not as great as the original was in its time.
  The environments look nice and characters look good in their own semi-realistic sort of way. The 
 character animation, aside from the cutscenes, in particularly the running animation, is the worst 
 Ive seen in recent years, the physics could also do with some work and the AI feels like it skipped 
 a generation.
  Whilst the solo missions are pretty good they best played in co-op as each level is structured 
 with alternate routs so each player can complete different objectives making you feel you really 
 are working as a team.
  Dark-ops is a new multiplayer mode where you have one life and a certain amount of money to buy 
 weapons and armour. It is hugely addictive and is a great alternative to the original Deathmatch 
 mode. Only having 6 levels is a bit of a letdown, though all the levels are pretty good.
  The star of the show is definitely the weapons. Each weapon fulfils a different role, from small 
 silenced weapons to huge shooty weapons, each with a secondary mode that makes your decision a 
 lot more difficult. Combine this with the cover function and youve got a decent shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackDragon582
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  PDZ is a FPS for the 360. I'de say that its a pretty good game. Things can look pretty cheesy up 
 close though...... and there are some glitches. There was this one time... i was just minding my 
 own bizz and this guy keeps flying around........ and this is the uncool thing, hes dead. Some deas 
 guy is like jumping al over the place for no good reason. Anwho, for all the poeple who like the 
 Halo searies, this game is for u. EVen if u dont like FP'S this game could change your mind. Also, 
 this game should be rated T. Why the M rating. There really is not that much blood or anything 
 like that. Little kids 8 or older could me able to play t his game. Thats just a note...... okay..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKiba
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  As i bought the game, i was so excited. Oh my god this game will be the next halo, This game will 
 rock the world. Two days later after i beat the game, i was so disapointed that i had lost 50 dollars. 
 The game has a great selection of weapons, but why cant you jump? The story was cool but why can 
 you finish it in less than 5 hours. Why was the boss so easy to defeat on all disappointed. I wish 
 these questions could be answered. And the online was a joke, so dont believe the hype. Rare tried 
 to recreate the classic but some classics shouldn't be remade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-Gen
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  Being a fan of Rare games since 1996 I have come to expect nothing but great games from one of 
 the best development companies in the business. I was a big fan of the original Perfect Dark which 
 I still think is one of the finest of the past decade. Now with Perfect Dark Zero, the high-anticipated 
 prequel to that great game I find it doesn't quite nail it and that maybe fans will be dissapointed 
 by it. Its a great shooter with superb weapon models and a decent campaign, but shiny visuals, 
 cheesy voice overs and an overall lack of polish makes this seem like quite a rushed game overall, 
 and it really shows. It sticks quite faithfully to its name but it doesn't have that something 
 special that made Perfect Dark so great and I feel as if its missing a lot of things. That said 
 though its still a great FPS and with a lot of Live features and co-op it makes up for it in a 
 way I guess. Rare this time around have dissapointed me but they haven't lost my faith and I will 
 always respect there past masterpieces which are still played to this day.
  
  Overall PDZ is a great shooter with a decent single player experience, great co-op and Live support 
 but in the end you will surely feel that it is lacking that wowness that Rare has brought to many 
 of its past and masterful games. (Excuse me while I go and boot up my N64 again) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: condemned100
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  Basically, Perfect dark zero comes from Rare. It's an awesome first person shooter, there is plenty 
 of deathmatch games and team deathmatch to last you for quite awhile. in deathmatch you fight against 
 these things called Bots, basically they are the cpu. The A. I isn't too bad, and can be quite of 
 a challenge especially when you don't know where to go. You can get lost pretty fast if you don't 
 know what your suppose to do next. There are some pretty difficult achievements. Some are around 
 30 points and some are worth 20 points. Let's say you kill 1,000 Bots in deathmatch/killcount you 
 get 30 points, things of that nature. The Storyline is pretty good as well, nice graphics. In the 
 long run PDZero is a wonderful fps game for fps fans, and if your into first person shooters that 
 are intense, this fps is meant to be added to your collection of fps games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Let me start of by saying this game is the first hyped game of the next generation. Expectation 
 were high on that and add a previous great game on the N64 to add to those expectations. So it 
 completely failed to live up to those 2 things. Its not just that, it wasn't just over-hyped it 
 just isn't that good. Next gen isn't about running around in circles with your opponent and both 
 of you eventually running out of ammo and melee'ing it out awkwardly. If anyone has played RS3 
 for the original Xbox, its similiar to the head-bobbing and clip wasting up-close battles that 
 were the bane of that game. Anyone who calls lack of skill on this aspect is clearly more concerned 
 with competition than playing a good game. The multiplayer is just a failure. This is one of the 
 reasons why the broken online of COD2 was way more popular than this at the time. People would 
 rather play that. The co-op adds to replay but the campaign is just not that good to really add 
 alot of value.
  
  As with the multiplayer, little about the single player is nextgen. Its the same thing blasting 
 a bunch of clones that really are not clones (atleast put uniforms and helmets on them. Hide the 
 lack of veriety in character models somehow!) The cover system is nice and some of the visuals 
 are nice. Like maps textures and draw distances. The character models are horrid. The levels and 
 music are truly inconsistant. The Nightclub level had great music and play but being assaulted 
 by cloned gang members and such was not worth $50 at launch after that $400 purchase. Plot and 
 voice acting was very poor. The ending was just an out of nowhere complete joke. The only value 
 lies in the occasional decent level and using some of the great weapons in the game.
  
  If you must play this games single player, rent it. It is not worth even the $30 platinum hit price. 
 The multiplayer... no one is on it and hasn't been since 2 weeks after launch. New maps would not 
 save it. The game had the previous success going for it which was great and so much riding on it. 
 Its a shame how this game was just not able to come together and be a true killer app for the 360 
 launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asher20
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  This is the first game I purchased for my 360 (about a year after it's release) and I must say 
 that aside from some minor issues this game is great! The graphics are especially gorgeous with 
 beautiful shimmering walls and lighting. The sound is great although the woman's voice in your 
 head gets a little old after a short while. The missions are fun with the game opening up with 
 the ability to blow things up right away. It's also nice to have the arrow trails that show you 
 where to go after a certain amount of time of being lost. The difficulty of the game is just right 
 (based on your experience level) . I've been playing on the normal setting and there is just enough 
 of a challenge to where I have to be careful with me moves and sometimes I die and have to start 
 over. The AI is a little dumb and repetative sometimes, but when they are alert of your presence 
 it is a great time!! The explosions are really awesome in this game too. I also enjoy the 3rd person 
 view when you duck behind objects.
  
  Of course I didn't give it a perfect score and here's why:
  
  My main frusteration with this 
 game is the fact that you cannot jump... hello??? Why are you always stuck to the ground?? Unfortunately 
 there isn't a ramp there so I can't get over that two foot barrier... It makes no sense to me why 
 the jump feature isn't present, but overall it doesn't take away from gameplay too much I suppose. 
 Another little why did they do it this way? is the character models. Why did they go cartoony with 
 the characters? Maybe it was easier to create them that way? Sometimes the arrow trail comes too 
 soon before you have a chance to consider all your options. The main frusteration with this game 
 is the multiplayer. It almost too fast paced and confusing. Shots don't make sense (I shoot a guy 
 30 times and he kills me with one hit???) Also the spawn right next to an enemy thing is a bit 
 annoying too. Overall I would say that the single player campaign on this game is a 9.5 (minus 
 the jumping) and the multiplayer is what drags the whole score down the 8.3 that I have given it. 
 Definately one of the better shooters for the system and I would reccomend getting it if you haven't 
 yet. you can find it used for $20 at most placed, definately worth that money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beefalo
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is utter garbage, the graphics are not much better than what you could see on an Xbox 
 and the gameplay is extremely boring. The multiplayer is probably the best part of the game and 
 even that is uninteresting. This was an all hype game that ended up being utter garbage. I really 
 think this was an Xbox game they decided to put on the 360 at the last second. Its graphics in 
 terms of polygon count and textures are lackluster but they have the nice shiny lighting and metallic 
 pixel shader effects. The gameplay is basic fps but actually aiming for some reason is much harder 
 than in most console FPS games. The story is not very interesting and the missions involve gunning 
 and not much else.
  The feel of the game is also very different than current shooters. The characters just move and 
 aim funny. This game is not even worth renting in my opinion unless you are the biggest Perfect 
 Dark fan out there. I can't understand the high scores this game received from review sites, is 
 it simply because there are no other 360 games out? So to summarize, technology wise its quite 
 remedial, doesn't show off the power of the 360. Gameplay wise it doesn't play as nicely as most 
 shooters. Character/story wise it is uninteresting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ma_hurt
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 13, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is fun to play... Let me start by saying that the best thing about this game 
 is the selection of weapons that you can use. You can only take 2 with you, but you have a great 
 selection to choose from. Additionally, most weapons have secondary abilities, and some even have 
 tertiary abilities. This means that you can tailor your weapon choices to perfectly fit the style 
 of gameplay that you prefer. And that makes the game fun. Sounds are good, and the game itself 
 is not so difficult to finish.
  
  Ok, now the reasons for the lower score.... First, has to be the annoying enemy UI. I am really 
 surprised that the GameSpot video review did not focus on this short-coming. Enemy mafia guys will 
 always spot you, even when hiding behind a tree. Always snipe at you, even though they are so far 
 away from you that they would never be able to actually see you thru the bushes and trees. But 
 most disturbing, is that the people will run straight for you, and thus, let you mow them down 
 nice and easy. I suggest choosing the shotgun, or machine gun for fighting in a building, because 
 they will just run at you. I must have killed close to 15 guys on the stairwell. I simple stood 
 a little lower on the stairs, and they just kept running at me. Secondly, the game is a little 
 short. You will be asking yourself after the last battle; Is that it???? . I think it was a little 
 too short. Howvever, the game did cost less, so it is not a real problem. Overall, the game hints 
 at what the 360 can do graphically. I have to disagree with the reviewers that say that it really 
 pushes the new system. I think that it merely meets the lower end of what the 360 can do.
  
  I think that it is still a good game to buy. However, since it is such a short game, it is 
 also good for renting. If you have some people come over, you can rent the game and finish it in 
 the same day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockinaway
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game, got it wih my 360, the graphics appeal to me alot, and the sounds and action 
 is amazing!
  
  At first I didn't find this game that good, but when I started to get into it, it was much better. 
 I enjoyed the multiplayer too. When you should a drum and it blows up the graphics for that are 
 amazing. 2 bad things I found were that the enemy seemed to side step all the time when they were 
 shooting, seem a bit wierd.
  The storyline is a bit lame in my view, but hey everyone has their opinion. ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solmaster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 13, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is an excellent shooter with all sorts of replay value. PDZ has great visuals 
 and presentation. I was weary about the cartoony look when I first heard about it but was more 
 realistic looking than I thought. I really like how all the guns have secondary functions because 
 it adds a new dimension to the game. One gripe I do have is the fact that there is no save system 
 because the missions can be long and tedious. On Perfect and Dark Agent the game can be brutal 
 because if you die you have to replay the whole mission again. Some missions are almost impossible. 
 The multiplayer is fun, and the inclusion of bots makes it possible for those without Xbox Live 
 to have fun with it, and also to unlock the achievement points. Most of the achievement points 
 can be gained through long term multiplayer, so expect to be playing with bots a lot. Overall, 
 this can be a very fun shooter, so I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorblade3191
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 12, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  Upon further evaluation of Perfect Dark Zero, I felt it would be appropriate to rewrite my previous 
 review. Some of the impressions it left on me the first time around still linger, but otherwise 
 I can see some new merits in the title.
  
  At first impressions, I was disappointed with the title. I felt this way for a number of reasons -- the 
 difficulty seemed a little lopsided, the storyline and main campaign left more to be desired, and 
 most of all, that there was simply no way this game succeeded in living up to its successor. While 
 in some ways those complaints seem all the more correct, in others they're not entirely true.
 
  
  For those who are uninformed, Perfect Dark Zero is the predecessor to the classic N64 title. Following 
 then-bounty-hunter Joanna Dark and her father Jack Dark, you are following business as usual when 
 complications erupt and new things start happening. Among them, Jack is captured by enemy forces, 
 and you discover that one of the people you were hoping to rescue might be worth a lot more than 
 you originally had thought. Needless to say, the storyline isn't nearly as interesting as that 
 of the original Perfect Dark, as Perfect Dark did not have the type of story that made you wonder 
 how things got started. I think it's safe to say we prefer Joanna Dark as the secret agent, not 
 the bounty hunter. Where the stories do overlap, you will recognize a couple of familiar characters 
 and scenarios, but you don't end up caring. While the story may not be very worthwhile on its own, 
 it does deserve some credit for taking you to a number of interesting locales.
  The main campaign is actually surprisingly interesting, mostly because enough new material continues 
 to be introduced progressively through, and because of the aforementioned interesting places span 
 three continents and include urban Hong Kong, the jungle of Peru, and an coliseum in Africa. While 
 they may not wow the player, they will be places unfamiliar to experienced FPS gamers, and they 
 are well done in their own right. As for the actual gameplay, it will strike the player almost 
 immediately that it doesn't function quite as smoothly as the original Perfect Dark. The control 
 scheme is a bit sluggish, as Joanna doesn't move as quickly or as smoothly as she might have on 
 the N64. Appropriately, there are noticeable differences in how she aims and moves with weapons 
 of varying gait, but in general she isn't as quick as you remember. At first, the way the game 
 is challenging didn't seem quite fair; now, I'm inclined to say it isn't quite appropriate. Enemies 
 require several shots to the body to go down on any difficulty, and Joanna does require a good 
 chunk of time to reload. Furthermore, inventory space is limited, and the game doesn't do a terrific 
 job of telling you where attackers are. If you try and speed through the missions on the campaign, 
 you're going to get shot. Period. Maybe that's why at first the game was frustrating. Now, since 
 I took the time to try again, I got used to it, and I have concluded that the game's sense of difficulty 
 is comparable to Rainbow Six 3. While clearly PDZ was not intended to be a tactical strategy game, 
 playing RS3 will teach you to play carefully. In other words, PDZ is only quasi run-and-gun, which 
 is disappointing. You would think they would scale the difficulty to be mostly run-and-gun, and 
 that you would simply need to be more skilled at running and gunning to succeed on the higher difficulty 
 levels. However, you will find that, especially on harder difficulties, it pays to think and act 
 very carefully. Designing the successor to a speedy action game this way may not have been entirely 
 appropriate.
  
  That said, it is design which ultimately saves PDZ from being a boring mess. Like with the original, 
 weapon and level design are simply outstanding. Not only are the differences between each weapon 
 well tuned, but the weapons themselves feel good and are entertaining to play with. A number of 
 interesting, if unrealistic, secondary and tertiary functions definitely keep the game interesting 
 and are sometimes necessary to level the playing field against some of the more overwhelming odds. 
 The gadgets are also interesting, although maybe they weren't implemented very well. The level 
 design, as I said before, is very unique and eye-catching, although in some places they make the 
 missions confusing. Mercifully, after being lost a minute or two, your support will place arrows 
 on the floor to guide you in the right direction. PDZ definitely makes you choose your inventory 
 carefully, and the game definitely forces you to think about your resources in some places. Some 
 of the sequences in missions can at first be unmercifully difficult on harder difficulties, but 
 they won't prove all too bad if you look around for alternatives or use your tools carefully. The 
 same formula is often applied to multiplayer -- one of the original's stronger points. Like the original, 
 there are tons of interesting options to set up matches in and outside the box, with anywhere from 
 1 to 16 players. Bots may be a bit frustrating, but acclimating to their difficulty or otherwise 
 just sticking to human players ends up just fine. Only six maps to start with is also a bit disappointing, 
 but at least those maps are moderately fun to play on. Online multiplayer is surprisingly fun, 
 and PDZ definitely tries to place emphasis on its multiplayer; of the 50 achievements unlockable 
 on the Xbox 360, a good 40 of them are unlocked in multiplayer. The audiovisual presentation definitely 
 could have used some work, although I must admit, it is impressive on the Xbox 360, especially 
 considering that it was a launch title. By now much better-looking games have been released for 
 the console, but otherwise it doesn't disappoint. The different locales, besides being interesting 
 to play on, offer refreshing changes in scenery that are, quite often, impressive to behold (especially 
 the rainforest missions) . Occasionally you can pick out jaggies, frame rate slow-ups, or a desperate 
 lack of good character animations, but the textures engine, scale, and general effects provided 
 are indeed eye-catching. Sound is also very clean, although I am a bit disappointed with some of 
 the voice actors. So, as a whole, Perfect Dark Zero is indeed worthy, despite some of its more 
 disappointing setbacks. If you're willing to acclimatize and drop some of the expectations you 
 would have from playing the first, you'll have a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BamTino024
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark for N64 was my favorite game for that console. It kicked ass in every way possible. 
 As soon as I purchased an Xbox 360, Perfect Dark Zero was the first game I got, purely because 
 I enjoyed the original so much. Sadly, PD Zero did not live up to my expectations. I was expecting 
 the same awesomeness that came with PD for N64, but didn't get it. Don't get me wrong, the game 
 was very good, it just wasn't a great as the original. The story was very silly, as was the ending 
 to the game. I was very dissappointed in that respect. The gameplay mechanics were ok, but could 
 have been better. The fact that the camera came out to a third person view when you took cover 
 against a wall or box or something was very helpful. However, aiming in an accurate fashion was 
 very hard unless you had a gun with a scope. I think that partly the fault of the game mechanics, 
 and partly the fault of the AI... because the AI sure sucked. Bad guys would just strafe back and 
 forth shooting at you, making you waste all of your ammo just to try to hit them. Rarely would 
 they take cover and pop out to shoot at you, or move into some sort of a position conducive to 
 firing on someone without being hit. I expected that with today's AI capabilities, the AI would 
 have been a lot smarter. The weapons in the game were pretty cool as far as the damage they could 
 deal, but the weapons storing system got annoying after a while. You didn't get a new gun until 
 you picked it up off a dead guy and held it till the end of the mission. If you dropped it before 
 the misison was done, it wouldn't stay in your weapons cache for future use. The music was very 
 annoying as well. Unless you are a  you 
 won't enjoy the in-game music, because it is all crappy techno. The only thing I can't complain 
 about this game is the graphics. They were very good. Character detail was great as well as the 
 environment. Explosions looked very pretty too. If you were a fan of Perfect Dark for N64, I would 
 still pick up this game despite its many flaws. It sort of fills in the events that led up to Perfect 
 Dark 64 (even though this new background story was a bit silly) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toad1971
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  Ok, I'm going to make this quick. Sometimes games get reviewed and leave me scratching my head. 
 This game does not deserve the 9.0 gamespot gave it. Yes the graphics are beautiful, but mostly 
 just in the environments. The character models are terrible looking, even though they are supposed 
 to be cartoony. The game puts blinking arrows on the ground to help tell you where to go, even 
 then I found it lacking direction and confusing. The AI reminds me of an old Xbox game, very boring, 
 and the dialog just stinks.... not every game can be perfect, but a 9.0 just doesn't sound right. 
 Maybe an 7.0 or 7.5. When I finished the game.... eh... it was like ok... no replay value for me, 
 at least now it's $30. How does a game like this get a 9? Just because it's pretty? Now remember 
 that Half Life 2 for the Xbox got an 8.3 and has great AI, a great story, great weapons and fantastic 
 graphics, it even looks a bit next gen when played through my 360 and HD tv. In fact HL2 is one 
 of the best games I've ever played. 8.3??? Even Halo 1 which is like 6 years old blows this game 
 to shame and is worth playing again instead of this. Sorry.
  
  This game is a rental only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 8, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I went into PDZ expecting a decent story mode and great multiplayer, and that's just what I got. 
 I did not, however, expect the excellent graphics and sound, or the good map design. PDZ is one 
 of the first FPS games released for the 360, and it really shows off the 360's power. While not 
 the best looking game out (especially now) , it looks pretty amazing for its time, especially considering 
 the fact that Rare moved this game around on three different systems. The sound is also good (it 
 should be noted that I have surround sound, so i dont know exactly how it sound without surround) . 
 Players can hear bullets whiz by their ears and melee attacks connect with surprising clarity. 
 The sound of empty casings falling to the ground is also great. The voiceovers in single player, 
 however, are just decent. The gameplay is good throughout. Soetimes, you will find your character 
 moving pretty slowly, especially when holding heavy weaponry such as the rocket launcher, although 
 you can put your weapon away for speedier travel. Taking cover is also implemented well, and one 
 of the game's best moments is when you take down a skilled player on Live with a perfectly executed 
 shotgun blast to the face from behind cover. Speaking of weapons, there is a great variety to choose 
 from in this game. Everything from M60s to several different types of pistols, mines, shotguns, 
 swords, riot shields, rocket launchers and more are present here, as well as hovercrafts and jetpacks. 
 It would've been nice to see more vehicles, but the variety is still appreciated. Furthermore, 
 all of the weapons feel nice, and getting a headshot is always rewarding. Multiplayer is where 
 this game shines the most. There are many different gameplay modes, some of which function sort 
 of like Counter Strike in that you can buy weapons between matches instead of finding them during 
 battle. Also, two plyers can play on the same 360. Multiplayer is never boring, and always intense.
 
  Single player is where this game falters a bit. None of the missions are bad by any means, but 
 so far I haven't encountered any that have really stuck in my mind either. Difficulty in some parts 
 also feels a little off. Overall, PDZ is a fun and engaging multiplayer experience, with decent 
 co-op play and a fair story mode. At its current price of $30, it is well worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krlos_castillo
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 7, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Realmente luego de leer tantas reviews del juego uno podria llegar a pensar que este es uno de 
 los mejores juegos de Xbox 360, pero &iquest; sera esto cierto?. Si bien cuando recien salio la 
 consola xbox 360, el catalogo que existia no era el mejor, y m&aacute; s amplio que existiere, y 
 en esos casos si podria ser aceptable que este juego s&iacute; era uno de los mejores que habia 
 (pero de esa fecha) . Ahora con el advenimiento de nuevos titulos para la blanca de microsoft, vuelvo 
 a cuestionarme &iquest; sera correcto la puntuacion que le otorge a este juego?, y mi resultado 
 final es que no.
  El juego en variadas partes tiene notables caidas de framerate (como es ya comun en los juegos 
 de xbox 360) , ademas de una historia bastante sencilla y tediosa, y unas animaciones en cg que 
 dejan bastante que desear. Lo anterior no obsta a que, este titulo s&iacute; cuente con muy buenos 
 graficos, sobre todo las texturas del juego, el sonido es bastante bueno, y xbox live amplia a&uacute; n 
 mas la vida de Perfect Dark Zero.
  Si eres fan de la saga, compratelo inmediatamente, si te gustan los shooters o no estas seguro, 
 te recomiendo que primero lo arriendes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UrbanUK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are beautiful.. can't deny that. Sometimes they are a little too beautiful with levels 
 like the jungle and temple levels becoming so cluttered that you can't tell where you are going 
 at times. A minor niggle, yes, but one that becomes f**king annoying when enemies can see, shoot 
 and hit you and you have no idea where the hell they are because there are 4 bushes, 2 trees and 
 a rock between you and them.. and this is before they get the superdragon! (x-ray vision in alternative 
 fire mode) .
  The single player games lasts about 2 nights, including interruptions for kids and tea-cooking, 
 so no longevity there then unless you relish playing this on xbox live, a very average experience.
 
  So, overall, rent it, play it for a couple of nights. If you really rate it, buy a second hand 
 copy, otherwise hand it back and think foundly of the graphics but distainfully of what the game 
 could have been if Rare had just spend more time fleshing out the story, the control system, and 
 the AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsmiffy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero has an enthralling 1-player game with an added bonus of co-op mode which can 
 enhance the playing time. Xbox Live is not the best i've played, which is confusing and not quite 
 realistic enough. The gadgets and cover mode can be seen as gimmicky but they work well in the 
 game and can actually help you progress. The rag doll physics are fun but not realistic. The weapons 
 are great and have huge variety. The biggest problem is that it is very difficult to aim your weapon 
 and this is not ideal if another player on Xbox Live has body armor AND a huge amount of health 
 which is often the case.
  
  Overall, this game is solid but not a classic. If you are good enough, the achievements are worth 
 getting even if you do have to put up with your slow character. The main campaign is immense fun 
 and well worth doing too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dolacide
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 2, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a mixed bag of fun and frustration, the single player campaign has to be the 
 low point of the game. The story is uninteresting, you could care less about the characters and 
 it is really easy to get lost and be unsure of where to go next. Most of the weapons are fun to 
 use, and most secondary features are helpful and add more to each weapon. The graphic are good, 
 but the character models come across as robot like, and it can be hard to see enemies at times, 
 which leads to a lot of deaths. The level designs are also a mixed bag some are great while others 
 will have you scratching your head. There are also multiple paths to most objectives, but youll 
 find it hard to want to go through the game again to try some of these.
  
  The multiplayer is fun, even though there are not as many maps, each map does have variants which 
 make them completely different at times. I do like the map feature in PDZ, you will only show up 
 on the map when you fire a weapon, which makes stealth a little bit easier than most FPS, I also 
 like the energy bar and how it works, first you have to shoot off peoples armor, then you can proceed 
 to kill them, plus you life bar does go down, but if you can find a safe place it will recharge, 
 but the more damage you take, plus heavier weapons, cause your life bar to take permanently lost 
 health which makes it shorter. The bots in the game are great, and challenging, plus you can customize 
 them using a number of different settings. Bots are available for all but one of the multiplayer 
 modes. The online plays well, but it is hard to find a game sometimes. I prefer the bots over online 
 just because it is easy to start a full match, and nobody leaves.
  
  The achievements for this game are not easy and take time and patience, especially going the game 
 four time by your self and with a friend is hard for me, but if your looking for something to take 
 up your time these achievements will. Over all it is a good game, but with the single player being 
 an afterthought, and some death animation glitches in multiplayer, it doesnt score as high as 
 if these problems were address. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaseAH
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  this is a ok game. i did not like the story mode , i found it hard to fined my way. the multiplayer 
 is good, the bots are not too stupid. i would not buy this game it is a rent i think. well i realy 
 dont have very much more to say about this game. it is a good game but it is not my tipe of game 
 i guess. i have not met anyone who would really like this game and take to it rite away. now im 
 just going to fill up space. thanks for reading.
  
  spellcheck spellcheck spellcheck spellcheck spellcheck spellcheck spellcheck spellcheck spellcheck 
 spellcheck spellcheck spellcheck spellcheck spellcheck spellcspspellcheck ellcheck heck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xHxKxDx
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 1, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, it's a good game... but by no means do I consider this part of the amazing Nintendo 
 64 game. The gameplay, graphics, and sound are very good, but the way Joanna looks (A 20-something 
 year old chick wearing a stupid star shirt with Chuck Taylors) pisses me off. The dude you're partners 
 with is suppsed to be her father, which I find stupid as well. It almost toally ruins the gameplay 
 for me because it reminds me of Timesplitters or something where it doesn't seem very serious.
 
  
  The mission difficulties vary depending on which agent level you choose, much like the first Perfect 
 Dark, although the Agent settings are very easy for the most part.
  
  Although I said the gameplay was good, II wish this game would be more like the original when it 
 comes to gameplay (the old straight-forward mission objectives with good combat) .
  
  With Perfect Dark Zero, you don't start out at the Carrington Institute, which I miss because having 
 that in the original was part of what made it so unique. Overall, this is a decent first-person 
 shooter game, but I don't consider it Perfect Dark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShibbieZ
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 31, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero for the Xbox 360, while not amazing, is still quite good. The graphics are pretty, 
 the controls are simple and easy to pick up. Multiplayer, with the inclusion of bots, is one of 
 the best multiplayer experiences on the 360 so far, and kept me coming back for more. The story 
 for the single player game, while not very impressive or original, is still good enough for a launch 
 game. The amount of weapons in the game, is probably the greatest part of the game, and its not 
 like theres just alot of them, they're also fun to use and very creative. On a scale of difficulty, 
 i didn't find PDZ to be all that hard, but once i raised the level of difficulty, i soon though 
 differently. Perfect Dark Zero is perfect for someone who's looking for a good time on their 360. 
 I give it an 8.4 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JYGFluffy212
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 31, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was a pretty cool game. Just some of the controls were gay Like the sniper rifle... you 
 have to reload everytime! I mean you are in the future and your using a sniper rifle that has to 
 reload every single damn time. and than what the hell is a hawk.. like what exactly is that. that 
 is so retarded. the multiplayer games that they had were pretty good but the some of the weapons 
 were really dumb. The campaign mode is good really fun. but like i said if the change some of the 
 weapons and the graphics just a little this would be a must buy. but for me this is only a rent 
 once kind of thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Abandon
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  This game has realy good grapahis, but it lacks alot in the storyline, the game is short and not 
 all that fun. The online mutiplayer is fun, and supports a good number of players. I was a big 
 fan of PD on the N64 but this game is not as good as it could and should have been, The good graphis 
 and Mutiplayer dont make up for the bad single player story and stuff. This game was a Total Letdown. 
 You might wanna rent this game if u liked the old one or like 1st person shooters. But other than 
 that i dont think this game is worth buying unless u r getting it for the xbox live only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hcsif
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  I am dissapointed with this game. I was waiting a long long time for this game to come out. I was 
 expecting a lot more from this one. I think its because it looks like the people are skating and 
 not walking. For a next gen game i would expect the people to look like they are walking. Dont 
 get me wrong this game is not the worst. this game is a soild first person shooter., but it looks 
 like this game should be on the xbox and not the xbox 360. There will never be anything better 
 then 007 james bond and teh orginal perfect dark for the N64. Alot of people like this game it 
 was worth playing through the whole game and the muili player isnt all that bad either. enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Lench_Mob_1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 29, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  The game is AWSOME the graphics are great, the gameplay is great, the guns are great. The only 
 thing that brings the game down is the singleplayer campaign which bores the crap outta me. It's 
 terrible, and useless. If you have xbox live and use it, the multiplayer is UNBELIEVABLE. Even 
 playing agaisnt computers is fun. The ladies in the game are also so freakin hot, that makes the 
 game what it is. If you own a 360 and want a good action game, buy perfect dark zero. It beats 
 halo 2 by a longshot, nd makes xbox look stupid and pointless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josh3735
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 1, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I have had this game since it first came out so i don't really know why i have taken so long to 
 write a review for this but anyway.
  
  Graphics= Excellent! Really shows off some next generation stuff!
  
  Gameplay=Brilliant! Online 
 multiplayer is very popular but i also enjoy story mode! Easy aiming system and scopes make lovely 
 additions to the destruction power of joanna dark! You'll be playing this for ages as the gameplay 
 is the strong point of this game!
  
  Story=This is a bit of a let down unfortunately. It isn't very deep but this is made up by the 
 amazing gameplay!
  
  There are some nice downloads for this game on the marketplace also. Such as multiplayer maps.
 
  
  Overall this game is very good and a must for anyone who likes perfect dark or who owns a 360! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawk5eye
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Building up to the release of this title, I was really hyped up for it. Remembering how great the 
 previous title was but ultimately I was disappointed at Rare's efforts here. A solid game it is 
 but not as great as it really should have been. Nice little ideas like the switching to third person 
 to perform certain abilities was refreshing and innovative. But the gameplay wasn't great especially 
 the multi-player. While in single player the game seemed ok but going into multiplayer to find 
 that they hadn't spent as much time as they should have e. g. Multi-player wasn't overly involving 
 or greatly designed. All in all this game is a disappointment, if you are after a good FPS, look 
 else where. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HRDKyoSaNim
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I never played the original Perfect Dark, so my views on this game have no nostalgic twists in 
 favor of this game. However, I can tell you, that based on this games own merit, it is worth getting 
 if you own a 360, whether or not you've played the original.
  
  Game play: If youre looking for a good single player fps, you can find it in PDZ. It isn't just 
 your typical run-and-gun though if that's what you're looking for. It incorporates some spy/action-adventure 
 aspects into the game play, ala' Splinter Cell, with things like hacking, lock-picking, taking 
 cover and sneaking past guards instead of merely trying to take everyone on at all times. Personally, 
 I find this to be somewhat annoying though. It's an FPS... If I wanted to sneak around I would throw 
 in Splinter Cell. However, I could see how it may be considered a strength in the game by others, 
 and so, I don't think it's an overall negative contribution to the game. I also find it interesting, 
 and irritating, that Joanna can roll, but she can't jump. It would be great if both were an option, 
 but if I had to choose between the two, I would pick jumping, since that's what I'm used to in 
 shooters. Regardless, that's not a big deal when considering the excellent multiplayer in PDZ. 
 This is where I believe, this game shines. Beyond offering the conventional FPS mp modes, there 
 are some unique (at least to my limited knowledge) modes and mode modifiers. Also, if you can't 
 stand waiting around for people to join a match, you can simply start a game using computer bots. 
 You can control the number of bots, their AI difficulty level, and even aggressiveness patterns 
 (ie. attack weakest opponent, strongest, etc.)
  
  Graphics: I'm writing this review in a time when Gears of War and F. E. A. R. are about to be released. 
 These games make the graphics of PDZ look like garbage. However, taking into consideration that 
 this game was a launch title, the graphics are indeed great. They are not realistic, but they weren't 
 designed to be realistic, and the graphics serve their purpose well enough.
  
  Sound: The guns and other sound effects sound great. The music in the single player mode can get 
 bothersome however. It's good, but it all sounds the same, and it eventually grates on my nerves. 
 This is especially true because the music doesn't always coordinate well with what's going on on-screen. 
 I think Rare would've been better off shutting off the background music at times, which is a technique 
 employed in the Halo games for example.
  
  Value: If you're an Achievements ***** like myself (you know who you are) , then you will be playing 
 this game for quite some time. The beauty of it as well is that most of the achievements revolve 
 around the multiplayer. To be honest, I haven't even finished the story mode, even on the agent 
 (easiest) difficulty. The fact of the matter is that most fun in the game is experienced within 
 the mp, at least imo. Even without achievements, you'll want to play over and over again, and the 
 achievements just help to keep you motivated for a long time, especially because they are achievable 
 at any skill level. It merely takes enough time spent playing (that is unless you absolutely ****) . 
 This is in contrast to the storyline achievements which rely directly on what skill level you complete 
 the story.
  
  The long and short of it, PDZ is a somewhat unconventional FPS, with a good single player, and 
 a much better multiplayer. It is a game that I would most certainly recommend to anyone, whether 
 or not you played the original Perfect Dark. If the game were to stand alone as a single player, 
 I would probably give it about a 7.5 rating, but with the excellent multiplayer, I think it's deserving 
 of an 8.8!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalHead48
Rating: 3.1
Date: Oct 20, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the first games I got for my 360. It was the one I wanted the most. So I come home 
 all excited and pop it in, and play for a little bit, and realize that's its just really, really 
 boring. It's a really bad case of not being original, there is nothing new, just a regular game 
 where you shoot stuff. I don't recommend this if you are looking for a good shooter. There are 
 much better shooters, especially sci-fi shooters, out there. I think that Microsoft put this game 
 out as just a way to show off how amazing the Xbox 360's graphics are. Which it did, the detail 
 and realness of the graphics was incredible. Even though they did a great job with the graphics, 
 they didn't take enough time to design a good storyline to launch the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bam416
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 19, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  this perfect dark a quite well but i think that they could have do better in the grafices because 
 it looks to... well old so i hope that he next one will be better but the weapons in here are totally 
 awsome the rocket launcher is so tight because you can control it were it goes but otherwise the 
 gameplay is ver desient in some ways and the sound is really good to so it is not a must get but 
 if you either like the perfect dark series you will like this one and if you like a good multiplayer 
 this is the game for you it is not totally suxy on the campian but it rocks on the multiplayer 
 i can become a real blast if you like this game or any other sci fi shoot but the fact is that 
 it is a good game so i would get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pycho22solid
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Joanna dark first made her appearence in Perfect Dark, one of my favorite games ever to this day, 
 on N64. It was the type of game everyone considered revolutionary. 6 years later Joana is back 
 and not exactly better than ever. PDZ begins a few years before the first game where she and her 
 father are simple mercanaries. They get involved in this evil corporation plot and... lets skip 
 the story-you've heard it before.
  On to the actual gameplay. PDZ features a great mix of shooting and even a little stealth here 
 and there. THe games features sevral weapons-all with a regular and alternate fire ( IE: Assault 
 rifle fires grenades, Pistol gets silencer, etc) . The single player is short but fun. Multiplayer 
 seems somewhat dated but is very complex and entertaining. It offers a good variety of modes and 
 options. Overall PDZ may not be what it could have been-but id still recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 4:14 am PT
Review:  Good: - sometimes reminded me of NOLF
  
  Bad: - storyline was terrible and worthless
  - aiming was sluggish along with a laggy feeling when turning and moving around - not enough checkpoints 
 during a level so you end up wasting time replaying crappy terrible levels again - enemies took 
 too much damage, shooting someone in the face with a assault riffle didnt even kill them
  - the enemies always could shot you instantly the second you moved out of cover, and also, the 
 jungle level was terrible since you couldn't see any enemies through the thick trees and grass, 
 yet they could see you instantly - you couldn't jump, the game engine felt stiff enough already, 
 but without this is was worse - all the levels were mostly straight tunnel design, and you always 
 felt like you were controlling a old FPS game with all the stiff movement and getting stuck on 
 little bumps in the levels - all the xbox achievements are a joke, taking 10+ hours to get 1 achievement, 
 while every other game on xbox its around 15-30 minutes - missions/levels are pointless, you could 
 play any of them in any order and the terrible plot would still suck The high reviews I've seen 
 on this game are terrible. It feels too much like a N64 game. I guess when a game is developed 
 for too long by too many different people, it gets cut down into the idea of finishing is all that 
 matters no matter how bad it might turn out. And all the people that were creating hype for it 
 had no choice but to rank it highly or look like idiots. If there is a sequel, I just wont fall 
 for it this time. Once I finished this game I knew it'd never be played again, I recommend anyone 
 in renting this since you can finish it in a couple days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paperbagman04
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 16, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This game was my first game I got. the graphics were jaw dropping... But anywase to the point perfect 
 dark zero is a solid game. The graphics are terrific and deffinetly next gen. The single player 
 aspect is the weakest part of the game. Though its not bad its just good .... Nothing mind thrilling 
 but still lots of fun. And the story really sucks hard. And its just really not worth listening 
 to. the multiplayer is were the game stands strong.... First off you have lots a modes... Cool 
 maps , weapons , and the matches can hold tons of people.... And have bots to ..... The co-op in 
 this game acctually makes the single player a lot more fun. If your looking for a solid fps... 
 this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 2, 2009 10:29 am PT
Review:  This is a shame what Rare has done to their name by putting this very average game out. Goldeneye 
 and the first Perfect Dark blow this game away and they came out nearly a decade ago. First lets 
 talk about single player. The good is the graphics and the weapons and that is about it. The campaign 
 is short, uninspired and pretty much plain boring. The AI is not smart but they are dead eye shots 
 meaning you will be getting shot out of nowhere all the time. Now for the coop which is a little 
 more exciting than single player and is the best part of this game just because you can play with 
 a buddy on two separate televisions. And lastly the multiplayer which is by far the most dissappointing 
 and quite possibly one of the worst FPS online multiplayer I have ever played. Someone please tell 
 me why it takes two machine clips to bring someone down in this game unless you hit them in the 
 head. It is like they put the body on rookie energy and the head on hero, just plain stupid. Also 
 the spawn points are not thought out considering you spawn in the same place every single time 
 which makes this turn into a game where all the fighting takes place in the same area. One last 
 thing is in team deathmatch ranked it will sometimes be 7 on 1 because of the ranks. I don't know 
 about you but I don't consider this to be fun. I think the developers forgot to play test their 
 own game before shipping it to the unsuspecting public. Shame on you Rare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KanesSon
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 9, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  The graphics and online frag fests are the only real saving graces for this incredibly overhyped 
 title. people were expecting to be blown away by it but were intead complaining it just plain blew. 
 also the ability to use your own custom soundtracks was a blessing for this game to get away from 
 the boring repetitious industrial techno dance fest. I will admit to playing a fair amount online 
 though. probably because call of duty was still glitched all the way to hell online. but once the 
 COD glitch was fixed i all but forgot about it. that does not mean it didnt have its fun moments 
 but bottom line is this if you have xbox live give it a try if you dont renting is the safe way 
 to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Night_Frost
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 3, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Just for the record, this is not a retelling of the Gameboy Color Perfect Dark, its a whole new 
 story and with a new face lift, Perfect Dark Zero could be shaping the franchise again.
  
  The story goes like this, Joanna Dark and her father, Jack Dark get caught up in the war between 
 dataDyne and the Carrignton Institute, yes, two corporations actually waging war.... with guns and 
 explosives, you name it... well, don't name nuclear weapons, the story is complete with a few plot 
 twists and.... a rather strange final boss, anyway, it's a prequel to the first game that's set 
 three years before Joanna Dark was known as 'Perfect Dark' and was a full field agent in the Carrignton 
 Institute, the only familiar cast will be the heroine herself, Joanna Dark and Daniel Carrington 
 (how he pulls off the whole dress coat and kilt without getting beaten on is unclear) other than 
 that, a whole new cast appears to fill in the gap.
  
  The graphics are the first thing you'll notice and a HD-TV, PDZ truly shines, awesome detail to 
 the environments, character models are done well and the weapon detail rivals BLACK's detail, sound... well, 
 lets break it down, sound detail as in weapons firing and reloading and ambient noises are down 
 flawless, most of the weapons are recylced firing noises from the original Perfect Dark, but remastered, 
 the music is almost a combination between Techno and cheesy cop movie... half the time I keep thinking 
 I'm gonna walk into a 70s porno movie, but most of the tracks are excellent to listen to. Voice 
 acting... well, its balanced, Joanna's voice work is done rather well, Jack Dark... I was expecting 
 some like a Chris Kristoferson-style voice, rugged, but tough, Jack just sounded like a wimp... a 
 rather tough wimp, Chandra... you can sorta tolerate her voice, than it gets annoying. over all, 
 the sound is pretty decent
  
  The story mode is at a decent rate, 13 levels and most of them are pretty long, some just take 
 about 15 to 20 min to complete while some take around an hour or so to complete, so its not short 
 at all. Gameplay, it mixes some elements new to the franchise, like the cover system that is never 
 seen in most shooters, its a life saver when you gotta reload or avoid getting shot at, plus you 
 can dive in any direction you choose, but its kinda like most modern shooters, you get objectives 
 and you must complete them. Something that's new in the trend is the self healing system, which 
 is part of the 'Halo-effect' where after you take a few hits, rest and your health will recharge.
 
  
  Multiplayer is a combination between the old PD multiplayer and some new elements, basic stuff 
 like deathmatch and capture the flag are in, new is Dark-Ops which plays like counter-strike, there's 
 also bots so you can play offline.
  
  In the end, PDZ does has some problems, some voice work needs to be fixed, the rag-doll is kinda 
 weird and some levels needed more touch ups, but that's not enough to say that Perfect Dark Zero 
 isn't a terrible game, its a game that's worth the trip 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opruitt
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 3, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This oldie but goody was finally added to my collection due to the price drop. I'm glad I did. 
 Being that I typically play FPSers only on the PC I waited until now. Though the single player 
 is short, it was well worth the couple of days it took to play. I was a little let down by the 
 graphics. Some missions are better than others but all-in-all I did expected more at 720p. The 
 audio is great. I am playing on a system with full 5.1 digital and the sound placement is great! 
 I have yet to fully explore multiplayer having only played a few games in Live!, but I'm sure it's 
 a keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warvair
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  All i can say about this game is that i am dissapointed. I thought it was gonna be REALLY GREAT, 
 but yet it is only fun online or local play. I dont even want to discuss the single player design. 
 It sucks! The multiplayer on the other hand is great! There are so many weapons to choose from 
 and use plus all the secondary fires.
  
  The best part of this game itself are the graphics. They are amazing and truly next gen. If you 
 actually have friends or have XBOX LIVE, then you should get this game. If not... STAY AWAY! Believe 
 me, if i were to write a list of complaints about how horrible the single player design was, well.... it 
 would be a long list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 29, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Before I get to all the bad parts of the game, I will say that the graphics are pretty good and 
 everything moves fluidly. This, the sound and the multiplayer, are probably the best aspects of 
 the game. No clipping, no slowdown, nice textures, good lighting and pretty particle effects are 
 all pluses. The only thing I'd have negative to say about this is the lack of interesting levels. 
 They are pretty much the staple of any sci fi game out these days, for example corporate office, 
 jungle, temple.
  
  The sound is also done very well even though Carrington and Chandra's accents were both pretty 
 annoying. The background music did a good job of complementing the visual aspects of the situations 
 and each gun sounded different.
  
  Now speaking about the guns, I have to say I've never actually felt like the guns were worthless 
 until I played this game. For the longest time the majority of the guns just felt very underpowered. 
 It's not until I played a few games of deathmatch and dark-ops, that I really got to experience 
 the pros and cons of each weapon. Of course some of the weapons remained weak in my eyes, but others, 
 like the CMP, I grew to love. This isn't to say that practice in multiplayer will make your enemies 
 in story mode fall quicker, in fact the improvements were small. It seems it takes a whole lot 
 of bullets to down a foe, especially if they are wearing any kind of armor. The story was uneventful, 
 unoriginal and frankly I've seen way better plenty of times. The fact that story, level layout 
 and the weapons took such a hit in creativity since the N64 days was a huge disappointment. I expected 
 much more than a mostly brainless FPS but I was seriously let down.
  
  Now the Multiplayer does add a ton of life to the game but even that is just a shadow of what was 
 offered in the original game. The addition of online play is a nice touch, but what about all those 
 fun and difficult challanges that you could try out with a friend and the loads of character skins? 
 Perfect Dark for the N64 was an all around masterpiece for its time. Perfect Dark 0, I feel, was 
 a victim of launch game syndrome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frostyshorts
Rating: 5.9
Date: Sep 25, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a total disappointment. Shoddy graphics, horrible storyline, and hilariously 
 bad voice acting drag this title down. This game could have looked just as good on a regular xbox. 
 That don't give you anything that you havn't seen in better games, and the graphics don't come 
 close to the xbox 360's potential. Great thing about this title, however, is the ability to play 
 cooperatively with a friend. Online redeems these letdowns slightly, but not enough to save this 
 flaming pile of game release. I just hope that the developers learn from their mistakes, because 
 like everybody else, I do not enjoy paying to play something that turns out to be this overrated 
 this overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WillerX
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 24, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  This game i think would be a lot better if the first perfect dark never existed. I say this only 
 because its game play cant even compete with the first one. You can't make your own character, 
 theres not as many guns at all, Single player mode was disappointing, and its so much slower paced. 
 They tried to have vehicles but failed because they only had a whopping 2 different vehicles that 
 aren't even that fun to use. The graphics are of course amazing, but some of the audio (mostly 
 the voice acting) could have used a little work. I was hoping that this game would be as good as 
 the original, but this game wasn't even as good as the first Halo (and i hate halo 2.) Overall 
 i would say that if you are a huge fan of the first Perfect Dark, then be prepared because this 
 one may let you down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revo_360
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 24, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  Now, it's pretty hard to release an awesome sequel/prequel to an awesome first person shooter. 
 Although, Perfect Dark Zero, the prequel to Perfect Dark on the N64, doesn't quite live up to expectations, 
 the game knows how to do a certain number of things right.
  
  Now when you begin the game you're treated to a sight of a younger version of Joanna Dark (about 
 four years younger) sneaking through an area that is property of Datadyne, your mission is to blow 
 up the core thats located deep inside the base. Remember, this is a prequel, so don't expect any 
 Maians or Skedars to show up. Now, here's where the mission starts. Ok, the first thing you have 
 to notice are the fantastic visuals. If you're viewing this on an HDTV, be prepared for a suprise. 
 Everything looks fantastic and is definately able to have that next-gen look. Though, the problem 
 with these visuals is the fact that there's too much shine going on.
  
  Really, everywhere you turn you'll notice several spots of shine on the walls, on your gun, and 
 other NPCs and enemies alike. But it's only a minor graphical flaw so don't worry about it. So, 
 back to the gameplay. Now the controls manage to work smoothly. You can move, duck, aim, and melee 
 enemies with ease. But here's the thing, the sensitivity on the analog stick starts out kind of 
 hard to work with. You'll be constantly trying to find the right sensitivity to put it on. It's 
 hard to get a sensitivity that's not too slow and not too fast. Plus, this gets annoying when facing 
 a bunch of enemies and a clunky aim system.
  
  Now, combat. A new feature to the first person shooter genre is the somersault and covering. Somersault 
 (which is activated by the left bumper) allows you to roll around at will. This definately helps 
 trying to avoid enemy fire and it'll even make it hard for enemies to lock on to you. Covering, 
 is a good way to add stealth into the game. If you come near a corner or a box, you'll get a notification 
 allowing you to press the A button to cover. This comes in handy when trying to get through an 
 area without being seen and works well in a gunfight by hiding behind the walls and peeking out 
 to shoot at anyone who passes by.
  
  Though there are some gameplay flaws. Take for example, the mediocre A. I. You'll notice that the 
 enemies don't do much rather than stand still and shoot, cover and never come out of his hiding 
 spot, or blindly charge at you just to get a close range shot. There ways of strategy also seem 
 to be pitiful. They don't use teamwork to take you out, and instead they'd rather run behind a 
 wall and run back out over and over again. So, this could make gameplay kind of boring and too 
 easy. What's even worse is that they're so hard to kill. Everytime you shoot in the chest multiple 
 times, they'll just put their hand on their chest acting like it hurts and go back to shooting. 
 But if you play it on Perfect Agent or Dark Agent. Try to take some asprin, because while the enemies 
 are still stupid, they are harder too kill and every bullet you get hit with will take off half 
 your health. What's an even harder about these modes is that there are no checkpoints.
  
  Also, there's a bug with the ragdoll physics. You'll notice that if you kill someone, they'll either 
 float off the ground, bounce around the area, or take ahile to actually fall off the ground it's 
 supposed to fall on after he gets shot. Another thing, is that the missions don't feel fun as the 
 original. While the original Perfect Dark had missions like infiltrating a Skedar base and killing 
 the Skedar leader. This game just has you doing missions like infiltrating a night club with the 
 most boring stealth tactics. All you have to do is scan some data from some enforcers and get inside 
 the club, shoot everyone, then go find your dad.
  
  Story really isn't that great either, you and you're dad are just bounty hunters hunting down criminals, 
 then later finding out the CEO of Datadyne, Zhang Li, is going activate a very devistating mechanism, 
 knowned as the Graal. Yeah, it's really not as good as the orginal Perfect Dark's story and the 
 music isn't as good as the original. It's just more and more rock music through out many parts 
 of the game.
  
  But just because the single player campaign is a bit mediocre, that doesn't mean that the multiplayer 
 isn't great. You get eight modes seperated into two categories. Deathmatch contains Killcount, 
 Team Killcount, Capture the Flag and Territorial Gains. Now DarkOps, is where you can get some 
 real strategy. Modes like Eradication require careful planning and teamwork to eliminate the opposite 
 team. Infecton, basically requires you to stay away from infected players. If they kill you, you're 
 automatically put on their team. Sabotage, puts you in a team of either attackers or defenders. 
 The attackers must blow up several base points located around the map while the defenders must.... defend 
 the base points. However, Onslaught, which basically just makes you have to either defend a point 
 for a certain time limit or kill all defenders, it really isn't that great.
  
  All of this supports up to 32 players, customizable size of the maps, customizable weapons, option 
 to put bots in online multiplayer modes while also customizing their A. I and even the time limit 
 of the match.
  
  Plus, there is very little to no lag at all. Yep, so even though the game offers a mediocre single 
 player with a boring story, lame music, and dumb A. I. The multiplayer makes Perfect Dark Zero one 
 of the best console multiplayer games out there. See you on Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Telomar
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 23, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that bears the marks of having been rushed to release. Finding bugs isn't hard although 
 it is rare you will run into a serious game stopping bug. That said the single player missions 
 are reasonably fun but difficulty levels jump around all over the place with no real build up and 
 development and the final boss is quite easy compared to for instance the final battle in the China 
 mission. The four separate difficulty levels offer something for everyone though.
  
  The graphics are solid but certainly not spectacular and in many instances they more resemble a 
 tech demo. You can over do a good thing. Character models are also quite poor and there isn't the 
 greatest response sometimes to shooting someone. All in all the graphics and physics just doesn't 
 seem quite there.
  
  Without doubt the greatest appeal in this game lies in the co-op and multiplayer modes that can 
 offer hours of addictive fun. Doing the solo missions co-op just makes the otherwise bland missions 
 a bit more interesting. With a number of different game types there is a great deal of replay value 
 in multiplayer too. This is a great game to play with a friend.
  
  It's hard not to recommend the game at this stage even for people who aren't heavy FPS fans but 
 expect to play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 11, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  Good: There is a large assortment of guns, great graphic, one of the best soundtracks on a 360 
 games, Fun and enjoyable online play.
  
  Bad: Character Models textures look bad up close, minor graphic glitches, not that great of a story
 
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is the prequel to the N64 game named Perfect Dark, with a big success. This usually 
 means people expect a lot from their sequels or prequel in this case. The game isnt as good as 
 the first one but it, is a very good game for an xbox 360 launch game. The story in Perfect Dark 
 Zero is, not the best thing to hit games these days. The characters in the game come and go, so 
 you dont really get time to ever care about these characters a whole lot. But the story is pretty 
 easy to follow, but if you dont want to follow it you can easily skip the cut scenes before and 
 sometimes after each level. You will be playing Joanna Dark the red headed gun for hire. Joanna 
 is actually going to probably be the only character you will ever care about. Joanna is working 
 with her father who seems to be a bounty hunter. The story keeps adding characters from there, 
 and then takes them out, before you even get a chance to lean a thing about the character. Perfect 
 Darks game play is fun and frustrating at times. First off the controls are wonderfully picked 
 for the 360 controller, it is a bit of a weird experience at first but you can quickly get use 
 to it. The one thing in the game that is very interesting is the Dodge roll witch is used by pressing 
 the left bumper and pressing in the direction you want to roll with the left analog stick. This 
 feature is balanced a bit, because when you roll and if you get hit, you will take more damage 
 then you usually would. The damage in the game is different according to your difficulty settings. 
 The difficulty settings in the game are very good, from easy to very hard. This allows you to pick 
 from your skills from the game, depending on how good you are. The gun fights in that game are 
 fun and very chaotic at points. There is a cover feature in the game, which allows you to walk 
 up to a wall or a box and press A to hide behind it. This sometimes is frustrating when in a big 
 gun fight, because you cant just walk up to the wall all the time and just press A, it sometimes 
 makes you wait until it says in text press A for cover. The guns vary in damage and accuracy, 
 which will get users online coming back to one gun over and over, because of its reliable power 
 and accuracy.
  
  The multiplayer in the game is interesting and can be fun with bots or with human players on xbox 
 live. The game types go from your standard death match, team death match, and capture the flag. 
 But then theres a mode called dark ops, this allows you to play other game types including Infection, 
 and a counter strike like setting. There are two other settings that dont allow you to play with 
 bots. The online can be frustrating at times because of all the glitches in the maps which allow 
 people to fall through or go through walls.
  
  The graphics in Perfect Dark are just amazing. There are just so much details in the character 
 models and the gun models. For starters the characters models have great shadowing done on them, 
 and make them just look even better. The character models also move realistically. The guns look 
 great which is great, sense you have to look at them for almost the whole game, besides Joanna 
 Dark in a third person view. The motion blur is done pretty good, but when you move a gun just 
 a little bit, the motion blur looks to be a little to over done. The environments in the game look 
 amazing; from the lighting effects to the over all graphical stand point.
  
  Over all if you enjoyed the first Perfect Dark, or just enjoy first person shooters this game is 
 a great choice to try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wtfandyk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 22, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty good game. The story could have been a little better and a little more in depth. 
 They tried to add different kind of elements to the game such as sneaking and some simple problem 
 solving but even with some of these elements to the game, it pretty much is just your standard 
 FPS. The game does have a difficult side to it especially playing it on the harder difficulty settings, 
 so I would recommend playing it on harder settings. Graphic are pretty good for one of the first 
 games to come out on the 360. The game also has great music to it. If you are on the fence about 
 FPS then I would just rent this to see how you feel about it, but if you love FPS then this is 
 the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  You play as Joanna Dark, one of the first Game girl to appire on a video game!
  
  GOOD- Great background graphics; superb music; great action packed combat; long
  
  BAD- Character 
 graphics aint to good; short missions; confusing story
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  In this game you play as one of the first gaming girls to appire on a video game, Joanna Dark, 
 your mission is to stop Datadrain from there evil corparation, the combat is fantasticly engaging 
 and exciting, theres combat all the way through, its a first person game, but you can go into hide 
 mode here it goes into a thrid person view were you can take cover behind objects and take out 
 enermys without you being hit.
  
  GRAPHICS-
  The background graphics are realy great, there very realistic and 3D, but when you look at the 
 character models they are lame and does'nt look next gen
  
  SOUND-
  It has good voice acting and even better music, the music in the game gets you going in combat, 
 its sounds like your in an action packed movie or somthing!!,.
  
  WHY SHOULD I BUY THIS GAME?
  One of the best FPS games on the 360 to date, its action packed 
 why should'nt you buy it?. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emb3r
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 21, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  perfect dark 0 was made by rare. the guys that brought us golden eye on the n64. Though dont expect 
 a golden eye type of game.
  
  Game play - The game play of perfect dark zero is fun and exciting. though it seems like when the 
 game is over it kind of feels like wow..... hmmmmm...... well I guess I could have spent that time 
 working or playing oblivion or world of warcraft it seems shallow at the end. the coop is actually 
 kind of fun to do with friends. the deathmatch isnt really that great.
  
  Graphics - The graphics in this game are pretty decent. they seem like they dont take advantage 
 of the power of the 360. environments are pretty good. I dont really like the character models 
 to much. the guns look nice.
  
  Sound - the sound is decent. its not the best damn thing Ive ever heard but the gun and explosions 
 are good. the music isnt really amazing.
  
  Value - The game is like $30 but in my opinion I wouldnt buy it mainly because of the shallowness 
 of the game. but thats me. you might buy this game and absolutely love it.
  
  Final thoughts - Dont go out and buy this game and expect it to be the best damn thing next to 
 toothpaste. Its a decent game but it could have been a hell of allot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sosotiit
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 18, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  At first I did not get it and was very disappointed, I guess I was expecting a lot based on how 
 much I liked their N64 titles. After leaving it aside for a while, I decided to do a few missions 
 before the final move to the archive box!! I am happy I did because in the end you learn to appreciate 
 this game. Great weapon and fun.
  The one thing that prevented from giving a 8.7 is the Save system which in my opinion ruins everything 
 for beginners and average player. A few more checkpoint per mission would have made a world of 
 difference for these players. It simply does not allow you to try new approach without redoing 
 your last 20 mins. I can get that perfect agent level might be no saves, but not the levels below. 
 I liked the Hitman system, number of save goes down as the difficulty increases.
  In the end, it could have been my game of the year, it will be a nice 10 hours without replay value.
 
  rgds, soso 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cod2expert
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 17, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a well made game ill give it that, but there is some flaws. TO be honest with 
 you i never played the first perfect dark game for the 64, but you dont need to play that game 
 inorder to play this.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  The graphics in this game are amazing it looks pretty real this deffently puts the 360's graphics 
 engine to work. Mainly the only thing wrong with the graphics is the character models are not the 
 best they could have worked on them a tad bit more than they did. The scenery in this game is so 
 amazing its practiculy real.
  
  Sound 8/10
  The sound in this game is pretty good. The gun shots sound real as can be. The voice over is ok 
 i guess you can be the judge on that.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  The gameplay asspect in this game is awsome. There is nothing to complain about with the gameplay 
 in this game. Although there is co-op split screen in this game.
  
  Overall 9/10
  Overall this game is awsome ,but will sadly soon be foregotten. If you like fps and have a 360 
 i would deffinetly pick this game up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cornholio1014
Rating: 4.9
Date: Sep 11, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I have waited to play this game for 4 years. The fisrt perfect dark was incredible. I played and 
 played the original. When i found out that they were making another one i wanted to cry, then i played 
 the new one and did cry. Sure its pretty but it lacks so very much. I mean you can make any game 
 pretty, Rockstar's Table Tennis as proof, but thats not all there is to it. Multiplayer wasnt bad 
 but not as good as the original. No counter op which is forgivable but doesnt help the fact that 
 this game, similiar to Halo 2, was a big let down. The story was horrible. The last fight is against 
 a guy that is magic-woo-hooo-I just killed a chinese Houdini with a sword. I mean come on. The first 
 one had aliens and wasnt as far fetched as this. I prefere a multiplayer where you can use strategy. There 
 were to many computers running around for me to even find where to go. All in all, the game wasnt 
 good at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jobeesh
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Like most people, I bought Perfect Dark Zero as temoporary Halo 2 replacement on my Xbox 360. I 
 was impressed by the reviews and was a fan of Perfect Dark and 007 on the N64. At first glance 
 the weapons in this game are easily the most entertaining aspect. It had a wonderully large arsenal 
 of weapons that was immediately remenicant of the orignal game. I saw myself drawn in by the look 
 and feel of each gun. Each one was attractive and very unique. Every weapon had a secondary function 
 adding to the variety of the game. Many guns even had a tertiary function that would frequently 
 come into play and only made me want to play and master this game even more. The differences in 
 the ranges between the guns was vast, though overall, the weapons have extremely long range. This 
 created multiplayer levels that took 10 to 15 minutes to walk from one place to another. The long 
 range is also coupled with an extremely weak auto aim causing a very unbalanced multiplayer experience. 
 Area effect weapons become kind. Those weopons that have secondary explosive functions dominate 
 the battle field in virtually all multiplayer. The result is very unblanced multiplayer. Rare tried 
 to compensate for this with weapons at spawn points for some games but it does little to change 
 the balance problems in the game because, with potentially massive teams, you will probably be 
 the dude stuck with the pistol against the super dragon grenade launcher. Like the weapons, the 
 graphics are excellent but missing a little something. The picturesque jungle scenese, especially, 
 pop. There is plenty of foliage to make the scenes truely believable. There aren't fog of war problems 
 or pieces of grass that fade in as you walk through the jungle. The level of detail is truely next 
 gen. The snow was also nicely reflective, though it didn't seem to be intractive the way real snow 
 would be. However there were some aspects of the graphics that it seems Rare may have glossed over. 
 Most notably: the water. The water does not lay flat like water does, in many campeigns the rivers 
 magically defy gravity by riding up cliff walls. The multiplayer was another potentially fun experience 
 that seemed to fall short. The wide array of weapons with extremely long range and dull auto aim 
 made for long boring hikes across gigantic levels which ended quickly by from players that weren't 
 even visible because of their distance from you. The interface was clumsy at best. I found myself 
 wanding around menues trying to get to where I wanted and never really making any progress. In 
 the wide array of multiplayer game types there were many games that proved to be fun, there is 
 definitely a game type out there for anybody. Whether it's straight up "slayer" or a wide variety 
 of games playing off slayer or other objective games you want, they're all there. Many of the gamer 
 points available in this game are also unlocked by playing multiplayer. However, I had several 
 occasions where the points were never recorded even though the task had been completed. Overally, 
 Perfect Dark Zero was fun to play through but too much of it seemed glossed over by the developers 
 or poorly thought out. I would say it's worth a play but not worth the hype. The single player 
 is entertaining and the multiplay, though unblanced, will make you want to explore the different 
 game types. All in all it's fun and attractive but not a Halo replacement by any means. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystery323x
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 5, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is great online or offline multiplayer but the regular story mode isnt that great its 
 fun but not that good. But my review will moslty be about the Multiplayer. First off there is to 
 Multiplayer Main modes which is DeathMatch and DarkOps. Each mode is broken down into diffrent 
 game types. Listed below DeathMatch = KillCount, Team KillCount, Capture the Flag, and Territorial 
 Gains.
  
  DarkOps = Eradication, Onslaught, Infection, Sabotage.
  
  Thats all there names but i dont feel like explaining about them.
  
  Just in DeathMatch you 
 like respawn after killed in DarkOps most games you dont respawn till next round but some you do. 
 Vehicles- HoverCraft car thing, and Jetpack.
  
  Guns- A nice variety from pistols to snipers and all in between.
  
  Levels- Theres not alot 
 but you could download 4 New ones of Xbox Live Market which are good.
  
  Community- (people playing online) are mostly cool and easy to get along with.
  
  Games up 
 to play- A good amount in my opinion.
  
  Graphics are nice to.
  
  Theres alot of little thing you could do in a game like cover behind things and such
  
  So 
 that should be a good example of things. If you want a good Online Multiplayer this is your game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2006 4:23 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero (PDZ) has had quite the long and storied development ride. The must anticipated 
 prequal to the great N64 game was first supposed to appear on the Gamecube. Then Microsoft went 
 and bought Rare, which at the time, was thought to be a very slick move. At that point, PDZ was 
 being ported over to the Xbox. I am assuming that someone over at Microsoft figured that this could 
 potentially be a huge title, so making it for the Xbox 360 and having it be a launch game would 
 be a better idea. And after years & years, here we finally have the finished product.
  
  I have never been that big a fan of Rare's games. Sure I loved Goldeneye & Perfect Dark as much 
 as anyone, but none of their other games were really all that good. I have always felt that they 
 have become severely overrated (like Rockstar) because they made one GREAT game, lossed the Bond 
 license, made a second great game (PD) , and have been riding the coatails of that since. And like 
 Blizzard, Rare tends to delay their games for what seems like an eternity. The thing is that when 
 Blizzard actually releases their games, they are the best on the market. If you look at Microsoft's 
 purchase of Rare and all the hype around it, I feel that they haven't really gotten a lot for their 
 bucks. Two average Xbox games and two decent 360 launch titles aren't what gamers had in mind when 
 it came to Rare's future.
  
  And now we are left with a game that can have you screaming at your TV in frustration one minute, 
 then having a great time the next. That is the problem with this game. It's really only fun online 
 and while it looks 'next-gen', it certainly doesn't show off what the 360 can do. For every good 
 thing, there are two bad things that I can say about this game.
  
  Pros: Best weapons I have ever seen in a console FPS; the enviroments look fantastic; pretty good 
 music; great presentation; nice addittion with the CO-OP feature; online multiplayer is the only 
 reason to own this game; excellent selection of different match types for Xbox Live; online games 
 can hold up to 32 players; it's very addicting to play online and go for all the achievements; 
 Enemy AI is pretty good when set on settings higher than 'Agent'.
  
  Cons: Non-interesting storyline; one-player game is crap; another game that suffers from a lack 
 of SAVE CHECKPOINTS (my biggest pet peeve in gaming) ; lack of an in-game map; very vague mission 
 objectives; the character models are all goofy (Joanna Dark looks like a Britney Spears wanna-be 
 with red hair) & look current-gen; terrible voice acting; comes off as a wanna-be Bond FPS and 
 isn't much better than the Bond FPS available for the current-gen; most of the weapons need bigger 
 clips, as you spend half the game reloading; 'DarkOps' online game mode comes off as a bad Counterstrike 
 clone for a number of reasons; single-player difficulty is very unbalanced.
  
  So as you can see, the only reason to purchase this game is to play it on Xbox Live. The single 
 player game is extremely frustrating because of the lack of checkpoints and isn't all that interesting 
 to begin with. Online play is a blast and can get VERY addicting trying to get all those achievements. 
 PDZ isn't a bad game. It's just a game that doesn't come close to living up to all of the hype 
 that surrounded it, and is really only fun online shooting other people. It's too bad the single-player 
 game can't live up to expectations, because this was obviously not designed to be a Counterstrike 
 or Battlefield wanna-be. Unfortunately, that's what it essentially boils down to. Because if it 
 wasn't for the online aspect, this game would get a 7 in my rankings. So if you don't use Xbox 
 Live, then take that into account. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odst_derek
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  This is one great game. Let's start with some simple pros and cons:
  
  Pros:
  -Beautiful graphics
  -Amazing sound
  -Great gameplay
  -Seamless multiplayer, both competitive 
 and co-op
  -Plenty of replay value
  -Did I mention the graphics?
  -Joanna Dark is HOT!
  
  Cons:
  -Slower Paced than most FPSs
  -Pretty cheap story
  -Achievements distributed in 
 a very stingy manner
  
  Now with the main review! First thing you'll notice when you play this game is how jaw-dropping 
 beautiful it is. This is really the first game to really capture the beauty of HD. And it looks 
 great on any SDTV too! The gameplay is slower paced than most first-person shooters, but it still 
 works great, although you may have to get used to it. The missions are great on different difficulties. 
 For example, on easy you can just blaze through a level, but on hard you'll have to complete various 
 other tasks such as jam enemy coms or destroy radar towers. This makes for a good amount of replay 
 value. The audio in this game is crystal clear, a true beauty on 5.1. One of the best things about 
 this game is how well the weapons are portrayed: they are easily the most realistic weapons I've 
 ever seen in a game. The multiplayer is nearly perfect, with the right blend of run-an-gun and 
 some careful tactical play. The co-op is truly amazing, should you choose to elect playing in such 
 a manner. The only real downsides to this game are the slower pace, which you get used to, and 
 can really appreciate, after a little while, and the awful story. This story's plot is absolutely 
 abysmal, although you won't really pay much attention to it when you play this game. Last, but 
 not least, Rare really wanted you to work for your achievements. They are really focused on multiplayer 
 gaming, with very little focus on single player achievements.
  
  Bottom line: This is a great game, with minor flaws that are easy to ignore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimboj
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 4:23 am PT
Review:  An excellent game much like Goldeneye on the N64 for its fps pseudo-questing (you have many fun 
 and varied gadgets to play with and use for mission objectives) . Great realistic weapons and combat. 
 There is a lack of missions but the achievement grind is still fun and the missions can be very 
 different on the hardest difficulties. Deathmatch seems cool too with some of the achievements 
 linked to killing sprees etc. Haters saying that graphics are old are sortof right - They look 
 ok and good enough to have fun in the missions with no lag ever but theres nothing third gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt_Wuggles
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Good game over all but just dosnt feel right! its to slow paced!!! i lke the bots ane the features 
 but it reminds me of counter strike but slower... grafhics are good but it cant compensate for 
 pore sound!!! its a rent and mabie buy!...
  
  just dont buy it if you know you will just play a little bit! only buy if your gonna like playing 
 it for a while
  
  thts all i can say about the game but the special editon is for true collectors who love a good 
 pagage!! this comes with a comic book an collectors plaqe!!! a good deal over all espetialy for 
 its current price ! ... .... ... ... ........ .....
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greatwasabi
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 1, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I think GameSpot when crazy when they wrote their review for this game. This is by far the lamest 
 excuse for a next gen title out there. Think of it as, James Bond, except fifteen times more retarded. 
 You remember the AI in those old N64 007 games? They haven't changed a bit from then to Perfect 
 Dark. They just run around, get up into your face, and shoot. No ducking and using cover, they 
 just run at you and shoot. Mind you they also run very slowly, make them extremely easy targets. 
 And how do they kick up the difficulty? Just make the enemies have fifteen times more power and 
 give you fifteen times less. I was looking for some very enjoyable moments in this game but this 
 game failed to give me any entertainment what so ever. FIrst of all the using cover system is practically 
 broken. First of all when you get close to something that requires cover it takes about two seconds 
 for the A button to actually appear on the screen so you can use it, and since the AI is so retarded 
 by that time they're already right in your face wailing on you so you can't even use the cover. 
 And then you think shooting guns could have been a little more fun in this game. None of the guns 
 were louder than a feeble "Dum dum dum" With the Shotgun pulling off a "DUM, chachunk, DUM, chachunk" 
 Please. It also looks like they made the models for everything in the game, and then just threw 
 a bucket of whale semen on it for some extra shinyness. Yes it all looked amazing and awe inspiring, 
 I wouldn't have expected any less from a next gen console with as much hype as this. The problem 
 is they never nailed the gameplay. Shooting a gun was plain boring, the AI was even worse. And 
 some of the names of your rivals just made me want to tear off my ears. May Hem? You have got to 
 be kidding me. I mean this is what I usually encountered in the game.
  
  *Ten soldiers run into room* Bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam 
 bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam *six hundred rounds later I'm still 
 alive* bam bam bam bam bam.
  I return fire with three bullets.
  "Oh **** she's got a gun! Run!"
  *Soldiers run straight at me*
  *I close my eyes, spin around 
 in sixteen circles, pull the right trigger and shoot off a grenade*
  "AHHHH! UGHHHHH AOOOOHHHHFF UUHHH AHHHH" *Sounds of soldiers dying*
  *Weird lady that helps me* 
 "Oh noes Joana! It's your rival! May Hem! She looks pretty tough!"
  "Bwaahahahahaha! You'll never beat me!!!"
  *Three painfully boring minutes later*
  "Oh noes! 
 How could you have defeated me!"
  
  Seriously. Save yourself the horrible gut wrenching pain that is Perfect Dark Zero and get a real 
 game. Call of Duty 2 : The story of the men that didn't allow whale semen on every model in the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akif22
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing the single player campaign, I found the voice acting and character 
 style a bit off putting. But still, since this was a RARE FPS, I decided to play on and see if 
 there was any magic behind this game.
  
  In the end, the game does deliver good first person shooting action, but I still feel that it lacks 
 something. Something that made Goldeneye and Perfect Dark so great. Perhaps losing Nintendo is 
 that something, or maybe it's the fact that the game was rushed for the 360 launch.
  
  Still, the overall game is good, with some good level design and weapons.
  
  The true worth 
 of the game is it's multiplayer. This is the thing that makes me still play the game. So if you 
 buy FPSs mainly for multiplayer gameplay, especially if online, this really is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fullmetal34
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is freakin' awesome... you can't deny. The combat NEVER gets repitive, many weapons, 
 and funny AI. Like if you snipe one of the two guards in one of the towers on the Mansion level, 
 the other will look around and not even notice the dead guy. People might say its retard AI, but 
 i say its a guy trying to get a bead on you. There are also two books out, Perfect Dark Zero: Initial 
 Vector and the second, Perfect dark Second front. These books are good, The Devs did amazing on 
 the game. The story was compelling, the gameplay, as i said amazing. Its just sad it clocks in 
 at about 23 hours... i wish it had like 30 levels instead of 13! *SPOILER ALERT! LOOK AWAY NOW 
 IF YOU HAVEN'T FINISHED THE GAME* If you are stuck on the final fight, when zhang lee drops his 
 viblade, pick it up and slash him... carrington will tell you when to do that! *ps the best weapons 
 for this are the magnum and the heave machine gun* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  RARE stood out on the Nintendo 64 as the creator of rare games, Near Perfect games, though on the 
 360 with Perfect Dark Zero the game and the impact on the system may not be as great as those on 
 the 64 as a launch title it is a good look at what the 360 may become in the Shooter genre. Decent 
 graphics and great gameplay pretty much wrap up this game, but I wouldn't call it a full let down 
 as I've seen in some reviews. Yeah, as said before it hasn't made the impact as the original did 
 on the Nintendo 64, but after playing this game I don't think anybody could say they would rather 
 play the original. Come on this is the Xbox 360, and the lack of some key aspects that Perfect 
 Dark had that this may not carry as perfectly doesn't sink the boat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 28, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  A nice release with an interesting addition to the series, however very linear in my opinion. The 
 storyline is easy to follow and pretty solid and so are the graphics. The sound could be much better 
 and so could the linear gameplay. I hated having arrows on the ground telling me where to go when 
 I wandered off to have a look elsewhere. The A. I was okay and when the guys died I have never in 
 my life seen worse ragdoll effects ever. I mean sometimes the guy would me dead and having the 
 worse seizure ever, it looked like he was humping the ground, yet he was dead. The good: weapons, 
 graphics, and controls, all very solid. What I liked was the offline co-op. Although, it was still 
 kinda linear, it was cool how they would send you and your buddy off on 2 different paths, only 
 to meet up somewhere along the way. No JUMP= BAD. Multiplayer is kinda good but I prefer CoD2 much 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selek_99
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero seemed sketchy in my eyes when i first bought my 360 and therefore I bought Call 
 of Duty as my first game. However, a friend of mine brought over PDZ and let me check it out. That 
 night we played it online for like 12 hours. The online play of PDZ is highly addictive and very 
 fun. Although the graphics seem strange and not very "next-gen." (I didn't really like how everyone 
 was so shiny) " and the sound broke up during parts of the online play, the easy controls and just 
 flat out fun that the multiplayer side of the game brings, overshadows all the negative aspects 
 including a poor single player campaign. A must have for quick deathmatch! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adblade_172XxX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  ok this is my first review so i hope u like it......
  
  pdz is an amazing first person shooter and i will break up my review into diffrent  
 ,sound, and enjoyment.
  
  gameplay.. pdz has excellent gameplay there are so many things u can do in this game it feels like 
 u are actualy in it!, there are great guns great lv. s, great single player, (with a little raw 
 story) ,and great multyplayer almost no flaws there. but at some parts u seem to get lost real easy.
 
  
  graphics... graphics are very good but not revolutionary the look so amazing close up ,and the 
 designs on the guns or amazing, but items seem ugly from far away and for some reason the color 
 does not seem to flowexactly right.
  
  controls.... controls are also very good but seem hard to use some times, i love how u can cover 
 and dive and so on but theres flaws like u cant aim with to guns witch is only a minor set back 
 but a set back none the less.
  
  sound.... crisp,, clean, great..........
  
  enjoyment........ i overral had lots of fun with this game even though it some times it can turn 
 into camper fight u will have lots of fun with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 27, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero came out on the N64 as many ppl know and it was a huge hit. Now I didn't play 
 that one so I don't car about it. But altogether, the remake is excellent. Amazing graphics with 
 no glithces and stuff. Sound Effects.... sounded great to me. Great physics make killing soooo satisfying. 
 Grea story and good voice-acting. Has alot of style and feels very high-tech and tactical. A good 
 length and some replay value. Definitly worth a rental and VERY affordable at it's low price of 
 $50, soon to be $30. Awesome game, check it out no matter what. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgmkyle
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark 64 was one of the best FPS's or game ever made. It shined with fun shooting action 
 that never got old, stellar graphics for its time, great variety of guns and an awesome combat simulator 
 mode. So the question is, does Perfect Dark Zero live up to the original? The answer is No, but its 
 still a fun game that is worthy of the name.
  
  This is actually a prequel to PD, and the game does not give you a very good job of solving everything 
 from the first one. Questions like How did Jo learn how to speak with a British accent in PD? or 
 Why is her hair red and why does she have a tattoo on her neck but not in PD? The story is a mess, and 
 seems like a watered down bounty hunter flick. And the cut-scenes are pretty bad and not presented 
 well at all.
  
  THE game however, is very fun and addictive. The multi-player is not nearly as good as PD, but some 
 of the levels are fun, but some clearly could use some work. AI is so weird in this game its scary, its 
 like they always know when you are aiming at them, even when they can't see you. But head shoting 
 them is really easy. There is quite a variety of guns, but there not as cool as PD's.
  
  The games environments, lighting and guns look awesome! Shame the characters don't.
  
  The game 
 has a very good soundtrack filled with an excellent sexy vibe. And it fits the games atmosphere 
 perfectly. But the audio is kinda ruined when it comes to the terrible and annoying voice actors. Chandra, is 
 your guide that will drive you insane by the end of the game, with her terrible voice and annoying 
 one-liners.
  
  There is a lot to keep you busy, lots of multi-player levels, fun co-op and fun single modes. There 
 are also leader boards for just about everything. There are also lots of Gamer Points to unlock 
 if you are into those.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is worth the Perfect Dark name, but I won't be surprised if most are sad that 
 it does not come close to surpassing the six-year old original in terms of content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJL120120
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 24, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This game as pretty hyped up, for obvious reasons. The original Perfect Dark is considered by many 
 to be one of the greatest FPS's, or games for that matter, of all time. Now the prequel is out, 
 and just about everyone loves it and considers it a must have for the 360. After playing it, I'm 
 left with one question... why?
  Really, this game just simply isn't fun. I'll break down why...
  
  Gameplay: Owch. It's a smack 
 in the face, really. It's almost insulting to be playing a super secret agent who can't jump. What's 
 really insulting is the enemies, who do nothing besides yell at you and stand out in the open shooting, 
 sometimes running right into your face. They're all dumb as a brick. In the first level, I couldn't 
 tell who was on my team and who wasn't, because I had no idea the AI would be dumb enough to stand 
 next to me without shooting me until I shoot him first. If my reticle didn't turn red I would have 
 never realized he wasn't on my side.
  The level designs are a HUGE part of what makes the gameplay so boring. It lacks any real... design. 
 There's hallways, stairs, and boxes. Sure, alot of the places you'll be visiting LOOK cool and 
 LOOK detailed, but in the middle of a gunfight that doesn't really mean anything, does it? No, 
 and when you're actually playing in these fights, you realize how uninteresting they are. It painfully 
 reminds me of a level you'd play on a PS1 game, just with better graphics. Environments play a 
 huge role in games (not just their looks either) and without any interesting environments to play 
 on, it just plain sucks. What makes this all worse is the levels are painfully linear, but in a 
 wierd way. There are arrows that tell you where to go. With them, it all feels linear and ristricting. 
 However, without them you'd be very lost alot of the time. So it's a lose lose situation, really.
 
  The game is painfully slow paced too, in a literal sense. You walk slow, you turn slow, it's just 
 slow. No you can't run, and as I said, you can't jump.
  The actual shooting... while it is fun for a bit, after about...2 fights, you realize how disturbingly 
 dumb all your enemies are, and it all ends up feeling like target practice mixed with some random 
 hiding to wait for your health to go up, rather than an actual gunfight. Graphics: Yes, this game 
 is pretty. Everything looks damn awesome. The only graphical problem is that the characters have 
 some slight clipping issues and look kinda ugly up close, other than that it's all easy on the 
 eyes. Especially the weapons... they're some of the best looking and most details weapons I've ever 
 seen in a game. Definetly the best part of this game.
  
  Sound: Nothing great at all but it does it's job. The guns actually do sound very good, but beyond 
 that everything sounds as it should, no less, no worse. Good voice acting too.
  
  Value: Considering this game just isn't really... good, eh.
  
  I'll make the multiplayer quick: 
 It's painfully decent, mediocre. The weapons are once again fun to use. But the levels are rather 
 odd, yet they remain kind of interesting. SOme of them are just lame however, but I would definetly 
 play multiplayer over the single player. Still, this isn't worth paying for really.
  
  In the end, PDZ is simply a boring game. The levels suck, the actual playing is lame, so what else 
 can redeem it? Not good looks, that's for sure. Definetly rent before you buy, don't believe any 
 "must-have" reviews you may read. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucasAW
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Okay.. I'm warning you - this is gona be a long one!! But bare with me.
  
  To start with, PDZ is the prequel to Perfect Dark which was on non-other than the legendary N64. 
 The original PD was simply fantastic, it the only FPS I have played that can even rival Goldeneye 
 (Many people disagree with me when I say goldeneye is one of the greatest FPS's ever... but I don't 
 care.. so go ahead and 'not recommend' this review.. usually draws more attention neways :D) OK.. 
 so yeh the original PD was awesome, it had pretty much everything Goldeneye had and more added 
 features which was really awesome.
  
  Now. Comparing the original PD to its younger brother - PDZ. PDZ obviously has many advantages 
 (mainly graphics and sound wise) . However let me just tell you straight, PDZ does not even compare 
 to how much fun the original was to play. Everything seemed to flow nicely in the original PD.. 
 now the gameplay has turned into sharp, nasty movements with annoying enemies randomly running 
 suddenly turning shooting 2 bullets and running again. Basically, the newer version can't hold 
 a candle to its older brother.. now thats out of the way.. the review!! lol!
  
  Graphics = Very VERY good... rare have managed to create a superb crisp finish to the way the game 
 looks. Enviroments look sharp and clean - no matter where you look, everything is finished and 
 nicely polished. Characters look pretty grizzley when up close and even look a little wierd from 
 a distance, mainly due to their rigid posture and limited combat sequences (it is normally shoot, 
 run, shoot , run.. or even shoot run duck!!) . Paying particular attention to weapon models, the 
 amount of attention to detail is superb - every single weapon has a beautiful shine to it and looks 
 absolutly perfect. Turning sharply creates a blurr effect on the weapon that you have equipped 
 which looks pretty damn cool.
  
  Sounds = What can I say? Just what you expect from this type of game.. bang.. or dadadadadadadada.. 
 or ffffpphwump or cha-chink! I could go on... Mind you the music is pretty awful, just does'nt 
 suit a stealthy style of gameplay. Saying that, you in your face style gamers should feel right 
 at home!!
  
  Gameplay = Just to get something clear, I have always been a firm believer.. since the days of 
 the SNES. Gameplay is the most important aspect of gaming. Without it you'd be left with nothing. 
 Sadly this game lacks gameplay. Controls are twitchy, awkward and have a very strange unnatural 
 feel to them leaving the gamer feeling disorientated. Enemies have poor AI and are ridiculously 
 bullet proof. They also have a poor amount of combat manouvers they can carry out. This added with 
 a very dizzy feeling, added with kinda realistic characters and stupidly unrealistic looking weapons 
 and characters gets you annoyed more than anything. I cant put my finger on what makes this game 
 so weird to play, but what I can say is the cool looking blur effect does'nt help. It leaves you 
 feeling really quite dizzy after leggin it round corridors and tight bendy paths. Plus the graphical 
 perfection of the game also seems to contradict the gameplay, as too much effort has been put into 
 making everything look good. Its just like plastic surgery, people pay thousands to look "perfect" 
 and end up with something that looks like what todays world see's as beautiful, but you always 
 think huh.. looks a little odd (IE over-the-top fake boobs, you know what im on about, the ones 
 stuffed so tightly with silicone they looks like 2 giant eyes that are about to pop) . Thats the 
 case with this game. Every single weapon, light, blade of grass, surface, character and even tree 
 has that perfect shine to it, no matter what type of texture it is. I think that for some reason, 
 anything will shine on this game as long as there is light. For example, in an ancient building, 
 you'd guess that the walls look kinda old and covered in dirt and plants and stuff, making it look 
 dull and well worn, even with light shining on it. But not in this game they don't - they shine!! 
 Which looks totally odd! Basically what im saying is that the graphical perfection mixed with the 
 fast paced gaming is what breaks this game. You will really have to see what I mean for yourself. 
 Next time you watch an ad for PDZ look at the enviroment and you'l see what I mean - everything 
 has been given a face lift and it just looks odd - WAY to shiny!!!
  
  Overall the graphic perfection of this game is probably what gives the game such a wierd look and 
 feel when actually playing. Everything has been made so crisp and shiny looking the game feels 
 plastic. The twitchy controls, predictable AI, spawing of enemies and the blur effects enhances 
 the plastic feel of the game, making you feel like your playing a game that has way too much focus 
 on the graphics and has been given just what has been formed over recent years as acceptable FPS 
 gameplay - which is see an enemy shoot it with any weapon you want. Nothing new to gameplay (no-matter 
 how many ridiculously stupid secondary functions you slap on weapons) and what's really terrible; 
 certain effects and the graphics seem to have made the game even worse to play.
  
  The perfect dark franchise started off superb on the N64, it played brilliantly and looked good 
 for its time (still looks just fine even now!!) and has ended up with something that todays gaming 
 industry labells as "outstanding graphics" but has dire gameplay. Shame.. I was looking forward 
 to a GAME and instead I ended up with a piece of "graphical prowess" wow... nice 1 rare... you've 
 destroyed Perfect Dark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartinWinthrop
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 21, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  They needed a quick and catchy game to go along with the release of the Xbox 360. The graphics 
 were good, but the game was far too short. There was not a lot of drama or story line to it. You 
 just received objectives and were thrown into the frey against Beta Dine. The more and more I played 
 it, the more I felt like it was a very rushed launch title. I was really let down. I also bested 
 the boss villan at the end in one try. I thought it was Panzy how he would jump around from plat 
 form to platform while you leveled him each time.
  If there is a saving quality about the game, it was the multiplayer. It had great machines to fly 
 and walk around in. I great rocket launcher that you could guide and watch from the inside of it. 
 It had great back ways and such as this. Other than this I won't remember the game very much at 
 all. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespoting
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 21, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  The Good: excellent, next gen visuals; well designed single player with plenty of replay value; 
 a ton of multiplayer options;
  
  The Bad: multiplayer is weak in design and lacks a real satifying feel; a. i. is weak in all modes 
 of gameplay; the story sucks in the single player so much it drags it down from being one of the 
 best for the 360;
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The orginal Perfect Dark was one of the highlights of the N64 lifespan. Two generations of consoles 
 later the sequel to this highly acclaimed shooter finally came out. Hopes were very high for this 
 360 launch title. When it came out the response to it was very mixed. Everybody thought this would 
 be a "Halo-Killer" and as it turns out it was not. Perfect Dark Zero is a very good game all around 
 but definately misses the high mark to said it would hit.
  
  The gameplay is like any standered FPS you've played in recent years. The single player game stands 
 out thanks to its rediculous amount of replay value, co-op gameplay and outstanding good looks. 
 But it is drags down with a thud by a very weak story with characters you could care less about 
 (Besides the very hot Joanna Dark) ! Still, as it stands, it has enough going for it to say that 
 it is one of the strongest single player games to date for the Xbox 360 coming in behind such excellent 
 titles as Oblivion and G. R. A. W.
  
  The multiplayer in PDZ is weak. It has everything going for it: a huge variety of gamepay types, 
 weapons ect. but it falls short in the most important area of all. It just isnt fun. There are 
 a ton of animation glitches and when you kill someone it just doesn't feel satifying. The other 
 problem is that no one is playing it online anymore. You might be able to overlook some of these 
 problems but without people to play with, these issues are magnified in a huge way when you play 
 with the idiotic bots. 
  
  Bottom LIne: If you have $30 bucks and feel you can overlook a few of these problems, there is 
 a gem of a game to be found. It is just too bad the developers didn't take more time to clean up 
 the story and multiplayer to make this the killer game it wants to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  When the Xbox 360 was announced back in 2005, the biggest launch title was Perfect Dark Zero, the 
 prequel to the fantastic N64 game, Perfect Dark. Now that I've gotten to play this killer APP launch 
 title for the 360, I have to say that this is no Halo. Let me first say that PDZ does truely look 
 next gen. When I started the single player mission, it took a few minutes before I realized I needed 
 to move. The visuals are fantastic and really do show off the 360's power, but making it look pretty 
 isn't everything. The actual gameplay is also very well done. In the single player mode, you play 
 as Joanna Dark, the daughter of a scientist who is out to fight against a mega corperation taking 
 over the world. you have lots of cool gadgets and guns at your disposal, but none of them should 
 make James Bond or Master Chief worry. The action is intence and the visuals add a lot to the game's 
 overall appeal, but it's biggest weakness is the original game's strongsuit: multiplayer. When 
 it was unvailed on MTV, PDZ looked awesome for multiplayer featuring bots, 50 players on Xbox Live 
 and intence gunfights. Unfortunately, most of those features ended up half-baked. The bots are 
 really stupid, and will spend more time shooting each other than you. Sure, the game supports 50 
 players, but nobody really plays it anymore because the multiplayer isn't as good as other 360 
 games like Call of Duty 2 or GRAW. The maps are massive and beautifully detailed, but it's really 
 not much fun trying to find one enemy in a massive map. It's also very easy to be spawn killed 
 in the Spawn Room where you get your first guns and weapons before entering the map. Update 1: 
 I desided to try the multiplayer mode again and am very glad I did so. It is a much better multiplayer 
 game than I originally thought. The bots aren't smart, but they should only be used if you want 
 some quick multiplayer achievements. Playing with and against real players is much more enjoyable 
 and the gameplay modes make it even more interesting. I really wish the game came with more multiplayer 
 maps, but there is a downloadable map pack on Xbox Live Marketplace, so that is a good option. 
 The multiplayer portion of PDZ is better than I originally though, but it's still not Halo 2 good.
 
  
  Overall, PDZ is a solid game with really nice visuals, but I wouldn't get it until the price goes 
 down to $40 or less and more people start playing online. It has decent multiplayer, but there 
 are better options out there.
  
  Gameplay: Solid single, but the multiplayer really leaves you wanting a lot more.
  
  Graphics: 
 Truely next gen visuals, but visuals can only do so much...
  
  Sound: The effects are also very well done.
  
  Value: At more than $40, this is not worth buying. 
 At $40 or less, you should at least consider picking this up.
  
  Final Thoughts: I really wanted this to be better, but the multiplayer isn't half as good as I 
 expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  It's sad everyone had to compare PDZ to Halo, b/c they are very different games with very different 
 goals. PDZ is more about style and stealth, while Halo was more about the epic sci-fi movie feel. 
 
  
  What PDZ does right is give you a game with great visuals (except for the characters... yuck) , tons 
 of great guns, and a great balance of gameplay. The mulitplayer really shines and is one of the 
 best games for xbox live. 
  
  The story mode leaves quite a bit to be desired however. The level variety is great, as well as 
 the style the game is going for, but the characters and plot points are all flat and do little 
 to make you care about what happnes next. This does not stop you from enjoying the game though, 
 due to the attention to making all the guns feel unique and fun. Each weapon has a secondary mode, 
 and some even a third. Unlike many shooters, firing your weapon never feels boring in PDZ. And 
 you can't wait to pick up the next one. 
  
  The music is fun and the sound effects are pretty good but not great. The voice acting is dull 
 and annoying most of the time. So while PDZ gives you no real reason to pump up your surround sound 
 system, there is nothing in it bad enough to ruin the experience.
  
  Basically, if you have xbox live gold, this game will give you many hours of very fun and rewarding 
 muliplayer bliss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: japanimational
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 20, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero, One of the first Xbox 360 games that was released, I got this game with my xbox 
 when I first bought it and I played it but didnt relly enjoy it at first I think its because I 
 just wasnt playing it fully I was rushing and not winning.
  
  So Anyway obviously this game has something to live upto with the fact that the developer Rare 
 have made instant classics such as Goldeneye and the original Perfect Dark both for the N64 (Along 
 with Many others!) so I only just bought it back about a week ago and i've gotta say its like a 
 totally new game, the graphics are sharp and sweet, the gameplay is immersive and challenging (Especially 
 on dark Agent : () the Lifespan of the gae is infinate if you have xbox live, I know people who 
 have been playing this game since the xbox 360 came out and still dont have all the achievements 
 for it yet! lol
  
  But seriously this is a good game, I picked it upf ro 24.99 down at my local game store and I thought 
 it was a bargin when I got it home.
  
  The Storyline is great and it really reminds me of goldeneye all the time!
  
  Give it a go 
 an see what u think!
  
  But dont pay the full price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decessus
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 19, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  I think most people can agree that the original Perfect Dark for the N64 was an outstanding game. 
 I know for me, one of the best things I enjoyed about the game was the ability to wield two weapons 
 at the same time. I also liked the ability to play against bots.
  
  So, when word came that they were making another Perfect Dark, I got pretty excited. Now, after 
 an incredibly long wait, for me the game turned out to be somewhat disappointing.
  
  One of the first things that I noticed about the game were the controls. Now, I'll be the first 
 to admit that I'm not that great at first person shooters, but even after playing for several days 
 I still find aiming to be a little too difficult. If the center of your reticule isn't right over 
 your target, then you won't hit it. For a PC game this isn't bad since a mouse is a lot more precise. 
 A console however needs to be a bit more forgiving. 
  
  I also thought the story was fairly boring and there were a lot of holes in the plot. Granted, 
 you don't usually play FPS's for the story, but if you're going to put one in, then at least try 
 to make it decent. A perfect example of this is when Jack was killed. Joanna hardly reacted at 
 all to this. Sure, she did the whole I'm going to get revenge thing, but I know if I saw my father 
 get shot in the head, I'd be a little more upset than our heroine was.
  
  The game certainly isn't all bad though. It looks and sounds good and overall it is pretty fun 
 to play. I really like that they added coop play over Xbox Live. Unfortunately since I purchased 
 the game so late, it seems not very many people play it anymore. There have been a few times when 
 I haven't been able to play due to lack of another person.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is a fairly solid FPS. After such a long wait though, I was expecting a lot more 
 and unfortunately the game for me seemed like a pretty big let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geese_Howard
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 19, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  Everyone remembers Goldeneye. Everyone. Not a single person who's even reading this review can 
 honestly say they've never once played Goldeneye for the Nintendo 64.
  
  If you can, get out.
  
  The year is 1998. At 3pm kids around the world rushed home from school 
 and barely had time to slam their backpacks to the floor before snapping on their N64 and jumping 
 at the chance to scream and laugh with their friends at what is undoubtedly one of the finest games 
 ever created. Play it today and it looks like absolute crud on toast, but I digress.
  
  Flash forward to 2000, and Rare's "not a sequel" sequel to Goldenye, Perfect Dark lands on the 
 dying N64. At 3pm, fewer kids ran home from school, and even fewer bothered to keep playing past 
 "Elvis". You'll know what I mean if you've played. But the multiplayer cannot be beat, it even 
 surpasses the "king" Goldeneye. By miles. Lots of miles.
  
  November 2005 and Rare's slapping their hands together at the mere thought of thousands of "first 
 day" kiddies throwing $60+ away on a game... that really isn't good. At first you might be overconfident. 
 You want your brand new $400 Xbox 360 to be every bit the next-gen gem it should be. So you overlook 
 the fact that Perfect Dark Zero, has absolutely no redeeming values, other than it LOOKS pretty. 
 
  
  I'm the first person to admit PDZ is probably still one of the better looking titles on the platform. 
 Just play any outdoor level and you'll be convinced. But thats about where the good ends. The sound 
 is good, if not generic and under-produced for a game of this supposed "caliber". Guns sound like 
 guns, the music sounds like.... music... and glossy house, but theres no real distinction that matters. 
 Nobody cares anyway, FPS games are all about the ameplay right?
  
  Wrong. Well no, that IS technically right, but PDZ has absolutely none. At least not any of the 
 FUN variety.
  
  Remember how weird it was to zoom/aim with the left shoulder button and the joystick on the N64 
 pad? Of course you do, but once you got it down, there was no beating that setup. Except that now 
 on the 360's controller, that reproduced bit of control is wonky and awkward to get around, despite 
 its familiarity. Any FPS game on the 360 that doesn't in some way mimic the time-tested "Halo" 
 style control scheme is destined to be awkward. 
  
  Lost in one of the game's seemingly endless and disorienting levels? No problem, the game takes 
 the added step of blatantly FLASHING an arrow directing you were to go, should this ever happen. 
 And it will. A lot. PDZ gives you a lot of information to complete your missions, without ever 
 actually telling you anything important. One too many times you'll be spinning in place waiting 
 for that arrow to show up, because you simply have no idea where to go. Nor will you care because 
 the story makes about as much sense as having a conversation with a 4 year old.
  
  I may in the extreme minority here, but I like my FPS games to have a solid story in ADDITION to 
 a solid multiplayer counterpart. Neither of that happens here. With my admittedly limited time 
 online with PDZ, I found the "classic" style of its floaty controls and weighty aiming system to 
 simply be a hassle more than a clever retro throwback. It just doesn't work anymore in the day 
 of Unreal Tournament and Halo 2.
  
  Sorry Microsoft,, this one's a huge letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick15uk
Rating: 4.1
Date: Aug 18, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  This game just feels so unfinished, it's unreal! First off, the control system is terrible, You'll 
 be lucky if you can hit an enemy with a single bullet. The enemies and the bots in multiplayer 
 are so retarded, they just stand they're and shoot, they make no attempt to look for cover or call 
 for help etc etc. 
  
  Also the game is just way too hard but I think the games flaws make it a lot more difficult than 
 it should be, if the bugs were ironed out, I think it would have been easier.
  The storyline is too confusing to be enjoyed, requiring you to replay levels to gain a better understanding 
 of what the plot is all about. Rare lost something special when Free Radical formed it's own company 
 and it shows more than ever in this game.
  
  Buy the first one and a second-hand N64 from eBay, it's 10 times better than this effort. I can't 
 knock the visuals though, the game looks astounding in HD but thats no reason to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoHn-CeNa346
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 16, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  PDZ is the best multiplayer in my opinion that the 360 has to offer. First off, graphics are just 
 frickin incredible! I mean, who doesnt like shiny guns? The sound of the guns are just plain amazing. 
 As for the gameplay *cough* Xbox Live *cough*, Xbox Live is fluckin sick! Many gametypes including 
 Killcount and Team Killcount. My personal favorite is invasion. You start out with 3 people infected. 
 The infected people try to get the regular people infected by killing them. The catch is, the infecties 
 have only the pistols and the non-infecties can by and weapon they want. The game ends when time 
 runs out or when everyone has been infected. In the end, PDZ is a fantastic game. I give thumbs 
 up to Rare because the did a great job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Larcen_Tyler
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 16, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  After the revolutionary first person shooter known as Perfect Dark graced the Nintendo 64, it pretty 
 much did for console based first person shooters what DOOM did for the PCs and their shooters. 
 The game featured an immense, gripping storyline with intriguing gadgets and unique ways of taking 
 out your enemies, but its biggest feature was the multiplayer mode.
  
  The multiplayer mode offered tons of customization methods, ranging from selecting weapon sets, 
 to setting up simulants (the equivalent of 'bots',) to creating your own custom characters (albeit 
 rather simplisticly by mixing and matching heads and bodies, which still made for some rather interesting 
 combinations nonetheless,) and making your own unique multiplayer scenarios.
  
  Five years later, we finally get the sequel we've been waiting eagerly for, Perfect Dark Zero. 
 Instead of continuing the story from the first game, PD Zero takes us back to before the events 
 of the game, introducing us to a younger, hipper Joanna Dark. Joanna is an aspiring bounty hunter 
 alongside her father Jack. What starts out as a case of a bounty hunter's daughter trying to follow 
 in her father's footsteps grows deeper and deeper as you play, bringing you more into the storyline 
 as you play.
  
  Despite being a first generation game, the graphics of PD Zero truly showcase the power of the 
 XBox 360. You'll see enemies reacting depending on where you hit them, and parts of their armor 
 fly off depending on where you hit them. The characters also act like they're real people and not 
 generic computer figures that are made to look like cheap robots.
  
  The soundtrack is very well composed, with each piece perfectly suited to each event that is unfolding 
 within the game, and the sound effects are well done too, with each weapon type giving a different 
 sound effect and impact sound. While the voices are very well spoken, those who played the original 
 game will notice that Joanna, as well as a few other characters, doesn't speak with her native 
 English accent. Did she choose not to adopt it untill later or something?
  
  The controls work well, with your character moving smoothly without any jerkiness or frame stuttering, 
 and managing your items is easy enough, plus the ability to use your weapon's alternate function 
 with the press of one of the bumper buttons really helps in the heat of battle.
  
  As usual, PD Zero includes a heavy emphasis on multiplayer modes, and there's the ability to play 
 with bots as well as human players, plus the ability to play on XBox Live. While it's nice to be 
 able to have a lot of multiplayer game modes and things of that sort, my only complaint is the 
 lack of character models. It's kind of annoying to be playing a deathmatch with a ton of Joanna 
 Dark clones running around. Think we could see some more models, or maybe a character creation 
 utility sometime, Rare?
  
  All in all, Perfect Dark Zero may not be perfect, but it's very close to perfection. If you enjoyed 
 the first game, you owe it to yourself to pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MidnightSasha
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  I was almost afraid to buy PDZ as my First game for the 360 because of all the complaints and people 
 that were angry at it but I went for it anyway and I was... Impressed. I don't see why people hate 
 it so much, I guess because they expected much more because that's what Rare promised them but 
 if you learn to look past that it's a great experience. It has a large range of creative weapons, 
 Fairly good Single player but even better Co-op. The true fun lie's within the Multiplayer, great 
 level's you can customize the rules, teams and weapons within the match. Best of all it still has 
 large amount of people playing it online. So I encourage you to atleast try this game and if you 
 don't like it that's ok everyone has different tastes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexanderpolk
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  . . . . . . . . . This game is very good i think it's the best out off all the perfect dark games 
 but the othe ones where prety good my freing let me play this and it was good i didint think that 
 it was going to be ok but it was great check out my freinds summary it is great look for daderek93 
 he is the boom. . . . . . . . . . . . ps : i think that this is a good game and would give it a 
 9.0 after all it is the best for the x 360 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . = ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 14, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Just kidding. The first thing you'll notice about this game though is its horrible menu screen. 
 For a game named "Perfect Dark" there is too much blue and extra uselss words (Samsung?) . But then 
 again, a menu screen isn't *that* important.
  I like to think of this as Goldeneye except more realistic and less enjoyable.. The missions are 
 boring and sometimes hard.
  But you will have most fun with this game in multiplayer. And since mutliplayer is fun and you 
 will play it a lot, you will unlock plenty of easy achievements.
  So my recomendation for this game is rent it, get the achievements in multiplayer and take it back. 
 If you happen to enjoy story mode unlike me then lucky you :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bewarethehorns
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was my introduction into the Perfect Dark world and for a little bit I was very 
 impressed. The game play is fun; I personally liked the option to have waypoints since I often 
 found myself running in circles in the broad maps. Not much new or creative where the weapons are 
 concerned, however I appreciated the fact that you were limited to the number and combination of 
 weapons you could have with you for any mission. But while your weapons were limited there was 
 almost no shortage of ammo in the maps which makes your opposition easy to dispense with even though 
 they have fairly impressive AI. Despite being visually stunning and very pleasing to the ears, 
 the game didnt prove to be very enticing to play after the first few levels. The game can become 
 dry and I felt little motivation to continue my campaign partially due to a weak story line.
  
  I was able to find the game on sale at a local retailer for $19.99 and being a bargain title 
 helped make up for much of the games shortcomings. At $50, this game certainly would not have proved 
 to be a decent value due to the simple game play and lackluster storyline. If youre looking for 
 a good FPS stick with COD2 or GRAW.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Can a game like Perfect Dark Zero possibly live up to its hype? Originally planned several years 
 and two game consoles ago by British developer RareWare, Zero had the seemingly impossible task 
 of living up to one of the most revered, respected, and critically acclaimed videogames ever created. 
 What weve got here, after the games long, winding trip through development, is a solid shooter 
 with tight controls thats able to deliver a solid campaign as well as a compelling multiplayer 
 package. The game certainly could have been better, as some elements of the design dont seem all 
 that fleshed out. But if youre looking for first person shooting action, Perfect Dark Zero is 
 a great choice.
  
  Serving as a prequel to the Nintendo 64 classic, Zero tells the tale of a young, spunky Joanna 
 Dark who, along with her father, Jack, run a mercenary-for-hire service that subsequently sends 
 them on a globe-spanning mission extraordinaire against the tech-savvy DataDyne corporation, who 
 happens to be scheming some pretty sinister happenings. Not that youll care, though. Frankly, 
 the storytelling here in Zero is pretty lame  the primarily Asian adversaries in the game look 
 like little more than exaggerated caricatures, which strips them of their human quality. Voice 
 acting is over-the-top throughout, and although it can sometimes feel delightfully corny and comic 
 book esque, can sometimes falls flat, too. The plot takes some predictable twists and ends with 
 a really unsatisfying conclusion to top it all off.
  
  Luckily, though (and perhaps in spite of itself) , the campaign of Perfect Dark Zero tends to be 
 pretty entertaining throughout thanks to some solid gameplay and an attractive presentation. The 
 games first mission does a superb job of setting the tone by combining fast-action gunplay with 
 high-tech gadgetry. Youll be shooting up folks with a nice array of semi-futuristic weaponry, 
 play with a spy camera, and make a daring rooftop escape, all within the first twenty minutes of 
 play. Its a thrilling intro to be sure, and that initial impression rarely wears off throughout 
 the experience.
  The only serious drawback to the single-player is orienteering. The level design featured in the 
 campaign is suspect; youll be fighting through a lot of same-looking corridors, especially in 
 the middle section of the game. This makes the occasional backtracking difficult. This is helped 
 somewhat by arrows that pulse on the floor to guide you in the right direction, but the fact that 
 the developers thought this feature was necessary seems a little shady. But its only a matter 
 of time before you overcome these sections and rediscover your inner compass. And the meat of the 
 game will make you forget about such things.
  
  The basic workings of combat function pretty much like youd expect them to  you use the left 
 analog stick to move forward, backpedal, and sidestep, and the right stick is used for looking 
 (though you can tweak this, if you like) , while the right trigger fires your weapon. Alternate 
 fire is handled with the right button, and zooming to hone in on your targets is done on the left 
 trigger, which is pressure-sensitive. Lining up your shots carefully takes big prominence here, 
 since nearly every item in your armory is scoped, and since its one of the only ways to bypass 
 the games covering system.
  
  Instead of there being a crouch button to take refuge behind your surroundings, Perfect Dark Zero 
 features a context sensitive cover button to get the job done. If youre standing at the edge of 
 a wall, Joanna will press her back up against it. Stand near a knee-high guardrail and youll crouch 
 beneath it. The game switches to a third-person perspective when youre utilizing cover, so that 
 you can still line up shots and use pop-up-and-fire techniques. Its a great system overall, and 
 is definitely one of Zeros highlights.
  
  Joanna will also have an extensive arsenal of tech-toys as she enters a new mission (with a sporty 
 new outfit to go along with each, of course) . Youll likely find yourself intrigued by them. Theyre 
 all pretty basic tools, like the cutely named Locktopus that has you matching up blue markers to 
 unlock doors, but their design and practicality make them a great addition to the proceedings.
 
  
  The campaign is fairly lengthy and entertaining, but as with most shooters, it really serves as 
 a warm-up to the multiplayer mode. Like the first Perfect Dark, Zero gives you an assortment of 
 characters to play as, weapon sets to choose from, game types to play and tweak to your liking, 
 and bots to fill in the gaps that should probably be reserved for human players (though the bots 
 do a pretty good job at fending for themselves) .
  
  Some game types are pretty standard  Killcount and Team Killcount serve as the deathmatch modes, 
 where you simply vie for the most kills in a match, either individually or with a team. But other 
 modes are quite a bit more interesting, like Sabotage, in which you and your team will have to 
 cause damage to the other teams property while protecting your own. Like its predecessor, youll 
 pick from a weapon pre-set (pistols, heavy weapons, etc.) , select a map, tweak the teams and duration 
 options, and then youre off.
  
  The game generally works out nicely in the multiplayer, with generally lag-free matches that are 
 accented by a decent amount of teamwork (though youll obviously run into the occasional jerk online) . 
 There are only five maps, and although you can pick from different variations of each one that 
 affect the size of them, more options of venue would have been nice.
  
  The real snag here, though, is that multiplayer loses a lot of the cool, secret agent atmosphere, 
 and without all the high-tech gadgetry and what have you, Zeros multiplayer feels a lot more derivative. 
 Its still great fun, mind you, but those hoping for this game to revolutionize console shooters 
 in the way the original did will be left a little cold.
  
  However, its hard to find much to fault in the games excellent presentation. Visually, the game 
 is a real treat, with big, expansive environments that feature a great mix of old-style architecture 
 with austere hallmarks of concrete jungle, sprinkled with that standby symbol of the future, neon 
 lights. The game utilizes great effects to go along with its crisp detail; stone and wet surfaces 
 appear convincingly shiny, and a very slight blur is used when you look around to simulate the 
 focus of your vision. These kinds of details give the game a distinctive look and feel. Of course, 
 everything is sharpened up considerably in high-definition; in fact, Perfect Dark Zero is one of 
 the 360 titles that most benefits from an HDTV. The only drawback lies with the character models, 
 which come off looking rather plastic in their appearances.
  
  Theres virtually nothing to scoff at in regards to the audio, however. Simply put, the tremendous 
 techno soundtrack fits perfectly to the entire experience, and the music kicks in at just the right 
 moments. As mentioned before, the voice acting is hammy but passable, lending the story an almost 
 comic-book quality that makes it a bit easier to digest. It can fall flat a bit too, though. Finally, 
 all of the weapon sounds and explosions sound great, with razor sharp highs and booming lows filling 
 out wonderfully. If you have a tricked out sound system, this is a great way to show it off, and 
 if you dont, Perfect Dark Zero might just push you toward looking into one.
  
  Overall, if youre looking for a first-person shooter for your Xbox 360, Perfect Dark Zero is a 
 great way to go, especially if youre into the games futuristic setting. Its got solid gunplay 
 and cool gadgets, fun multiplay, great looks and stunning audio to flaunt, and if you let yourself 
 get into it, youll certainly see all of those things in short order. The single-player certainly 
 could have been better with better-developed characters and a more workable plot, and youll see 
 certain features of the game that you wish would be more polished, but its generally easy to look 
 past those flaws and enjoy the games action-packed shootouts and high-tech theme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceman7
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 13, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  I've had this for a while now and I still, like when I first got it, have mixed feelings towards 
 the game. It's pretty flash and on first seeing and playing through the game, it is explosive and 
 exciting but, there are some problems. The controls take a little longer to get used to than most 
 FPSs but that isn't really much of a problem. What is however, is that it is SO HARD TO GET YOUR 
 SHOTS ON TARGET!!! 
  
  There is just something about the aiming/targeting in the game that makes it so frustratingly difficult. 
 And I'm not someone who is new to this genre of game, and FPSs have far and away been my favourite 
 games since playing the original Turok on the Nintendo 64. I've played Goldeneye, the original 
 Perfect Dark, Timesplitters 1-3, the Turoks, Medal of Honours, Call of Dutys, Halo 1+2, Metroid 
 Prime 1+2, the Quakes, Dooms, Unreal Tournaments, the Farcry series, Half-life, Red Faction, Brothers 
 In Arms and more, and never found this to be such a problem. At first I thought that maybe I just 
 needed to get used to the Xbox360's controller, what with it being a new console, but having since 
 played a lot of other games for the 360 I still find this a problem. It is possible to adjust the 
 settings to help this to an extent but it never quite solves the problem.
  
  So far it sounds like I've been putting the game down but that's not my intention and the game 
 is, control issues aside, very good. The game, and in particular the weapons, look great. The guns 
 are well balanced and there isn't really a 'best' weapon, allowing for user preference. The levels 
 are also well designed and varied, the highlight being one which sees you providing cover fire 
 for your father as you run/zipwire from rooftop to rooftop. The multiplayer is also very good, 
 though targeting issues handicap its enjoyability. 
  
  Overall Perfect Dark Zero is a good, perhaps even great game. But in a genre where speed and precision 
 are so important, issues with the aiming have to be treated harshly. If you're just looking for 
 a next-gen First Person Shooter then I would recommend Call Of Duty 2 over this, but if you want 
 a near-future sci-fi shooter for the Xbox360 then you should definitely check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxgamer07
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  i was a really big fan of perfect dark on the n64 and when i knew there was a game coming out on 
 the shiny new xbox 360. i was really happy. especally scence it was a story biginning to the n64 
 version. this game is simply great the graphics are great also the weapons are cool and the story 
 is pretty desent and the game is not to hard so any one can play it. the multiply play is alright. 
 thers even co op so thats cool. but after a couple of play throughs theres really no reason to 
 play it but its a least a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenlong
Rating: 4.2
Date: Aug 12, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  i no noone will agree with me when i say this and i will get a bunch of hate mail but honestly 
 this game just plain sucks.
  
  th graphics are top notch and that is about the only thing good about this game. 
  
  the gameplay 
 is dull considering theyve mixed all the fire buttons between all the triggers and takes a while 
 to get used to if you are a hardcore fps gamer. you cant jump at all. you feel like your constintly 
 glued to the ground. ppl say this is the perfect run and gun game but it would help if you could 
 run not slowly walk threw each enviroment. this game sounds ok but weapons sound under powered 
 and theyre secondary functions absolutly suck. some of them are alright but silencers dnt help 
 at all, and a radar on a shotgun is usless since the shotgun is a short range weapon. the storyis 
 worthy of an underbugeted movie but theis story is stupid and unispired. 
  
  overall i didnt enjoy this game one bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinistersnake20
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 10, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  When I say better than Halo I mean not better I mean like, close to being better. I thought this 
 game was great! I also been thinking that there's something that's missing...... Ohh yeah! Sexual 
 content! If there was a little sex stuff then this game will be complete. I don't mean like nudity 
 but seeing Dark like in a dress of some sort like that. Even though this game duse not have that 
 I think this game kicks butt. Although I don't belive that this game can't compair to the upcomeing 
 Halo 3. The last thing I have to say before I end thIs reveiw, I think that this is a very good 
 game and I would recamend this game to anyone who likes a very good looking First Person Shooter 
 and likes some language in between the battleing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotr_2003
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 1, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a sci-fi first person shooter developed by Rare and is the prequel to the 
 mega hit Perfect Dark that came out on the Nintendo 64 in 1999. The story is set in 2020 and involves 
 Joanna Dark, a teenager, working with his father, Jack Dark, to seek vengeance against corporations 
 who competes for global domination.
  
  The gameplay features the basic first person shooter mechanics with intriguing guns and weapons 
 at your disposal. In the single player portion of this game, you will have to fight your way through 
 13 missions which offers various locations such as urban cities, nightclubs, underground subways 
 and jungles. Most of the missions are entertaining and worth playing but you will truly experience 
 the real meaning of these missions if you play it on the hardest difficulty, dark agent, because 
 it adds some unique gameplay elements, such as innovative objectives which are not present on easier 
 difficulties.
  
  Where most players will spend their time in this game is the multiplayer portion of this game. 
 The multiplayer is truly outstanding and offers 32 players online with numerous gametypes which 
 mostly are team orientated. You also have the option to turn on bots, and vehicles such as jetpacks 
 and hovercrafts. Although many may find it hard to hit their targets, it is recommended that you 
 change your control settings numerous times until your are comfortable with one. It is said that 
 it's better to have your Y sensitivity lower than your X-axis for better accuracy which makes headshots 
 easier.
  
  The graphics in this game are truely next-gen. Everything from the textures, the animation and 
 most of the shadows are shinning in high definition resolution. There may be spots where the graphics 
 aren't looking as good for instance if you zoom in to a wall, it won't look the same as if you 
 walk close to it.
  
  As for the sound, it does a great job to create an ambiance in both the single player and multiplayer. 
 The sounds in multiplayer are mostly covered by a great music soundtrack that suits well with every 
 mission and the multiplayer's sounds are all about the sound effects such as wind blowing in the 
 dessert, police sirrens in the distance on urban and exotic birds chirping on temple. Lastly, all 
 the guns in this game sounds extremely realistic and are timed precisely when you pull the trigger.
 
  
  Overall, this is a superp first person shooter for players who likes team orientated games like 
 counter strike and those who likes sci-fi action games. Although this game may not suit everyone 
 because of the hard to hit tagets in multiplayer and the bland single player on easy difficulty, 
 it takes patience and some tweaking in the controls setups to make this game one of your best purchase 
 on your Xbox 360. As for now you can get this game for 19.99$ and that's an outstanding price for 
 such a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneDesi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Well, at first when it came out; I just knew I had to get it because the original was one of my 
 favorite N64 games. Then, when I saw the amazing graphics of the game, I just knew I had to get 
 it. Perfect Dark Zero, if one of those great First Person Shooters that you just love to play over 
 and over again, especially for the multi-player shootouts. It was a great game because of its fantastic 
 style of game-play, many weapons and gadgets, and of course the multi-player stuff mentioned above. 
 If you are into sci-fi first person shooters, then this is the game for you. If you are into great 
 story-lines, then this is the game for you. If you own an Xbox 360, then this is the game for you. 
 So, it comes down to this, if you have the X360, then get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedfirestunna
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 9, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a good game in its own rights, but does not capture the magic of the original 
 in any way. I think the Gamespot score was based on the fact that it was a launch game, so there 
 wasn't much to compare it against. The multiplayer doesn't measure up to something like Halo 2, 
 but it is decent. If you are looking for multiplayer to satisfy you until halo 3, you might want 
 to keep playing halo 2. If you can't stand the current gen games, this is what you want to pick 
 up. For a single player experience, you'd be better off with ghost recon advanced warfare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaman37
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 7, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  First of all i just have to say, what was gamespot thinking when they reviewed this game! This 
 has to be one of those top games i ever regretted buying. First of all i would like to say this 
 is like a normal shooter but with a few strange controls and some stranfe gameplay mechanics. Other 
 then those things, everything else is horrid. The games campaign is long and boring. Also this 
 game has a story so bad i though my ears were going to explode. The voice actings is also very 
 annoying with everyone having small squeaky voices, excpet for the general in the kilt. but seriously 
 WTF, a general wearing a kilt!!! The games multiplayer is ok but still is very repetitive. The 
 only REAL props i give this game is its graphics. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: norgewhop
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 6, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Personally I thought this was a great adventure full of mixed actions that break the game up so 
 it does not become boring. Sure, you have to kill alot of people but you also have to stop and 
 actually use your brain to complete this game, not just your shooting skills. Perfect Dark Zero 
 is like an old James Bond 007 game but the differences are numerous and all good! The weaponary 
 range is great and very imaginative and the missions are different and keep you interested... I 
 could not rest until I had completed this game. Chicks with guns are always good but the total 
 "wow" factor just keeps you playing. Overall I would boldly say that Perfect Dark Zero is a "must 
 have game" for all XBOX360 owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jak360
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 5, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  
  Graphics- the graphics in the game are really stylish for a lunch tiltle and also like burr effects 
 which gives it a nice touch to the game.
  
  Gamplay- the gameplay in the single player is suprisingly good even though the story sucks and 
 the multiplayer is good there is a option were you can play with bots which is nice for people 
 that dont have xbox live.
  
  Sound- the sound effects with the guns sound pretty realistic as with some of the voices in the 
 single.
  
  Overalll- playing perfect dark zero is a really run fun game with a crappy stroyline and bad voice 
 acting, but great mulitplayer it is a great first person shooter to play with.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaddenBowler10
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 5, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  graphics- great, defintely not dissapointing.. nice and bright..
  
  sound-very good, nothing out of the ordinary
  
  length- great local and live multiplayer
 
  
  gameplay- freaking AWESOME! i never get bored of it! just feels good to sit down, take out an SMG, 
 and shoot some people...
  
  it's CHEAP!! only $30 now at Walmart!!
  
  i really like the game. don't buy into other bad reviews about this game. this game is fun, which 
 a game is suppose to be, and there is coop story mode also. but favorite part of the game is just 
 playing multiplayer deathmatches with 3 other friends.... great game.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schurmy
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I find this game to have GREAT multiplayer I find myself constantly playing Ranked matches to get 
 myself up on the leaderboards and so far this is one of the few games to offer good splitscreen 
 other then COD2 and Graw and others.
  The singleplayer was not all that great to me I found that I had to play the game on and off to 
 finish the singleplayer because I found it very boring but co-op is very fun if you play with the 
 right people.
  If you are looking for a game that you are going to spend sometime online and with some friends 
 look for Perfect Dark Zero.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 4, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  I had nintendo before, and I had the perfect dark on it. It was the coolest game ever I was playing 
 that game everyday. so next I bought a xbox 360 and bought perfect dark: zero. The campainge is 
 pretty fun, but the the multiplayer is boring!!! on the old version the multiplayer is way better!! 
 And the new one look like the old one too much, the same weapon. when Im playing that game I new 
 like every weapon and I played the old one 5 years ago!!! they did add vehicule but they suck!!! 
 I wiuldnt recomended you to buy this game!!! just rent it finish the campaingne and that it!!! 
 I now i did give good score but its just not my type of game!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snschugars
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 4, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  I really wanted this game to be great, but it managed to meet zero of my expecations. Characters 
 look cartoony in an awful way and not very detailed. Some movements just seem akward and slow. 
 Level design is interesting, but I often felt mislead by the arrows and teamates. Online play was 
 a bit better. I like the variety of game types you could play. Some levels were a bit to croweded 
 with people able to easily sit on the best weapons. I loved the original for the 64, but this one 
 will be collecting a lot of dust on my shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hal_25
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 4, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  Perfect dark for the nintendo was a good game, but pefect dark zero is 100 times better simply 
 because of its outstanding graphics and sound.
  
  If you have a nice hometheatre with a high definition tv this is definately a game to get because 
 its very reallistic and youll have a reveloshonary experianece with the game.
  
  If you got xbox live this game is definately worth the buy, because xbox live on this is really 
 a fun experiance and very addictive. The single player side of it is the most excititing part of 
 the game. the last level in the game is actulaly very easy for some reason.
  
  there is hundreds of acheivents in this game and its definately worth buying it so you must get 
 it cause i reccommend it !!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terps
Rating: 4.7
Date: Aug 3, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Not the greatest graphics. It looks kind of cartoonish. I was disappointed at the gameplay. It was 
 very unrealistic and at times that is frustrating. The multiplayer is very laggy, the single player 
 is very boring. All in all this game is not worth the $60. I wouldnt even recommend you to rent 
 it. I played it for about a day and was already tired of it. Trust me there are alot better FPS 
 out there. Maybe if you like "futuristic shooter" you would like this game, but it is nothing like 
 Perfect Dark for the N64. That upset me. If your looking for a more realistic FPS with good graphics 
 I would go with either COD2 or Graw over PDZ anyday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coxmartin
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 3, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  Was really looking forward to this one, the hype did it's job and built this game up to be the 
 best thing since sliced bread. But what did we get?
  
  We got a cracking game, but with all of the build up it felt like just an OK game.
  
  I had 
 to go back to it 2 or 3 times before I could play through the initial disappointment, glad that 
 I did as it is an interesting twist on the usual FPS genre.
  
  On-line play is a key and very well thought out part to the game and one of my preferred Online 
 FPS.
  
  All in All an excellent offering almost killed by it's own publicity, IMO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santo4600
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 1, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  The single player on this game was ok, no real plot to keep you interested. The weapons are balanced 
 though, and there are alot of them. I like how u can pick different weapons from different catogories, 
 and i like how much u can hold is based on weapon size. IMO the multiplayer is better than halo. 
 Its better because, more guns, more BALANCED guns, and you really dont have to worry about all 
 the 9 year olds running around shouting repulsize noises or profanity. Most of PDZ's multiplayer 
 base ive met are mature and its cool as hell playing with them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djord02
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 1, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  As a huge fan of Goldeneye and the original Perfect Dark on the N64, I had very high expectations 
 for this game. Unfortunately, while a few elements of Perfect Dark -- like the weapons -- shine 
 out, annoying voicework and campy, cartoony characters just seem to drive this one straight into 
 the bargain bins. 
  
  There are a couple well designed missions in the game, like the one where you provide sniper cover 
 for your father as you hop from rooftop to rooftop. 
  
  But there are an equal share of poorly designed missions as well -- like the mission where you 
 have to figure out which radio response to give the security guard over the walkie-talkie, or the 
 one where you have to take pictures of certain mobsters, and if you are seen, it's game over. These 
 missions are often exercises in frustration and detract from the game.
  
  The weapons in the game all look and sound great, and you get the impression that they are powerful. 
 However, the enemies are dumb as bricks, and the words coming out of their mouths are so laughably 
 bad that you will want to press the mute button, or shoot them in the face very fast. Shooting 
 people in the face usually isn't all that hard, because enemies typically just stand around like 
 cattle.
  
  You only really stand a chance to die when they all start shooting at you at once. Even idiots 
 are dangerous in large numbers, I suppose.
  
  For some reason, shooting enemies rarely feels very satisfying. Perhaps this is because many of 
 them wear armor and take a while to go down, or maybe it's because they don't seem to be impacted 
 very realistically from being shot. The only gun that feels really satisfying to shoot people with 
 is the sniper rifle. "I shoot you and you go DOWN!!!"
  
  Multiplayer is actually pretty fun, especially when you throw in vehicles, rockets and many of 
 the game's creative weapons. 
  
  If you love shooters, you may enjoy Perfect Dark Zero, especially now that it sells for around 
 $30. But overall, it could have been better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  This game was a truly definitive game at its launch. This game single handedly brought the XBOX's 
 name as king of FPS over to the XBOX 360. It ensured all players that the 360 was capable of controlling 
 a great FPS game. Perfect Dark Zero has stunning graphics and a great sense of play about it. While 
 the single player story line is lacking a little bit in the fun department, it's a great way to 
 get acquainted with all of the games little features. The graphics are a great showcase for the 
 360 and it really hauls overtime to go that extra step in the cutscenes. The music was also pretty 
 good to listen to, however a custom soundtrack may be prefered in online play. While Perfect Dark 
 Zero may not be the greatest game on the 360 right now, it was responsible for bringing the 360 
 into the FPS world. This game showcased all the 360 had to offer. Online multiplayer shined as 
 it proved the ability to hold up to 32 players at once in a lobby, with usually 16 in teams of 
 8. Online is great because it turned into a strategical FPS morely than a hair trigger game. Others 
 like HALO are great but play on the fact that you need to have a better accuracy than your opponent. 
 Perfect Dark Zero showcases strategy in that you need to aim for points on the body such as the 
 head or the torso, as these hits will offer more damage. So in conclusion, while this game may 
 not be the greatest thing to hit the 360 currently, it really shows the roots of 360 gaming. I 
 am pround to say that this game will be getting my only perfect score of 10 next to HALO 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huevo_Feo
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  This game had something to live up to considering how well the first perfect dark was put together 
 back in the days of the N64... but despite that, even if this game had nothing to prove I would 
 still consider it one of the worst shooters of all time, honestly you will have a much harder time 
 finding a 1st person shooter that is non-arguably worse than this, than you will of actually beating 
 the game. err... going into detail... kinnda... the campaign was boring, multiplayer (where I thought 
 it would make up for all of its downfalls) is disgusting, and the only ammusment I've gotten from 
 this game is the multiplayer aspect with jet packs, and 16 bots... thats right you can have 16 bots!!! 
 Yay... not really... well theres not much more to say... and if your going to pay $60 for this I 
 pitty you... if you really want to play it find someone else who got suckered into buying it... but 
 for the love of god don't waste your won money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JzkBoxer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 31, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  Upon purchasing this game for the reduced price of $29.99 I was a little sceptical. I began to 
 wonder why I was picking this game up, after I had such a horrible experience with the single player 
 at a friends place. Then I remembered: The multiplayer.
  
  Forget the single player, forget the slightly muddled graphics up close that keep this from being 
 perfect, because they're meaningless. This is the Half Life: Counterstrike for the Xbox 360 right 
 now, and if you're looking for an awesome FPS experience on Xbox Live, this is the place to go.
 
  
  Now a lot of people, like myself before I sat down and played it for a few hours, why, what makes 
 this game any better than the average shooter? First of all, the weapon selection is amazing, and 
 offers virtually endless amounts of variety in the various types of weapons you're able to wield. 
 Second, the look sensitivity and aim sensitivity can both be monitored at a very nice level to 
 suit any gamers needs, because lets face it, some of us can turn and shoot better in one way or 
 another.
  
  Overall this is a great game and definitely a must-have for any Xbox 360 owner looking for a good 
 shooter. If you're one of those people, pick this game up, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrippyTarka
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 30, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  This game has some of the best graphics i've seen to date
  The gameplay is done very well and has little or no auto aim so it can make it a challenge but 
 that is always fun.
  The story is lacking depth but it was alright playing it the first time around.
  On Dark Agent 
 which is the hardest difficulty it is a very hard game and the only reason to play it is for the 
 achievement points.
  The multiplayer is great with a good variety of game types and can support up to 32 people online 
 in one game.
  So overall I have given this game a 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360player
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 29, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Okay, here's the thing, this is one of those O. K. sort of games. It's a great launch title, but 
 not a great game. Well, at least, not revolutionary.
  
  I'm going to start off with the single player. To tell you the truth, the story in this game isn't 
 all that exciting. It might be fun the first time you play it, but after that, this game doesn't 
 have all that much replay value.
  
  One good thing about this game is every single level is co-op. So while you sneak around and take 
 cover behind random objects, your friend is going to just run out and kill as many people as he 
 can. Which you can do, but someone unfamiliar with the controls would have to work at it. Every 
 mission is even co-op over xbox live. So you get a full screen, and a partner who knows what there 
 doing.
  
  And now, the best part of the game. The multiplayer! This is a must have game not because the missions, 
 but you can play all the games that you can play with people on Xbox live against AI. This is truly 
 one of the best multiplayers out on the 360. You can even play with up to 4 of your friends against 
 bots on the same console. But if you don't like multiplayer, this is not the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiteRaid
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 29, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  There are many holes people put in this game for no reason. PDZ is exactly what I expected considering 
 this is a prequel after all. But I think many people misunderstood that. While I am not saying 
 this game is perfect, it is still a pretty good game overall.
  
  First off, the graphics are sensational. Stands out, and definitely defies the term "next-gen". 
 The character models, explosions, weapons and the environment don't miss a beat. My only complaint 
 is the bad level design for the single player. It is so easy to get lost that we have to use an 
 excuse for an attempt to "help us". I mean a trail? Hope this does not become a trend at all. It's 
 so easy to miss a corner door that you pretty much have to play a mission twice to get in the groove 
 of things. 
  
  The controls are pretty good. I mean there is practically no auto aim so everything has to be in 
 tip top configuration which it is, but I only question the dropping of a weapon to pick up another 
 one. It seems like a pain that you press Y to try to pick up the RCP 90 in place of your pistol 
 and all of a sudden, all it did was switch to your secondary weapon. These things become second 
 nature later on, but it takes awhile to get used to. Now for sounds, I love that limelight song 
 especially when you go to the night club. These songs never fail to impress. The voice overs, background 
 music, the weapons, no complaints here. Perhaps the only thing Rare managed to perfect was this. 
 
  
  For the multiplayer, there are enough multiplayer options here to last you a long while. While 
 people complain that it's not as much as the original PD, remember folks, back then, if you didn't 
 an extra 3 controllers or alot of friends who play PD with you, then all you could rely on were 
 the bots and tons of multiplayer options. Now, you can play with THOUSANDS of people so I think 
 to ask for more is just more icing on the cake. 
  
  Overall, Perfect Dark Zero is a great game. It doesn't have the "WOW" factor of other games like 
 Halo, and Grand Theft Auto. But it certainly holds it's own with some fun multiplayer games and 
 a "decent" single player. PDZ definitely does not meet the standards of the original, but it certainly 
 sets up for PD in every way. PDZ is sort of like Star Wars 1, 2 & 3, good, but it led to the amazing 
 episodes 4, 5 & 6 which is Perfect Dark on the N64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineTears
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot no offense but you under-rate games that shoudnt be under-rated but you give this game 
 a nine... a friggen nine. Alright dont believe that people this game doesnt deserve a nine but it 
 does deserve it's attention some where. Graphics arent always pretty as their kinda blocky and 
 the only thing that looks good is when you punch and you dont see the actual character, I never 
 played any other perfect dark games but story-line was stupid because it was so cartoonish and 
 cliche' how the chinese man or w/e he was spoke like something that came out of such cartoons. 
 You're probably thinking o crap this game really sucks but that really isnt the case, Replay value... isnt 
 good until you get the patch since you dont even get any friggen achievments if you dont get the 
 patch some you but some you dont. Good things will be multiplayer and co-op, Weapons are very nice 
 since their secondary attacks arent the usual cliche' types. I really cant say much of this game 
 since it is another generic shooter, I bought it since it was cheap and which it is so you might 
 as well get it, Fix it with the patch get you're self the achievments and enjoy the weaponry. Best 
 thing it has going for it is the weapons and gadgets since they are all unique most of em at least. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 27, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  first, let me start of saying that PDZ has beautiful graphics. the guns are unique and very creative. 
 this could've been such a great shooter if not for its horrific gameplay. terrible, terrible, terrible 
 gameplay for a shooter. nothing like wasting 3 or 4 clips on an enemy just to get owned. campaign 
 is below average and gets boring within the first 5 minutes or less, guaranteed. online is terrible. 
 would not reccomend to buy or even rent. GRAW or COD2 are way better selections. sad to see a game 
 with so much potential end up so terrible. maybe next time. and trust me, the weak level design 
 doesnt help PDZ's attempt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 121212121211121
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 27, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  When I first got the 360 I made a list of games I would like for it and PDZ was at the top of my 
 list. However when I rented it from Blockbuster I was a little disappointed. The single player 
 campain had Johanna Dark and secret agent (forgive me for saying this gamespot but she has huge 
 boobs!!!) who working on a case with her father. The game has great futuristic weapons and the 
 game also borrows a Halo type of style life regenerating of the life. The Multiplayer is fun but 
 feels almost like it didn't change from the N 64 version. The single player campain also gets very 
 challenging and sometimes almost impossible at points. Also the enemies take so long to kill. You 
 need to pump like a hundred bullets in one guy to kill them. However there are 50 acheivments for 
 the game so it can really improve your gamerscore. Overall if you really liked the first one buy 
 it because it explains more of the story. However i just thought it could have been a little better.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goldeneye2591
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 27, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  Ive heard some people say they like this game, and some say they dont. But i think this game is 
 one of the best out there for the 360. Rare has a history of great games, but lately they havnt 
 been so great. But this game is so good, it has the potential to revive rare. This game will keep 
 you entertained, even after you beat it. the deathmatch, multiplayer, and online modes are even 
 a reason to buy the game. Sure, there are some graphical problems, but the great gameplay will 
 make you forget about them. the bottom line: you have to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MondiBlue
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 25, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Somewhat disappointing. I had high hopes going in and they were quickly smashed. Hours and hours 
 of playing N64 and this was the best that they could provide for the 360.
  
  The storyline is cliched and doesn't really add much. The first story on the 64 was great and really 
 got me into the game. This, being a prequel, led to how she got involved with the agency that she 
 was in the original game. It gets somewhat repetitive and doesn't have the fun missions that were 
 in the N64 game.
  
  My suggestion is, if you played the Nintendo 64 version and are hoping for something that magnificent, 
 don't. You'll only be disappointed. If you love first person shooters, this could be fun for you. 
 Not a bad game on its own merits, but as a follow up, it is disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdilh
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 25, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  Yes, a 6.7, oh my god. Nah, it soes not deserve a higher score. 
  
  Graphics: While nice and detailed, are far too cartoonish, and unrealistically plasticey.
  
 
  Gameplay: This game has no feel of satisfaction when shooting, it is just shoot a dull weapon 
 and the enemy falls, or flys, or whatever this game can pull out.
  
  Sound: Nothing special, just a good sound here and there.
  
  Value: The only thing that adds 
 value is the multiplayer, which is dull and uexciting, same unsatisfactory as the single-player, 
 only against real opponents.
  
  Overall: Rent, and only rent, but hey it is my opinion not yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbolt_88
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game about 8 months after it came out because for a while i listened to what people 
 were telling me about this game and about how it was bad and sucked... but i played the demo and 
 well as i found the single player boring i really enjoyed the multiplayer. So i decided to pick 
 this game up since it was only like $25 and well ever since i got it ive enjoyed it a lot. The 
 multiplayer is fun as heck.. i really enjoy it. The bots make it even funner because you dont need 
 a bunch of ppl to enjoy the multi. The single player is what really surprised me because as lacking 
 of a real story as this game has, i found the single player to be fun and enjoyable and i liked 
 the last level a lot. Though this game has many technical issues, such as not being about to use 
 the cover feature right away as you have to be next to the wall for a second before it to recognize 
 and give you the option to go into cover, or the fact that the AI is pretty stupid and just runs 
 at you, this game is an overall great game that im glad i picked up. It goes to show that you shouldnt 
 listen to what ppl say about games, cuz i love this so called crappy game according to many ppl. 
 This game is very good and a lot of fun... i look foward to Rare and if they make any more Perfect 
 Dark games in the future cuz ill be sure to check them out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawookie
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 25, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  So, the origanal Perfect Dark for the Xbox 360 was a near perfect creation (or so Gamespot says) 
 and when the next one comes around after missing a whole generation of games it really has to properly 
 distinguish itself. And it certainly does!
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is a fabulous game that puts you in the shoes of Joanna Dark, a bounty hunter 
 working with her father, Jack Dark. This sends her around the world for work but it soon turns 
 personal. A craxy scientist named Zhang Li is looking for something called the Graal, an item able 
 to give one the power to become a god. You get employed to stop him and ou and Jack must go to 
 his factories know as Datadyne and stop him. Although, the story is a little shallow as you don't 
 really care to much about the story from the start. The gameplay mechanics in the game work so 
 well you'll never really care about the story.
  
  The gameplay in the game is superbly balanced And you've got a massive arsenal of weapons. All 
 of them continue the thing that made Pefect Dark so good. They all have a secondary funtion and 
 some even a tiertary. The amount of things you can do with the weapons seems like it should overwhelm 
 you, but since none of them are really needed, you can use them naturally. For example, the UGL 
 machine pistol can be made it into a mine, and the Laptop can be made into a sentry gun. These 
 little things, which none are really spectacular, are a nice addition to the game. You can also 
 use cover in this game, which you never really see in a FPS. You press A near a wall or box and 
 it switches to third person giving you cover behind the item and letting you shoot from there. 
 There is a nice blurr effect when you sharply turn and you can dual wield some of the weapons. 
 Alot of this stuff you'll have seen before, but its done with a twist.
  
  The graphics are fantstic as they should, seeing as the X360 is Next Generation. The models of 
 the weapons and characters look amazing The envirements are vast, if a little bland, and the wepean 
 models are great. Did I mention the weapon models?
  
  The sound is great and the voice acting is superb if not perfect. The weapons all sound like they 
 should, grenades explode properly. The only detrement is the music. Its repetetive, quite boring 
 after the 3rd level, and doesn't always fit the atmosphere.
  
  The multiplayer is very simialr to Halo. Personally, I think its even better than Halo! its got 
 more options, Tactical choices, and bots. The modes are split into two, the deathmatch and Dark 
 ops modes. Deathmatch is basic CTF and Deathmatch, while Dark ops is more tactical and Counter 
 trike realted. Modes like Eradication, Infection, Demolition, that stuff.
  
  This is a reccomendable purchase to anyone who likes action and owns an X360. This is a superb 
 game that once again, just misses Perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfootballkidhbx
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jul 24, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  oh my goodness please help the creators create a better game. u never die which would normally 
 be a good thing but its not a challenge. its not even worth renting i blew $8.16 at blockbuster 
 i demand refund ... refund refund!! please dont make the same mistake i did. u would be way better 
 off with a game like table tennis moto gp 06 oblivion prey graw or ncaa 07 . any game is better 
 than this. but if u still dont believe me lets just say i warned ya. 
  DON'T BUY DON'T RENT IT U WILL NOT LIKE IT ! ! ! ! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigPimpn
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 23, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  Near the end of the Nintendo 64s dominating era in the video game industry, one last game managed 
 to give Nintendo fans a reason not to stuff it in the storage closet in the last minute to make 
 way for the new Playstation 2 and Xbox. Publisher Rare Ltd., which was highly praised for releasing 
 an almost phenomenal cult-classic video game, Goldeneye 64, took the first-person shooting genre 
 to the next level with its release of Perfect Dark.
  
  Based on similar mechanics found in Goldeneye, Perfect Dark upped the ante with amazing graphics, 
 unique game play elements with a heavy influence of using gadgets, and an intriguing science-fiction 
 story. It was by far an amazing game and a wonderful, enlightening touch to the dying days of the 
 N64. Even the original build of the N64 was not able to handle the game, as it infamously required 
 the expansion pack in order for players to play the single player campaign.
  
  The story also had a unique science-fiction feel to it all, with you playing as Joanna Dark, who 
 is a top-notch, highly reputed rookie agent for the Carrington Institute, which is a high-tech 
 corporation aimed at competing and waging war against the corrupt Datadyne Corporation. The plot 
 eventually unfolds into an intergalactic conflict between two warring alien races, with the Skedar, 
 a violent extra-terrestrial race, infiltrating Datadyne and the United States government to acquire 
 an old, super-powerful weapon left Earth by an ancient alien race in order to obtain complete dominance 
 over the galaxy. In the midst of it all, Joanna Dark emerges victoriously after defeating Datadyne 
 and the Skedar, with the help of an extraterrestrial being of the Maian race (looking like the 
 stereotypical Greys) , who humorously went by the alias of Elvis.
  
  The story of Zero basically means what it says  the beginning of Joanna Darks career. The clock 
 is turned back a ways to witness a very young, and somewhat bratty Joanna. As the story begins, 
 Joanna is a mercenary, along with her father, Jack, who get caught up in Datadynes search for 
 an alien artifact of significantly great power. As the story progresses, we see how Joanna winds 
 up with the Carrington Institute and takes up the fight against the corrupt Datadyne Corporation.
 
  
  The game itself has had considerable history of lengthy delays, first with a Perfect Dark game 
 being slated for release on the Gamecube. Later, it was announced that the newly titled, Perfect 
 Dark Zero, would be released for the original Xbox. But word of it never came around after that 
 and many feared that the project was scrapped. But as news of the Xbox 360s launch got out to 
 the public, Rare announced that Perfect Dark Zero would be released as a launch title for the 360. 
 After a significantly long wait for another Perfect Dark game, the wait was sadly, somewhat worth 
 it.
  
  But that isnt to say that this is not a great game in any way. In fact, the game is quite impressive 
 and gave many gamers a reason to pick up an Xbox 360. Probably one of the noticeable qualities 
 of the game is the graphics, which are really crisp and smooth. The character models are kind of 
 ugly, but youll be doing so much running and gunning that you probably wont take too much notice 
 of it anyways. The impressive gun battles make up for that, as all of the gun models look amazing 
 too.
  
  Probably one of the most unique features of the game is the multiple purposes that you can use 
 the weapons for. Each weapon has multiple functions (at least two) , which adds to the depth of 
 how you play the game and makes it exciting every time you get a new weapon, because youll immediately 
 be testing its secondary functions to see what it does. Some weapons have extra functions that 
 are only available on multiplayer, which also gives you a good reason to dive into the Xbox Live 
 portion of the game, as well.
  
  The sound is really good. All of the guns sound amazing, the music soundtrack is awesome, and the 
 ambient sounds in the environment add a level of depth to the level design. As far as game play 
 mechanics, everything is fairly what youd see in any first-person shooter. Its actually not a 
 bad thing and the game does give the player the ability to perform a dive maneuver, which helps 
 you dodge bullets but you also take in more damage if youre hit. All in all, all of the pros of 
 the game tend to level up with the cons, which is where we come to next.
  
  Aside from the good graphics, awesome sound, and fun game play, this is pretty much where the good 
 stuff ends. As far as the story, its not fleshed out as well as the original Perfect Dark and 
 the single player campaign is extremely short, which is kind of a waste of a potential with all 
 of the qualities that make the game exciting. It really is a shame that Rare didnt quite take 
 the time to expand on the single player campaign a little more, as there was definitely potential 
 for it.
  
  The gunplay is what makes the game awesome and the lame missions and story is primarily there to 
 give a reason to do all of that. You wont find anything impressive with the story or with what 
 you have to do in the missions. The stealth mechanics are also non-existent, so trying to be sneaky 
 is out of the question. But with all of the weapons at your disposal, why waste that firepower?
 
  
  Youll find a little more excitement with Zeros multiplayer mode. Hook up on Live and you can 
 combat with or against your buddies online, which can add a lot of fun to game experience. There 
 are a lot of customizable options for the multiplayer mode, which basically gives players the ability 
 to set up the entire multiplayer game from scratch. You can also add Bots to the game as well, 
 which are AI-controlled players that you can either fight alongside with or against. They actually 
 respond pretty well and can put up a good fight. They can come in handy when you dont have many 
 players on a server.
  
  In the end, the game was worthwhile. A lot more couldve been done with it and some shortcomings 
 couldve been addressed had it not been for Rare trying to make it to the Xbox 360s launch date. 
 But the game has a lot of elements that truly make it a great experience and its a game definitely 
 worth checking out if youre a fan of first-person shooters or someone looking to add a good title 
 to their 360 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdog144
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  i went over to one of my friends houses and played this game for about 10 minutes. I only played 
 multiplayer, which was fun but it was hard to. I dont really know if i should buy this game or 
 not, but if you like shooters that are slow placed, and take about 100 shots to kill a person, 
 then by all means get this game. But if you like fast paced shooters which it takes a normal amount 
 of amo to kill a person, then this game isnt for you, at all.
  
  The controllers were alittle hard to get used to for about the first 5 minutes, but i got used 
 to them fast. I like the idea of bots, but they are pretty dang stupid.
  
  I might pick this game up when its 20 bucks, but its not worth anything higher then 30 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minesr34
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 26, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark on Nintendo 64 was possibly one of the greatest games ever made and almost everyone 
 who played it was addicted to it. Now many years after the original, Rare has released the prequel 
 to Perfect Dark 1's storyline.... Perfect Dark Zero. When rumours came about that Perfect Dark "PD" 
 was being released on 360 everyone, had high anticipation and expectation for it, as the original 
 was well perfect (in a sense) . 
  
  Being one of the first FPS games to be released on 360 it had a chance to to do what Halo 1 did 
 for Xbox. The graphics were mind blowing, and comparing it to the original, well there is no comparison. 
 People who had owned and finished the original PD, would have loved the storyline as it explained 
 Joanna's history. Death match is absolutely brilliant as unlike halo or many other fps games it 
 has bots which makes the game all that little bit funner.
  
  But like most games it has its flaws and unfortunately they hinder it from being as good as Halo. 
 Ok so your playing Deathmatch against some bots or some mates and you kill someone, your all happy 
 for about a second until you see what happens to their dead body, well it sort of disintegrates 
 into like pixels.... and quite frankly it is pure S**T. I cannot stand it, why did they have to 
 do that, there is no need for it, what happened to bodies disappearing. But the main flaw in the 
 game is the amount of time it takes to finish the story mode... you can easily finish it in maybe 
 3-4 hours, easily 1 day or a weekend. Which means your stuck with death match for the rest of the 
 time. This really leads us to say... why is it not longer i mean yeh you can play through all the 
 different difficulties but hey its the same thing harder. 
  
  I think the game overall is fantastic, but because of all the expectation and talk about how good 
 it will be. It was blown out of the water and then did not meet the expectations of the public 
 (kind of like X-Men 3 the movie) . All in all it is great and defiantly worth a buy if you have 
 lots of friends and play deathmatch a lot. Otherwise just rent it on a weekend or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad_revolution
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  joanna dark is back with new looks great multiplayer and a Crappy single player that's wright the 
 single player is a mess. But the multiplayer is a different story it is addictive and will suck 
 you in nice whether its dark ops or deathmatch. the grapchics are definitly next-gen and the sound 
 like golden eye from the n64 the gamelay is just simple far from perfect and there is no jump button 
 like golden eye and perfect dark. i was really disappointed with the single player mess and it is 
 a result of crappy design. at least youre gonna have lots of fun with its addictive multiplayer 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silicon_requiem
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  This game blows my mind! Here are the reasons why it is quite possibly the best designed FPS ever 
 made:
  
  1) Environments: engaging, expansive, they feel real but also have an exciting sci-fi "Bond" secret 
 agent thing going on too, just real enough to draw you in, but just fantastic enough to keep you 
 interested
  
  2) Gameplay: the controls are intuitive and responsive, the gun battles are intense, the stealth 
 is great but not mind-numbing.
  
  3) Weaponry (and Gadgets) : The weapons are also a great combination of real and sci-fi, they are 
 realistic sounding and looking, but the addition of "gadgety" secondary functions (like the Laptop 
 gun's sentry mode) make the weapons more distinctive than all the other FPS games out there today 
 (yes, even Halo) . Pistols not only look and sound different, they fire different; you pick up different 
 SMG's and you are actually picking up different guns, not just the same gun with different looks 
 and sounds. The gadgets are also great, and planting bombs or picking locks is neat because you 
 actually have a GUI in which you actively engage in these tasks, which makes them less mundane 
 than, say, the "countdown timer" which Republic Commando utilizes. 
  
  4) Waypoints: No more compass!!! Now the waypoints are intelligent! When a waypoint is plotted 
 for you no matter where you are a route is plotted for you and appears as slightly translucent 
 arrows on the ground. The awesome thing is that the route is updated for you wherever you go, thatway 
 if you get off course it automatically replots the course for you and you can keep going. This 
 is such an advance, I can't even explain it; the amount of time spent on levels is minimized, and 
 action maximized, because you no longer have to wander around saying to yourself, "now what am 
 I supposed to be doing?" or trying to follow some 2-D map that really doesn't help much when you 
 are in a 3D enviornment. 
  
  5) Overall presentation: I could go on further, but to summarize, the overall presentation, from 
 the graphics to sound to character models to level design, are all ingenious. More than any other 
 game that I have played on the 360, this is the most balanced and well designed of the lot. 
  
  -The only negative is the the models, at times, don't completely take advantage of the huge 
 processing power of the 360. At times the rendering is not as flawless as it possibly could be, 
 but this is so minor I only deducted a single point from my graphic score, it is so inconsequential 
 I considered not even mentioning it. 
  
  If you own one game on the 360 so far, this is the one to get. The price has lowered due to its 
 huge popularity, so it is easier to get ahold of too than, say, ghost recon, and its much more 
 user friendly. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayne2k7
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  Now here's one of the finer games to bless my 360!
  After about the second level i knew this game was going to be great. I brought the collectors edition 
 pack and was not disappointed.
  After being a big fan of the previous N64 installment i had high hopes for this game and thought 
 the series couldn't get much better but i was wrong, this game is fantastic.
  The storyline is really gripping and there's something new everytime on every level.
  The online 
 function of this game is good and the battles are really gripping and intense. The release of a 
 further map pack map this game even better!
  The only downside to this game is it is fairly easy to complete even on the higher levels. Hardcore 
 gamers will tire easily of the single player campaign but hopefully will find something in the 
 multiplayer section!
  Great buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TitusAndronicus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes, a first-person shooter doesn't need real-world weapons, amazingly realistic physics, 
 or a sense of gravity to be a blast. The original Perfect Dark was a perfect example, as well as 
 the game it was based upon, GoldenEye. The modern prequel, Perfect Dark Zero, eschews realism for 
 a great sense of fun.
  
  The story centers around Johanna and Jack Dark, a daughter-father combo straight from a half-cooked 
 spy movie. When some fairly typical missions start to go seriously wrong, Johanna takes it into 
 her hands to fight back. While the story won't exactly blow you away, at least it's not entirely 
 mindless, thanks to some decent plot twists and entertaining characters (wait until you meet the 
 Brothers) .
  
  Johanna goes about her mission with a variety of weapons and gadgets to choose from. Want a stealthy 
 scoped pistol? Check. Want a heavy assault rifle complete with a grenade launcher? That's there 
 too. Want the requisite shotgun, sniper rifle, and sub-machinegun? Done, done, and done. While 
 most of the weapons are fairly typical for the genre, you'll wind up using most at one point or 
 another.
  
  The gadgets in the game rival those of everybody's favorite martini-drinking Brit. Johanaa will 
 use a lockpick, demo pack, and other various tools and tricks. Each of these has a small mini-game 
 element to it. For example, the demolition packs require you to connect a series of small lines 
 from start to finish. 
  
  Graphically, Zero is a mixed bag. The character models are simple, yet crisp and fairly varied. 
 The levels you'll go through are wildly varied, ranging from sleazy streets to nightclubs to jungles 
 and offices. The level of detail in most of these areas is well done, although there are a few 
 exceptions. Nice little touches are everywhere to be seen, such as towering shuttles, excellent 
 lighting, and a sense that this world is actually lived-in.
  
  The sound, unfortunately, drags this game down a notch. While the music is generally great, this 
 gamer found the in-game speech and special effects to be muffled. There seems to be no way to tweak 
 the sound settings.
  
  Multiplayer is an absolute blast, especially with the hugely varied options available. Even going 
 solo against fourteen computer 'bots is a great experience. Online play is well done, and the co-op 
 is a great addition.
  
  Overall, if you're looking for a game that carries the spirit of GoldenEye, Perfect Dark, or the 
 TimeSplitters games, look no further. This is a charming game loaded with potential.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomScrub282
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 20, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  After recently picking up an Xbox 360 I was looking forward to playing PDZ despite some negative 
 buzz I had heard. Well, after playing through the game's single player campaign I feel the negative 
 buzz was right. I shouldn't even have played the game through.
  
  I never played the original Perfect Dark and am not familiar with the story. Being unfamiliar with 
 the plotline, PDZ was completely incapable of pulling me into it. Who are all the main characters 
 and villains? What are their motivations, and what are they fighting for? After playing through 
 the entire campaign, all I could really respond with is, "Who cares?" I certainly don't, and the 
 game's inability to make me care is indicative of its failure.
  
  Level design was poor and often confusing, which in turn leads to the player getting lost - very 
 frustrating. It's as if the developers admit to the confusing nature of many of the levels by adding 
 arrows that appear on the floor which point you in the correct direction. If the levels were designed 
 better these arrows would not be necessary. And at times the arrows do more harm than good as they 
 point you in the wrong direction which more often than not can lead to your death or the failure 
 of a bonus objective.
  
  Movement seemed entirely too slow to me often times at well. For a seemingly fit woman Joanna Dark 
 "runs" through most of the game as if she is in high heels. There are times you don't notice this 
 (movement through short corridors) but at instances where you are moving through open areas making 
 any progress seems to take forever.
  
  Equally, weapons movement and aiming also often takes on a very sluggish feel. Tweaking the controls 
 didn't seem to help me. I'm right at home with the controls of other FPS games (most notably Halo 
 2) but PDZ always felt a big twitchy.
  
  The game's AI is disappointing. Pinned down by an enemy using a heavy turret? Don't worry! Just 
 keep under cover long enough and he will forget about you, going on to look at the purdy graphics 
 elswhere. Pop up and headshot him. This is the kind of thing you would expect of a game years ago, 
 but this is supposed to be the Next Gen. Isn't AI supposed to be better?
  
  The game can still be difficult on its default difficulty. What it lacks in enemy AI it makes up 
 for with hordes of enemies. However, the AI of your partner can be very very frustrating at times. 
 Ever played a game where your AI partner keeps getting killed or getting you killed from extreme 
 stupidity? This is another one. One mission on the campaign in particular is an EXTREME pain. You 
 pilot a hover craft and your partner mans the gun. If only he could pick up a target quickly and 
 shoot them accurately, but no. He chooses targets poorly, begins to shoot at them slowly, and misses. 
 A lot. And thus you are killed, back to checkpoint, to try again. And again. And again. If the 
 game allowed you to man the gun it wouldn't be so bad, but it doesn't.
  
  The sound was the game's only strong point. Weapons fires as well as other various effects all 
 felt very real. Graphically I felt the game was OK, but nothing to write home about. Certainly 
 not anything to make up for the lackluster gameplay.
  
  If you are bored and a fan of FPS, then you might give PDZ a weekend rental. It's much more fun 
 playing the campaign with a friend. But please, don't waste your money on it. There's a good reason 
 why it has been all but forgotten more than six months after its release. I don't know what kind 
 of crack the Gamespot editors were smoking when they reviewed this game, but I want some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan3669
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun and it is something to play while bored to death. The graphics seem human and 
 yet cartoon at the same time. The single player is decent but the multiplayer is what makes this 
 game fun. The sound effects soud realistic and the guns are real with changed names. The multiplaer 
 was amazing with ai bots and the jet packs were a blast. The levels were great when you coud open 
 up differents bases for the size of the players. The single player storyline was very predicable 
 and the enemy voices were anoying. The game was new for its time on the console, but after a while 
 it fades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmattx92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Before I start this game I have not played the first Perfect Dark so I wasn't expecting anything 
 amazing.
  
  ~~Gameplay~~
  
  Single Player
  Perfect Dark Zero is a very fun and addictive game. The Campaign was deccent. There wasn't that 
 much of a story line. The action was done well it was fast-paced and ran smoothly on most of the 
 time. The game implements a great cover system that allows you to take cover behind just about 
 anything in the game. Which alows you to play the game with stratagey instead of just runing and 
 guning in the game which makes the game replayable. 
  
  Multiplayer
  Multiplayer is were the true fun comes into the game you can play on split-screen and xbox live 
 . The first mode I want to talk about is Co-Op which alows you to play through the whole game with 
 a freind. This feature also changes the game up a bit because in one mission you are able to play 
 a diffrent character in the game who takes a diffrent path through the level. Then there is the 
 multiplayer wich gives you the standard Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Capture The Flag. There 
 are many more gametypes such as Eradication which is the same as the game Counter-Strike and Onsluaght 
 which forces you to defend an area from other players. One of the best parts is there are bots 
 so you can play even if there is no one around. 
  
  This is a very good game and I would highly reccomend it to any fps fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easy0neasy0ff
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 19, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark for the N64 was one of the highlights of my youth. Awesome gadgets, wide variety of 
 weapons, decent dialog with a above par story all balled into an immersive alternate future world 
 that was estonishing enough to be unmistakenly science fiction but at the same time be a believably 
 concieved vision of tomarrow. Now that I've said my peace . . .
  Perfect Dark Zero for the 360 is nothing like the original. Sure names and likeness are copied 
 , but the fun factor of it all has been wasted. First of all , lets tackle the game play. Sure 
 there is basic movement , but it all seems a bit stiff. Wow they added a special crouch roll move 
 , but I dont recall using it more than once ( durring the tutorial when I was TOLD to do it ) . 
 None of it felt really natural or fluid. The AI was . . . like a broken record ; constantly doomed 
 to eternally repeat the same thing over and over untill either you died or they did. The replayability 
 is non exsistant. No real insentive to replay it on a harder dificulty unless you REALLY need those 
 gamerscore points. Second , lets look at graphics. Now this part was a mixed bag. I thought things 
 looked really sharp and lifelike , except that it was mostly the same obvious texture repeated 
 over and over to fill a space. And the locations in the game . . . this is supposed to be futuristic 
 and we visit places like old ruins or a subway ? Why not be a bit more inventive, I know you have 
 it in you RARE . . . I know because you used to flaunt it. Now that shine has turned old and saggy 
 and it is time for a makeover, serriously. Moving on we have sound. Is it me or have developers 
 defened themselves over the past decade. I mean when I was a kid and I fired a made up computer 
 generated firearm , I really felt like it would do some damage. Now I feel like im practically 
 SNEEZING on my enemies instead of launching heat seeking earth shattering rockets at them. Have 
 the devs just gotten too old for the sound department ? Ok besides all that Microsoft still promised 
 us 'extras' with our games. This one had a bonus cd FULL of them. If by full you mean 10mb worth 
 of icons and some text , then yea , woopee. This game was a TOTAL let down. Where ware all the 
 awesome gadgets ; the unique weapons ; the lush environments and locals ? This was nothing more 
 than a way to get an FPS onto the 360 launch lineup so people would buy it. I should know because 
 I was one of those people. Im not saying this game was the WORST game ever. I was just nothing 
 like its brother , one of the best games of its generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rebel108
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 18, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  When this game came out, I really thought it would be great and fun, like the old one on PD 64. 
 However, as soon as I played it I noticed the shooting was very sluggish and challenging. Even 
 once you get used to the controls, it still seems not as good as it could've been. In addition, 
 the enviromental graphics were pretty good, but the characters were very ugly (especially that 
 stupid asian dike Mai Hem and that old fart Jack) . Joanna even lost her classy british accent and 
 all the voice conversations are cheesy and unserious. The funniest thing I heard was when I was 
 shooting at this asian guard (In campaign) and during the shooting he said "Nii How" and it was 
 very funny. The multiplayer on this game was no where near the experience I enjoy with COD2 or 
 Far Cry. The levels are too big and the bots are just unrealistic. Well, I regret buying it and 
 would've rather bought a different game. Hopefully Rare will get their act together and start producing 
 the work that everyone knows they're capable of. Kameo was fun, but overpriced and too short. The 
 co-op was boring. Anyway, i'm disappointed and hope to warn people who are planning to buy it to 
 rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeokor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero lets you play as Joanna Dark in the year 2020, a secret agent fighting against 
 an evil plot- the typical secret agent storyline, normally seen in classic Bond movies.
  
  You play across some 12 levels with varied objectives, guns and locations in the single player 
 main mode. The locations themself are very impressive and show off the xbox 360s power quite well 
 for a launch title. Ranging from the streets of Hong Kong to the snowy Chinese mountains, from 
 the lush amazon jungle to the old african town. Each of these locations are also well built and 
 provide a mix of sniper spots, assault runs and clever cover. This keeps the single player fast, 
 fun and varied, I happily played through all the missions twice (some several times more) .
  
  The campaign isn't very difficult at all. Veteran shooters will have to play through the game 
 on hard before unlocking very hard. I personally played through on the medium setting first, then 
 moved on to complete the game on the harder setting. The hardest setting, Dark Agent, can prove 
 to be quite difficult, having only complete 1 mission of the 3 missions I tried on it.
  
  The guns, like the locations, are worth playing this game for. Most of the 17 guns (minus the shield, 
 grenades, gadgets and sword) offer great and highly unique secondry functions. Some of my personal 
 favourites including the CMP 150s Hologram of yourself, the Laptops sentry gun and the Fac-16s 
 grenade launcher (not that the lasts very unique, but its very handy) . However, they can prove 
 to be very useless in single player against the bots, but, once you mastered them, they can become 
 your greatest ally in multiplayer.
  
  The multiplayer itself is split in my mind. While it offers great modes of play, the well-balanced 
 and crazy guns and a couple of fantastic maps (Desert, Urban and Old Town) ; it has only 6 maps 
 in total, rubbish bots and only 6 maps. Only 6 maps... yes they can be varied in size, yes they 
 are great fun, but only 6.
  
  Online multiplayer is great, along with Dark Ops and Co-Op modes and can keep you coming back for 
 more, again and again. Sometime you can land yourself in a rubbish game, but just move on. Urban 
 and Desert maps are my personal online favourites and once in a while a good game of Shotguns only 
 or Rockets only can prove to be a laugh.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is a great package; the single player experience is worth at least 2 plays through 
 (you couldn't expect less from Rare) and the multiplayer will get you busy for long enough until 
 your next FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golfer13last
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 18, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  Ok people, if you looking for a game with; great graphics, exellent gameplay great sounds quality, 
 then this is not the game for you haha. Because this game (perfect Dark Zero) i rated this game 
 because of its gameplay mostly. In the levels you don't get that, well, fun feeling if you know 
 what i mean. It didn't catch my attention. If you looking for a good first person shooter then 
 go for GRAW. OR ir your not the war fan then go for the upcoming gears of war, if done alot of 
 research on all of these games and own GRAW so you can trust me on this one.
  
  Any questions on these games just ask. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Money-Mo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  As a HUGE fan of the original "Perfect Dark" (one of the few games where I've actually wanted to 
 complete every single difficulty level no less) I was immensly looking forward to once again entering 
 Jo's world. Sitting down to play the game the first time I have to say I wasn't impressed. The 
 graphics didn't really strike me at first, the way the game played felt quite sluggish and annoying 
 and I quite genuinally hated it. I was aware of all the "PDZ bashing" that frequents various internet 
 forums and had pretty much given up on it. However something made me press on... pass the opening 
 levels... pass the first missions (on the rooftop mission I was fairly willing to shoot Jack myself 
 his AI seemed so bad) and onwards. What can I say? It really grew on me!
  
  Story :- Jo, her father Jack and their hacker Chandra go around doing various deeds of espionage 
 however they soon find themselves caught up in something big. You fight Datadyne a lot and take 
 on a variety of soldiers and bosses in the process (Mai Hem is one of the few game characters I've 
 liked in a while) , oh and blow quite a few things up too. The End. To be fair the PDZ story is 
 badly put together and pretty crap, but if you take it without high expectations it can still be 
 a fun little plot. Oh and it takes place before the original game.
  
  Gameplay :- This is what I liked so much to begin with. I disliked the "duck/dodge" type elements 
 to the game. Jo has the ability to use pillars/walls/pretty much anything as cover and pop out 
 to shoot on enemies, but I eventually realized you really don't need to use this feature to get 
 through the game anyway (I finished it on secret agent difficulty) and it was soon forgotten. In 
 fact once I was playing the game like I did the old Perfect Dark, the merits of the game shone 
 through. My other main gripe to begin with was the aiming. I suck at aiming on most console fps. 
 It's just a fact of my exsistence. But the aiming on PDZ seemed so off at times I was getting very 
 frustrated. However, again I perserved and eventually managed to get my aiming skill to something 
 between "totally awful" and "ok if they are standing in front of me picking thier noses". Seriously 
 though I found once I stuck with the game I found the games aiming system pretty easy to use, and 
 the frustration was dispelled allowing me to enjoy the fast paced action the game offers. Finally 
 my main gripe at the PDZ gameplay is mainly related to the mission objectives. These are hardly 
 original and usually involve hacking something/getting somewhere/killing someone/killing something. 
 I suppose there isn't a huge amount of different tasks that could have been placed in the games 
 setting, but it all felt a bit generic really, and the objectives lacked the brilliance of the 
 64 version. The fact you don't even need to bother with support objectives seemed rather aimless 
 too, like they were a tacked on gimmick. The objectives feel far more dull and generic in the earliar 
 levels mind, as as the game progrsses I found myself getting a lot more involved. Anyway, if you 
 can get it into your head that this game will never be like the original "Perfect Dark" and appreciate 
 it for what it is.. a fairly mindless but fast and fun objective based shooter then you and single 
 player PDZ may well get on fine.
  
  Multiplayer wise is where the game comes into it's own. Theres plenty of options, deathmatch, team 
 games of all sorts (once you get the patch anyway) and a hell of a lot of achivements tied to the 
 multiplayer game if your an achivement addict. The multiplayer is quite simply one of the best 
 ive played in a while theres even jetpacks and hovercrafts thrown in for those of you who don't 
 want to just use guns. Even if your not on Xbox Live Gold there is bots to play the multiplayer 
 game with too, and of course your freinds.
  
  Graphics:- Again this is something that grew on me. To begin with I hated the PDZ visuals. Jo looked 
 too cartoony... and nothing really struck me as impressive in the opening few missions. However, 
 by the time I was leaving the China missions my jaw was dropping frequently even on a SD-TV. It 
 was simply stunning, increasingly so as the game progresses.
  
  Sound:- As I've said in other reviews, a soundtrack is rarely something I notice nor really care 
 about whatsoever. Nor are sound effects (in fact I often play games with the sound off) . But PDZ 
 is an exception once more in that the soundtrack is stunning. From the opening "James Bond"-esque 
 song to the in-game music and sound effects PDZ delivers sound wise.
  
  Value:- Four difficulty levels of single player (one unlockable) , an awesome multiplayer thats 
 easy to find a game on, plenty of the usual achivements and even downlodable content if you get 
 desperate... . Enough said.
  
  Overall:- PDZ is as stunning as the majoity of RARE games out there, but, like a fine wine needs 
 time to improve (from it's bad starting levels) . Couple this decent single player game, with an 
 AMAZING multiplayer and you have a great outcome. It's not as good as it should have been by a 
 long shot, but still manages to be a good blast. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mace8704
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 17, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  ----Single Player -----
  First, I'll begin by reviewing the story. The story is downright bad. The story is very unintresting 
 and is not an etertaining story. The voice acting is really bad. Joanna has an alright voice actor, 
 but everyone else is terrible. The only thing that makes it decent is the ability to play with 
 a friend, and the level design is pretty cool in some of the level.
  In the single player campaign, the default difficulty is too easy. However, perfect agent is way 
 too difficult. It's challenging and fun until you get to the roof top level. Sniper rifle shots 
 take down all your armor and 3/4 of your health in one shot. Even if you make it past that point, 
 the boss is difficult and very frustrating, not fun, as well.
  
  ------Multiplayer -----
  On the upside, the multiplayer is actually a pretty good. There's not a large number of maps, but 
 there are many different and fun game modes. This is also one of the few online communities that 
 seems to take advantage of the microphone on 360 (this may be a downside to some folks :) One thing 
 that everyone can appreciate in this multiplayer is that there is no lag what-so-ever. Theres no 
 lag when theres 2 players and theres no lag when theres 32 players.
  On the downside, the amount of damage you deal in the multiplayer is messed up. It takes a ridiculous 
 amount of shots to kill someone when you are shooting them anywhere, but the head. Gernade shooting 
 weapons dominate the multiplayer hands down. However, the multiplayer is extremely customizable 
 and the ability to use these guns can be turned off. Also, there are 2 vehichles in the game. The 
 hover craft which is fun and requires teamwork and the dreaded jetpack. The jetpack is for newbies 
 that can't kill people without the ridiculous amount of auto aim they have come accustomed to. 
 THE JETPACK RUINS GAMES. As previously mentioned, vehichles can be restricted by the host.
  
  -------Additional Comments -------
  1) the physics are terrible. 2) theres a map pack out now 
 that may help with the lack of maps. 3) ONLY BUY THE GAME IF YOU HAVE LIVE or if you have a diehard 
 family/friend that you like to play co-op and split screen against bots a lot with. 4) The jetpack 
 is way too strong. 5) This game has virtually no auto aim and it is very difficult to aim compared 
 to most xbox FPS.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UT_Wrestler
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 17, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  PDzero has been in development for about 6 years and was originally going to be a GC launch title. 
 Well, it's finally here. Okay, let's start with gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Before I get into single player or multiplayer, I would first like to talk about the guns, because 
 that is the one place where this game is head and heels above every other FPS on the market. Nearly 
 every weapon in the game can do more than just basic shooting (bungie please start taking notes) . 
 The weapons here all have cool secondary functions that make using one over another a matter of 
 more than just power and range. For instance, the shotgun can send out a beam that pinpoints enemies 
 on your radar. Plus, the laptop gun isn't just a powerful machine gun, but it can also be deployed 
 as an automatic sentry gun. And that's just the tip of the iceberg. No other FPS can even begin 
 to touch this game when it comes to weapons.
  Okay, now let's talk single player, as this is the most disappointing aspect of the game. The first 
 PD on the N64 had a truly epic and intriguing sci-fi storyline, mixing elements of X-Files, 007, 
 and Independence Day all into one story. PDzero, on the other hand, has a lame, uninspired storyline 
 that seems like it belongs in a really bad B movie or a Saturday morning cartoon. I'm not even 
 sure I could call it a storyline. What the hell happened? Did they get a 10 year old to write the 
 story? No, because even a 10 year old could write a better story.
  Anyhow, the gameplay of the single player is decent, maybe slightly above average. The enemy AI 
 feels a little dumb and outdated, and they don't get any smarter as you go up in difficulty (they 
 just become insanely accurate shots) . Even so, there's still some fun to be had in single player, 
 with the 007ish gadgetry and the intense firefights. Speaking of which, you can now hide behind 
 boxes and walls and pop out to fire some shots in third person, kinda like solid snake haha.
  What really makes this game good, though is the multiplayer. I've had many sleepless nights lately 
 because of it. I'll even go as far as to say I think it's better than Halo 2's multiplayer. The 
 game has a wide variety of multiplayer modes, which can be divided into 2 categories: Deathmatch 
 (Halo style matches) and Dark Ops (Counter-Strike style matches, slower and more strategic) . The 
 deathmatches include killcount, CTF, and territorial gain, whereas darkops modes have you purchase 
 weapons at the beginning of each match (like counterstrike) and you only get one life per round 
 with games like eradication, sabotage, etc. Every player is going to develop his own preference 
 for weapons because each weapon is so unique in its functions. I could write several pages about 
 all the things that make multiplayer so cool, but just play it, you won't be disappointed.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Graphically, this game looks absolutely beautiful. There's an absolutely 
 insane amount of texture and detail that appears to have gone into every aspect of the environments. 
 But the guns are the true star of the game's graphics, as every gun looks so realistic you'll wish 
 you could just reach into the screen and hold it. The character models, though, I'm not quite sure 
 what to make of them. I can understand the slightly cartoonish look they gave the characters, and 
 Joanna looks very sexy, but I've seen character models that look just as good on the original Xbox. 
 Other than that, the game looks fantastic.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  Ya know, the storyline in the single player is already terrible, and the horrendous voice acting 
 doesn't help it much. It sounds like they just randomly recruited some people off the streets to 
 come in and read a few lines off of a script, it's that bad. The soundtrack is decent, but it's 
 nowhere near as good as the original Perfect Dark, which had some of the best cinematic music ever 
 in a video game. In spite of these problems, the guns still sound very cool, and that's really 
 the only redeeming quality of the sound.
  
  Value: 9/10
  Great online multiplayer equals a high mark for replay value. There's also co-op to help make the 
 single player missions more interesting. If you have Xbox live, this is a very worthy purchase.
 
  
  Tilt: 8/10
  Hey Rare, if you make another game in this series, could you PLEASE hire someone to write the story 
 who actually knows what he's doing? Better yet, bring back the people who wrote the story for the 
 original game! Bah, if you like good online multiplayer fps's, get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjhutto
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Story: You are a bounty hunter, who, on a routine job, discovers a dangerous plot by this corporation 
 called dataDyne and you and your father must work to stop it before the plan comes to fruition.
 
  
  Gameplay: The shooting aspect of Perfect Dark Zero is awesome. The way enemy's armor comes off 
 and how they die in relation to how and where you shot them is really sadisticly satisfying. The 
 shooting is satisfying as well. There are a ton of weapons with alot of secondary modes and you 
 will find yourself wanting to try new weapons all the time. The storyline, however, was not as 
 grand as it was hard to follow and even if you managed to do that, it wasn't all that great. You'd 
 be better off skipping the abysmal cutscenes and getting right to the mission.
  
  Multiplayer on xbox live or on splitscreen is a blast to play. Bullets flying everywhere, guns 
 blazing, really satisfying action. Multiplayer will be the part that will keep you coming back 
 for more.
  
  Graphics: Perfect Dark Zero really takes advantage of the next generation power found in the Xbox 
 360. The graphics are amazing and the detail is just as unbelieveable. Things like usualy programmers 
 use fadded out settings for the distant surroundings. Perfect Dark Zero's backdrop is very vivd 
 and rich. The gun modeling is very realistic and believable.
  
  Sound: There is nothing too great about Perfect Dark Zero's sound. It is adequate for a first person 
 shooter. Nothing you wouldn't expect.
  
  Overview: Perfect Dark Zero is a great first person shooter for the Xbox 360 and is hopefully a 
 sign of things to come from this console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 16, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  As a HUGE fan of the original "Perfect Dark" (one of the few games where I've actually wanted to 
 complete every single difficulty level no less) I was immensly looking forward to once again entering 
 Jo's world. Sitting down to play the game the first time I have to say I wasn't impressed. The 
 graphics didn't really strike me at first, the way the game played felt quite sluggish and annoying 
 and I quite genuinally hated it. I was aware of all the "PDZ bashing" that frequents various internet 
 forums and had pretty much given up on it. However something made me press on... pass the opening 
 levels... pass the first missions (on the rooftop mission I was fairly willing to shoot Jack myself 
 his AI seemed so bad) and onwards. What can I say? It really grew on me!
  
  Story :- Jo, her father Jack and their hacker Chandra go around doing various deeds of espionage 
 however they soon find themselves caught up in something big. You fight Datadyne a lot and take 
 on a variety of soldiers and bosses in the process (Mai Hem is one of the few game characters I've 
 liked in a while) , oh and blow quite a few things up too. The End. To be fair the PDZ story is 
 badly put together and pretty crap, but if you take it without high expectations it can still be 
 a fun little plot. Oh and it takes place before the original game.
  
  Gameplay :- This is what I liked so much to begin with. I disliked the "duck/dodge" type elements 
 to the game. Jo has the ability to use pillars/walls/pretty much anything as cover and pop out 
 to shoot on enemies, but I eventually realized you really don't need to use this feature to get 
 through the game anyway (I finished it on secret agent difficulty) and it was soon forgotten. In 
 fact once I was playing the game like I did the old Perfect Dark, the merits of the game shone 
 through. My other main gripe to begin with was the aiming. I suck at aiming on most console fps. 
 It's just a fact of my exsistence. But the aiming on PDZ seemed so off at times I was getting very 
 frustrated. However, again I perserved and eventually managed to get my aiming skill to something 
 between "totally awful" and "ok if they are standing in front of me picking thier noses". Seriously 
 though I found once I stuck with the game I found the games aiming system pretty easy to use, and 
 the frustration was dispelled allowing me to enjoy the fast paced action the game offers. Finally 
 my main gripe at the PDZ gameplay is mainly related to the mission objectives. These are hardly 
 original and usually involve hacking something/getting somewhere/killing someone/killing something. 
 I suppose there isn't a huge amount of different tasks that could have been placed in the games 
 setting, but it all felt a bit generic really, and the objectives lacked the brilliance of the 
 64 version. The fact you don't even need to bother with support objectives seemed rather aimless 
 too, like they were a tacked on gimmick. The objectives feel far more dull and generic in the earliar 
 levels mind, as as the game progrsses I found myself getting a lot more involved. Anyway, if you 
 can get it into your head that this game will never be like the original "Perfect Dark" and appreciate 
 it for what it is.. a fairly mindless but fast and fun objective based shooter then you and single 
 player PDZ may well get on fine.
  
  Multiplayer wise is where the game comes into it's own. Theres plenty of options, deathmatch, team 
 games of all sorts (once you get the patch anyway) and a hell of a lot of achivements tied to the 
 multiplayer game if your an achivement addict. The multiplayer is quite simply one of the best 
 ive played in a while theres even jetpacks and hovercrafts thrown in for those of you who don't 
 want to just use guns. Even if your not on Xbox Live Gold there is bots to play the multiplayer 
 game with too, and of course your freinds.
  
  Graphics:- Again this is something that grew on me. To begin with I hated the PDZ visuals. Jo looked 
 too cartoony... and nothing really struck me as impressive in the opening few missions. However, 
 by the time I was leaving the China missions my jaw was dropping frequently even on a SD-TV. It 
 was simply stunning, increasingly so as the game progresses.
  
  Sound:- As I've said in other reviews, a soundtrack is rarely something I notice nor really care 
 about whatsoever. Nor are sound effects (in fact I often play games with the sound off) . But PDZ 
 is an exception once more in that the soundtrack is stunning. From the opening "James Bond"-esque 
 song to the in-game music and sound effects PDZ delivers sound wise.
  
  Value:- Four difficulty levels of single player (one unlockable) , an awesome multiplayer thats 
 easy to find a game on, plenty of the usual achivements and even downlodable content if you get 
 desperate... . Enough said.
  
  Overall:- PDZ is as stunning as the majoity of RARE games out there, but, like a fine wine needs 
 time to improve (from it's bad starting levels) . Couple this decent single player game, with an 
 AMAZING multiplayer and you have a great outcome. It's not as good as it should have been by a 
 long shot, but still manages to be a good blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robarts
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 11, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Before you read this let me say I would edit this to make it more comprehensible, but it was my 
 first attempt at a review and I like to look back on how badly done it is and laugh. LOL. ENJOY!!!
 
  
  First of all let me say that this game is AWESOME! Anyway, now to the review.
  I'm going to tell you about the story first, which by the way is almost non existent. The story starts 
 off great but then after the first level you just jump right into mediocrity. There is little if 
 no character development and though it does explain how she became an agent, you never really care 
 about it and will probably find yourself skipping the story all together. All together i d give 
 the story a 3 out of 10, but then again what else could you expect from an unknown comic book writer 
 who just happened to get the chance of a lifetime and ruined it for everyone. WHEW! I always find 
 it so hard to talk negative about this game, but anyway now that the negative is out of the way 
 I can get into the good stuff. EVERYTHING ELSE. GRAPHICS:10 out of 10
  When I first started this game up I was overwhelmed with a sense of amazement and fear at the same 
 time. This was the game I had been begging for all these years and I had it for the so called most 
 powerful gaming system on earth, OF COURSE I was ready to be blown away. At first glance I couldnt 
 help but realize that the charactors all looked a little weird, but thats just because instead 
 of focusing on photo realistic characters RARE stuck to the real gold of gaming, NOT TRYING TO MAKE 
 YOU THINK YOU ARE LOOKING AT REAL PEOPLE. The game strays away from that to go for a more an-ime 
 look (which by the way I am not much for that stuff) that just reminds you that you are playing 
 a game. The graphics are really well done in this game. Weapons all look extremely detailed and all 
 of the environments and lightings shine (literally!!!) Lighting effects and explosions all really 
 catch your eye. There were multiple times in the game where I would die just because I was trying 
 to look at the sun shining off the wall. I would like to mention that in some areas you can tell 
 that it has been developed on multiple platforms and switched around alot, but its just that fact 
 that helps them along. They did an excellent job of fixing them up for the most part and im sure 
 it wasnt easy to hide the visible proof of platform changes. So therefore Even though they are visible 
 sometimes I commend RARE on their extreme hard work, the end results of their work is nothing short 
 of breathtaking compared to how bad it could've been if they hadn't worked so hard. GAMEPLAY:9 
 out of 10
  The only reason that the gameplay didn't get the ten was due to the fact that it's just your ordinary 
 FPS mechanics running it when you break it down to the core. Other than that I will say that I never 
 have had so much fun playing an FPS as I did this one. The motion blur effect was an extremely good 
 idea that in fact is now being mimicked by other develpors (EA and DICE) great thinking RARE. The 
 controls are as tight and precise as you could possibly wish and while the characters walk a little 
 slower and can't jump, it doesn't hurt the gameplay at all it just makes it unique. Everything about 
 this games gameplay rocks. From the seamless third to first person camera switching adding cinematic 
 feel to the enemy reacting perfectly to every bullet that rips through their bodys, all the way 
 to just simply the way the weapons differently show off their power with either force or prcision. You 
 can really tell how powerful these weapons are. In my opinion, while a little slower and different (without 
 jumping) the gameplay is even better than halo's and i'm a huge fan of halo. SOUND:10 out of 10
 
  Simply put the sound is right on with the look and feel of the game. The weapons all sound perfect 
 and the music fits perfectly in with the level it's played on. NO COMPLAINTS AT ALL. VALUE:10 out 
 of 10
  While you may not find yourself going back through the campaign for those aweome WOW story moments 
 like in halo, you will find yourself going back in OVER and OVER for the sheer fun of the gameplay. Like 
 I said before it's still an FPS but it's one of the most highly refined FPS'S EVER CREATED! Also, 
 the multiplayer is a REAL beast. While their may not be many levels there are different variants 
 of each and there are alot of customization options laid out before you. Top it all off with about 
 eight or nine multiplayer modes and awesome co-op and you may just find yourself going to work 
 with no sleep for days.
  OVERALL:
  This game is one of the best first person shooters to ever be percieved and while it could'l've 
 been absolutely perfect had RARE not been rushed into finding just anyone to do the story, that's 
 easily forgotten. It's over the top gameplay, eye popping graphics, and sheer fun will save the 
 day for this highly enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themtman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Not a bad game at all, lots of people said its a dissapointment. If their is a game that reminds 
 me of one of the best games ever made then its a great game. The game it reminds me of is Goldeneye 
 and i know everyone has to agree with me it is the best fps ever. It was plain fun and thats what 
 perfect dark is. The first perfect dark was bettter but this is also fun. Cool gameplay, quick 
 pick up play and the weakness of this game is the lousy single player which is one of the most 
 confusing single players ever but it is still worth playing because of the graphics and the sound 
 in the game. Everyone should check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daderek93
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  When I read the reveiws watched some movies, I thought PDZ would be the best...... but not all of 
 my predictions were correct when I played it..... I'm not saying that this game was bad all I'm 
 saying is Rare just needed to add some stuff.... like on the last level you have to kill this guy 
 that has a very powerful sord called Vivblade.... (you can get it on lv4, 5, 6, or 7) . When he was 
 junmping on rock to rock and trying to shoot u.... u could'nt see much of him, he wasn't that far 
 away but he was like an ant to the human eye..... but other than that and some other little problems, 
 PDZ turned out to be one of the best First Person Shooters that any In Your Face Hardcore Gamer 
 would love............. by the way, when i say "Just Right" for the difficulty, i mean very easy 
 on some parts and very hard on others, but overall Just Right! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booomer69
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 15, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. The online multiplayer is fantastic. Fun addicting and great stats. But the 
 game offers HORRIBLE single player. The game isint all that bad. But its really fun on xbox live 
 but when you pay $60 im expecting a good single player and a good multiplayer. Its a great game 
 and i seriously love it. But a game like Ghost Recon might be more of your cup of tea. And its overall 
 a great game i just wish it had a better single player and more easy achivements. And the game needs 
 more game types online. But its a very good game and it aint all that bad Seriously!
  -BoOomer69- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 14, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This game was awesome. It had cool downloadable content. This game had some of the best graphics 
 i've ever seen in a video game. The story was a little to confusing for those who skipped a cut 
 scene. The game allows you to cove any where. The game online is what makes this game stand out 
 other then battlefield and GRAW. The only things i had a problem in was all the little things like 
 you can't jump you also can't kill your own team mates. Some of the voices in the game were a bit 
 corny and annoying. Im not sure if the voice were meant to be so corny but i couldn't stand it. 
 This game makes me not wanna wait for the next wave of video games coming out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deeminem
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  hmmm... perfect dark zero, what a weird name, and yet it seems to be one of the best fps; ive ever 
 played (so take that halo) . I enjoy it, but i also enjoy butter, and that clogs my ateries and could 
 some day kill me, but as long as i enjoy it wile im alive, ill accept the grueling death. perfect 
 dark is the same way... i enjoy it living, even though itll probably kill me someday. ok then. 
 thats it. end of story. you bore me, so im going to go play perfect dark zero, and will probably 
 die before i log on again. so good bye forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunLord592
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 13, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero made its deput on the Xbox 360 as a luanch title. with Rare working for Microsoft 
 now we would expect well made games coming out. Perfect Dark Zero has you in the shoes of Joanna 
 Dark. The game is a prequal to the blockbuster lust Perfect Dark for the N64. 
  
  Right from the start you will notice the soldi gameplay Rare has made for the game. The game has 
 the best gameplay. The guns are well modeled and work like a charm. With each gun having a secondary 
 weapon make each gun even special.
  
  The games story could be a let down. The game has awful one liners made by Joanna Dark's father 
 and the voice sync is sometimes off. And the story is debatiable. Because its good and its bad. 
 its both. 
  
  The multiplayer for PDZ has to be the best part. The featues many of the same mods like Deathmatch 
 and Team deathmatch. The game also features a unique game mod which is called Infection. One person 
 starts off as a skeleton and they have more health and there weapon is 2 times stronger. and whoever 
 they kill becomes infected. And it can become very scary when your the only one left. PDZ also 
 features COOP for the story campaign online, local, and system link. Having online COOP for a FPS 
 is a must and PDZ does it perfectly. 
  
  The graphics for PDZ are beautiful but sometimes it can look okward. Thats because almost everything 
 in the game has a shine to it. even the trees. which makes it a little wierd. But still the games 
 visuals are good and look next-gen and there is never frame rate issues. 
  
  Overall PDZ is a good game to pick up. It has awesome gameplay and multiplayer but the story can 
 be a let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squall8880
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  From MS Game Studios and Rare, Ltd., comes PERFECT DARK ZERO for the Xbox 360. A first person shooter 
 set in the future, PERFECT DARK ZERO is set after PERFECT DARK, the Nintendo 64 hit that players 
 loved. The storyline, a prequel to events that happened in the first game, doesnt assume players 
 know heroine Joanna Dark and her bounty-hunting ways. She and her father, also a bounty hunter, 
 once again find themselves drawn into events that span the globe and over a dozen different missions. 
 Joanna has a huge number of weapons at her disposal, including submachine guns, pistols, rifles, 
 and more high-tech, futuristic weaponry. Each is very realistic, as is the damage it does. One 
 of the unique aspects of PERFECT DARK ZERO is the way enemies react. Being shot in the hand, for 
 example, will cause an enemy to act differently than if he were shot in the leg or the chest. Players 
 can play through the story mode by themselves or cooperatively with a friend. Once the story mode 
 is done and all the extras it includes are unlocked, players can test their skills in the combat 
 arena in a number of modes. Up to 32 players can battle it out online, or players can add computer-controlled 
 bots to play against. The original PERFECT DARK introduces a sci-fi world and spunky heroine that 
 players loved, and its sequel, PERFECT DARK ZERO, keeps up the action, giving players more weapons, 
 more challenges, and more great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keith4RFC17
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 12, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was ment to be the game everyone would want (I laugh at who ever told me that) 
 we all had high expectations of the game before it was realesed but it was after when i realised 
 how bad the game actually was.
  The graphics were sooo dam cartoonish i wasnt sure if the game was made by waltdisney i could look 
 back at some of my older game from the xbox and say they're better than PDZ infact the only thing 
 PDZ would beat it in is the amount of boring gameplay it has.
  Lol now the Value for money bit i dont know where use guys live but over in Britian PDZ costs 50 
 quid there aint no way in hell is it worth that much.
  Next the super boring gameplay dont get me wrong when you get into a fight with someone you can 
 be their for ages trying to kill him maby ten shots would take care of one guy they have plenty 
 of boring stuff to keep you stuck on your seat thats if you enjoy being depressed the single player 
 was a crock of s**t and the multiplayer well was similar to the single player mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_X_Factor_69
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 11, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  So this is the sequel (or prequel, whatever) to one of the most fun and exicitng games on the legendary 
 Nintendo 64? But this game lacks in fun and excitment, how could that be? I'll tell you. 
  
  Perfect Dark Zero looked amazing, we were told it was going to be amazing, and Rare lead us 
 to believe that this game would make us "forget about Halo." Yeah right. I guess I will begin with 
 Perfect Dark Zero's pros to get you, the reader, excited before I reveal the ture identity of this 
 self proclaimed Halo-killer. 
  
  Graphics. I believe that graphics are an important part of a game. If a game doesn't appeal to 
 me visually I don't want to look at, it let alone play it. PDZ (Perfect Dark Zero) does have great 
 graphics, in first person. For some reason the characters look horrible in the game's cutscenes, 
 but look amazing when you have a weapon in your hand. That is basically it for the Pros.... graphics. 
 Also bots are a fun add-on and great for getting the horrible achievements. And there is Co-Op 
 online and off, but you won't want to play the campaign anyway, believe me.
  
  Cons.
  
  Gameplay feels sluggish and crappy. Crappy is the only word i can use to describe the gameplay. 
 It just downright sucks. The characters are moving everywhere and your gun doesn't move or reload 
 fast enough to keep up with them. The story is horrific and i had no idea what the heck i was doing 
 for the entire campaign. Multiplayer feels forced (I don't even no why it just does) and it is 
 not fun. The Achievements are some of the worst in any 360 game and you only get 15 points if you 
 beat the campaign on the second highest difficulty. And the voice acting is bad too. Also the difficulty 
 settings are too varied. The secret agent difficulty is cake but move to the dark agent difficulty 
 and you'll want to cry. 
  
  Overall this game is a disappointment and a disgrace. I don't know why but all the elements are 
 there for a great game but it just doesn't pull through. I think that ever since Halo my standards 
 (and those of the gaming community) have risen and we won't accept a game any less than that of 
 Halo quality. Technically its an average game, but if your playing for fun, don't get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sicness10
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jul 11, 2006 4:11 am PT
Review:  Ok, Ill start right off by saying, Im a pretty intuitive person, I know by screens and footage 
 when a game is going to be lacklustre, but instead of following my heart, I followed the trail 
 of hype leading to this game. And my god did I wish I stuck with my initial gut reaction.
  
  The game as with a lot on the 360 can be divided into single and multi player. So we'll start 
 with single player.
  
  Firstly, gameplay. Now, when you play a Next-Gen FPS you expect something at least remotely new 
 and fresh, even if its the smallest thing, its something you just expect. Well, perfect dark 
 zero (PDZ) didnt have any of these. It didnt even match that of Current-Gen FPS, the gameplay 
 mechanics where old, generic, and overall very uninspired. 
  
  They somehow managed to take what was an excellent N64 game and basically sh@t all over it. This 
 was indeed perfect dark in name alone. The level design was basic and contrived things we'd seen 
 a million times before in a million other FPS, only done infinitely worse. The story itself was 
 pathetic, consisting of a confusing, laughably bad script and voice work (why was Joanna dark now 
 American?) characters where brinking on ridiculous, no, wait, they where ridiculous, and overall 
 they simply messed up the whole perfect dark universe, Joannas father was a clumsy fool, Joanna 
 had gone from cool to annoying brat, and the less said about the enemies the better. 
  
  Adding insult to injury, the AI was terrible, and consisted of 2, yes TWO, methods of attack, running 
 full charge, or side strafing, you could just hide around a corner and pick guards off as they 
 came into sight.
  
  Now the graphics, I understand the temptation when getting hands on new technologies to put effects 
 on everything, but every developer I know of has managed to keep sane and use them sparingly, subtlety 
 is key. Rare clearly dont know the meaning of the word and hence proceeded to coat every single 
 surface with a thick layer of gloss. Now Im a fan of bump mapping when done right (prey, doom 
 3) but PDZ took it to new dreadful heights. Now correct me if Im wrong, but the last time I checked, 
 the dry, baron desert didnt look like it had experienced a nail polish explosion.
  
  Finally sound, now, this is something you would have thought they couldnt mess up on, it was a 
 given, but, somehow, they managed it. In terms of gun noises its perfectly adequate, but the music, 
 my god what where they thinking. Most if not all games understand the meaning of an adapting musical 
 score, quite in areas of no action, music building when action takes place. Again, this is clearly 
 something rare missed out on when going through game development 101. Instead of excellent use 
 of music found in almost all games today we got a pretty dire soundtrack looped over the main action, 
 if feels less like a well incorporated musical score, more like a very badly chosen personal soundtrack.
 
  
  But all is not lost, the game has 3 redeeming features, well, I say redeeming, I mean, they stop 
 the game receiving a 0. One of which was the weapons, not only where they well modelled but also 
 very original, often coming with a second and third fire mode. Another plus point going for PDZ 
 was the texture work, it was extremely high resolution and still some of the best seen on the Xbox 
 360, but as mentioned, the gloss finish on everything lessened the impact of the texture work. 
 And finallyco-op. 
  
  Which brings me onto the multiplayer side of things. If your growing bored of this review, lets 
 just say, multiplayer isnt going to make the bad single player any more bearable.
  
  First off, co-op, well, lets just say it was competent. It took the very, VERY bad single player 
 campaign and made it playable with 2, either split screen or live. Now, despite the fact the single 
 player was bad, it actually became a little better when you had a friend along for the admittedly 
 tedious ride. It was still no halo or chaos theory in terms of co-op, but it was playable.
  
  Now, the mode that sold the game to millions. Online competitive multiplayer. Well, wasnt 
 this a waste of time. Ok, ok, Im being a little harsh, but the complete lack of an auto aim, the 
 fact you run like you weigh 1000Lbs, and the very basic map design just equalled a very boring, 
 repetitive, generic multiplayer experience, this may have been acceptable back in the N64 days, 
 but this is next gen.
  
  But. as with co-op being the silver lining of the single player campaign. The Dark Ops mode was 
 the silver lining of the multiplayer mode. This added more strategy, and objective based gameplay, 
 it turned what felt like a very bad halo 2 wannabe, into something that had more in common with 
 the likes of counter strike. But this one single mode is simply not enough to make this game worth 
 even the minimum asking price. Out of all the games I own on the 360 (13) PDZ is, and will no doubt 
 always be, the biggest disappointment on the system. If not in terms of all gaming in general. 
 It promised so much yet delivered so very little. im quite frankly shocked that gamespot would 
 review such a lacklustre game so highly.
  
  Avoid at all costs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lwhite_10
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 11, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  I must have notched up over 300 hours of online multiplayer while only about 2 on the story mode. 
 The story mode is pretty boring and the only reason I did the story is for the achievements its 
 too repetitive and sometimes confusing if you do not plan on getting Xbox live do not get this 
 game you will trade it in after a few hours of game play. However Xbox live is the reason to get 
 this game with addictive game play and new maps once in a while this is going to be the third best 
 online shooter on the 360 behind Huxley and Halo 3. The bases offer camping spots for ambushing 
 the enemies and sniping points and unlike Halo 2 Sniping requires skill you have to headshot them 
 to get a one hit kill. The only map that I never play on is Temple and thats because I cant work 
 out how to get around it as its got so many mazes. Summarising do not get this game if you dont 
 have or plan on getting Xbox live as the multiplayer offers hundreds of hours of fun with achievements 
 that you can complete without trying to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davidpogi21
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 10, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Perfect dark zero is a game only for First Person Shooter fans. It has great gameplay cool weapons 
 and it is looooooooooooooong! this isnt a game for people who aren't used to First Person Shooters 
 because its hard. And it can get very frustrating if you finish really hard objectives and die 
 because you'll have to restart the whole entire mission except if youre almost done with it. And 
 sometimes the faces of others in the game look bad. The only thing worth in the game is the multiplayer 
 modes which is very addicting. And the sound of the guns firing is awesome. This game is kind of 
 like HALO with worse graphics. SO only buy it if you like First Person Shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  This game was what recaptured me into FPS games. For so long, it seemed like people had to choose 
 between a WW2 shooter or a game like Halo. This is neither. I was into the old school shooters... 
 The Wolfenstein's, the ORIGINAL Doom, Duke Nukem etc. then everything seemed to run into one another. 
 A lot of first person shooting games seemed to have very limited differences and at times I would 
 forget what game I was playing. If you are into WW2 games, this game MAY not be for you. I have 
 noticed a lot of COD fans and Battlefield fans don't seem to like PDZ, but to me, this game was 
 undeniably awesome. I give it an 8 because there are several things that could improve, and the 
 story is kind of bland, but online gaming is second to none on this FPS.
  
  The gameplay COULD use some work. Not as life like looking as other games, and that is really my 
 only knock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StoneTheCrows
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 9, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I can't say that this game was enjoyable as Nintendo 64's Perfect Dark. I give it the tilt of my 
 hat for being one of the first games released on Xbox 360, but that's about all it gets.
  
  The biggest drawback for me is that the controls seemed very awkward. Nothing seemed to gel, and 
 it completely lacked the fluidity which made Halo so popular.
  
  The best feature of this game, in my opinion, is the graphics. When I first popped this game into 
 my Xbox 360, my eyes lit up like an eight year-old child at Christmas. It was beautiful; the incredible 
 lighting, glints on the weapons and the tile floors, the flashy-looking explosions. But the graphics 
 are truly the only thing I can find to complement.
  
  I've had nothing but bad experiences playing this game online. Maybe it's just my luck, but I have 
 yet to play a match which didn't hurl me out within ten minutes of joining, thanks to lag. The 
 bots were a nice touch for those who don't have Live, but even slaying bots couldn't help this 
 game out of mediocrity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schwagnah
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 9, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  Rares Perfect Dark for the Nintendo 64 was and still is highly regarded as one of the best first 
 person shooters ever, winning awards just like its spiritual predecessor GoldenEye 007. And so 
 there is no doubt that this prequel, Perfect Dark Zero has a lot to live up to not only compared 
 to its ancestor, but compared to the XBOX system definer, Halo. 
  
  Story
  Perfect Dark Zero follows the beginnings, or so that is what I think, of Joanna Dark, a smart, 
 sexy, and capable operative working forsomeone? From the start of PDZ an incoherent story is obviously 
 noticeable and the fact that it is almost painful to play out is really sad. The original Perfect 
 Dark, while not breaking any barriers in story telling, did effectively set up a story line that 
 made sense and was a lot of fun to play, but PDZ is just a disaster and it successfully makes porn 
 movie storylines Oscar winning material. PDZ has something to do with Joanna Dark and her father 
 tracking some research to some evil mad Chinese looking man who wants to take over the world by 
 using this research to unlock the power of the Graal to become a God and rule over the world 
 with a flame shooting sword or something like that. The story makes absolutely as much sense as 
 I explained right there, and this lack of logical and threaded story line really makes for a sad 
 single player gameplay experience. 
  
  Gameplay
  Making up for the rather under stellar story is the actual gameplay. While you may be already discouraged 
 from further reading or even purchasing this game, you really should read on because you will actually 
 discover that once you get past the depressingly horrible story, Perfect Dark Zero has plenty to 
 offer. Playing the game itself is fun, even if its story makes no sense. Just running around and 
 shooting endless henchmen in high definition television will make up for it. 
  
  Besides the obvious story mode in single player, you can take on the story with a friend locally 
 or on Xbox live in the Co-op mode. And the mode doesnt just throw two of you into the level and 
 create the same scenario as the single player missions. There might be different objectives for 
 both of you, where one might have to get to a certain point in the level to grab a key card, while 
 the other might have to get to a nice sniping vantage point to help get his or her friend back 
 to safety. This kind of cooperative gameplay is really fun and will keep your friend over for hours.
 
  
  Obviously in addition to the story modes, PDZ features a full fledged multiplayer mode which you 
 can play locally, or on Xbox live. Where the game lacks in maps, it makes up for in features, weapons, 
 events, and types of gameplay. There are two modes of multiplayer that features several sub types 
 of gameplay modes, Deathmatch and DarkOps. There are just so many great options that having fun 
 isnt hard with your friends locally. Playing on Xbox live will be very similar to playing locally 
 except, obviously the people you play will be anyone from around the world.
  
  Graphics
  Graphically, Perfect Dark Zero is a superb gem in the launch lineup. Although I would have to say 
 that Call of Duty 2 is better because of more detail in the action, Perfect Dark Zero still makes 
 the Xbox 360 shine. On your HD TV you might drop your jaw in awe at what you will see in this game. 
 Environments are well detailed, most enemies move fluidly, and the framerate is consistent, but 
 the best looking things in the game are the weapons, which shine like the North Star. Characters 
 are also well designed and detailed from any vantage point except up close. Sometimes these characters 
 look supremely ugly up close, but Im going to assume that youll be running and gunning with amazing 
 intensity that you wont even notice. Its everything you would want graphically from a next-gen 
 title, except that its not the best it could be. Everything is done great, but not perfect. 
 
  
  Sound
  Rare appeared to have spent the most time on the audio in the game; which for every second, keeps 
 the player immersed in the shooting experience of the game. Weapon sounds are explosive and powerful 
 with plenty of kick, and every enemy, enemy weapon, vehicle, environment, and building has their 
 own specific sound and ambience that are superbly done. But I personally think that the best part 
 of the game is the soundtrack. Great music appropriate for each level fills the halls, jungles, 
 or open spaces that you might just happen to be in at the time like an orchestra. Although most 
 of the music is composed electronically or with synthesizers, it really pumps the action up into 
 the upper atmosphere and gets your adrenaline rushing through your body like a kid on a trip. There 
 is something about the music that keeps the game flowing and it just never stops, it is magnificent. 
 
  
  Replay Value
  With plenty of Gamerscore achievements available in single player, co-op, and multiplayer, the 
 game will keep you coming back for more. Although the story probably will not interest you a second 
 time, you might come back for more just to go through the great levels again. Again, multiplayer 
 will be the main focus of your return to this game, so if you dont want to set up Xbox live, or 
 you dont have friends and extra controllers, then there might not be as much to actually replay. 
 
  
  Conclusion
  Perfect Dark Zero, while not quite up to snuff with its predecessor, Perfect Dark, in terms of 
 coherence and groundbreaking first person action, still makes for a really enjoyable ride, and 
 it is one that can last you a long time out of the launch until the games start blasting onto the 
 360 some months later. Take this title for what it is, a flashy first person shooter that is well 
 done technically and lots of fun to play, just dont expect a groundbreaking feature set or any 
 fresh new ideas. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_fox_man
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  This is game where you either like it or don't. I don't understand why people don't like it because 
 it is a great game that should be played by everyone that has a xbox 360.
  I didn't really understand the story a lot but it is fun playing the missions with a variety to 
 do. 
  The graphics are excellent considering i am using a standard tv, and this game came out around 
 8 months ago!
  Online or offline multiplayer is like the best multiplayer i have ever played! Co-op in missions 
 is great aswell because you have to work together, because they changed the game in little ways 
 so that you have to help each other through the levels.
  The ability to play with 31 other people online is awesome, i thought it was good with 16 players 
 in Halo 2 and GRAW, those are great but this game is just so good with 32 people!
  The guns sound authentic and i love this game, it is a must have for people with 360's! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creed-Me-39
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 8, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is well... Horrible, It's fun for the first day you have it then it just gets repetitive, 
 Same thing over and over and over again nothing ever changes, sure theres a few new maps every 
 now and then, Still boring.
  
  I've tried quite alot to find something fun in this title i have not prevailed, Plus the online 
 is horrible you can't get in a single game without finding that theres at least one Glitcher or 
 one Team killer.
  
  The single player is short, The online Co-Op is perhaps the one thing that is okay about this game 
 because you can go through the unbelievably short story mode With a friend or someone you hate 
 who knows the possibility are endless with this title, Not.
  
  But all things considered Try before you Buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Full89
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 7, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  Before this game came out, there was a lot of hype for this game. All that hype made me not want 
 to get the game. Then when I went to a friends house to play it, I thought this game was the best 
 multiplayer out for the Xbox 360. I ended up buying and I think I made a good choice doing that. 
 The gameplay is amazing. The graphics could of been better. The single player is ok. I'm not too 
 fond of playing singleplayer in any games anyways. But the multiplayer is unbelievable. There are 
 so many things you can do in the multiplayer which makes the game fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogokun
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 7, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a good game, but for the Xbox 360, I was expecting more than your average 
 competent first-person shooter. There are quite a few fundemental flaws that bring this game down 
 below the level of "next generation", as well as a few things that could have been improved upon.
 
  
  First, the graphics. The environments certainly impress, as this game has some of the best ground 
 and wall textures I've ever seen in a videogame, as well as this neat little blur effect whenever 
 you turn fast. This makes the game feel slick and smooth and actually hides most of the framerate 
 slowdowns. But there is one aspect that mars these otherwise excellent graphics: the character 
 models. This game has the worst character models I've ever seen. They look like playdough! Simply 
 atrocious. Other than that blatant and obvious flaw, the game's graphics are top notch. 
  
  The sound is another story. The weapons all sound great, the richocheting bullets sound just peachy, 
 buy the voice acting is total garbage. This certainly takes cheesy to the next level. Even as you 
 are playing, the enemies will scream out lines such as, "she shot me!" "he was my friend!" "she 
 has a gun!" (in the middle of a firefight, after the guy was shot 2-3 times) ""is that all you got?""shoot 
 the b****!"" and other ingenious phrases. The cutscenes are no better. 
  
  The gameplay is, for the most part, well handled. It plays just like any other first person shooter. 
 But the A. I. is terrible and it is not uncommon, at the end of a firefight, to find 20 bodies in 
 a neat little pile in front of you. They sometimes (on rare instances) take cover, but for the 
 most part they just run right at you. Shooting them is very satisfying, thanks to the satisfying 
 dying animations and excellent weapon effects, but that considered, the game isn't really a leap 
 gameplay-wise. They tried to add something new to the mix by adding a cover system. It works well 
 and all, but is pretty useless because the enemies just run right at you, behind your cover, forcing 
 you to exit it to shoot them. Also, and this makes the game extremely frustrating, the only checkpoint 
 between the long missions is halfway through, so if you are a minute away from the end and die, 
 you have to start about half an hour back in the level. Very frustrating, indeed.
  
  Value-wise, the game is sound. The single player campaign is long enough, and the multiplayer is 
 very fun, indeed. There are plenty of options and modes for multiplayer and the game has a solid 
 online community.
  
  Overall, Perfect Dark Zero fails to impress, but it entertains and it is a good rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 6, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a great game. Fun to play... fairly good graphics, though not the best I've 
 seen. Needs a third person view mode, rather than just first person gameplay. Joanna Dark wears 
 a lot of cool clothes, we should be able to see them during gameplay. The storyline was only somewhat 
 interesting. The story itself didn't make a lot of sense... could have been a lot more in depth 
 than it was. It was more confusing than anything. The game was a bit too short as well. I suppose 
 after playing Oblivion, all games seem short. But a game's story should take the player on a real 
 adventure, and immerse them into the game, making them feel as if they were actually there. Simply 
 putting the gameplay in first person mode doesn't do the trick... the story needs to be interesting 
 enough to make the player want to be a part of it. I beat the game in less than 20 hours. Don't 
 get me wrong, it's a lot of fun, but it didn't make a lot of sense. She didn't have enough cool 
 gadgets or tricks, the story wasn't that interesting and didn't make any sense -- it needed more 
 history and explaination, at least in the cutscenes, so we know what the hell is going on. And 
 the story simply needed to be longer... there weren't enough levels to play. Though the levels are 
 large, if you're only trying to achieve your goals, each level only takes about 30 minutes or less. 
 More unlockables would have been nice... or perhaps different storyline options, or perhaps being 
 able to play story mode as any of the characters in the game... getting each person's specific viewpoint. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _AbBaNdOn
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Apparently Joanna Dark has a dad and the both of them and a hacker make up a free lance anti threat 
 organization or something. Set in the not so distant future you have plenty of high tech gadgets 
 and weapons to help you counter crazy people's plans. 
  
  The graphics are high rez and the action is smooth. Congrats to Rare for the beautiful face lift. 
 However... the game I feel is a bit to difficult. If you dont hear the stupid radio messages from 
 your hacker or your dad over the explosions and gunfire then you will probably miss out on important 
 clues.
  
  The game in general is difficult. Rare has done a good job making the AI's fight almost as well 
 as humans or better depending on your difficulty. They zig zag while moving, they roll to avoid 
 fire, and you dont get to cheat like they do and "lock on" to targets so if your zig zaging and 
 rolling that will mess up your aim to. I saw very little of the enemy using cover, they were either 
 running around dodging everything or standing still in groups.
  
  The game has a nice co-op mode. Although they couldnt be bothered with actually including your 
 co op people in any of the cinema scenes lol. One of my favrite co-op stages is where in the normal 
 story Jo's dad gets seperated from her on a stage. In co-op the players get divivded and one goes 
 with the dad while the other is running around a completely different area of the map. Makes it 
 really feel like there is a co-op going on. It would be nice if you didnt get to just rehash the 
 same old maps but actually made co-op maps and had all of them be like that. Each guy in his own 
 segment of a map having to unlock doors for the other and what not, take a massvie threats to one 
 player who are unaware of the other player.
  
  The random battle generator is nice but i didnt see anything that let you save the scenarios you 
 create. Maybe it did but i dont think i tried to make the same scenario twice. Playing with the 
 bots was fun although i think the AI in this game are to good. Even on agent they can hit stuff 
 which sucks. On perfect agent i have no doubt they never miss and you will die before you even 
 have time to react to seeing a guy come running around a corner. 
  
  However after having said all that I think this is a total let down of a game and reflets poorly 
 on the xbox 360. I have almost this same exact game on my n64 and although the graphics were lower 
 rez and the random battles didnt have random walls it was just as good if not better than this 
 game. This game barely added anything new compared to the n64 version. Its just higher rez. 
  
  I would have to say though that if you were stupid enough to actually buy the xbox 360 you 
 should definately own this game because it has an extremely high replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codename33
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 5, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was one of the most anticipated xbox 360 games. Unfortunately, it doesn't deliver 
 an experience close to what it was thought to bring. For gameplay, PDZ is at heart a run and gun 
 action shooter. The story, if you can even call it a story, is very shallow. Fortunately, you don't 
 have to follow the story in order to play the game. While having decent gameplay, PDZ suffers from 
 having a pretty boring experience. I'll just say this out front: PDZ has a terrible singleplayer 
 that you're done with in a few hours. Multiplayer, however, is pretty decent. However, it doesn't 
 really do anything revolutionary. They copied many weapons from the first game, and they have the 
 same basic gametypes we've seen on every shooter since 1996.
  The graphics on PDZ are actually ok. Don't believe the people who say this is like a regular xbox 
 game. Some of the environments look very good, especially on an hdtv. At the same time, the graphics 
 aren't the ultra-gorgeous photorealistic graphics people thought all xbox games would have.
  The sound is a mixed bag. While having pretty good combat effects on guns and melee weapons, the 
 voice acting is just terrible. Luckily, you don't have to hear people talking in multiplayer. You 
 just have to endure the occasional "Ha!" and "Fa!" when you get hit.
  Overall, this isn't the game you should get for singleplayer. If you're a big multiplayer fan, 
 you might want to rent this game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advanced-Shadow
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Ever since i got this game im still playing it why? because its fun and people only complain about 
 stupid things but dont take the time to enjoy the game. for example alot of you are saying its 
 just scripted and not open ended yes it is a little scripted but since when do all games have to 
 be open ended? besides for the most part the maps are huge as hell and are open to walk through 
 and enjoy. The sound on this game is just amazing and with all the features its going to be worth 
 your money. Buy this game play and enjoy it cause its the first true FPS for the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JesusChris
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 2, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is one the first and best shooters to come to the 360. It has a great single 
 player and very fun multiplayer. In multiplayer, there are many gametypes to keep the fun going. 
 The achievements for the game span across both the single player aand the multiplayer and can be 
 obtained through effort, time, and perseverance. There is also a great selection of weapons and 
 gadgets to be found in the game. This was one of my first games for 360 and it had me hooked for 
 a long time. If you havent tried this game yet, you should at least go rent it and see for yourself 
 another masterpiece in the Perfect Dark series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakejr16
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 1, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero has been in devolopment from Rare for close to five years. After skipping through 
 the current generation, Perfect Dark Zero has finally arrived for the XBOX 360. The question is, 
 was it worth the wait. ...
  
  The simple answer is NO. While the game looks beautiful all together, good looks can't disguise 
 a mediocre designed game. For starters, the level design is very confusing with no sense of direction 
 or appeal. The game trries to disguise this with "help" arrows, but you come to rely on the arrows 
 which don't appear until your running around in the same area for ten minutes. Furthermore the 
 levels also come off as drab and unispired, with little to no variance in your approach or strategy 
 to how you approach the objectives. 
  
  The voice acting is another tough spot for Perfect Dark Zero. RARE has always been known to create 
 bad characters every now and then, but the assistant named Chandra who constantly talks your ear 
 off certainly tops the cake. Not only can you not understand her clearly because of her accent, 
 but you will become annoyed by her constant blaring of telling your where to go or why your not 
 following objectives fast enough... which is caused by the poor level design in the first place.
 
  
  The character animation in general is decent but also has rough spots. The enemies run like complete 
 idiots, and their taunts are just laughable. On the bright side the gun models look fantasic, but 
 don't expect to carry more than three weapons at a time. Think a slightly varied Halo weapon arrangement. 
 
  
  The story also is very weak and unispired. While the original Perfect Dark wasn't the best either, 
 this new installment definitley takes a step down... NOT a step up. The characters are bland, thanks 
 to their voice acting and devolopment. Instead of caring for the characters, you could care less 
 if their shot. 
  
  Multiplayer is decent offering good varied gametypes... but unfortantley doesn't raise the bar like 
 Perfect Dark did compared to Goldeneye. 
  
  Overall Perfect Dark Zero is a huge disspointment considering its long devolopment time. While 
 it tries to be amibitious its execution turns out to ruin the game, with bad level design, HUD 
 design, character devolpment, voice acting and story. If you must play Perfect Dark Zero, don't 
 expect the same Perfect Dark that you might of played years ago. To put it frankly this a completley 
 different game carrying a Perfect Dark name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FLEEBS
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 30, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  My earlier review got deleted (I still can't figure out why) , but my opinion has changed slightly 
 anyway. With the updates installed, this game is much better than without. I like the new maps, 
 and the additional bots to the dark-ops truly enhances the game. This game is really lacking in 
 the single or co-op department, but having a chance to play on Xbox Live really boosts my opinion. 
 I have many problems with a lot of aspects of this game. I also think the game is still buggy (even 
 with the updates) , but I have been really enjoying the multiplayer experience. My original score 
 was 6.0, but I at least think the game deserves an 8.0 or slightly better (I can't get the score 
 better than 7.9 on the rating system) . I just wish we did not have to pay for what should have 
 come packaged with the system or fixed before it came out. I think this game is worth the money 
 and killer on Xbox Live. I just don't think this game deserves a 9.0 or better. There are too many 
 problems to take into consideration when scoring it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sourgummyworm
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 30, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  All right, but you just don't die. Lame game play, and the guns are boring. The graphics are amazing, 
 but the story and missions suck. Also, the AI isn't very bright. They always seem to be lagging 
 behind or running ahead, passing enemies and being shot down. Also, there is hardly any strategy 
 employs, just endless shooting, which ends up to you running out of ammo. The maps are too controlled, 
 also. Where is some free-roaming? It seems too scripted. Some of the important AI characters are 
 stupid, also. They run out into the open and get shot up because they are too dumb to stay behind 
 you a little ways, or at least take cover. Money for this game could easily be put to better use. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 14, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  In PDZ, you take up arms as Joanna Dark once more, except this time as a teenager and a bounty 
 hunter with her pops Jack Dark. Once her father is killed by the evil corporation of dataDYNE on 
 a mission, and a conspiracy begins to unfold around the same company, Joanna teams up with Carrington 
 Institute to try and topple dataDyne... and to avenge her dad's death as well.
  
  You see the world through Joanna's eyes as she runs around blowing away enemies with an assortment 
 of weapons including a shotgun, the Superdragon, a "Shockwave" sniper rifle (remember the FarSight 
 in the 64 game? Well this is the equivelent of it) , the DY .357 magnum, and many more. You get 
 to use turrets, hover crafts, and this mechanical walker thing with an M60 on it so that was cool 
 too. You can use ziplines to get from one building to the next, and you can even press up against 
 walls for cover and precise firing.
  
  Lets talk a difference between this title and it's masterpiece of a predessor on the Nintendo 64. 
 For starters, in Zero before you can do a stage you have to select your weapons and make sure you 
 have enough space in the item slots for it. So in essence, you could really only carry one assault 
 rifle and one SMG. That is VERY lame in my opinion - I don't play a first person shooter to manage 
 inventory. Moving on, in order to unlock new weapons - say a CMP150 SMG that wasn't in your beginning 
 inventory -for use in other stages, you must complete that level while having the CMP150 as one 
 of your current weapons; WHICH means you must toss a weapon, take the CMP, and beat the level with 
 it to have it for further use. Another lame idea. So if you are currently wondering, yes I am missing 
 a bunch of weapons in my inventory. However, Perfect Dark 64 didn't have any of this and equaled 
 out for a much better experience.
  
  The multiplayer is somewhat redeeming, but still no match for PD64. You choose a level, how big 
 it is, your weapon set, character/team, bots, and gametype and go at it. There are some interesting 
 games like Infection or Hacking, but it's been done before. However, this game pretty much took 
 out the in-depth character & bot customization process the 64 version had as well as being able 
 to command your team, and in turn, lost a lot of points and was almost lackluster. Furthermore, 
 you must actually beat the game to unlock all the bots, teams, and characters to get the most of 
 the multiplayer - ahem, LAME!. However, it will still provide you with some fun if you and a couple 
 of your friends are looking to just blow each other or some bots away. There is also a Co-Op mode 
 which was pretty fun I'll admit.
  
  I'm forced to admit, but this is the best looking game I have ever seen. Everything looks incredibly 
 realistic, the lighting is superb, the characters look humanlike and move as fluid as one as well. 
 The enviroments, be it vast jungles, dense cities, or huge mansions are truley breathtaking. Perfect 
 Dark Zero definitley showed the power of the X-Box 360, and really set the standard for future 
 games. HOWWWWWWWEVER, and this was inevitable to avoid on this review, was the fact that I despise 
 what they did with Joanna Dark's look. She was never a punk rock chick, nor was she a supermodel 
 - she was grotesque in the 64, she was british, she was something that could pass off as a secret 
 agent... sigh, why Rare, why?
  
  The music has it's ups and downs. Some songs, like when you are.. grr.. managing your inventory.. are 
 techno-esk and remind me of the glory days of PD64. Then there are the heavy metal / rock sections 
 which help you get pumped up for a big battle. Then, there are the actual rave tunes which truley 
 ruined it all for me. It was ridiculous and didn't help the overall atmosphere of the game at all. 
 The voice acting was good for the most part, except Jack Dark who was just annoying.
  
  The ending was flat out bad, but from what I have seen recently, most games are. You destroy the 
 main villian/CEO of dataDYNE (can't remember his name at the moment) who underwent some transformation 
 and became something that reminded me of a Dragon Ball Z character with the kamahamaha blasts and 
 super strength. Anyway, you kill him, and officially join Carrington Institute - hence setting 
 the stage for Perfect Dark 64... not worth it in the least bit.
  
  And I'm not going to lie - this game is hard, and then incredibly harder on other parts such as 
 the Jungle stage. The good news? It's short, with a mere 13 missions.
  
  With all the hype surrounding this game, and with the memory of how awesome the first game was, 
 I'm actually really dissapointed in the overall experience I had. Perfect Dark Zero had it's moments 
 of decently intense firefights and pretty good multiplayer, but for the most part it was just a 
 run of the mill FPS - albeit with excellent graphics. I suggest a rental, nothing more.
  
  ... Also, in the club mission, if you look around at the videos on the wall... they are the from 
 Windows Media Player. It was Microsoft's own little plug, just like in Condemned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick0091
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  First off I will say this Perfect dark zero is a good game and I do recommend it, however if you 
 are a huge perfect dark fan like myself you will be disappointed. It does have some of the cool 
 features and even a few new ones which would include: co-op (local or on xbox live) , pick your 
 guns at start (really neat feature the best thing added. also you unlock new weapons by finishing 
 a level with them.) ) multiplayer (xbox live or local) , tons of awesome guns original and new, some 
 new multiplayer features that are neat and a bit more. So far you are thinking well thats what 
 the original had but let me refresh your memory on the original perfect dark features: counter-op 
 ( play missions but one is the guard.) , unlock able cheats, tons of multiplayer levels and customization 
 (there is still quite a bit but not as much.) , cheese (I havent found any yet ha ha) , Multiplayer 
 stats and character creation, also no awards at end ( I believe) , slow mo. I am sure I must be 
 missing things from both lists but you get the idea. Anyways to sum up this review of the game 
 (more like comparison between the two.) Perfect dark is more of a mix between timesplitters and 
 perfect dark. It is a good game but not worthy of the perfect dark name.
  
  ps: I know it looks like I didn't change the score but thats how I feel about it 8's all around 
 ha ha) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomlike_Mitc
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  PDZ, fps as you probaly know... it isnt that greath for an long period, for me.
  
  SCORE EXPELENATION :
  
  GAMEPLAY: 
  
  The gameplay... well its good, the touch sensetive 
 aim is cool, also there is mostly good framerate no problem, you have like the life system your 
 live in a bar, and around that a shield in white, each time you get shot a bit of your life gets 
 away in grey and will get back, but even that I hate, sure it will keep your focus on the game 
 if your almost dead, but it is very frustrating, and learning this game is not hard, but its not 
 an 10, because its slow... I dont know wath it is but I hate the way you play with this game, you 
 should not expect a fast FPS, infact your walking very slow, and you cannot jump, what can be anoying 
 when you try to jump over a fence but you cant... but then again if you dont mind its gameplay 
 is good i guess... an 8.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Its graphics are greath, I really think this should get an 10, why ? Because the game has its own 
 style, it is not realistic, infact its shiny and characters have... well it looks to me a bigger 
 head, but there not completely like real people.
  
  SOUND:
  
  WIth the sound theres no problem, good gun sounds, enemy's scream right, you hear the futsteps 
 good, but its music is so anoying... AAH ! this is 1of the reasons I stopped playing this, ok I 
 can play my own music, but IMO a game itsself should have greath music, but its not only my style, 
 it is so lame, its like obvious spy action mix futuristic music, but if you like it will be no 
 prob. I guess, an 9.
  
  VALUE: 
  
  Well, the campaign is not that special, the AI s*cks, and AI is what this game needs to keep it 
 fresh, the enemy's walk darned slow, and they just run at you, they sometimes take cover, but that 
 is about what you should expect from them, very stupid AI.
  
  Multiplayer is the true strenght of this game IMO, you have tons of MP functions, I am not even 
 going to recal them, but you have bots, and you can go to play up to 32 people, a lot of weapons 
 to control over the map etc. you got to see it as an Halo 2 multiplayer with differend gameplay, 
 and with bots.
  
  MP good, SP bad, reasonable an 7, if you play a lot of Mp you should get a lot out of the game, 
 if you like the multiplayer then... that is where its get doubting to buy the game.
  
  RIEVIEWERS TILT:
  
  Meh... an 7.. its not that greath of an game.
  
  ADD ON:
  
  Well 
 its a good game, but think about buying it because the gameplay you might not like, for that there 
 is an Demo on xbox live, I should suggest to you you should try it just for the gameplay. And to 
 be honest , it kinda s*cks IMO, it just isnt fun to play it, its slow, the campaign doesnt give 
 you reason to keep playing... but IMO it gets an 7, but for people who might love the MP and the 
 gameplay an 9, so it gets an 8.
  
  Well good luck with your game, I hope I have helped you in your dessision :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaWeapon9
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 24, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  With the Xbox 360 launching with many games on its list. None of the games are as highly anticipated 
 as the sequal to the N64 classic Perfect Dark . Perfect Dark Zero is meet with amazingly high expectations, 
 and with the launch of the system completely abcent of a Halo title. Many are expecting this title 
 to takes place as the undeniable killer ap of the Xbox 360. Fortionately, for the most part, Perfect 
 Dark Zero truely deliverse on all regards. Combining one of the best shooting experiences in recent 
 memory, a large and extensive aray of options, and a huge multiplayer component that can keep you 
 hooked untill the next Halo releases. However, with all that said, there still are a few contrivencies 
 that keep Perfect Dark Zero from its perfection that some predicted.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is not a sequal, its a prequal. As the story of the N64 game is explained threw 
 the history of the 360 game. Taking place an unknown number of years before Perfect Dark . You 
 are put in the shoes of the hip female bounty hunter Joanna Dark. As she and he father get hired 
 by the Carington institute to go to many international areas, undertaking many dangerous missions 
 and objectives. However, on a ruteen mission to extract a character from a business deal. They 
 end up getting cought up in a fight where they are pit against a tirant. The story in Perfect Dark 
 is clearly the weakest link in the games overall production. While the single player and campaign 
 is exciting and sleek, the story stays very uninteresting and serves as nothing more then a destraction 
 from the high adrenaline action. On paper, the story sounds very competent and interesting, however, 
 in execusion it lacks the depth and the sense of drama. The main characters all have very believeable 
 and decent voice work. However, the script is lacking in many ways. Delivering many one liners 
 and punch lines that dont deliver in any way. This, playing into the story just downgrades it even 
 more. And those that are fans of the original game, will probably be disappointed. As the story 
 as a whole, leaves a lot to be disired.
  
  The core action in Perfect Dark , is nothing short of amazing. perfect Dark Zero hits the look, 
 feel, and sounds of its many different and varied weapons in amazing fashion. The weapons look 
 and feel amazing, and the shooting action is as satisfying as ever. You are put with a set number 
 of weapons as you start with a pistol that feel as great as can be, but it grows even more satisfying 
 as your collection of weapons grows even greater untill you are in posession of many amazing groups 
 of firepower. All with many different funtions and abilities that make there amazing feel all the 
 more vast. The sleek look of the many varied weapons add an even greater amount of immersion to 
 the shooting action that Perfect Dark contains. All of the weapons look amazing, as there detail 
 is hightened by the 360's amazing graphical power. Giving even more depth to weapons that look 
 amazing on there own. The sounds of the weapons sound believeable and spot on. And in conjuction 
 with the graphical presentation, the sound makes these weapons look and sound almost lifelike. 
 In short the shooting action in Perfect Dark Zero is without a dought the top of its class.
  
  The single player campaign in Perfect Dark is an engaging experience. Combining great and exciting 
 moments that feel and look perfectly right. For the most part, Perfect Dark Zero does absolutely 
 nothing that you havent seen in a shooter. Which probably lends to the games long production run. 
 However, what it does do perfectly is its sense of polish. Evenything feel great in the game, the 
 levels look as amazing and lush as ever. And the many different aray of weapons and the action 
 in the game all lend to make a game where the shooting never feels unfun. Keeping on a lenier path, 
 you are constinitly put in one situation after another. And the great assortment of gadgets lend 
 to make a super spy experience that lends to the games spy theme very well. While the unfulfilled 
 story does lend to a uncomplete experience. As well as some AI quirks. But the shooting action 
 is so great that it doesnt really take too much away from that. There are also some moments when 
 you get control of a hovercraft as well a mech like flying figure. These are some very fun to use 
 vehicle, yet there exection in the single player campign does feel a bit unfulfilled. However, 
 while that said the gameplay in Perfect Dark Zero is great and exciting. And the core shooting 
 action does make a nearly remarkable experience.
  
  As already stated. There graphical presentation in Perfect Dark Zero, truely does take the 360 
 to an amazing level. Showing off its amazing beauty in what is an amazing showcase for the system. 
 With evenything in high-res, and the levels and enviroments looking as lush and amazing as ever. 
 Perfect Dark is an amazing sight to behold. Even lending greatly with an amazing soundtrack and 
 great audio ( aside from the poor skripped ) . The presentation in Perfect Dark is top notch.
  
  There is a whole lot to do in Perfect Dark Zero . Aside from the single player mode, which 
 it itself has unlockable difficulties. There is an amazingly well executed multiplayer mode. Which, 
 it in itself, is the best part of the game. Which playable over LAN or online. You along with other 
 players can play over a great many assortment of multipler modes. Ranging from killcount ( deathmatch 
 ) to team killcount, or dark ops. Which is a special mode specific for the game. As well as other 
 great tweak, that give the game its great flavor. And playing onine, lag free ( for the most part 
 ) is a great experience that takes the 360 to a great level. There is even a co-op feature that 
 you and a player can play threw a level together, as well as being able to play threw the whole 
 game. This feature, lag free, is a great feature and an amazing addition to the game. In short, 
 there is an amazingly great assortment or things to do in Perfect Dark Zero giving the game a great 
 amount of replay value. Making it an amazingly great value for purchase.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero's an amazing game in many ways then one. WHile the game does have its quirks, 
 mainly in its unfulfilled story. The gameplay is amazing well crafted, and the feel of the weapons 
 makes the gameplay even better. Adding in the great presentation, and amazingly feel made soundtrack. 
 As well as the great multipler modes. All come together to make a game that has a great amount 
 of value to it. Perfect Dark Zero is a true must have for the your 360 library. And anyone, with 
 even the smallest of interest in first person shooters shoot definitely check out.
  
  While Perfect Dark Zero does have room for improvement. The immersion of the core shooting action, 
 and the well crafted multi-player options. Makes for an amazing experience, as well as a great 
 amount of value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaHunter9
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 28, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero has to be one of the best games for the system to date. Its graphics are great 
 and its gameplay makes you constantly want to play more. Its multiplayer and single player are 
 both exciting and you always wish to have more. Also, its weapons offer many unique ways to play 
 through your favorite levels over and over.
  
  The only thing holding it back is that it you need to play it for a time on Normal difficulty to 
 like it. Its gameplay is a unique spy shooter that takes a while to get used to and to like, but 
 eventually you'll love it like I do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fr33km4n
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 28, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Let's start off with the fact that PDZ is the worst game out there. It lacks graphics and everything 
 else a game needs.
  
  Gameplay: There are many different weapons in the game. The only thing good about the game is the 
 multiplayer. Maps are huge and even playing with computers can be exciting.
  
  Graphics: They suck. It looks like something someone drew in Paint. Not to mention the fact that 
 half the time, the characters' mouths don't move when they talk.
  
  Sound: The person who talks to you has a freakin' annoying accent and talks all the time.
  
 
  Value: This game was not even played 2 weeks until my brother's profile got deleted from playing 
 this game. We stopped playing it for a while. But, when we played it again, his profile got deleted 
 again. And I'm talking his whole Xbox 360 profile. So we are going to return it very soon I hope.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxpayne10
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 28, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  This game is great, the graphics are shiny and the action is fierce. The game is a sequel to one 
 of the best FPS games ever made Perfect Dark and of course number 2 could never live up to the 
 greatness, but it tries hard. The game is a standard FPS with big guns, wacky vehicles, and a story 
 that is simple and not the highlight of the game. It is cool playing as Joanna Dark in next gen 
 graphics and seeing some of the characters from the first also in next gen graphics. The game would 
 be easily forgetable if it wasn't called Perfect Dark, I hope if a third is made it captures the 
 fun of the first game with new stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N3SKirby
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 27, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was a great game in my opinion, and I do not see the flaws that the critics (You) 
 see in this game.
  
  First let me start off with the AI... They're smart enough to sound alarms, hear a bullet and lock 
 on to your location, maybe Jack was a bit stupid when it came to the AI... but thats really all 
 I didn't like when he ran in front of people.
  
  The guns... The starting gun is awesome (PSP or something?) It has a scope and a silencer and a 
 flashlight, and its really good. The other pistols (Magnum) and one that reminded me of the DD44 
 from Bond was pretty fun to use. The one plasma gun you got later in the game was also a very fun 
 gun to use that had great shooting effects... I guess plasma guns aren't futuristic enough? The 
 RCP90 is a 4X scope that allows thermal vision, yet people say "How can the AI hit me through bushes!!!?" 
 Well maybe its the fact that they are equipped with thermal vision weapons... Ever think of that? 
 This game isn't like bond where there can be 20 people and everyone misses, they actually hit you 
 "MIRACULOUS!" Theres also a very good shotgun, a M4A1 like gun and an AK-47. Not to mention the 
 sniper and the long rang plasma guns and even the SMGS... People complaining about lack of guns 
 are just finding a way to bring this gun down because it wasnt 100% like the N64 version. The gadget 
 are also fun to use, they make you do something to actually unlock stuff and uncover stuff... Theyre 
 futuristic enough, but we will still complain about how this game isn't futuristic /sarcasm off.
 
  
  Now to the gameplay, I don't understand what was wrong with it, I thought it was a very fun game, 
 some of the main encounters were a bit too easy, but the controls are very easy to use and very 
 easy to learn, it was my first time on an xbox 360 and I figured everything out within 30 minutes 
 of gameplay... How can you people not agree with the rating gamespot gave this game? It delivers 
 a FUN game that has a main character that is fun to play as, has some characters that show some 
 spunk. Remember this isn't an RPG, its a First Person Shooter, how in depth do you want the story 
 to get?
  
  The graphics dwarf Counter-strike source and other games that I have played on the computer, even 
 on my crappy T. V it looked amazing, then I hooked it up to my 62 inch DLP T. V with 1080i resolution, 
 and this game looked like it was in a league of its own... 
  
  Overall this game was a great introductory game for me to get playing on the XBOX 360, I went against 
 the reviews that people gave it just because I thought I would like it and I did... I hope people 
 actually follow Gamespot's review on this game, because for me it was dead on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogersband
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 26, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  This game started out pretty fun, well at least it was pretty fun. Singleplayer was pretty easy, 
 and the control took only a little time to get through, especially the scoping, with sensitive 
 L-trigger. I liked it for awhile, especially with the ability to play with so many bots as many 
 games these days do not feature. However, multiplayer doesn't even work for me, but when it does, 
 it takes more than 2 rounds from a full auto machine gun just to kill someone, sometimes it can 
 be frustrating. What can also be frustrating is when you die during a mission and you have to redo 
 the mission to get stats. Which means that if you want gamer points for finishing all the levels, 
 you have restart all the mission you didn't get stats for. I just didn't really feel the flow for 
 this game. It was also fairly easy to kill all th AI, who played a run and shoot game. There are 
 so many more choices for a good shooting game, and i don't recommend this game at all, unless you 
 plan on wasting hours on playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MilfredCubicleX
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 26, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is quite possibly one of the most frustrating and flat-out worst games i've ever 
 played. And the reasons for that are enumerated in the following:
  
  1) Poor AI. The AI in this game is absolutely retarded. First of all, the AI for teamates such 
 as jack is horrible. I love when he just decides to run forward into the big group of magnum-wielding 
 enemies to get to the next point in the level. Its simply a brilliant manuver. The enemy AI is 
 also equally as bad and unfair I might add. Their ability to hit you so accurately from so far 
 away or the ability to see through heavy brush is just amazing. It reminded me of the AI from the 
 N64 game Goldeneye..
  
  2) Poor models. The models look completely awful from upclose. And when people talk in the game 
 there is no animation in their mouths which I expect from a next-gen game. Counter-Strike Source 
 has an algorithm to animate mouths based on the dynamic voice of others online, and that game came 
 out over a year before PDZ. Also, the animation of the models - more specifically, the walking 
 animation - is horrendous. It just looks ridiculous, reminding me again of Goldeneye.
  
  3) Poor Storyline/Singleplayer. The storyline in this game is stupid as hell. It was random and 
 poorly designed, end of story. Not to mention it was insanely frustrating.
  
  4) Poor Gameplay/Multiplayer. I'll focus on how bad the multiplayer is now. With its 6 or so multiplayer 
 maps there isn't much variety to the game. You can play death match or dark ops, but they both 
 suck. Not fun at all, and i'd much much rather be playing Halo2 for a good online experience. The 
 only redeeming quality is the rocket launcher that you can guide.
  
  5) Poor Weapons. Finally, the weapons in this game really pissed me off. I thought there would 
 be some decently cool futuristic weapons but they all really suck. The laptop gun? Its just a sub-machine 
 gun... or I suppose assault rifle since it takes the generic 'rifle' ammo. Or how about the submachine-gun 
 that looks like a TMP but sounds like some kind of pulsing energy gun. Oh, look, the secondary 
 feature is a hologram! How useless and completely random! In fact, every secondary feature of almost 
 all of the guns is completely random and stupid! That really bothered me.
  
  So overall, this game felt like N64's Goldeneye - with new graphics. I bought it because I thought 
 it would be a game where I could just run around and have fun shooting everything, but I was wrong 
 - it failed in that department - one of the easiest ways to make a FPS too. Basically, don't buy 
 this game. Buy GRAW or Prey or Halo2... even if you already have Halo2, buy it again instead of 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyeCupid
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jun 26, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is hands down the worst sequel (or prequel) in years. Everything that could possibly 
 go wrong in this game did go wrong. From cheap and poorly constructed AI to clunky game controls, 
 PDZ is a disaster from start to finish. You know what? I take back that acronym I just used in 
 that sentence two lines up. This game does not deserve anything so cool as an acronym. Oh, it deserves 
 much less, meaning it should be burried alive six feet under with nothing but a glass to capture 
 all of the tears this game caused little children all across the world.
  
  Perfect Dark on the N64 was a masterpiece. It had a gripping story, great gameplay mechanics with 
 a nice run and gun feel, an atmospheric world which immerses you within the experience, amazing 
 multiplayer, fantastic weapons, and a special charm that won itself into all of our little gaming 
 hearts. Perfect Dark Zero strips all of those award winning characteristics away and is the exact 
 opposite of anything listed above. What was Rare thinking? I seriously want to know what was going 
 through Rare's mind while creating this game. I can just imagine all of the developers in suits 
 sitting at a conference saying, "Hmm... Perfect Dark was an amazing game which was a backbone on 
 how all first person shooters should be made from that point forward. Let's throw out that winning 
 formula and create a light hearted, comical story, with terrible gameplay." *Cheers erupt and people 
 shake their head in agreement*...... honestly, what was Rare thinking? They already found what 
 makes a great first person shooter years ago. Why throw all that away and make a pathetic excuse 
 for a game. Rare you sure know how to disappoint.
  
  The gameplay of this game is absymal and it should be rated that way. The controls are disgusting. 
 If you try to aim somewhere you can't. It feels so robotic and not in the least bit natural. I 
 don't understand why Rare couldn't make the aiming like Call of Duty 2 did. That was perfectly 
 constructed controls and aiming. Perfect Dark Zero's is just flat out garbage. The level design 
 was nice in some places, like the roof top level for example, but all of that doesn't matter since 
 the gameplay is just so terrible. The AI is the cheapest thing I have ever seen. If you shoot someone 
 from all across the level in the head, they don't die. What they do is do a 180 degree turn and 
 shoot you right in the face, taking away half of your health. I'm confused as to how the guards 
 in about 10 years from today have some incredible homing radar which can tell them where I am. 
 There is no excuse for that. If you shoot someone, expect them to take a full clip to drop to the 
 ground. Nothing in the gameplay department was like it could and should have been. It was all garbage. 
 Gameplay makes or breaks a game, and this just doesn't have good gameplay at all.
  
  The multiplayer is what everyone raves about in this game. From splitscreen to Xbox Live, it is 
 extremely boring. Nothing is fun and again clunky gameplay mechanics will drag it down. In fact, 
 the only way I could test Xbox Live was to go over to a friend of mines home and play it there, 
 because it will never let me get into a server. It will immediately kick me out. The multiplayer 
 is nothing close to special and is just as bad as the single player.
  
  The graphics are nice on a high definition display, but not $60 worth of eye candy and that's for 
 sure.
  
  The sound is capable of delivering a less than satisfactory gun sound. There is no pop to be found 
 anywhere when you shoot someone, and when you do manage to take someone down, it just doesn't add 
 to the effect at all. The voice acting is terrible as well. Occasionally throughout the game you 
 will hear little messages on an intercom saying different things which tries to be funny. The game 
 fails at it miserably and it is not amusing.
  
  Not only is this game a disgrace to the name Perfect Dark, but it is a disgrace to the gaming community 
 as a whole. This game is as boring as playing 52 card pick up. It is not worth a rent. It is not 
 worth a buy. Even if you loved Perfect Dark, this is not worth going into your collection since 
 it just brings shame upon the original by sharing the same title as this piece of garbage. The 
 only redeemable thing in this package is the game case if you get the collector's edition. Other 
 than that, stay clear of this game. It is not like the original, and nothing in this game will 
 remind you of the good old days. Boredom and buyer's remorse will be the only thing you will get 
 out of this package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torman71
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 25, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a great first person shooter. The Singleplayer and multiplayer modes are both 
 great. The multiplayer is great because those who don't have Xbox live don't need it to play a 
 sixteen player game, because you can play with bots. The bots diffuculty can be adjusted to fit 
 the level of expertise of the player. Although tt does lack a wide variety of maps to play it is 
 still quite fun. The Singleplayer is fun. It is also very hard when the level of diffuculty is 
 increased upon completion of the easier modes. There are also many great guns available for use. 
 Each individual gun has a primary and secondary fire. There are a wide variety of secondary uses 
 for the guns, ranging from scanning the area for enemies to seeing through walls to shooting grenades. 
 This game also lacks the graphics of a standard Xbox 360 game. I highly recommend this game to 
 any one who likes shooting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docto878
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 25, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  This game takes advantage of the XBOX 360. It is beautiful. The game play is very good and the 
 voice overs are pretty good. There are a few gameplay issues, like occasional problems with the 
 camera. Also some enemies have to literally filled with lead to kill while others go down pretty 
 easily. You cant seem to save on the fly. So you can play almost an entire mission and get killed 
 at the end and you have to start the whole thing over. Get some quick saves!!!! All in all it is 
 a really fine shooter with great graphics. I picked it up on Amazon. com for about 30 dollars so 
 shop around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 23, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  t has been a long time since I really enjoyed a first-person shooter. Since I am not someone who 
 has played any of the plethora of military games currently and previously one the market I was 
 kind of unsure about this purchase. Perfect Dark Zero proved me wrong about how good a first-person 
 shooter can be.
  
  The single player game is more or less practice to get you adequate enough so as to avoid being 
 killed within the first ten seconds on a multiplayer game. Each mission has a specific goal and 
 as you approach certain elements optional side quests are available, usually making the later parts 
 easier. The game doesn't point out obstacles or warn you of dangers, it is up to you to make sure 
 you are aware of your environment. This is particularly important since making sure to disable 
 security cameras can make your life much easier.
  
  The multiplayer games are the real reason to purchase PDZ. With the addition of the expansion maps, 
 the number of different game scenarios increases dramatically. If you want to get a feel to how 
 a multiplayer game progresses, create your own and fill the room with 'bots,' these computer controlled 
 players and at their lowest setting you can get used to the pace. Take some time getting used to 
 the various scopes on each of the weapons and practice attaining head shots, once you are battling 
 human players you will find this makes all the difference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mecheye
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 22, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of the reasons i got the 360 when it came out. I played the first one until gamecube 
 came along, and i was eager to see what Microsoft was going to do. Needless to say they filled 
 the very big shoes. The graphics, though they can seem fake, are very good in retrospect. The gameplay 
 is fast, with plenty of ability to move and shoot for the beginners and veterans, and the campaign 
 is incredibly challenging in the harder modes, though too easy in the easier ones. The multiplayer 
 is where it shines, and i thought it made Halo look backward and old. The campaign didnt really 
 aid the story as much as it could have, but it was engaging enough and touched on the sequel characters. 
 It felt rushed though, and the levels were very limited in places to go. It wasnt very free. Even 
 the old game had a wandering menu, where you went to places in the Institute and then you would 
 go to the mode they assigned to a room. Where is that cleverness Microsoft? So in some ways, it 
 did seem like a few little things were missing. However, it is still a fantastic game, and will 
 set the tone for shooters to come in the next generation of gaming. If you own a 360, you better 
 have this game, along with Ghost Recon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 29, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  If your a big and I mean big First Person Shooter fan then get this game because its one of the 
 best FPS ive saw in a while and it will continue to the best until some great games like Call Of 
 Duty 3 or Gears Of War comes out. It also live past other FPS's like COD 2 .Its a tough competiton 
 but this game is still great! If you own an Xbox 360 get this game! Perfect Dark Zero is a great, must-have 
 game trust me Single Player's great online play id great and if you add it all up this is a pretty 
 good game but theres still a problem, and here it is online. So I had a match with me and my friend 
 v. s. about 3 bots and they came from the same place every single time so really all we had to do 
 was stand wait for them to come and shoot 'em. The next problem I had was in single agent it was 
 (not 100% sure) on the third level with arrows they never show up until you've been sitting there 
 for 4 hours no knowing what todo!
  
  Well lets wrap it up this is a must get game!!! Plus in my city the price just dropped for this 
 game.
  The bottom line is, Perfect Dark Zero has the package. Revoulutionary graphics, cool guns and can 
 be a 3rd person at points even some good charecters you may think im crazy for saying this but 
 i'll say it anyway this is one of the best Xbox 360 games for both launch and for right now! Thats 
 why I give Perfect Dark Zero a 9.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: contaminated
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 21, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  This game is supose to be that Halo shooter on the 360 and it does that in some ways. However due 
 to the lack of active players especially in ranked game it seems like you were better off getting 
 the other recently released shooters. The offline is quite impressive but the lack of achievments 
 points to be won is quite pathetic. You can play multiplayer with bots but due to the fact that 
 they can be really diffucult on a harder diffuculty setting they could possibly give this game 
 some longevity for those who offline or with friends. Offline multiplayer is by far the best I 
 seen though with customizable battles up to 16 people and 2 player co-op witch is fun if you have 
 a brother or any other family member you can also play this in multiplayer although there arnt 
 many games being made. As for multiplayer as mentioned before its is fun offering 32 people battles 
 there however you will rarely see any ranked matches with that many people and will only see them 
 in custom matches. As for acievment points they are hard to get they require a lot of time in multiplayer 
 to get all of them which is possible but diffucult. All in all Perfect Dark is a decent package 
 but when it comes to multiplayer there are other better games out there to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 20, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is so wackt. Please get over all the hype about this game, it is trash. I cant begin 
 to enjoy this game at all. I will start with the good stuff. 1st the grafix, killer. 2nd nothing 
 else. The game is very annoying when you deal with other people you help and they get in your way 
 every time. The controls are just horrible. The characters are like michael jackson zooming around 
 like fools. It is really a prop up sequel to a great game. I cant get over the fact that I spent 
 money on this game. It is like hollywood talking about the biggest movie of the summer and watching 
 it flop. The difference is people like this game. I might be a complete fool but I think the Barbie 
 game for the xbox would be a better buy. So Go Buy It! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 22, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is the prequel to Pefect Dark. Many people thought it was impossible but obviously 
 Rare proved them wrong. This game has been in development for a long time and this game was consired 
 the game to be responsible for the 360. Now that this game has been out for months, I got the chance 
 to play it and to tell you its surprisingly good. There's alot of new stuff but obviously they 
 get tiresome sometimes. The story is Joanna and her dad have to track somebody and thats really 
 a bad excuse to go around the world. The surprising plots are sometimes dramatic but sometimes 
 pretty obvious. The weapons aren't that great and feel slow. During the time, I had a hard time 
 even finishing the story because I got bored easily. The gameplay is sometimes broken as trying 
 to shoot a person is kind of not interesting to in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BthSdesOfTheGun
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 19, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  You have played the first perfect dark (9.9. gamespot score) and you hear they are making a new 
 Perfect Dark, but on the next-gen system the Xbox 360. You start to get excited and on the back 
 of the case and screenshots that you see, the graphics are AMAZING... so hearing all these great 
 things you decide to buy the damn game... you open the case and stick it into your 360, and the 
 graphics are good, as you expected, but you seem to turn rather slowly and the AI are very cheap 
 and idiotic... so, you decide to play the multi-player... which, turns out to be even worse, the 
 practiced veterans of the game seem to use every bug in the game that they can to beat you, and 
 you STILL see bots running around shooting their team-mates... and there isn't much variety to 
 the game... just the same thing over and over again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipe_You_Out
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is good as it has many modes of play to offer but most of them are the same thing 
 just kill-count there is ctf killing games and as I like to call it hide-n-seek (dark-Ops) . There 
 is a lot to do but it is all the same thing to do. nothing new. The new maps are cool and all but 
 they need something more mabey something like halo's oddball. The graphics are good as well but 
 I always have my aim distorted by how SHINY everything is. In lvs like desert it is not as bad 
 because it is open but subway if you go to a wall it practily glows. other than the glowing the 
 models look good. With armor that falls off when you get shot you cant ask for more. The soundtrack 
 is a good theme that goes with the game. There isnt much replay value when you beat it because 
 it is the same game but it is nice to come and play everynow and then. There are a few glitches 
 they have to fix but the online play dosent lag that bad and is preaty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rounder617
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 18, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  When i first got my Xbox 360 this was the first game and i got and i thought it will be ok. But 
 when i started to play i thought the game was horrible but it got so much better later on. The 
 levels and map on this game are so good you just want to keep on playing for hours. The maps and 
 guns are very detailed on a HDTV. But if you don't have an HDTV the graphics are still better than 
 XBOX and PS2 graphics. 
  The online play is also amazing and so is the multiplayer. The multiplayer hsa bots so if you are 
 only playing with a freind you can put bots in the game to make it alot better. The online play 
 is probly the best online shooter is Halo2. The maps are also and you can play alot of differnt 
 game types like slayer and capture the flag and so on. This game is just an all around fun game 
 to play. Even if your playing by yourself or a freind and even pplaying online it is still a fun 
 game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyemc2004
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jun 18, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  I waited a long time for this game, I waited on the gamecube for this then the xbox until finally 
 it arrived on the xbox 360. I couldnt wait to get this game its one of the reasons I bought my 
 xbox 360. The original perfect dark was the best fps game I have ever played next to Goldeneye 
 ( perfect dark is basically a copy of goldeneye with a ton of additions) . So anyways I was psyched 
 about this game until I finally bought it. They stayed true to the original with no jump button 
 but they added a roll feature and it just has the over all perfect dark feel which is great everything 
 else goes downhill from here. The guns are way to sci fi for me they even gave some of the original 
 guns a more sc fi look to them which actually makes them look worse in my opinion. The graphics 
 are great if you like cartoons but if you played the original they used face mapping and went for 
 a more realistic feel for it, so I do not take a liking to this new animation. While I didnt love 
 the new animation I figured well ive waited this long ill just get used to it I guess (assuming 
 everything else is excellent just like the original) . Gun sounds are decent music is terrible good 
 thing all 360 games have custom soundtracks now. I didnt exepect much from the single player mode 
 because the first didnt have anything to really brag about, I just looked forward to the multiplayer 
 which was what made the original and killed this. They took all the options out of the original 
 such as creating your own character now you get to choose from less than 10 characters. They took 
 out one shot kills ( which made fights frantic and fun ) , took out bot personalties which yes 
 I know they have added them now but there are very few compared to the original. The levels are 
 crap what happened to the facility, complex, and temple levels? Blood no longer sticks to walls 
 or wherer ever the charcter was shot and as much as I love ragdoll I miss the death animation but 
 even their ragdoll is crap, oh and did I mention when a player dies in multiplayer they explode 
 into sparks, thas worse than the bodies disapperaing. Lets see there is no more challenge mode 
 or unlocking cheats. the only value this game has is to show people why not to buy it and why the 
 original kicked way more @$$. By the way the friends that I played the original game with back 
 in the day all loved it as much as I did and have each agreed with me on how terrible it is compared 
 to the first. Way to go rare on ruining this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamecubefan2000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 17, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Ok, it's not perfect enough to get a 10, because of the single player, which is slightly disappointing. 
 But Perfect Dark Zero is still one great shooter with excellent Xbox Live and multiplayer. I recommend 
 this for any Perfect Dark fan that has been waiting for this game for a long time. If you love 
 how guns are made, wait until you see these guns in PDZ. They sound just excellent, in fact, the 
 best guns I've ever seen in a shooter. Fans will just see how good this game looks on either an 
 standard TV or a HDTV. One major problem is that the graphics in the cutscenes look pretty bad, 
 especially the characters. But, this is one of the best games for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koopatroopa75
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 17, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  
  Campaign:
  By no means is this a groundbreaking effort from Rare. When comparing this game to today's top 
 shooters such as Half-Life 2 and F. E. A. R. one has to wonder how anyone would make an FPS like PDZ 
 that seems so much less sophisticated. The answer my friends is that it is still extremely fun. 
 As soon as I started playing the campaign I noticed stuff that made it seem a little behind the 
 times like unintelligent AI that will run around corners while you wait to blow their heads off 
 and how the aiming system is a little too hard. All of that combined with some below sub-par voice 
 acting with such inspiring quotes such as "I'm gonna drop you like a bad conversation" and a fairly 
 confusing, boring storyline make it, at first, seem like it will not be too great. And the truth 
 is that it really isn't that great but somehow I still found it really fun and am planning on beating 
 the campaign (which is satisfyingly long) on all three difficulty leves. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics on this game are absolutely beautful, with some nice motion blur when you turn around 
 and very real and nice looking weapons. I don't really dig how the people look though. They look 
 very cartoony and stupid with giant heads and strange stick bodies, but it definatley isn't unbearable 
 and it grows on you as you play. 
  
  Multiplayer: 
  This is what I feel is the best part of the game. There are two modes of mutliplayer, deathmatch 
 either killcount or team killcount where you see what person or team can get the most kills first, 
 then there are a couple other modes that I wont go into like terrirtorial gains and capture the 
 flag.
  Then there is another mode which is very much like counter-strike, with the buying of the weapons 
 and so forth which has many gameplay variations. As you can see this game with xbox live will keep 
 you pretty busy for a while. 
  But there are always some cons. Firstly, players are waaay too hard to kill (unless you get a headshot) 
 You could fire two full rounds at an enemy and they won't die. The situation is helped by the fact 
 that guns (especially sniper rifles) are very hard to aim without a lot of practice. Also, some 
 levels are too big for the amount of people on the server. But, ten people on a small map (for 
 each map there are different size variations) which is what I usually play, can be a blast especially 
 with freinds and voice com. 
  
  CONCLUSION
  I feel that I was a little harsh on the game in my review, but I do highly reccommend this game. 
 A must have for classic FPS fans and those looking for a rewarding multiplayer experiance.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fifia22
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jun 17, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  The stroy is awfull the animations are all slow. every one kinda slides becase the run so slow 
 and if you dont know what i mean just look at the enemys also for an even better example go to 
 the plaza level that the one on the demo and when you have to ambush those guys from on top of 
 the bridge you will see that they are moving in slowmotion and they dont even care that you are 
 shooting them. So dont buy the game unless you have nothin to do the multiplayer isnt that good 
 the only fun one is infection which is basically zombie on halo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XOMX
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 16, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a prequel to the classic and highly rated N64 game, Perfect Dark. You play 
 the role of Joanna Dark, a bounty hunter in training, as you work your way through a series of 
 missions to stop no-good scum. The backstory is really not all that interesting, even by first-person 
 shooter standards, but making things worse are the voice acting and cut scenes. Some of the voice 
 acting is very well done, but there are plenty of times when you can't help but laugh at some of 
 the characters' horrible accents. The script itself is laughable at times, and not necessarily 
 in a good way.
  
  the gameplay is not without some flaws. Looking and moving around the environments is a piece of 
 cake, but problems and frustrations arise when you have to aim at a moving target or one that's 
 above or below your elevation. The controls really lack a smooth, precise movement when you are 
 lining up your shot so when you try to aim at an enemy, you oftentimes end up aiming too far to 
 the left, right, up or down. You can hit the top left trigger to go into "aiming" mode, which makes 
 things easier to hit when you are standing still, but you simply move too slow in that mode to 
 use it in real firefights. What you're left with is a slightly more controlled form of randomly 
 spraying gunfire all over the level. There are sensitivity options that you can tweak, but while 
 they make you turn and look faster, they don't actually fix the problem by offering you any more 
 control over your aim. This is really a shame because the game would be a lot more fun if the controls 
 weren't an issue. As they are, PDZ is still playable, and most of the time, you can still take 
 out enemies without too many problems...
  
  On its own, PDZ is a bad title that does a lot of things bad, and it makes a not a good launch 
 title for the Xbox 360. It's far from the masterpiece that everyone had hoped it would be.
  
  I dont suggest you to buy this title he is oveerated 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja-Vox
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark was the shooter which set the standard for others to follow. It's awesomeness was 
 so unrivalled, the Nintendo 64 needed an add-on just so it could run it. It was truly, the gem 
 in the crown of Rare. The old Rare, that is, most of whom are now working under "Free Radical" 
 on the Time Splitters Franchise.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero fits under "same name, different game" right next to Call of Duty: Big Red One 
 and Battlefiled: Modern Combat. If you're looking for an improved, evolved sequel to that shooter 
 you loved back on the N64 you are not going to find it here. This game fails to resemble the original 
 in both style and gameplay.
  
  But enough of the past; onto the game itself. Frankly, you are not paying for a finished game. 
 You are paying for a BETA release. A game rife with irritating problems in both single and multiplayer. 
 You finish a death match and reach for your pen to note down the problems so you can report back 
 to Rare. The only problem is that these issues wont be fixed before release; this "BETA" is the 
 final version of the game, and you just paid a "next gen" price tag for it.
  
  The game just suffers on so many levels. The single player is short and pretty darned bland, with 
 only two levels standing out from the cascade of mediocrity. You'll know which two levels i'm talking 
 about the instant you complete them, simply because they're the only two locales which appear to 
 have had the correct amount of time and effort put into them. The campaign ends in an embarrasingly 
 poor boss battle involving strange wizardry and magic. If that makes you cringe at the thought 
 of how awesome the game's super-high-tech espionage used to be, i can only offer my sympathies, 
 as it has been replaced with completely unexplained magical powers. 
  
  The bad guys are now mindless henchmen, with comedy death animations, cartoonish character models 
 and high-pitched voices. Well done, Rare. Jo Dark has had her personality from the previous game 
 completely removed and replaced with one) someone of a completely different nationality and two) 
 someone who is an entirely different person in everything but a vague resemblence. Once again, 
 great decisions at the board meeting Rare. 
  
  Then we have the things which just scream "you're playing a BETA game". For one, aiming. That's 
 right, the aiming. The one thing more or less every shooter ever made gets right is horribly, horribly 
 broken in this game. It's as if your cross-hair (which for some bizaare reason is the same for 
 every weapon) is fixed to either straight vertical or horizontal movement. Why does nobody snipe 
 online you wonder? Because the aiming makes it impossible to do so. Melee attack has been copy 
 and pasted from Halo 2, only the crazed, jittery motions of your opponents make it damn-near impossible 
 to land a hit. 
  
  Need i go on? Basically, you have a fundamentally flawed game which scraps everything good about 
 the original and replaces it with crass attempts to be "cool." The aiming mechanics are broken, 
 the multiplayer is terrible (i mean, the cross-hair for a full auto rifle is the same as a pistol?) , 
 with many players able to jump into their very first game and defeat somebody playing their hundredth 
 match, thanks to the stupidity of the deathmatch system. There are only ever two or three kills 
 separating each player at the end, which really helps to personify just how flawed it is.
  
  If you loved PD, dont buy this game for your own sake. If you're looking for a good shooter 
 on the 360, i'd go with COD2 over this any day - or hell, even Halo 2. Want a good online experience? 
 GRAW beats this in every respect.
  
  Put simply, dont buy this game. Check your bargain bin for a few cheap thrills when games are scarce 
 next summer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilighted
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  The original Perfect Dark was for the nintendo 64, which was developed by RARE and was sometimes 
 quoted as the successor to Goldeney. The original Perfect Dark did so well for the 64, that PDZ 
 ( Perfect Dark Zero ) had a lot of hype to live up too.
  
  The gameplay is basic FPS, R trigger shoots, and stuff like that. There is a roll feature which 
 makes the game more realistic. Also the guns themselves are realistic, there is no fake guns, most 
 of them are around today. There is no Auto-Aim which is why some people complain about the controls, 
 also the game is not a pushover, its quite challenging. There is three difficulties: Agent ( easy 
 ) , Secret Agent ( normal ) , Perfect Agent ( Hard ) , And Dark Agent ( impossible ) . The game offers 
 a little challenge on secret agent alone, and perfect agent is incredibly difficult. 
  
  The sound effects on this game are supurb. Some good music in some of the levels, and the guns 
 sound effects are good. You hear a very realistic "click" when you reaload a gun, also a very realistic 
 "shot" when you fire. 
  
  The graphics are incredibly criticized by a lot of fans, but they are actually very good. The guns 
 are incredibly detailed, shiny, and new. The humans themselves are done poorly. Some of the effects 
 that PDZ has, is very detailed wall textures, the floor itself is gorgeous, and the explosions 
 are very well done. 
  
  A lot of lasting appeal, including a very deep online multiplayer. The single campaign is very 
 good, a little on the short side. The multiple difficultys on the campaign can add to the replay 
 value, also collecting the guns can add more to the replay value. Online is kind of like Halo 2, 
 or other generic FPS. There is a lot of modes to play in, ranked or unranked matches, and a lot 
 of achievements online. the game has 50 achievements so it will add a lot to the replay value. 
 
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is a great Xbox 360 title, and is incredibly underrated because it had to live 
 up to a huge hype. The problem with PDZ was that it was hyped as 360's best launch title, and the 
 prequel too one of the greatest FPS in history, the original Perfect Dark. This game is a must 
 buy for current XBOX 360 owners, and is a game that shouldnt be passed up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poton
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 13, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  Let me start of by saying this game is nothing to do with perfect dark, the only thing i noticed 
 was similar was names! I waited years for this game thinking it would atleast be as good as perfect 
 dark not completely crap, not usually harsh about judging games but this has to be one of the worst 
 FPS games on the 360 so slow sluggish and boring. I REMEMBER the day i got it with the 360 i went 
 straight on it, hoping that it would be good and though wtf to the single player and thought its 
 ok i guess... the multiplayer bound to be cool... i was wrong it was like grab a pistol shoot that 
 guy in the chest 100 times and the hit him in the head and he'll die one hit lol the guns are rubbish 
 and i think the buying system made it even less like perfect dark. If u like perfect dark don't 
 buy this game it will only annoy u! Hopefully the Wii will have perfect dark online :D
  
  This is the only game i have ever got rid of, still have all my nes and snes games, not this!
 
  
  Overall: boring, sluggish clumsy play, nothing like perfect dark and a very poor sequel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NocturnalThoth
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 12, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  It has been a long time since I really enjoyed a first-person shooter. Since I am not someone who 
 has played any of the plethora of military games currently and previously one the market I was 
 kind of unsure about this purchase. Perfect Dark Zero proved me wrong about how good a first-person 
 shooter can be. 
  
  The single player game is more or less practice to get you adequate enough so as to avoid being 
 killed within the first ten seconds on a multiplayer game. Each mission has a specific goal and 
 as you approach certain elements optional side quests are available, usually making the later parts 
 easier. The game doesn't point out obstacles or warn you of dangers, it is up to you to make sure 
 you are aware of your environment. This is particularly important since making sure to disable 
 security cameras can make your life much easier.
  
  The multiplayer games are the real reason to purchase PDZ. With the addition of the expansion maps, 
 the number of different game scenarios increases dramatically. If you want to get a feel to how 
 a multiplayer game progresses, create your own and fill the room with 'bots,' these computer controlled 
 players and at their lowest setting you can get used to the pace. Take some time getting used to 
 the various scopes on each of the weapons and practice attaining head shots, once you are battling 
 human players you will find this makes all the difference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cj19_32
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 12, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark for the XBOX 360 was an overall ok game. The graphics were some the best Ive from 
 the Xbox 360 out all the ones that Ive played second to GRAW. But when it comes down to gameplay 
 its doesnt ever at any point shine in that department. For me it didnt make it where I even 
 wanted play the game at all. The only reason I finished the game was to have the to right to say 
 I beat it and because it one of the few games thats available to rent for XBOX 360 right now. 
 Plus the storyline didnt help any, I was confused through most of it I think somebody crossed 
 me and somebody important I dont know While I played the game I felt like I was placed in starting 
 line and I was expected to find the finish line. When I was being shot at half the time it never 
 felt exciting I felt more like these fools are annoying and thats it. In most of the game I never 
 felt like there was anything I had to do I felt more like I had a place I started and a place I 
 had to go IN EVERY LEVEL. By the this generation in gaming games should be more open and a lot 
 less simple. But as far as weapons go the game doesnt lack in that department and even brings 
 back the laptop gun for N64 Perfect Dark, this does hardly anything for the game though. As a whole 
 Id have to say the main problem with Perfect Dark is its not exciting I think if the story would 
 have been better and if it would have had better in game objectives then it might have been a fun 
 game but it doesnt so its just a bland first person with a start and finish line ON EVERY level.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCubeN24
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Perfect dark Zero is not a perfect game by any means,, but its really worth picking up for your 
 shiny new 360. Perfect Dark Zero is your standard FPS with some slight tweaks and add-ons to give 
 the game a fresh feel. Like other FPS, you control Joanna from a first person view and shot the 
 bad-guys... standard fair; but in PDZ, you can do special third person actions such as rolling away 
 from bullets and taking cover similar to kill. switch. The gameplay is perfect and fun, and it is 
 extremely easy to pick up and play seeing as it is almost the same as Halo. The sound is amazing 
 as the game includes some of the coolest tecno you will hear in a video game. What keeps this game 
 from getting a better score is it frustrating difficulty. Your foes are far too powerful and can 
 hit you from crazy distances. If you can forget these small flaws, PDZ is a fun game that will 
 keep you busy for quite some time................ not to mention give you some Gamerpoints. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D223
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 11, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  To start off PDZ is a very good game but very hard to get into when you're a beginner but after 
 that stage its a load of fun. You as Joanna Dark are partnered with your dad Jack Dark, to go on 
 stealth missions usually retrieving data. The story for me was hard to follow but all the action 
 will keep you playing. the story is not very long about 13 short missions. In the middle of the 
 story wierd things start to happen. A scientist named Ziegler puts something in yor dad's brain. 
 He doesn't realise it but its a valuable piece of info later on he gets killed by the creator of 
 Deathmatches daughter. so your out for revenge. Chandra betrays you and you start working for a 
 different team. The leaders name is Jonathan and your all out to get Data Dyne. I'll tell you the 
 end boss is hilarious. Multiplayer is awesome but only if you can connect, some people may have 
 the problem I had where you can only connect to small parties. Playing with 32 players is awesome. 
 Online just keeps you coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Fart
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 10, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  For six years now the perfect dark game has give enjoyment to gamers around the world. The perfect 
 story line great voice over and really good character 
  assessment the whole game play and the story went great to together.
  but that was on the N64. 
 Now perfect dark is no the Xbox 360 the graphics are 
  amazing to show how they can look like in a human form but they have a bit of amime in the character 
 the look slighty cartooney.
  
  The Xbox 360 have really good graphic's but Mircosoft have messed up the story line and the voice 
 over have complety have gone wrong when has jonna dark have a amercain accecet and they have made 
 carrington look so stuiped with the kilter that scot men wear yes he is scotish but still no they 
 didn't have to put him in one. And the A. I is messed up when you and the plot's in the jungle misson 
 are really stupied walk into the spirder bot's and gtting them sevles killed messing the mission 
 and have to start again.
  
  and one more thing there are a series of gliters with the enermy 
  and the weapons back firing 
 on you and the A. I can shot though 
  walls . and with that I will finsh my report.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 10, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark was released six years ago on the Nintendo 64. It was an absolutely amazing game with 
 breathtaking graphics and memorable gameplay. Perfect Dark 0 is the prequel. It features some great 
 improvements on the first game, but it also has some flaws.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Perfect Dark Zero has some fairly standard single-player gameplay. You have various weapons 
 which increase in power, there are many scripted sequences, etc., etc. The only big difference 
 is the ability to take cover. In PD0, you can take cover behind a box, a wall, or something of 
 that sort. This cover system can be useful, but it is not very well implemented and it is hard 
 to get used to at first. The single player storyline is fairly weak and predictable, but there 
 are plenty of action sequences that make up for this. The multiplayer is much more fun than the 
 single player. There are several gameplay modes, including old standards like Deathmatch. Overall, 
 the gameplay in Perfect Dark Zero is pretty good, but nowhere near as incredible as the original.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: I was amazed when I started a new game for the first time. The opening cutscene doesn't 
 look up to par with the Xbox 360's capabilities, but once you get into the game, you realize that 
 there is much more here. The guns look great and environments are amazing. There is even a great 
 motion-blur effect. However, the character models can look ugly at times. And there are several 
 glitches like clipping errors that arouse at times.
  
  SOUND: The audio in Perfect Dark Zero is fine, but there are some pretty big flaws. Most guns sound 
 excellent, but others sound a little weak. The voice acting is kind of bad and I find the music 
 very annoying. Techno music comes on at all the wrong moments and really ruins the atmosphere of 
 the game.
  
  VALUE: While you probably won't keep coming back to the single player campaign, the multiplayer 
 experience will keep you hooked. As long as you have Xbox Live, this game will last you a good 
 long time. Online battles can get downright insane at times and it is much more fun than story 
 mode.
  
  Perfect Dark was a revolutionary game with cutting edge graphics, sounds, and gameplay. Perfect 
 Dark Zero is a fun game, but several major flaws keep it from being as great as its predecessor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: augrunt
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 10, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a game where you are thrown into the future, the World is owned by businesses. 
 Literally doing as they please. Businesses such as dataDyne have brought out new technolgies. "Deathmatch" 
 a virtual reality game where you can die and feel pain but only to motivate you enough not to die 
 and more... 
  
  But there are other businesses who wish to free the world of Opression. Carrington is such a business 
 man who sends Joanna Dark and Jack Dark into a hornet's nest in a desperate attempt to bring down 
 dataDyne before they truly rule the world.
  
  The Difficulty of this game is fairly adjustable. To the ridiculously easy "Agent" mode and the 
 stupidly hard "Dark Agent" mode. This game is meant for both a Hardcore Gamer and a guy who doesn't 
 know what FPS stands for.
  
  The Learning curve isn't that long, You are taught everything you need to know in Mission 0 "Tutorial". 
 You are taught all the basics and then practice it in the field. 
  
  The Graphics is also High Class, truly using Xbox 360's power in rendering amazing surroundings 
 and realistic (though sometimes buggy) Ragdoll effects. 
  
  The Sound is top notch truly capturing what futuristic weapons would sound like if shot. As well 
 as the voice acting. Joanna does sound like a headstrong chick she's made out to be in Perfect 
 Dark (N64) . So it truly captures her.
  
  Multiplayer is also great featuring modes such as Infection and Siege as well as the Classic Deathmatch 
 games, also the Co-Op Campaign is exactly the same as the Single Player mission, so if you don't 
 want to play alone you dont have to to be immersed in the story.
  
  The Replayability is also quite long, as you try to hone your skills and attempt to get all those 
 achievements you need to complete the game in "Perfect Agent" and then again in "Dark Agent" to 
 get the Achievements.
  Not to mention the Kill 1000 Melee which might take you a while to get.
  
  This game is really 
 the best thing next to Halo to get. If you tried all those other games out there, Pick up this 
 game and give it a go. I truly recommend buying it..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman1988
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 9, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  
  
  Perfect Dark Zero, it had high expectations and it was going to hard to meet that expectation. 
 For me Perfect Dark didnt meet it, so I thought maybe I put my expectations to high, and after 
 I realized I did I couldnt help myself falling in love with this game. The first Perfect Dark 
 was in my opinion the best First-Person shooter of its time, and its still right up there. Although 
 I believe this game could have been so much better, it had so much potential that slipped through 
 Rares hands. Even though I couldnt help feeling disappointed, I still really like the game. One 
 thing that really did it for me though was the Co-op, there arent enough First-person shooter 
 games with co-op.
  
  Graphics: Although sometimes parts of the game were very unrealistic, graphics overall were clean 
 and sharp, like any game on Xbox 360 should be. But still no Call of duty.
  
  Sound: The sounds of gunshots in this game were spot on, every gun sounded like it should have. 
 Voices I thought were sometimes lacking just reaching average.
  
  Value: I think this game is worth every dollar just for the co-op, (BRING ON THE CO-OP) and online 
 is just as good. Yet one player I believe I wouldnt play twice.
  
  Overall: This game is a good sign of what is to come from the xbox 360, and ever since 360 was 
 released my standards have jumped, which is the reason why Ive only given this game a 7.4. There 
 is still a whole lot better just waiting to bust out of the Xbox. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: caps86
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jun 8, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  This game has too much hype... when i first played this game i was confused, they have you in this 
 training type level where your just getting the feel of the game. Training wasnt much help at all, 
 one command led to another confusing thing to do... This game was boring not all what it was said 
 to be and Really Not XBOX 360 worthly at all. I have to say that Microsoft continues to disappoint 
 the gaming industry, they need to rethink what there putting out there for people to play. Overall 
 this game was garbage and a waste of time dont buy it unless you have alot of time on your hands 
 to play something bad... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 8, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  -Wow, I can't believe people actually like this game so much. It's not a bad game but everything 
 about this game is mediocore. Pick up CoD2 instead, it beats this game in every aspect. 
  The addition of being able to roll is very useful. Cover is useful as well but it really needs 
 a jump button. Aiming just seems to be awkward at first and really needs to be improved. 
  You never seem to get attached to the characters and the story is below average. The ending was 
 VERY dissappointing to me. Level design reeks of averageness. 
  Multiplayer is pretty decent but nothing to write home about. 
  
  Pick up CoD2 instead, you 
 won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjb-sensei
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Five years after she made her debut in the critically-acclaimed first-person shooter, Perfect Dark, 
 for the Nintendo 64, Joanna Dark returns, this time in a prequel for Microsoft's Xbox 360 as a 
 launch title. Most notably featuring highly improved graphics over its predecessor, sharper controls, 
 and online multiplayer action, Rare has managed to really pack Perfect Dark Zero with plenty of 
 enjoyable features to satisfy your next-generation video game craving for quite some time.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero focuses around a young agent named Joanna Dark who seeks to become the perfect 
 agent. You, as Joanna, will go to quite some measures to find out the secrets of the evil dataDyne 
 corporation and what kinds of secrets it contains as you try to make yourself the perfect agent 
 by completing certain key missions. Throughout your journey you'll both encounter characters who 
 will help you at certain points in the game, and characters who will seemingly try to do nothing 
 but stop you dead in your tracks with no mercy whatsoever. As this is a prequel, you will encounter 
 some people who are familiar -- assuming you actually played the original Perfect Dark. If not, 
 everyone you encounter will present themselves as unknowns originally. Eventually, you'll unearth 
 some background information on them that starts to shed some light on why they are there in the 
 first place.
  
  Graphically, Perfect Dark Zero is the type of game that looks really spectacular in most areas. 
 It's a great showcase title for owners of the Xbox 360, although there will be certain things in 
 the game that you'll probably think might -- might -- be possible on the current-generation Xbox. 
 Moving on, though, it has a rock-solid framerate most of the time, although that will drop a bit 
 whenever there is a lot of action on-screen, but I suppose that is to be expected, even on a next-generation 
 console (although hopefully that won't be too much of a factor in a year or two) . The levels that 
 you will find yourself in feature a nice amount of variety, as one mission places you in a nightclub 
 in Hong Kong, while another will position you in a South American jungle. Rare has made sure to 
 fit the game with plenty of different levels as to not make the player seem that the game gets 
 redundant as they move from place to place locale-wise.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero may seem like your ordinary first-person shooter -- that is to say, you'll likely 
 expect coming into the game to do nothing but run-and-gun your way through the game's dozen levels. 
 Fortunately, that simply isn't the case as the game has an added element of stealth that really 
 gives some variety to the gameplay aspect of the title. If you feel that you may find yourself 
 outmanned in a certain situation against a group of enemies, you may be able to duck behind some 
 crates some feet away and provide some much-needed cover. You can also simply duck and roll around 
 and hide behind crates and the like to evade around enemies. It's an added factor to the game that 
 I find enjoyable.
  
  The game's single-player mode doesn't leave much to write home about; after all, there basically 
 are a dozen missions for you to complete, and those missions can be completed on several different 
 difficulty levels. Players will likely find the real meat of the game to lie in its addictive and 
 fun online modes.
  
  There are two different "main" types of online modes: DeathMatch and DarkOps. I'll first explain 
 the types of game modes you can play in DeathMatch.
  
  DeathMatch - Killcount
  Killcount is your standard "kill everyone" type of mode. What you basically do, in layman terms, 
 is use a weapon and kill the other person. Not hard to understand, really. It's likely one of the 
 most popular online modes, too, although that's just an educated guess by me and my hours of play 
 time with the game's online modes.
  
  DeathMatch - Team Killcount
  This mode is just like Killcount, only this time you work with other players as a team against 
 another team of players to kill them. Again, not hard to understand for new players to the game.
 
  
  DeathMatch - Capture the Flag
  A standard in most first-person shooters with online components, Capture the Flag is self-explanatory 
 really: you need to capture your enemy's flag, which is located at their own home base. If you 
 have your enemy's flag, but your own flag is also taken by the enemy, then you can't score until 
 you get your flag back, and vice versa.
  
  DeathMatch - Territorial Gains
  The objective of Territorial Gains is to gain as many territories from your enemy as possible. 
 There are these devices that you have to activate and after a few seconds you "gain" that territory. 
 However, an enemy can also take that exact same territory by performing the exact same procedure. 
 The team with the most "gains" at the end of the round wins.
  
  I'll now detail the modes playable under the game type DarkOps.
  
  DarkOps - Eradication
 
  Eradication has you as a part of a team trying to stay alive. The team to stay alive the longest 
 wins.
  
  DarkOps - Onslaught
  Onslaught is an interesting mode. The objective of it is to stay alive, of course, but the rules 
 are a bit twisted as opposed to normal game modes. One team's goal is to stay alive until there 
 is no time left, but they only have one life per team member, although they can buy the default 
 selection of weapons with a set amount of cash. The other team, meanwhile, cannot buy weapons yet 
 has an infinite amount of lives.
  
  DarkOps - Infection
  Infection is one of my favorite online modes in Perfect Dark Zero. There are two groups of players: 
 one that's infected and one that isn't. The infected group's players always appear as skeletons, 
 while the uninfected group's players look as they normally should. When a player on the uninfected 
 team dies, any (and likely all) kills they may have previously scored are gone as you lose points 
 when you die (only as a part of the uninfected team, by the way; if you have any kills and you 
 die when you're infected you retain them when you're back in action) . The player with the most 
 points (kills) at the end of the contest is deemed the winner.
  
  DarkOps - Sabotage
  The point of Sabotage is to cause the most damage to the opposing team's property. The team with 
 the most damage caused at the end of the round is the winner.
  
  As you can see, the real meat of this game truly lies in its online modes of gameplay. They are 
 all varied and diverse, and all offer plenty of fun to be had. It's easy to slam Perfect Dark Zero 
 simply because of a single-player mode that may be a bit lacking, and while that may be true, it'd 
 be tough in my eyes to slam its online modes.
  
  As you can imagine, the game has a solid amount of replay value. The single-player mode differs 
 in terms of how many hours it will take you to complete it as there are several different difficulty 
 levels to choose from. With that said, you're likely to spend many more hours in the game's online 
 portion. The replay value of the game is also extended through Microsoft's ingenious added achievements 
 through Xbox Live. Some of them involve you defeating the game's single-player mode, both by yourself 
 and with another person through the game's co-op mode, while others are multiplayer-focused; one 
 achievement, for instance, requires you to get 10 headshots to unlock it. That's just one of the 
 "lower level" achievements, though, as they get harder (i. e., getting 100 and 1000 headshot kills; 
 it'll take you a good amount of play time to get that I reckon) . Overall, if you're a bit worried 
 about whether or not Perfect Dark Zero can satisfy you both short-term and long-term, don't.
  
  All in all, Perfect Dark Zero is one great shooter for the Xbox 360. Expectations for this 
 high a caliber of a release are likely to be high once you first head into it -- after all, it's 
 been years in the making, and was originally scheduled for the GameCube, then the Xbox -- and the 
 end result is a game that is solid in single-player yet at the same time disappointingly lacking. 
 Where the game truly shines, however, is in its numerous multiplayer modes. If you haven't ever 
 been a fan of Rare's games, though, Perfect Dark Zero isn't likely to change your opinion of that, 
 but you should at the very least give it a rent to form out a conclusive opinion. Otherwise, if 
 you're a fan of Rare's titles, and enjoyed the original Perfect Dark, what are you still doing 
 reading this review? Go and buy Perfect Dark Zero and enjoy one quality release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agam10002
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 8, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  It is a good game but its graphics are very good the weapons are very good story is average Rare 
 did a good job but they could have made it better by increasing the length of the game adding new 
 weapons adding more vehicles adding more gadgets adding more characters. Its worth the money The 
 new maps that just realesed are good also it would be better if it was free because there are very 
 less maps in the game so there should be more maps. It should have more gates and all those lift 
 kinds of things .Well done Rare but next time you can do better !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebel0dijal
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 8, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  It is the best game on the 360 4 now!!!
  
  and it actually should beat oblivin to the top spot but it is amazing!!!!
  
  Love the XBOX 
 LIVE features and really would love to see another Perfect Dark ep come out on any future consol.. i 
 swear ill buy that consol just for it... just as i have done with the 360 !!!!!!
  
  Also i am a bit dissapionted with Nintendo for not buying RARE.. knowing that their top game was 
 Perfect Dark the original one but honestly its their own loss... i have 2 see if the Nintendo Wii 
 could bring me back to the dark side but if i have 2 NOW make a choice id stick wid the 360 just 
 because of Perfect Dark Zero!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: froggut198
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 7, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Really fun and interesting to meddle with. The controls might be awkward to some, but 
 luckily you can change the control style and mechanics. The multiplayer in this game is outstanding! 
 Whether you are offline or online, its great. This is one of the few games that still have multiplayer 
 bots and you can make them act just about however you want them to. You can make them attack the 
 person with the lowest score, highest score, lowest health/armor, person that killed them last, 
 or all of them randomly! There aren't very many multiplayer levels, though. However, there are 
 going to be, I believe, 4 new maps that are able to be downloaded on Xbox Live any time now. The 
 single player is fun but the story is hard to follow since it seems to be almost absent, though 
 there still is one. The levels make you use stealth, sheer weaponry and some neat gadgets. Overall, 
 the gameplay in the game is superb and will definatley grow on you.
  
  Graphics- Flashy and beautiful! Its almost hard to focus on annihilating the enemies when you want 
 to look at the awesome environment. Teh gun models are absolutely stunning and keep you engorged 
 in the realistic lighting details.
  
  Sound- Really great, and keeps you interested. Most of the sounds sound like Goldeneye 64, however. 
 Thats not a bad thing since it makes the game feel more old school.
  
  Value- Awesome multiplayer, great single player, stunning graphics and superb sounds, need I say 
 more?
  
  Overall, I say this game is one of the best Xbox 360 games out and it will probably be the best 
 multiplayer game until they make a Timesplitters for 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 6, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  This prequel to Perfect Dark was one of my most anticipated games in years. And yet, it is one 
 of the biggest disappointments I've ever had the displeasure to experiencing.
  
  The original Perfect Dark was well... perfect in almost every respect. Engaging story, amazing multiplayer, 
 and was just plain fun. This update isn't any of those.
  
  The story is bland. Nothing intuitive or anything. I'm not going to explain it though. I can't 
 even remember the premise. I just know it sucked.
  
  Gameplay is typical FPS. Again, nothing really intuitive, except the wall-hugging mechanic they 
 basically stole from a dozen previous games  The game plays sluggish 
 at times, almost boring. The name DARK also fits. The game is very dark, it's often hard to see. 
 It's very frustrating.
  
  Graphics are ok... sometimes. Explosions are great, and gunplay looks nice. Character models though 
 are flat-out hideous. Are they human? Also, the level designs are bland and repetitive, and also 
 sometimes confusing.
  
  Do yourself a favor, and don't get this game. Wait until later. When games like Gears of War are 
 on the horizon, why would you want to play this piece of junk? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pondarosa
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 6, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark has a pretty good story and isn't bad for a launch title, but the game comes up short 
 all in all. It will probably disappoint most fans of the original game, and it will leave those 
 who never got to play the original Perfect Dark wondering what all the fuss was about.
  
  The biggest problem with the game is the controls. No matter how much you play with them, the game 
 just feels really sluggish overall. You feel as if you are playing the game in slow motion a lot 
 of the time. Considering how natural and fast paced a lot of RARE's former shooters have been, 
 this is a pretty big surprise and a real black-eye to the game. Control wise, it feels backwards 
 - it's as if RARE made this game first, learned from it's mistakes, and then made the original 
 Perfect Dark. It ranges from slightly annoying in single player to making some multiplayer matches 
 completely frustrating and even unplayable.
  
  The graphics are pretty good - on the levels. The game looks terrific until you have people in 
 front and you and you see how ridiculously ugly some of the models are. And the animation, especially 
 when you are dying, is just like the controls, slow and stiff. 
  
  It's a perfectly acceptable game, but does have it's share of glaring problems. A few years from 
 now, people are probably going to have forgotten about this game and hardly mention it. And for 
 fans of the original, who realize how much potential this game had and that it could have been 
 the next "killer-app", they realize what a damn shame that is.
  
  Not really bad, but not really good either. Mediocre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealMcCoy14
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  I think PDZ is not worth picking up. The graphics are sub par, the gameplay is anything but addicting, 
 the campaign isn't much fun, and there are a lot of bugs. This game is simply boring. Why waste 
 time with this game when you could be playing GRAW of BF2? I'll give Rare credit for trying to 
 come up with a really great game like Halo 2 in a crunch trying to make it on time for launch, 
 something people will be playing for years after. I found PDZ just lacking in every department. 
 That's why I gave it a 1.5 out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gskehans97
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero... My frist Xbox360 game & my most favortie frist person shooter game of all time! 
 This game is so great for so many reasons
  (I don't have time to name them all, LOL) I think it's great that Microsoft / Rare made it because 
 to me it's like the old n64 game (007 James Bond) Golden Eye and it's alot like the frist Perfect 
 Dark Zero on the n64, The Gameplay for this game is very good and the Graphics and just nuts there's 
 SWEET!, The sound is great and with the xbox360 i can put on any of my music that i want, Over all 
 i give Perfect Dark Zero a PERFECT 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setho10
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 4, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is easily the worst 360 game I have played. It suffers from sloppy controls, 
 terrible enemy AI, horrid pacing, and the plain worst story ever seen in a shooter.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is supposed to be about some enemy super corporation. But exactly what you are 
 doing and why is totally unsalvageable from the terrible cutscenes. The story seems to exist merely 
 to give an excuse for going around the world to some crazy locations that make almost no sense. 
 Joanna is supposed to be a super spy, but somehow she is a terrible shot and cannot jump. She walks 
 way to slow, has too few weapons, many of which are nearly identical in function, and doesn't make 
 use of any cool gadgets or vehicles. What she does use is some simple lockpicking and hacking gadgets 
 that are essentially some dull minigames. In multiplayer she gets to use a jetpack but this element 
 is not seen in single player at all. Speaking of multiplayer, this game is a copy of Halo but worse. 
 If the controls weren't so bad, the levels so boring, and vehicles more fun to use, then the multiplayer 
 could be a great reason to buy the game. As it stands the multiplayer is inexcusably bad. Back 
 to single player, the enemies may look different throughout the game but unless the new weapons 
 count as improvements they are essentially just new coats of paint to the otherwise idiotic enemy 
 AI. 
  
  The graphics in the game are fine for a first gen 360 title. They sport some nice detail, especially 
 explosion effects. The environments look interesting, and the weapons look good even if they are 
 all underpowered. THe jungle levels look especially nice, and the final level is appropriately 
 epic. 
  
  The music in the game is all techno. If that works for you then fine, just don't expect a Hollywood 
 score from this one. Weapons and environments sound fine, but voice acting is horrible.
  
  This game lasts pretty long and has multiplayer support. Why anyone would want to make use of that 
 multiplayer is beyond me, but its a nice inclusion anyways. There are also multiple difficulty 
 levels, each of which adds new objectives to the game. But by replaying each level, you have to 
 suffer through the terrible gameplay and story all over again, so it doesn't seem all that worth 
 it. 
  
  Overall, PDZ is a mess of a game that can only be recommended to those huge fans of the original 
 game, or to those dying to get their hands on another 360 shooter. I say, try Call of Duty 2 or 
 Quake 4, or Battlefield 2 or basically any other shooter for the 360. You can only go wrong with 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mish55
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 29, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  whats up with gamespot?? they gave some of the best games horrible scores. They gave perfect dark 
 a 9.9, and it deserved it. Now they gave this worthless excuse for a good game a 9???
  
  perfect dark is a perquel to the original perfect dark (which was a masterpiece) . Its all about 
 joanna trying to get her father out of trouble.
  I dont wanna go to far into the story, not to spoil it for you, but it was so bad that i didnt 
 even know what was going on. The first level starts you off in a laboratory, and you gotta follow 
 this annoying scientist guy. Then after that you go to a night club.......... i still dont understand 
 how? the story is so hard to understand.......
  
  the graphics in perfect dark are horrible. People just dont realise how bad they are. Its the shinyness, 
 shinyness can make a game look good (if you play pdz, try to find one thing that isnt shiny like 
 glass or silver...... seriously its practically not possible) . they over use the shine and try to 
 hide the plastic looking character models which are horribly done, im surprised how ugly joanna 
 looks. The environments look good but are also........ sigh...... shiny as heck!!! but you can still 
 see the environments are angular, low detailed and pretty ugly. The only thing pretty in this game 
 is the guns. The guns are very very beautiful, but they still got that shinyness to them. Instead 
 of looking like rough would and steal, the ak47 like gun is really shiny and looks like its made 
 of colored glass. So ya this game is ugly, except the guns which look awesome.
  
  The gameplay in perfect dark is were everything falls. The gameplay first of all is simple, you 
 move around and shoot. The thing is that the game is extremely slow everywhere. Your character 
 walks slow, your reticle while trying to aim moves slow, when you kill an enemy they die slow (if 
 they get blown up they float in the air for about 2 seconds...... ya not realistic)
  there is no jumping in this game, so forget about tactics and familiar gameplay (unless you wanna 
 feel nostalgic)
  
  The gameplay is extremely frustrating. Its sad to see all the awesome looking guns not feel like 
 they should. Every machine gun shoots and feels the same, some might sound more powerful but all 
 your really doing is shooting the same way as others, none feel different. Sniping in this game 
 is practically impossible as your reticle seems like it doesnt want to move (like if you were scoping 
 some one, you wouldnt be able to keep them in your sight because they will run faster than your 
 reticle.)
  
  there are grenades and swords and all that other stuff. Grenades do damage, they dont do anything 
 else. They have no blast radius and dont make people blow up into the air (ex. halo) it just makes 
 their health drop and make them fall on the ground if they die (not great physics) . The rockets 
 arent the best thing, in most games people will be like holy crap they got rockets, everyone watch 
 out not in this game though, the rockets also dont kill people unless they have barely any health, 
 or you hit their body straight on.
  
  The sound in this game is excruciatingly horrible. The game has techno music that blares out like 
 hell in this game. So you can be fighting off enemies and hear this annoying music, luckily you 
 can turn it off. The guns sound great and the explosions sound good also.
  
  This game has multiplayer but its so contained. Since you cant jump, theres not tactical advantages 
 you can do, and also you cant explore levels very fluidly. The multiplayer plays as slow as in 
 the single player. Players move as slow as possible, you see them run and it looks like they run 
 in slow motion. Its hard to aim, travel, and play the multiplayer.
  
  Some people will find the multiplayer fun but its really really slow, no matter what the game type 
 is, all your doing is killing slowly (literally) all i can keep saying about this game is that its 
 really slow.
  
  remove the shinyness of the game, downgrade the graphics a little bit, and you have a genuine mediocre 
 xbox game. This game is slow excrutiating and only focuses on multiplayer. If you like halo2 or 
 battlefield, or any other multplayer game on xbox, you wont last long on this horrible piece of 
 crap.
  Seriously, call of duty 2 got an 8.8, and so many other good games while this game got a 9........... it 
 deserves less than an 6.......... the only thing this game is good at doing is being playable........ 
 people might think im biased or something, but i loved the original perfect dark. If i was a hater 
 and biased, this review woulda been 2 lines long saying over and over this game suckss this game 
 suckss 
  
  i have played this game, and im dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePatinator
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is, simply put, a game that has an incredibly fun engine hidden under an often 
 scrappy exterior.
  
  It's single player is, for the most part, mediocre, and dissapointing at the best of times. This 
 is easily the most severe letdown of the whole game, as it is far worse than the original and completely 
 fails to live up to it's potential. Some of the levels are good, but others just feel like a chore 
 for the most part, and you won't want to play them more than once.
  
  However, this aside, the multiplayer is truly brilliant. With incredibly modifyable variants, support 
 for up to 16 players (including quite challenging bots) and fun, intense gameplay, you can have 
 fun at any level of players, although the bots seem to be able to see you from massive distances 
 sometimes which is just a bit unfair...
  
  The new maps should put new fresh air into the multiplayer, and hopefully add a little the online 
 audience as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtkinsac2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 4, 2006 1:07 am PT
Review:  Rare has come very far from the original Perfect Dark and seem completely ready for the hype over 
 this game. They have had their stoops and falls, but with recent releases like Conker and Kameo, 
 have seemed to push themselves back into the competition. They have also seemed to get darker and 
 less child friendly, too. This tread continues with Perfect Dark Zero. PDZ seems to be actually 
 a prequel to the PD series and is fully taking advantage of the power of the Xbox 360. Perfect 
 Dark has amazing graphics and amazing effects. From the motion blur to the explosions to the individual 
 pieces of armor falling off from gun fire, PDZ looks amazing and is a true launch title to show 
 off the new console. But the game also has some minor graphical glitches and hideous characters. 
 This is mostly nit-picking if you were to stare at some of the other games out there, but either 
 way I am amazed by this treat to the eyes. The gameplay is also a top point of the game with multiple 
 truly unique guns with awesome secondary fires. Shooting and AI are standard fare with only a little 
 to make it stand out, but the level design, multiplayer, guns, and varied gameplay keep the game 
 interesting even if the storyline is horrible. The multiplayer is another one of this game's high-points 
 with massive battles and arenas that have great vehicles and uses of your abilities. There is only 
 minor lag on Live and most people aren't jerks or cussers. Overall this game is not revolutionary, 
 but is definitely a pickup if you already have GRAW or Call of Duty 2. I give Perfect Dark Zero 
 an 8.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BKCANNON
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  
  Because of the original perfect dark the commercials drawed me in to this game, i used to play 
 the 2 player game with my brother, which i must say was very enjoyable. But to me this game was 
 not as i expected it to be, this game as overall boring and should hav been made into a 3rd person 
 shooter, but even then the game would have disapointed me because the lack of effort to make me 
 more interested in the game. Although the graphics of this game were extordinary, the levels and 
 the objectives were not that fun to play. There were some other features in the game that kept 
 me going. For example the variety of weapons that you are allowed to use. But overall to me Perfect 
 Dark Zero was a dull game that was put a lot of effort in but failed to amaze me, therefore a dissapointment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colin_B91
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Get this game. Online multiplayer is uber, the achievements are hard to get which keeps you playing 
 and with the new map pack coming you'll never want to leave your home! The single players story 
 is simple and fun and there is 4 difficultys to choose from which should keep the more experienced 
 gamer happy. Im currently playing through it on the hardest difficulty and have enjoyed it every 
 step of the way. My time online is well over the 100 hour mark and will keep on increasing.
  
  I can see this as being a classic in years to come as Goldeneye has become and will keep on 
 coming back to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voodoo2k3
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  The first Perfect Dark was undoubtably one of the best Nintendo 64 games ever made. It's excellent 
 multiplayer, bots, level design, single player, story and graphics all made it the legend that 
 it is. After years in development, the very mysterious Perfect Dark Zero is finally released on 
 Xbox 360. It's clear that Rareware spent lots of time working on it as you can tell from it's shiny, 
 glossy polish, but there is something about it that just doesn't spell classic the way the first 
 one did. In fact, it doesn't even spell great . Perfect Dark Zero doesn't do the series justice 
 and is evidence that Rareware is growing tired and old.
  
  The game starts us off with a young Joanna Dark, taking place before the first title, Joanna has 
 actual sex appeal, which she lacked in the N64 shooter. Her outfits all come equipped with lack 
 of stomach and/or chest coverage. No complaints here though. The one thing that bothers me about 
 this younger Joanna, is her voice-actor (Laurence Bouvard) . Her squeky voice isn't mature enough 
 to play the ass-kicking secret agent and hard to see her voice develop into the Joanna from the 
 N64 title.
  
  The story is a pretty big drag, since the story is hardly there. It is frighteningly disappointing 
 compared to the first game. It carries itself out in an almost cartoony fashion. The villain is 
 goofy, the characters all try to talk with hip slang, but like in most games, fail miserably. All 
 the characters have funny animations to make them look cartoony and less serious than you'd like. 
 In between missions there is radio-chatter between characters which is really boring considering 
 the developers didn't bother to make them cutscenes, but just voices. The irritating music between 
 missions really breaks the flow of the game and only helps the headache the games booming, crappy 
 music gives you. It's a real shame there aren't as many cutscenes as there should be because the 
 graphics are outstanding. Sure, everything is overly shiny and looks like it has a layer of ice 
 over it, but in most cases it works. It's just the snowy or deserty or jungle levels that look 
 awkward. Textures are all extremely highly detailed and character models, while looking cartoon 
 like, are usually well animated and detailed. I have seen many ragdoll glitches and problems that 
 continue to arise, especially in multiplayer, though this doesn't really cause that much of a problem 
 for the game.
  
  The campaign is pretty simple. While not extremely easy, it doesn't take a rocket scientist to 
 complete the objectives. All your missions are ridiculously straightforward and have little room 
 for error. The enemy A. I. is reletively stupid and you will usually only lose if overwhelmed by 
 too many enemies. And if you ever get lost, which you might thanks to the dissapointing level design, 
 arrows on the ground will direct you to exactly where you need to go. This would normally be stupid 
 and ruin the sense of adventure, but considering how frustrating the levels can be to navigate, 
 it's often a godsend.
  
  While the single-player is an ultimate letdown, the games multiplayer opens up new doors. First 
 off, playing co-op makes the single player twice as fun. It's action packed and a helva lot more 
 fun to play with a friend then by yourself. Rare, as usual with their co-op games, makes interesting 
 missions that incorporate both players doing different tasks which add to the fun and complexity.
 
  
  Xbox Live action ranges from decent to poor. Rareware has been known for their many gametypes and 
 don't disappoint here. There are lots of fun games to choose from, some less fun than others but 
 the search option lets you find the one you want. The problem is, for every fun gametype, there 
 is atleast twice the number of bad maps to ruin it. There are some good maps but more bad ones. 
 Recently, Rareware multiplayer games have lacked in level design. Whatever happened to the type 
 of maps we saw in Goldeneye and Perfect Dark? It seems as though those talents all left for the 
 Free Radical team (the team of ex-Rare employees who makes the Timesplitter games) considering 
 that team is far better than the current Rare one. Like Conker Live and Reloaded, Perfect Dark 
 Zero's multiplayer is plagued with maps that are too confusing and too hard to navigate. Most maps 
 are like mazes with no main center area to fight, just too many corridors and divided by walls 
 that have to be exploded and other such things which in a sense, destroys the very type of gaming 
 that the game should be. Also, characters take way to long to die in multiplayer, that should have 
 been fixed a long time ago.
  
  While Perfect Dark Zero definitely has amazing visuals thanks to great lighting and superb textures, 
 it is simply eye-candy and it's actual gameplay, while solid, isn't as great as you'd like it to 
 be. The multiplayer is ruined by some balancing issues, poor maps and other such small problems 
 that amount to big ones and one big, fat boring campaign which all gives you one major migrane 
 in the end. Perfect Dark Zero, while a decent game, is a huge letdown and more of a pain than it's 
 worth. Not even it's Achievements are worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKKF
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is my fave online game for the 360! My favorite shooter, my favorite character, also. 
 This game is awesome! If you have a 360, buy it if you have not. If you don't have a 360, find 
 one and buy this game!! Or else Rare will hunt you down and destroy you and shove a 360 sequel 
 to Banjo-Kazooie, and you will forever be condemmed! Well, the game's got a hillarious rag-doll 
 physics engine, so what more do you want? No, really? There is 2 kinds of Xbox Live play: Deathmatch 
 and Dark-Ops. They are both very inovative, and if you have your fists up and you press RB, get 
 ready to B-Slap everyone, even your own father, Jack Dark. 9.4. Uh yeah!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillyhox
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I love PDZ. Ok the single player tends to piss me off. That could have been a lot 
 better. But hey I loved the single player more than Halo 2 where you have to switch off. Majorly 
 Stupid!! The single player missions tend to be a pain at times. But the multiplayer is where it 
 kicks. Even better than Halo 2 multiplayer in my opinion. This just seems to be a lot more fun. 
 The weapons are more realistic. The levels are a lot better, but they could have more. The achievements 
 to unlock really take some time to do so if you see people with lots unlocked you know they put 
 in a lot of time. But this game is worth putting time into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littleplaya319
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  If you were a freak about perfect dark on the 64 then you would hate this game. because the story 
 mode was not the best. It was fun but it was also short and had terrible A. I. But the multiplayer 
 on the other hand was the best. 32 people online great gametypes like infection and onslaught. 
 A list of great weapons to choose from. Very addictive and never gets old. If you have this game 
 and not xbox live then you my friend are making a big mistake. It's not that single player isn't 
 fun it just doesnt have very good A. I and isnt long enough to be entertained by. But multiplayer 
 aspect is so fun that I don't even remember that stuff at all. Graphics are pretty good. It's a 
 pretty realistic. It's a game that you could play for hours on end with achievements that make 
 you wanna play some more. Make sure before buying game you have live to be entertained by. I would 
 definitely reccomend this game to anyojne with a 360 and a fan of FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbx360gamer
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 29, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I had very high hopes for this game. I thought that it was going to be a Halo killer, but I was 
 wrong. The single player is very boring and easy, and the multiplayer had some serious issues. 
 There are only 5 maps. The graphics look OK, but the player models and faces look awful up-close. 
 However, the tiles on the walls and the general textures in the levels look great, and 3d. The 
 sound is pretty standard for an FPS, nothing special. Since this is a MS published game, it is 
 only $50, but I still think that is too expensive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pos3
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 29, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Well it's been almost literally forever since this game was announced, I thought it was going to 
 be in development longer then Duke Nukem Forever.... but then again that's physically impossible. 
 Perfect Dark 1 was a remarkable success. But sadly, the prequel follow's in the predecessor's footsteps, 
 to say the most. Pefect Dark Zero is one of the first titles for the 360 and one of the most anticipated. 
 This futuristic yet some what 60's styled FPS has some of the best visuals i've seen. the detail 
 on just about everything is facinating and hard to belive, there are a few virtually unnoticable 
 glitches here and there but nothing to really sore up your eyes (model design sucks, though) . The 
 sound affects are very decent, except for the horrific voice acting. So Perfect dark Zero is beautiful, 
 but lets talk about gameplay...
  
  For the first 2 hours of Playing PDZ you will not notice the repetitive game play because you will 
 be dazeled by the visuals. But after that 2 hour diration you will notice that the baddies you 
 are shooting at arn't very smart at all. They'll run up to you and shoot and thats about it... 
 They'll occasionally throw grenades now and then to chop down you health and use cover but that's 
 it. The game will consist of every environment you've seen before. Desert, street, jungle, lab, 
 snow, basically every environment inside and out. Im not saying this is a bad thing but.... they 
 are pretty boring. The weapons are uninteresting and uncreative, they're all just the same from 
 the origional but only a fraction of the guns from the origional are here. You'll be able to try 
 out all of the guns just as the main storyline in its barly 5 hour duration comes to an end. Sure 
 there's multiplayer but it's just like Counter-Strike, even the foul community... The storyline 
 is pretty decent though, it makes a good follow up to the first game. So unless you MUST have this 
 game no matter what, then buy it. But for everyone else, Consider this the best rental you'll ever 
 have.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostRCP90
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 29, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  WOW! When I bought my 360 I was pondering on what game to buy with it. I chose Perfect Dark Zero, 
 and BOY was I in for a treat. I had forgotten how exciting and thrilling the first game had turned 
 out to be, all icould remember from the N64 was Goldeneye, but this game sure did blow me away.
 
  Imagine this... walking down a corridor that opens out into a room with hundreds of armed bad guys 
 waiting to be gunned down. Just take out your snaziest weapon (believe me there are loads to choose 
 from) and pick the first one off with a Perfect shot to the head. Sound satisfying or what?
  Just you wait sony. You lost the war with Nintendo in the first era because of games like Perfect 
 Dark. Just you wait and see what Microsoft has to offer with this technical masterpiece!
  So if you love Microsoft and Xbox, and are a fan of the last game, just buy this one, and shuv 
 it in Sony's face! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FendeR323
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 28, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark: Zero is a high-tech FPS with a stealthy, James Bond type feel in its single-player 
 campaign. For the most part, it's a decent game if you enjoy stealth tactics, but can become frustrating.
 
  
  I often found in the single-player that I would be forced to memorize enemy positions as to not 
 blow my cover and get a whole slew of guards on my tail. I will warn you that I am not a huge fan 
 of stealth games, but nonetheless I don't feel the single-player is something that anyone should 
 go out of their way for.
  
  In the graphics department, this game is rather pretty on a standard TV or an HDTV. The gun models, 
 as mentioned before, are great. Buildings are all nice, and the textures are all par for the 360 
 course. The only drawback is in the character models, which look fine from far away, but begin 
 to fall apart up close.
  
  As for multiplayer, you can play on Xbox Live, through system link, or what I did because I do 
 not have Live, play with bots. What I find most evident here is that the aiming does not feel right. 
 Those who have played games like Halo (just as an example) might feel that something is off. After 
 scouring the forums, you may be able to find some tips on how to fix that.
  
  It just seems that when you turn your sensitivity high, it's too high, but when you adjust it just 
 a bit lower, it seems too low. Many people seem to have overcome this problem, but it has plagued 
 me.
  
  The bot AI is decent enough. I have not encountered any real glitches within the game. They will 
 shoot you in deathmatch, go for the flag in CTF, etc.
  
  Overall, I don't feel this game is worth buying unless you are a big Perfect Dark or stealth action 
 fan. I'm disappointed with it, mostly because of the aiming problems. It is far from a terrible 
 game, but it's probably more worthy of a rent than a buy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathisnature
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  I dont know what the reviewer was talking about when he said the faces of the characters are messed 
 up when you get close , the graphics are flawless on my HD TV , I got up close , everything was 
 perfect . The game play is so much fun . The game gives you a feeling that your in the game and 
 I like that . The game control is awesome , you feel like you can always take out your enemies 
 . I give this game a perfect 10 , because the graphics , sound , game play , value , are all a 
 ten a period . you have to play this online as well . Buy this game if you love first person shooters 
 only , If you do buy this and you hate person shooters , whats the point.
  What else is there to say except , buy it , play it , enjoy the godly graphics man , I am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable_fodder
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 24, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This game was half decent. I rented it from the video store but I only played 10 hours or so because 
 I just got bored stiff. You run around as a chick with all these big guns, fighting all these well-suited, 
 bad guys. The game is ok at first, but then it's just the same thing over and over again, it's 
 just like a 007 James Bond game. Repetitive. The graphics are good and the music is ok, but save 
 your money and buy Oblivion or GRAW (Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter) , they are much better buys. 
 This gams is fairly easy to pick up considering it is repetitive. Although everyone says this game 
 is good, it really isn't... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surid
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 23, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  I thought of giving this game a try... and considering the fact that it was only 35 bucks for a 
 used one i figured why not ?.... so yeah i went and tried out this game for my x360
  
  GRAPHICS: the grahpics are really good-mediocre... some levels look great and some dont... and 
 the motion blurr is rly awsome... and the weapon design is the best that ive seen in any game 
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: This is where the game shines... this game has alot of action and thats gona make u love 
 this game
  
  Sound: this is probably the worst part about the game... the voice acting is awful... simply awful 
 !
  
  Value : you should definately try this game out... its only 35 bucks for a used game and its definately 
 worth it ... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Game21x
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 23, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Microsofts super-hyped launch shooter Perfect Dark has finally landed on the Xbox 360. As a huge 
 fan of the original N64 hit Perfect Dark, I can attest to the fact that there is a tremendous amount 
 of hype surrounding this game. After nearly six years in development and three platform changes, 
 does PDZ merit the hype? Well, yes and no. The multiplayer is simply awesome. It does more than 
 build on the foundations set by the original PD, which had four player split-screen play with up 
 to eight simulants or bots as theyre called today. The online component is one of the best on 
 the system and will likely remain that way for a few months. The single-player campaign is a bit 
 disappointing. After playing games such as Halo (and to a slightly lesser extent Halo 2) , which 
 featured a strong single player campaign with a gripping storyline and varied gameplay, Perfect 
 Dark Zeros single player game pales in comparison. 
  
  The graphics are definitely next-gen. Of the many Xbox 360 launch titles, this is one of the best 
 looking. The lighting engine is spectacular. Each light looks and behaves like it would in real 
 life. The weapon models are also very good looking and considering youre going to be looking at 
 one pretty much the entire time, its great to see how realistic they look. The outdoor environments 
 are particularly stunning. One level in particular that is set in a South American jungle blew 
 me away with the level of visual detail. Every leaf, vine, tree and weed is impeccably modeled 
 and beautifully detailed. Even the wood paneling in an enemy outpost looks realistic. Perhaps one 
 of the best looking aspects of the game is the explosion effects. Shoot an explosive barrel in 
 the game and youll see what I mean. There are plenty of things that blow up in this game so youll 
 be seeing a lot of it. Although the graphics are mostly great, there are a few problems. One of 
 these problems is that someone went a little crazy with the reflection mapping. Seriously, everything 
 reflects. This isnt a bad thing when looking at something like a metal wall or other surface that 
 would otherwise reflect but its not so great when looking at a brick wall. I dont know about 
 the rest of you but Ive never been able to see my face in a brick. Another problem is with the 
 framerate. Its generally good running at about 30 fps but sometimes, in the thick of an intense 
 shootout the framerate can bog down. Thankfully, the framerate is usually smooth and it didnt 
 slow down enough to ruin the experience.
  
  The physics engine is good but it does have its flaws. Some things animate a bit strangely. For 
 example in a multiplayer game when youre killed, sometimes youre character will bend over while 
 still appearing to be standing up and then the character seems to lunge forward and complete the 
 fall. On some occasions the rag doll physics look great and animate nicely but mostly, characters 
 take a little too long to fall over, as if gravity somehow lost its effect on you. Another odd 
 but thankfully rare issue with the physics is that on very rare occasions, after you kill an enemy 
 (this most often occurs in single player) their body will begin to pinball around the area. I dont 
 know whats happening in the physics engine that causes this but its really weird to see an enemy 
 bouncing around the stage like a superball on steroids.
  
  The single player game is a bit disappointing. Its not necessarily bad but it couldve used some 
 fine tuning. For me, the most disappointing aspect of the single player game is the storyline. 
 After playing games such as Halo, Halo 2, and Half Life 2, all games with great storylines, I was 
 expecting the same from PDZ. Simply put, the story is just bad. The plot is incredibly weak and 
 clichd, involving the search for an ancient artifact that imbues its possessor with superhuman 
 powers. There are some interesting plot twists but theyre not enough to make this story any better 
 (some might think they make it worse) . 
  
  Luckily, this is a FPS. No one plays them for the story. Players play them for the intense shoot 
 outs. PDZ has plenty of those. One particularly intense scene (perhaps the lengthiest and most 
 challenging combat scene in the game) takes place on a bridge. You fight your way across against 
 a seemingly endless horde of enemies. As you progress, things are exploding around you. Although 
 the explosions dont pose much of a threat to you, they really add to the intensity of the battle. 
 Another intense shootout takes place in the jungle level I raved about before. As soon as the mission 
 begins, the dropship you arrived in is being attacked by enemy troops and you have to defend your 
 ride. Really intense stuff. Trust me, once these battles begin youll be sucked in. 
  
  The A. I. is hit or miss during the single player campaign. Later in the campaign the A. I. characters 
 have pinpoint accuracy at long distances. On the other hand when you get close, sometimes they 
 wont even notice you until you put a bullet in them. Its annoying to see enemies that are supposed 
 to be shooting you running into walls. Its also annoying to see them take cover behind explosive 
 barrels. I guess theyre thinking the barrels wont explode when you shoot at them. Even though 
 theyre clearly marked (you know, red color, warning logo) , they think theyll be safe. The A. I. 
 is generally good but the problems listed hamper the experience a bit.
  
  Theres one last problem about the single player that really worked on my nerves. This problem 
 is the lack of a decent checkpoint system or save feature in the single player. It is incredibly 
 frustrating to play for about ten minutes through a particularly difficult section only to have 
 to repeat it if you die or otherwise fail the mission. Each mission has only one checkpoint about 
 half of the way through. After playing games like Halo that create checkpoints as you go through 
 the level and others that allow you to save every few steps if you choose to, this is extremely 
 frustrating and shouldve been addressed.
  
  Okay, enough about the single player game, what about the multiplayer? Is it good? Thats a definite 
 yes and the reason it deserves my score. I love the multiplayer. There are so many things it does 
 right that it overshadows its shortcomings. Perfect Dark Zeros multiplayer is perhaps the best 
 of the launch games. By offering support for up to 32 players it is certainly the biggest of the 
 launch games. The maps expand and contract based on how many players are in the game. When there 
 are a full 32 players in the game the map will be playable at its full size. The player has full 
 control over the map size however, so for faster paced battles, they can shrink the map or expand 
 it for more tactical contests. 
  
  There are so many options you can adjust to create the game you want to play in with the settings, 
 weapons, map, map size, and the number of bots you want. In this game there are a total of 28 weapons 
 in the game ranging from pistols, to rifles to SMGs and even a sword that can deflect incoming 
 fire. There are so many weapons to choose from. There are a large number of available weapon sets 
 including four you can customize to your liking. 
  
  The Combat Arena multiplayer mode is great featuring all the standard gametypes youve come to 
 expect from multiplayer shooters. Youll find Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, and 
 Territories. My current favorite out of this lineup is the Team Deathmatch mode. With 32 players 
 participating in the game at once its incredibly fun and intense.
  
  The Dark Ops mode is awesome. Dark Ops is a tactical, round based mode in the vein of the hit PC 
 and Xbox shooter, Counter Strike. Before each round, you use credits you have earned from the previous 
 rounds to purchase weapons. This is perhaps the most intense multiplayer mode and encourages, no, 
 demands teamwork.
  
  The online or splitscreen co-op play is a blast to play. It actually makes the cornball story bearable. 
 It goes beyond just inserting a carbon copy of the main character in each level. For instance, 
 on the fourth level, in the single player campaign youre charged with protecting your father, 
 who is an NPC in this case, by providing sniper fire from the rooftops. The co-op version of this 
 level actually gives the second player control over the other character who then actively defends 
 themselves with cover from the first player. I found this to be very intense and awfully innovative 
 for a FPS.
  
  All that being said, I am very happy with the way this game turned out. The single player game 
 couldve used a couple more development hours to add more checkpoints and make the story more sensible, 
 but the multiplayer makes up for it big time. The graphics are great, and the only big problem 
 I found was the rampant reflection mapping. Overall, this is a great game. If youre going to be 
 playing it over Xbox Live, buy it now. If not, you might still want to look into it if youre a 
 fan of the series or First Person Shooters in general. This is one of the best Xbox 360 games at 
 launch and a worthy buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak1991
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: PDZ had exceptional gameplay, a few control errors but they can easily be worked around. 
 For example when you go to take cover behind something you have to wait for a second or two for 
 the button command to come up on the screen, and sometimes that split second of waiting can mean 
 a successful mission or a dreadfully frustrating one. Other than that the gameplay was pretty solid. 
 
  
  Graphics: Its the 360 and it definitely shows with PDZ the graphics are easily next-gen and they 
 look fantastic. There is a little bit of problems with the lip syncing though but its not terribly 
 bad.
  
  Sound: The voice acting was kind of bad, The characters do tend to say some uncharacteristically 
 goofy dialogue. The gun sounds make for any problems though with the dialogue. 
  
  Value: This game easily has a perfect 10 in value do to its insanely great multi-player. There 
 are tons of things to do from Team Deathmatch to doing a mission from the campaign with a buddy 
 on Co-op mode. There is also many things to do for single player when you finish the game, you 
 can go back on a harder difficulty setting or go to the combat arena and brush up on your bot fragging.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: This prequel is exactly what fans of the original PD are looking for and then 
 some. Perhaps it will be the Xbox 360's killer app until Gears of War or Halo 3 come out. Its a 
 must buy or die game of the Xbox 360!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike_mgoblue
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is so much fun to play, both offline and online!
  
  Pros: 
  This is one of the best games I have ever played in the 25 years I have been playing video games; 
 it is so much fun! The graphics are amazing on any television, and they are photo realistic when 
 you play the game on an HDTV. The 5.1 audio is also amazing; it literally is a tool that helps 
 you play the game. You can locate enemies in better ways thanks to the high-quality 5.1 sound, 
 because you can hear their voices or their steps or their guns in certain speakers at certain times; 
 it really is incredible to have sound be such a huge factor in gameplay! 
  
  The background music is also excellent. Perfect Dark Zero is the first videogame I ever bought 
 the soundtrack to. When you hear the song, "Limelight," which plays at a nightclub you are at in 
 one of the early stages, then you will know what I am talking about! The bass pumps out the sound 
 as if you are at a real nightclub, and when you get closer to the building, it is as if you are 
 really there! This is something you will love about the way Xbox 360 uses 5.1 audio! 
  
  The gameplay difficulty is also another factor that is excellent, because you can set what sort 
 of difficulty you want it to be at based on what sort of agent you are. I like the way that you 
 have a technical person that your character Joanna Dark is working with named Chandra; she guides 
 you to your location if you take too long doing something and clearly don't know where to go next. 
 This makes it so you don't end up wasting time going back and forth over and over like you do in 
 some of those other games on other systems. This game also has multiplayer and online capabilities 
 that are very nice, especially the online features! 
  
  The controls can be adjusted, too; that way, you can have your controller do whatever you want. 
 I personally changed the way the character moves so that Perfect Dark Zero played much more like 
 Halo. The default analog controls are based on the control setup of the original Perfect Dark on 
 the Nintendo 64, which is something that I do not like very much. I believe that many of the negative 
 reviews for Perfect Dark Zero focused on the control setup and the way that it wasn't as good as 
 Halo. However, the controls of Perfect Dark Zero can easily be adjusted by using the Options menu. 
 Perfect Dark Zero's left and right analog stick controls can be identical to those of Halo if you 
 just make one change in the Options menu. So I went to the Options screen and changed it so the 
 right analog stick moves the characters head up, down, left, and right so it is easy to coordinate 
 where you are looking. I also changed the controls so the left analog stick causes Joanna Dark 
 to move forward and backward and strafe left and right. I believe that this should have been the 
 default control, because it allows anyone familiar with a first person shooter like Halo to instantly 
 be familiar with the controls in Perfect Dark Zero. Thankfully, this is an easy adjustment to make, 
 and it is a great overall control adjustment feature that I highly recommend! 
  
  Cons: 
  I have nothing to complain about this game! Under normal conditions, I would say that the only 
 thing to complain about would be that the game had to come to an end, but the fact that you can 
 play this game online with so many other people makes it so you always get replay value out of 
 this game! Plus, you can go back to earlier levels with more advanced weapons and gadgets that 
 you got in later stages and beat up on those bad guys and examine new places in very fun ways! 
 The only potential bad thing about Perfect Dark Zero is that the default controls are based on 
 the control scheme from Perfect Dark on the Nintendo 64 rather than the control scheme from Halo 
 on the Xbox. Thankfully, this can be corrected in the Options menu. There were probably people 
 who didn't give Perfect Dark Zero the full chance it deserved, because the default controls make 
 it more difficult to coordinate where you are going and what you are looking at. Hopefully, the 
 programmers at Rare will change the default controls of the next Perfect Dark videogame so they 
 are like the controls of Halo on the Xbox rather than the controls of Perfect Dark on the Nintendo 
 64. 
  
  Comments: 
  My personal comment would be for people who haven't played this game yet: If you really want to 
 play a fun game that is meant to be fun for the player while taking advantage of graphics, sound, 
 action, humor, and online features all at the same time, then you should at least rent this game! 
 I recommend that you go to the Options screen and change the control setup so it is like Halo on 
 the Xbox rather than Perfect Dark Zero on the Nintendo 64. This is a game that will really make 
 a great gift for anyone! I highly recommend getting the Limited Collector's Edition of the game 
 if you can still find it, because it only costs $10 more at most places, and it comes with some 
 nice things, such as a bonus DVD. 
  
  Also, the writers in this game did such an excellent job with the way that the script is designed. 
 The level of humor in this game is absolutely amazing. For example, one of the weapons you use, 
 called, "the Laptop," makes the quick note that it uses Windows 2020. Another funny thing is the 
 way you can listen to people in the game; I have spent lots of time just listening to people talk 
 in the game. Listening to this one guy talk on his cell phone with his wife is absolutely amazing! 
 The voices of the enemies are excellent; they are very nicely done. 
  
  Overall, I think that anyone will like this game. If you have an HDTV and a 5.1 audio system, then 
 you will be absolutely amazed with what you see and hear. The graphics on a normal television are 
 still far superior to anything else produced on any other system, and if you don't have a 5.1 sound 
 system, then the stereo sound is still great, just not as great as the true 5.1 element that would 
 have brought in a new element of gameplay. I believe that everyone with an Xbox 360 should at least 
 give this game a try, because I can't imagine anyone not liking it. This game will only be available 
 to play on the Xbox 360, which means that if you don't have one, then this is the sort of game 
 that you would want to get when you do buy your Xbox 360. I hope that everyone who plays this game 
 enjoys it! :-) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rei_gs69
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 21, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  i gotta say the weakest portion of the game is the single-player campaign. its sometimes beautiful, 
 sometimes drab, it features some enjoyable levels and some dull ones. the voice acting is often 
 annoying, the cutscenes feel patchy and rough around the edges, while some of the music is near 
 awful, using guitars in the same way that muggers use flick knives. the graphics has plenty of 
 impressive scale and detail, with the rough patch here and there. its gameplay has too few great 
 set-pieces, but gunplay is accurate and oh so satisfying. the multiplayer is hugely enjoyable and 
 the co-op really enlivens story mode. the voice acting can be cheesy and the soundtrack's too loud. 
 it becomes better the more time you spend on it, but has too many foibles to make it essential. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Louis51
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark for the N64 is among my favourite games ever, being challenged only by Zelda: Ocarina 
 of Time and Half-Life 2. I have played it more than any other game, with the clock coming in at 
 something ridiculous like 5 days and well over 1000 deathmatches played... and that's just the 
 multiplayer. Suffice to say, Perfect Dark Zero was my most highly anticipated game ever. Well, 
 now it's here. Has it been worth the agonising six-year wait?
  
  Hell yes. But that's not to say I wasn't disappinted with it. It's biggest problem is that it's 
 not faithful enough to the original Perfect Dark which I'll explain in the next three paragraphs.
 
  
  Problem One - The weapon selection in Perfect Dark is and was the best assortment of weapons ever 
 in a game. There were tons of them, all of them useful in different situations. If they had just 
 ported these over with better graphics, that would've been fine. But instead, they've only got 
 seven weapons from the original game.
  
  Problem Two - The voice acting is awful. Perfect Dark was one of the only N64 games with full voice 
 acting, and it was acutally surprisingly good. But now it sounds like teenagers on their first 
 run-through of the script. The emphasis on the foreign accents are so suspect it's annoying -- 
 Carrington in the original game was a believable Scottish dude, but now he speaks stereotypically 
 saying things like 'wee' in his sentences. And how Joanna Dark suddenly changed her American accent 
 in this game to her English in the original in just three years is remarkable.
  
  Problem Three - Some excellent multiplayer features in the original PD have been dropped. Gone 
 is the awesome Counter-Operative mode (but they say it'll be a available in an update) , gone are 
 the thousands of character head and body combinations (you now get just SIX non-customisable skins) , 
 gone is the wide assortments of simulants with personalities (though an update adds a few of these 
 personalities back) , and gone are the classic maps (with the exception of Facility and Temple, 
 thanks to an update) .
  
  So, now let's get onto the good stuff in Perfect Dark Zero.
  
  The weapons are among the most realistic-looking ever in a game. They are also very balanced and 
 most fun to use. Yes, despite the fact that lots of the originals have gone, that'll only bother 
 fans of the original PD, so anyone new to the series will encounter among the best weapon selections 
 ever.
  
  The sound is great. The voice acting sucks, as mentioned, but the music is superb and really makes 
 you feel like you want to kill something. The stomping guitars are so cool. It's worth saying that 
 the theme tune is different to that of the original, and you only hear the original very briefly 
 during the last cutscene. But in general, the music was much more memorable in the original PD 
 than it is here. But the guns sound awesome and the atmosphere is great.
  
  It's superbly fun to play. This is the definition of gameplay over story or presentation. The original 
 PD was a game that made you good or made you dead. The same is here. The single-player does demand 
 some trial-and-error and memorisation of enemy placements, but in the end it just makes you better 
 at the game. If you play the game on Agent difficulty, it's a simple game. Secret Agent is more 
 of a challenge, and Perfect Agent is only for the true Gods of the game. Dark Agent is for the 
 few elusive people who are probably better at the game than Rare themselves.
  
  The multiplayer is fantastic. Team Killcount is the best Deathmatch varient online or offline, 
 but made even better with the Psychosis Gun -- If someone plugs you with the secondary fire, you 
 will see team-mates as enemies, and as long as friendly fire is on, there can be some laughs. The 
 Dark-Ops varients are also lots of fun, with Infection being the best online mode and Eradication 
 being the best offline mode. Eradication is essentially PDZ's version of Counter-Strike... no wonder 
 it's so fun! There are only six maps to begin with however. Updates bring it to a grand total of 
 12, and playing on Facility gives some awesome nostalgia. Hopefully they'll soon add classics like 
 Complex and Grid.
  
  All in all, the game is superb. It doesn't do the original game perfect justice but judging purely 
 on its own merits and not of the original game, it's one of the best first-person shooters in a 
 long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TommyD100
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  As one of the Xbox 360's launch titles, Perfect Dark Zero does a terrific job of showing off everything 
 the new console has to offer. It has tight controls, a solid single player campaign, and fantastic 
 multiplayer component. Anyone who is looking for a first person shooter other than Halo 2 will 
 find it all in Perfect Dark Zero.
  
  Those who are familiar with first person shooter controls will not be a stranger to the controls 
 of Perfect Dark Zero. There are, however, a few differences that separate it from the rest. First 
 of all, there is no jumping. Instead, you have a dodge move that makes you harder to hit, but are 
 damaged more if you are hit. I was skeptical at first, only because it has never been done and 
 seems pretty useless, but I found it to work real well. Another difference is the capability to 
 use cover. When you press up against the edge of a wall or box, you can go into cover by pressing 
 A. When you are in cover, the camera goes into third person perspective, and as your body is hiding 
 behind the object, can see most of environment around you using the crosshairs. You can line up 
 your shot, and when you pull the trigger, your character will pop out of hiding and shoot. When 
 you release the trigger, your character will go back into hiding. It is a fantastic way of seeing 
 around a corner or defending yourself while being ambushed by several enemies. These two added 
 dimensions to the gameplay are pretty useful, and even though they may look gimmicky when the tutorial 
 is teaching you how to use these moves, you will find the missions will be easier when you apply 
 these two techniques.
  
  Another difference is that most of the guns in the game have secondary and tertiary functions to 
 them. We've definitely seen this before, but this really brings out a lot of character in the guns 
 themselves, and you will eventually find yourself favoring some over the others. The truth is, 
 there is no all powerful must-have gun. There is such a perfect balance among all the guns, that 
 the skill of the player will determine who will win in a gun fight, not how good of a gun the player 
 has.
  
  With that said, let's talk about the single player campaign. I will admit it is not as great as 
 the multiplayer. The missions are broken up, so there is a lack of seamlessly moving from one mission 
 to the other. On top of that, the story didn't really interest me at all. I loved Perfect Dark 
 on the N64, and after finding out this was going to be a prequel in that the story is of how Joanna 
 Dark becomes a member of the Carrington Institute, I knew they could have made up any story that 
 has her doing something to get their attention. The gameplay has a solid mix of stealth and action, 
 and the difficulty can be quite hard. There's nothing entirely memorable about the single player, 
 but it does remind me of the unimportant single player that the Halo games have. I found the meat 
 of the game to lie in the multiplayer.
  
  When you play multiplayer, you technically don't even need to play against human opponents when 
 playing any type of deathmatch game. You can play against bots, and these bots can be customized 
 in many levels of difficulty. You think you're good? You are nothing when you play against the 
 bots on their hardest difficulty. With that aside, let's get down to what the multiplayer is all 
 about. There are two types of multiplayer modes: Deathmatch and Dark Ops.
  
  In deathmatch, you will find familiar games that you probably have seen in other FPS multiplayer 
 games, like killlcount, capture the flag, and territorial gains. Everything can be fully customized 
 within each game, like weapon set, time, vehicles used, etc. The Dark Ops mode is a little more 
 interesting, mainly because the games found within this mode are not found in most FPS games, especially 
 for consoles. There are four games that you can play in Dark Ops, each just as customizable as 
 the deathmatch games: eradication, onslaught, infection, and sabotage. In every one of these games, 
 you have only one life and you can only play in teams, which adds a whole new dimension to playing 
 carefully and relying on the help of your team to win.
  
  In Eradication, two teams fight until everyone on one team dies. In Onslaught, one team has to 
 defend a base for a specific amount of time, while the other team has to kill everyone defending 
 the base. The attacking team has infinite lives, but weaker weapons. In infection, there is a team 
 of human players against a team of infected players, which look like skeletons. If a human player 
 is killed, he becomes a skeleton a fights along side the infected team. The human players have 
 to last a specific time without being infected. In sabotage, one team has to destroy the other 
 team's property. The teams take turns attacking and defending property, and the team who destroyed 
 more property at the end of several rounds wins.
  
  I didn't go into too much depth with how the Dark Ops games are played, but that is a basic idea 
 of how they are setup. I found myself needing to interact with the other members of my team when 
 playing these games, and I finally realized the importance of teamwork when playing Dark Ops after 
 playing so many other team based multiplayer games.
  
  When reviewing an Xbox 360 game, I guess I should mention the achievement points. With this, every 
 single game will have replay value, but Perfect Dark Zero's Achievement points really challenge 
 you. Let's just say that if you plan on getting them all, you will be playing this game for a very 
 long time.
  
  Since everyone is comparing this game to Halo, I guess I'll toss in my own little 'comparo' just 
 to set the record straight about these two games. Perfect Dark Zero was not designed to follow 
 in Halo's footsteps. I think the lack of jumping and the encouragement of using stealth in the 
 single player really speaks for itself. The weapons also separate these two games. In Halo, everyone 
 went after the same three weapons, which were the most powerful. Anybody who had a sniper rifle 
 in Halo and knew how to use it was guaranteed at least four kills before being killed. In Perfect 
 Dark Zero, there is such a perfect balance among all the weapons (I think I said this earlier, 
 but I'll reiterate) , that everyone will find their own weapon that they will feel most comfortable 
 with. When I say balance, I mean each weapon class is balanced within itself. Obviously, an assault 
 rifle is more powerful than a pistol, but there is no 'best pistol' and there is no 'best assault 
 rifle'. With that being said, I think Halo 2's single player was slightly better than Perfect Dark 
 Zero's single player, but I strongly believe that Perfect Dark Zero's multiplayer is better than 
 Halo 2's multiplayer. I know people may be upset about that, but I am trying to be as objective 
 as possible.
  
  The graphics are solid, but I know they could be better. Most of the launch games for the 360, 
 I feel, are sub-par because of the crunch time schedule that the developers had to go through in 
 order to get these games on the shelves in time for launch. The music, however, was great. Each 
 level had its own soundtrack, and the songs would change with the action on the screen. When you 
 are in stealth, the music will be calm, but once you create a ruckus and you are shooting at everyone 
 on screen, the music matches the action. If there is a memorable moment in the single player, it 
 is busting into the Hong Kong club, guns a-blazin', with this great techno song being played in 
 the club.
  
  The Xbox 360's launch games were pretty solid, with a good mix of different genres for people of 
 different tastes. Most of the games were ports of PS2 generation games, while others were just 
 too short to last until another major game release. Perfect Dark Zero, however, will last you well 
 into the console's life because of the deep and entertaining multiplayer. I highly recommend it 
 to all FPS fans, and as for Halo fans, I say to at least check it out, just to see what could possibly 
 be in store for Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: watson2000
Rating: 8
Date: May 19, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is an alright game. The storyline, voice acting, and music are not that good. 
 Also there are not too many different enemies and you often get annoyed by the crappy voice acting. 
 But, besides all that there is some good things in Perfect Dark Zero. The weapons look very detailed 
 and realistic, the characters look pretty good , the textures are extremely good looking, but most 
 of all the multi-player is pretty fun online and on split screen. The maps are very large and detailed, 
 there are a couple of vehicles you could put in the map, and it runs very well online. Overall 
 I think you should rent it first, but ultimately play the first Perfect Dark for the N64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Headhunter01
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 19, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  I must say that when this game first came out it might have deserved a 9. However, in retrospective 
 I think that it got good reviews because of the whole "the 360 just came out and we're all so excited 
 and it has next-gen graphics... etc, etc" effect. After playing some of the later fps releases such 
 as BF2 and GRAW, this game doesn't really seem so great any more. For one, the graphics are definitely 
 not up to par. Good graphics should not be the sole reason for playing a game but PDZ doesn't even 
 make up for this by offering a very entertaining gameplay experience. I think the multiplayer play 
 is absolutely horrible. One multiplayer mode called "infection" is fun for a while only because 
 it offers something new but overall I would rather play the single player campaign. And in my mind 
 there is something wrong with a game when the single player action is more fun than the multiplayer.
 
  Anyway, I realize this isn't really a very informative review but what I'm trying to say is rent 
 it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ste_howard
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 19, 2006 5:13 am PT
Review:  i feel robbed by gamespot giving this game a 9. Usually i can rely on gamespot to sway my decision 
 on buying games but Perfect Dark Zero does not deserve a 9. In my opinion it is a huge step backwards 
 from Perfect Dark on the N64. Sure the graphics are better but thats it. There aren't as many weapons 
 to choose from, there aren't as many levels, the levels are mostly boring, the levels feel short, 
 the games doesnt feel rewarding, the story is lame, the controls feel clunky, theres hardly any 
 replay value. The game had potential to be amazing but its just not. There are much better FPS 
 on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7HR1LL3R
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 18, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Although Rare seemed to take their time on releasing much info on this game in the beginning, I'm 
 still impressed as to what they did with the graphics from the time they originally showed the 
 public what it looked like on MTV before E3 2005. I haven't played much of the single player campaign, 
 but I do know that the co-op campaign is simple as hell. Much more of the time you play should 
 definitely be spent on ravaging some AI bot, as this was one of the peak points of the original 
 and has made it's way here. 
  
  As for achievements, once again, you'll be best off looking towards the deathmatches and AI bots. 
 There isn't enough in the campaign to leave you compelled enough to play it through again, although 
 some of you hardcore gamers out there must get every achievement point possible (I totally understand) .
 
  
  Looking at Perfect Dark Zero from a technical perspective, I was fairly impressed... The graphics 
 were clean and crisp, and I didn't notice much bogging down when the battles got thick. Character 
 models were decent, and at times showed a bit of geometry, but what can you expect in a first-generation 
 game on a brand new next generation console.?.? As for color and shading, everything looked good.
 
  
  One thing that did bother me about the campaign was the way some of the missions were layed out. 
 At times, my friend and I found ourselves wandering around trying to find the exit or the next 
 checkpoint, with the blue arrows pointing us in a direction that left us at a dead end (one of 
 the lab levels, for example) . Oh yeah, and did I mention the fact that the other missions took 
 about 5-10 minutes to complete? 
  
  I would definitely recommend renting this game before buying it, unless of course, you come across 
 a deal (such as I) and are able to get the game for 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_ghost
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Way back in the year two thousand, Rareware released one of the best first-person shooters ever, 
 Perfect Dark. It was released late in the Nintendo 64s life span but definitely wasnt an overlooked 
 game, due to its critical acclaim. It has been five years since we have seen the lovely Joanna 
 Dark, and she finally returns in the Xbox 360 exclusive Perfect Dark: Zero. PDZ is the events that 
 lead up to the original Perfect Dark, making it a prequel. The game is still developed by Rareware, 
 and is probably the most hyped Xbox 360 launch game. Perfect Dark: Zero delivers on a lot of its 
 promises, only missing the boat in a few situations. It is not the Halo some were hoping for, but 
 it is still one of the best arcade shooters on the market, and a good reason to buy an Xbox 360.
 
  
  The game doesnt require you to have played the original Perfect Dark. The controls for the most 
 part are easy to pick up and get a handle on. Due to the game being a prequel, the story wont 
 give you any curveballs or jokes you will not get. Unfortunately, the story is also rather bland, 
 just creating a series of excuses to go around the world, and shoot a bunch of bad guys. The plot 
 involves a mysterious weapon, the Graal, with deathly implications if its not destroyed, and 
 kept out of the wrong hands. Its the typical dramatic story that we see way too often in first-person 
 shooters, and isnt memorable in the slightest. Thankfully some superb gunplay, and fast-paced 
 shooting will make you forget it entirely. 
  
  What makes PDZ different from almost every other shooter out there is its sheer variety. This holds 
 true specifically in the huge library of guns in the game. You will find every type of gun you 
 can think of, and then some. Including a shotgun, rocket launcher, grenade launcher, sniper rifle 
 and a huge assortment of pistols, rifles, and machine guns. Youll be hard pressed not to find 
 at least one or two weapons that you will really enjoy using. 
  
  Of course in a first-person shooter it is not only having the weapons, but balancing them to make 
 the game fun. PDZ does a good job of doing this with some easy to learn controls, and some touches 
 of depth. This depth shows in a number of ways, most noticeably the addition of a headshot bonus, 
 and the tuck and roll. As mentioned the game includes a controversial tuck and roll. This tuck 
 and roll involves your character tucking in their weapon, and performing a somersault, when this 
 occurs the game will shift to a third person camera. It performs when you press the right bumper 
 on the Xbox 360. Rare also thought of a unique way to balance this out, should your opponent hit 
 you while you perform this, the damage will be more severe. The depth only works though because 
 the gunplay is especially satisfying. The game manages to make the act of firing a gun fun on a 
 consistent basis. It delivers crazy, and action-packed fire fights, no matter what mode of play 
 you are playing. 
  
  The level variation in Perfect Dark goes one of two ways. Depending on which of the games thirteen 
 missions you are playing, the level design will either be linear, or confusing. The flaw in the 
 level design is the number of confusing paths that lead to nowhere. The game has very little direction 
 to it during the levels, with multiple paths, only one being the "correct" choice. These issues 
 are a good example of how the game was rushed to be a launch ready title. The sections of the game 
 without confusing paths are the games best levels, because they focus a lot more on the shooting. 
 Whether youre in a jungle, or a high-tech building there is always plenty of linear corridors, 
 and confusing paths. 
  
  The A. I. on the default setting is poor. Your opponents lack the ability to dodge, or move towards 
 cover. They often stand in open areas, and allow you to blow them away. The enemies dont work 
 together, and attack you as group. The A. I. does have one noticeable bright spot though. When you 
 reload in front of an enemy, they will notice, and move in quickly to try to pick you off. Unfortunately, 
 the aiming by the A. I. is so bad, it barely takes out your health. 
  
  What helps to make the game easier is its health system. The health system in Perfect Dark is similar 
 in many ways to the health system in Halo. When you are shot, your health will immediately take 
 a drop. Similar to Halo though, this health can be recovered by getting away from the action. The 
 game explains this as shock damage. The health system can be abused but, works well for the fast-paced, 
 and easy going style that Perfect Dark is going for. 
  
  Another poorly implemented idea in the single-player campaign is the number of doors youll have 
 to hack open. Depending on the mission youre in, the method to open a door will change. Rare uses 
 this as a way to add mini-games. Unfortunately, neither of these mini-games is all that fun to 
 play. One has you pressing the A button when a certain brick is highlighted several times over. 
 The second mini-game has you rotating the analog stick until it rumbles. When the rumble kicks 
 in, you must hold it at that position until the door opens. None of these are all that challenging, 
 and only takes you away from the games best parts. 
  
  One of the parts the mini-games take you away from is the co-operative mode. Similar to that of 
 Halo 2, Perfect Dark lets you play the single-player campaign with a friend. Youll be able to 
 play any of the missions, and it is huge fun. It does a good job of changing the game enough to 
 make you play through it again. For example, in some cases the mission has you taking control of 
 a second character in the game. In the third mission the second player controls Jack Dark, who 
 plays through an entirely different series of obstacles, and objectives than Joanna. This helps 
 to make the co-op an even more enjoyable experience. 
  
  Perfect Dark also features a pretty good multiplayer component. It does not compare to Halo 2 or 
 Counter-Strike: Source, but can still be a lot of fun. It is probably the best shooting multiplayer 
 available on the Xbox 360, outclassing Quake IV and Call of Duty 2. The game has your standard 
 capture the flag, deathmatch and team deathmatch modes. It also throws in a territory mode similar 
 to the one in Halo 2 and some dark-ops variants. The darkk-ops modes of play are probably the 
 coolest modes to play in Perfect Dark, and are exciting. All of them are similar to Counter-Strike 
 with you buying weapons before each round. Youll play as offense, or defense. The sabotage mode 
 is the most noteworthy, and involves the offensive team trying to destroy sections of the level 
 that the defense must protect. What Perfect Dark does differently compared to most shooters is 
 the amount of customization and options. You are allowed to create any number of custom weapon 
 sets, to either benefit yourself or mix up the way game plays out. Its also worth noting that 
 the dark-ops variants cant be played with bots, unlike the other multiplayer modes. The multiplayer 
 side is definitely worth a go, especially if youre an XBL user.
  
  From a sound standpoint, Perfect Dark is great. The gun sounds all have distinct noises which eliminates 
 repetitiveness. The explosions are spot-on, and arent over-abused either. Virtually all of the 
 games sound effects are terrific, and show a lot of detail, though unfortunately the same cant 
 be said for the voice acting. A lot of the lines are delivered emotionless, and rather flat. Your 
 enemies have about two or three lines and, although looking different, sound the same. It doesnt 
 help that some of the dialogue can barely be made out, because of sound effects drowning them out. 
 The sound as a whole is solid, but some stronger dialogue would have greatly improved it.
  
  The graphics side of Perfect Dark has a balance of good and bad things. The best thing it has 
 going for it is the frame-rate. It constantly stays stable. Whether you choose to use stealth, 
 or go guns a blazing, the frame-rate doesnt hiccup. It also features some incredibly detailed 
 environments, and weapons. However, what is not all that amazing looking are the character models. 
 A lot of the enemy models repeat and only look slightly better then SC: Chaos Theory enemies. In 
 addition, the cut-scenes show a lack of polish, and encounter some graphical issues. Getting a 
 close-up view to any of the characters including Joanna Dark causes them to show some blemishes 
 and flaws. Their faces look thrown together, and hair looks unrealistic. The game does look fantastic, 
 but the developers could have used a few more weeks.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero doesnt fully live up to its predecessor, or the massive amount of hype surrounding 
 it. It fulfills many of its promises, but shows some noticeable signs that it was rushed for the 
 Xbox 360 launch. It doesnt deliver a Halo experience like many had hoped for, and thought, but 
 still delivers a fun shooting experience. The multiplayer aspect is very enjoyable, and the single-player 
 is alright. If you like first-person shooters, and wish to satisfy that itch to kill, Perfect Dark 
 Zero is the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sloucher26
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 18, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I loved the first perfect dark, with that said this is probly one of the biggest let downs for 
 the xbox360.
  
  1. Who thought it would be a good idea to make the people look as a shinny as new car should be 
 looking for a new job. I mean seriourly I felt like putting on some sun glasses while playing. 
 Also why do the players look like they have a lead pipe for a spine.
  
  2. The story for the campain was retarded. I mean why did they this a crazy old guy with a sword 
 would be a good villian
  
  Overall this was a big piece of crap and a huge let down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazydaysjr
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 18, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is not as good as what it could have or should have been. Though this game is 
 still good in different ways. X-box live with this game is great this is where I feel is succeeds 
 the most. The Single player mode is decent though no where as good as the original. Multiplayer 
 offline is not what I expected at all. I thought it would be more like the original where it would 
 keep your stats and medals. Thats what made the original shine even more, being able to show people 
 your stats, and they take it all out. So it's boring to play multiplayer mode by yourself. Though 
 you should give this game a shot, It's not terrible but it's not the greatest either. It's just 
 a decent shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThatGuy_5
Rating: 2.1
Date: May 17, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Originally, I saw that there was going to be a new Perfect Dark game for the 360. This sparked 
 my interest, for I enjoyed the N64 Perfect Dark quite a lot.
  So, naturally, I wanted to play PDZ thinking that it would live up to the old Perfect Dark. Boy, 
 was I wrong. I got the game and popped it in my freshly purchased XBOX360 and witnessed the opening, 
 which I will admit had rather good graphics at first. Then I moved on to actually playing the game. 
 The game had some pretty nice environmental stuff and the guns looked great (in 1st person) , but 
 the character models! GOD! SO TERRIBLE! Plus, the animations seemed quite slow moving and choppy. 
 The game-play seemed so bland and old, also. Then I moved onto the multi-player, which excited 
 me because it had bots (yay) . But, problem was, the bots suck so much. They're just like all those 
 other generic, rush job bots that follow that straight line path throughout the entire level. I 
 only give them credit for the fact that their bots didn't magically know your exact position at 
 all times. I then got a hold of the sniper rifle (The Jackal) in a match. The scope was nice and 
 had good zoom quality, but the pressure sensitive left trigger used to zoom really mad it aggravating. 
 I didn't really mind the bolt-action because its a sniper rifle, one well aimed shot and they're 
 hitting the floor (or snow, or stone path, or grass, ect.) . The shockwave was no better. Truthfully 
 I liked the Jackal better, but the Shockwave's secondary fire was a useful, and interesting, tool. 
 The Rocket Launcher I had no problems with, for it still had its remote control goodness. The Superdragon 
 was just too unoriginal. Generic semi-auto rifle with scope and grenade launcher. Nothing too new 
 or interesting there. The Hawk was a fun little toy, but it was too slow moving and didn't cause 
 enough damage. The frags were frags. The Viblade was a just a sword, although I liked the secondary 
 fire. The Shotgun was not (since I cannot find a better word to use) shot-gunny enough. It just 
 didn't seem like it was a shotgun because it didn't really inflict as much damage as it should 
 have. The shield was just useless. The Plasma gun sucked aside from the cloaking. The M60 (err... 
 whatever number it is) was just too much of a generic crappy, impossible to aim, heavy, automatic 
 machine gun. The Falcon (?) needed a scope and its secondary fire didn't prove all that useful. 
 The psychosis gun was a great idea but was poorly executed. The laptop was too generic machine 
 gun aside from the secondary fire. The revolver I have no complaints with (it's a revolver, what 
 else is there to say?) . That weird pistol with the scope and the bouncy secondary fire was pretty 
 decent. And finally the AK was an AK. The vehicles were decent. The jet-pack added a nice little 
 piece of sky to the game, which I liked, and the hover... thing... was kinda awkward. Well, that's 
 all I'm going to say because i'm starting to lapse into cruddy writing skills, what with all the 
 short choppy sentences without proper sentence structure.... I wanted to play this game a lot, 
 but it shot down ll good feelings I had for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbkilla
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 17, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Singleplayer is pretty fun and it's great that you can play any level coop. But whats 
 really great about the gameplay is the multiplayer I can't tell you how many hours I spent playing 
 the infection mode. But the story for the game is kinda out there, Honestly I didn't (and still 
 don't) know what was going on or why I'm doing it But it still didn't like ruin the game for me.
 
  
  Graphics- some of the best graphics I've seen on an Xbox 360 game the only wierd thing is that 
 everything is shiny it looks like the guns, walls, floors, and even the leave on the trees were 
 polished by some turtle wax.
  
  Sound- Great and most of the voiceovers were pretty good too even though some characters were annoying. 
 The guns and explosions were on point and seemed really intense (not call of duty intense but still 
 intense) .
  
  Value- Worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s1monh
Rating: 3
Date: May 17, 2006 4:14 am PT
Review:  I can't believe Gamespot rated this game at 9? What game did you review? 
  
  The controls are awful - I tweaked the control settings for ages but just couldn't get it to feel 
 right (I even went back to Halo2 to check I hadn't just lost my marbles) . Also you spend more time 
 reloading then you do shooting - how tediously slow can you make reloading (seriously It's like 
 they've switched bullet time on or something)
  
  Sound - mostly alright apart from mainly rubbish voiceover work
  
  Graphics - You probably 
 could have got the game running on the old xbox and it would have lost nothing, Bland and inoffensive...
 
  
  Plot - MIA
  
  Gameplay - spend two minutes running through the level then 60mins shooting a boring end of level 
 boss. In an era of Farcry, Halflife 2, Fear, Halo this should have been way better and if you've 
 played the above through you'll be sorely disappointed. Makes a good rental, makes a better coaster.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: davyeddywaxy
Rating: 2.6
Date: May 16, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  1. This game is a total disgrace to Perfect Dark, Goldeneye, and any other game Rare has cooked 
 up.
  2. The shiny, fake, all most laughable, next-gen graphics leave you with the feeling that you've 
 spun around in a circle too many times. Barf.
  3. If my window was bigger and i lived on a higher floor, I would hurl myself out before listening 
 to the music and voice overs this game offers.
  4. Enemies that haven't passed the 1st grade seem to like jumping around after they die. 
  5. 
 How bad is a game when you want to take it back to the store before you get past level 4? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spicylemon89
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 15, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Okay... so I finally got this game and for about $30. I wanted it but I would be lying if I said 
 that I wasn't skeptical, with all the negativity surrounding this game and all. So I put the disc 
 in and go for single player first. I do some and I think to myself that this game is pretty good. 
 Mind you, I ignore any plot type elements and just concentrate on the shooting. That is why I got 
 this game anyways.
  
  Once I got my way over to the multiplayer, I haven't gone back to the single player. Multiplayer 
 is set up very well on PDZ. It is customizable and varied. I don't want to get flamed for saying 
 this, but I prefer this multiplayer over Halo 2's ten fold. It's vastly superior in my opinion. 
 There are numerous different game plays and customizable elements with a big online community. 
 I just am hoping for more maps and character skins down the line. 
  
  Bottom Line: The gameplay is very good. I've been itching for a solid FPS and that is just what 
 I got... how sweet the satisfaction of getting and headshot. The multiplayer is some of the best 
 I have ever player. If you love FPS, get this game! Oh, and don't come in to it with expectations. 
 Just play the game for what it is, look past its flaws, and have a blast! This game is just plain 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadster
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 14, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  when i say alternative, i don't mean like your Quakes, Dooms, Half lifes, Wolfenstiens, Halos, 
 Unreals, Killzones or Soldier of fortunes.
  no i'm talking about FPS games like Perfect dark, Goldeneye and the timesplitters series, if you 
 play these... you'll instantly see a difference in gaming approach, not just all missions rammed 
 down your gullet, i mean slowly lowered into the action, once you've done a mission, you have the 
 choice to either go onto the next mission.... or there's always the just completed mission on the 
 next difficulty up and.... more mission objectives... and more difficulty to back it up... and in 
 perfect dark zero... it continues this trend
  
  ok... tbh... i didn't complete the original perfect dark on the N64... i kinda now wish i had because 
 after playing PD0.... i kinda feel like i only know a part of the back story, anyway.... after getting 
 Perfect dark zero for my X360, i gotta say... i was mightily impressed by the very sharp graphics.... i 
 just wish joanna dark actually looked like the girl on the cover art rather than the somewhat mutant 
 looking figure in the actual running game.... other than this, perfect dark zero plays really well... it 
 feels right, it looks right (expect the main character's appearance) , it even sounds good... only 
 thing people might complain of is how possibly poor it was translated when it jumped from the original 
 N64 game to become a prequel launch title on the Xbox 360, i to be honest wasn't swayed by the 
 "lost in translation" part... i actually loved the game.... challenging i must say... and was quite 
 tricky in areas that required subtlety over run and gun, i actually liked the mix of stealth and 
 gunning.... one thing i didn't like was how the A. I. reacted in for example my fave level... the 
 nightclub... where... if you're stealthily sniping sentries... and you trigger 1 guard into going 
 on the alert...3 other sentries posted in the same area out of earshot of sniper fire and shouting.... come 
 to assist in taking you down without being called upon for backup.... not the most realistic part 
 of the game... but atleast it adds to the challenge this game offers in upping the ante on the player... one 
 very good game all in all.... each skill level keeps you determined to reach the next... thats if 
 you want it enough...... it'd take me ages to reach the end of this game on dark agent... this i 
 do know... (i'm not a great gamer) .... but i do love this game a lot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richnamy
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 13, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I tried to trade this game in yesterday to EB. They were only going to give me 10$ for it because 
 the game is so unpopular already.
  
  Luckily, I spent only 30$ on the game as oppesed to 60$ at launch or 50$ i think that it is now. 
 
  
  The graphics are not nearly as good as they should be, they are more like Halo 2 graphics for the 
 origibal Xbox. And yes I did play it on a HDTV and was suprised at how little the graphics differed 
 from my 1980's poopy TV. Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivions' graphics are way better and really shows 
 what the 360 can do. When I played PD Zero, I was worried that all of 360 games graphics were going 
 to be like that.
  
  The shooting is lame and un-exciting as well as un-intence. The multiplayer is not good, the maps 
 are LAME. Some guns are kinda cool but there "been there done that" kinda guns. It's just not worth 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanstoy91
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 13, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero has been on my wish list and is one of the first games I got when I bought a 
 360. After playing the game however, I slowly became more disappointed. In the gameplay it looks 
 as if the game is tougher than it has to be with terrible aiming, making almost impossible to shoot 
 an enemy, whether it be single player or multiplayer. There's also many frustrating glitches in 
 the storly line that make you want to finish the game so you can finally put it down. The missions 
 are more frustrating than they have to be, since you can't save in the middle of the mission, and 
 all the awkward situations you're going to be in to beat a level. The story also sucks, making 
 it almost impossible to understand, and a disappointing ending. The multiplayer will keep you playing 
 for a while, but the extreme difficulty to aim and focus on other enemies makes you frustrated 
 to play more. If you're going to get a 360, and want a first person shooter, there are so many 
 other choices out there than Perfect Dark Zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 13, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is one of the best 360 games I've played here is a chart of the 360 games on 
 a scale of one to 10
  
  1. Eleder Scrools IV 9.5
  2. Perfect Dark Zero 8.5 (Not too bad see #2)
  3. Burnout Revenge 8.5
  4. Madden NFL 06 7.5
 
  
  Now let's get to the review of PERFECFT DARK Zero (Xbox 360)
  
  The gameplay is very fun the 
 misions are great to do. While multiplayer is awesome some of my friends said "This is better than 
 Halo". Which I don't believe it but is pretty fun. The game is kindas short in my opinion.
  
  The graphics are amazing some of the best on the 360 (I mena tfhe 360 is basically a PC) . No 
 glitches I saw but maybe some.
  
  The music is great the voiceovers are great. GREAT GREAT GREAT.
  
  This is one of the besT FPS 
 for the 360 but the 360 hasn't saw Halo 3 yet saw this maight last till 07.
  
  I liked this game but was hoping for a longer expernice. 
  
  8.6 Great
  
  Not bad for a 
 lanch title.
  But get Kaito.
  It is better. 
  Or just play Halo! 
  Or just play Halo2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iceman8012
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 12, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  The large hype made the game look better than it is. with its slow gameplay and lack of jumping 
 abilities made me want to scream. Yeah don't get me wrong this game has its many good points but 
 the few bad points are so bad they overshoot those statistics out the door. One bad point about 
 this is the fact that there is no jumping abilities in the games story or multiplayer. With out 
 jumping the only way to get to sniper perches or other high places you need to make yourself ten 
 times more obvious when getting to a sniper perch with a giant jetpack letting out really bright 
 lights when used and that is going to get you killed instantly. Another problem has to do with 
 the crosshairs and aiming. When try to aim there are giant problems right from the get go. When 
 turning fast to take out an enemy the enviroment blurs horribly and that can cause some major problems. 
 Ya don't get me wrong at first it was cool but after a while it becomes the biggest hassles in 
 the game. I mean really how can you tell when the enemy is on the screen if the screen except for 
 the gun is a giant blur. They should at least of put an option to take out the motion blur. One 
 more problems with the hazardous game is the fact that you turn so slow. I have to turn the sensitivity 
 up to max just to get it to go as fast as the Halo 2 default settings. One more thing wrong with 
 this is game is the instantly forgetable story line. I lost track of what it was about after the 
 third mission as it completely switched on me. The last problem with this train wreck is something 
 that I didn't mention before that is the AI's lack of intelligence. This AI is worse than a regular 
 XBox's games AI in fact I would say just as bad as N64's AI. 
  This game has its problems but now to the good points. There are many good points to such as the 
 exciting weapons and long story line will keep you entertained for a while. Otherwise this is just 
 a good rental I made the mistake of buying it. I give it a 6.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nationyde5
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 12, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero marks the return of a great franchise that was long on hiatus. It is back and 
 it means business. It is a prequel to the original Perfect Dark that came out on the N64, but even 
 if you have never played that game you can enjoy and follow this one. The single player experience 
 is great. The missions are engaging and fun. The neat thing is that you can go through them in 
 different ways, you take out your enemies with stealth by staying hidden, or blow through them 
 guns blazin, either way works, although some missions require you to do one or the other.
  Speaking of guns, there are tons of them for you to use, including standard small arms pistols, 
 which can be dual wielded, and all types of futuristic weapons. There all also lots of vehicles 
 to drive and gadgets to use.
  The graphics are nice, they are more artistic than realistic, I prefer realistic looking graphics 
 when it comes to shooters but they still look good nonetheless.
  The multi-player is some of the best that there is on the 360. There are many types of modes to 
 play, including the usuals like deathmatch and CTF, but there are also other modes like onslaught, 
 infection, and eradication. All of these modes can be played split screen, system link and online. 
 You can even do the single player missions online co-op.
  All in all you really get a good amount of stuff to do with this game, there is fun to be had whether 
 you are on live or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JBlueeyes
Rating: 1.7
Date: May 10, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  i was a fool to listen to gamespot on this one. I picked up this game after reading gamespots review 
 thinking it would be a game i would spend much time playing. To the contrary, i probably played 
 it for 30 mins, tops! everything about this game stinks. to start, the gameplay is unbearable. 
 the crosshairs are very sluggish and it is next to impossible to get any kind of accurate feeling 
 when using them. the storyline is horrible. the computer AI has a lot to be desired. the overall 
 look and presentation feels like something from a sci-fi movie out of the 80's. i would never recommend 
 this game to anyone. i really hope everyone who reviewed this game on this website really enjoys 
 all the free xbox 360's they got from Rare, cuz thats the only way this game could recieve a 9.0 
 review. I was given this game as a birthday present and it was purchased from a large electronics 
 store chain which will remain unnamed. I was unable to return it because it was open and was forced 
 to give it up as a trade-in game where i only received $11 for it. The game costs $59 and i believe 
 that the$11 i have is much more valuable than the waste of plastic spent on making the game. if 
 you are looking for a great FPS pick up call of duty or G. R. A. W. AVOID LIKE THE PLAGUE!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muck46
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 10, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Perfect dark zero was a nice stab at trying to take up Halo's role as the xbox 360's premier first 
 person shooter. While the game had some nice additions to this genre of games and stunning graphics, 
 it falls short with a poor story and of course its over with quickly. I might of had 7 hours into 
 it. Overall, I enjoyed the game for a time but in hind sight would not have dished out 60 dollars 
 for it. This game is a rent or wait until it is a greatest hits or bargain bin title to buy it. 
 We'll all be waiting for Halo 3 so lets hope Bill can deliver on his promise that Halo 3 will launch 
 concurrently with the release of the ps3, but I doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 7, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  After years of waiting, Rare has finally released the follow-up to the N64's classic FPS. Originally 
 it was to be released for the Nintendo Gamecube, and then Microsoft bought Rareware. It was then 
 decided to be released for the Xbox... Years later, it's surfaced on the Xbox360. Has it been worth 
 the wait?
  Well...... Yes and no. This game is very solid, and very high-quality, but.... It doesn't exactly 
 scream "next-gen" to me. It's not what Halo was when it came out when the original Xbox launched. 
 That doesn't mean it's bad, or even average. It just seems to me like after all this time, we could've 
 gotten more.
  One of the best things I'll point out right now is the multiplayer. Xbox Live is a must. Odds are 
 you'll be able to blow through the single-player pretty quickly, and once you're finished, you're 
 gonna want more to do. Xbox Live has tons of gameplay options. You can play with something like 
 up to 24 players this time around, be it bots or humans. There's a wide variety of game modes, 
 including deathmatch, CTF, and a "defend the base" scenario, to name a few.
  There is also a rather impressive arsenal of weapons, including several types of pistols, SMGs, 
 assault rifles, rocket launchers, and explosives. Unfortunately the array of weapons doesn't seem 
 to be as vast as the original Perfect Dark, which is somewhat disappointing. But it isn't so bad. 
 This time you have access to a new vehicle, which is like a jet-pack and a mech, all in-one. 
 
  The only bad things I have to say about this game is the presentation. The plot doesn't make it 
 very clear on exactly what's going on, and the character's voice-acting is a bit weak. Most people 
 probably won't care too much however.
  I'd like to make a note about the graphics though. I've only seen a few Xbox360 games so far, but 
 I was quite impressed with the lighting and textures. The characters don't look quite as good, 
 but the environments are pretty well-done. I've even found myself stopping to check out the sights, 
 and then I'm quickly reminded I'm standing in the middle of a war-zone.
  While Perfect Dark Zero doesn't do anything really innovative or next-gen, I'd say it's definetly 
 a must for any Xbox-360 owner out there, if not just for the online modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lil_Hazard_76
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 7, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  I love to do multiplayer, but I can't stand how bad the story is, I guess it's hard to play because 
 of the vibe. Microsoft should not of rushed them though, the AI's stupid, and the graphics need 
 work, but other than, that, it was a good job... You can do better though Rare. Multiplayer is 
 fun on teams with, explosives. It has to have at least 20 real players ( NOT BOTS) though. In multiplayer, 
 people are always girls, and then they use this clone gun to duplicate their bodies and look at 
 their backside. The graphics aren't even good, so what da ^%^@! R U look'n at. But then again, 
 all men characters wear tights like the girls. "No One wants to see skin-tight tighs on men anytime, 
 not even when they are dead, for you online body rapers. And anyways, you don't get your fun because 
 their digitaly burst open like a bake potato or someone's balls blowing up, so ooooo," 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nat_the_q
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 6, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Dear Rareware,
  i booted up the system........ blaring techno and some SWEET graphics. i was impressed. but i'm 
 not one to let the little things draw me in. i had to take this baby for a test drive. i feel as 
 though i will best describe the game to you via a compliment sandwich. first, i'll say something 
 good, then an area in which the game could use a little work, then close the review off on a positive 
 note.
  Firstly, let me just kick this off by reminding the developers that this is no longer a nintendo 
 64. i by no means call myself an expert on the subject what what a 360 can and can NOT do, but 
 i think i noticed some things that could use some work. lets start it off with the shadows: in 
 my opinion the most important part of the game. The shadow of Joanna (who i'm sure the developers 
 spent many long nights perfecting her soft supple breasts to perfection) looks like a box of chocolates 
 melting in the hot summer sun. On the plus side, the voice acting was so piercing to my soul it 
 really made me wanna follow it so i could promply reward him with a shotgun to the kneecap. this 
 feature really made finding the locations in which i needed to go a breeze, which was a quam from 
 the review whihc i highly disagree with.
  After seeing the breakthough futuristic weaponry displayed in this game i really wanted one. Sadly 
 while i wait for such weaponry to be developed i must wait in agony until such a gun is in my position, 
 whereupon i will promply relieve myself of this misery and deliver a highly futuristic like super 
 bullet to my brain. well, at the least the nra will appreciate the upsurge in upsurge in the desire 
 for future fundings of such awsome weapons. (for that very purpose)
  overall i feel as if my overall experiance has been eyeopening. it made me realize how short life 
 is and that for every second i endure this steaming pile of rare developer crap i coulda been jabbing 
 my eyes out with a blunt spoonlike object and obtained a more satisfying experience.
  for the future games i suggest that the developers spent less time salivating at joanna with a 
 box of tissues in hand then the quality of games may infact rise. just a suggestion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  Set in the near future, Perfect Dark Zero is the prequel to the award-winning, Perfect Dark for 
 N64.
  This game has crisp clean graphics which run smooth like silk. Its pretty straight forward and 
 the story is quite short, but since each level has 4 different difficulty settings, you can replay 
 and fail again and again and again.
  The characters skins look a bit drawn back and the woman who does the voice of Joanna Dark can't 
 act very well, but this game offers alot in the field of multiplayer and retrying missions with 
 different strategies.
  Too easy on Easy difficulty setting, f***ing hard on harder difficulty settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sequencer324
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark was the game that brought in the Xbox 360 with a bang it had great state of the art 
 graphics and everything. The game itself is short I would say it was like Halo 2 both having a 
 short campaign and a few different difaculty settings. But both have a good multiplayer mode Perfect 
 dark left out vehicles in this game other than maybe 2 times in the whole game. If they worked 
 on this game just a little more it could have been one of the best games of all time. All this 
 game needed was a few more levels and some more vehicles in the game and in the multiplayer mode. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbltecnicspro
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 5, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  About two weeks ago, I just purchased an Xbox 360 and bought this along with it, because I read 
 a glowing review on this site. Let me say this: the review on this site is correct. And because 
 I generally agree with Gamespot's review of Perfect Dark Zero, I'm generally going to quickly summarize 
 my opinion.
  
  For gameplay, Perfect Dark Zero is very fun. The "secret agent" feel of the game is very appealing, 
 and fans of first-person shooters will appreciate this game a lot. The game's weapons are all fun 
 to use, and there's a nice tactical element in the game, because the character can only carry so 
 many weapons at one time. Veteran shooters will appreciate the rewards that precise aiming will 
 give them - as this game sports a pixel-precise hit detection system. This does require more precise 
 aiming than other games (probably due to the high-resolution graphics of the game) . In short, the 
 game is fun to play and it's challenging, but not overbearing.
  
  The sound of Perfect Dark Zero is also pretty good, and the music is top-notch. As a musician, 
 I usually listen for subtleties in the music score, and I value a game's soundtrack in my gaming 
 experience, and this game does deliver. Often times, I think to myself : "what synth did they use 
 to pull that effect off in the music, or what equipment are they using?" I especially like the 
 music that plays whenever a level loads, though there are only four or five repeating songs - which 
 means that over time they will get old. The voices, however, are a mixed bag. Being an M-rated 
 game, I certainly did not expect the voices to sound so "cartoony." And the voice effects during 
 combat are very annoying. For example, Joanna Dark will yell "EEE!!" when she gets shot on occasion. 
 At first, it's funny, but then it just gets annoying, because other characters do this too. Other 
 than this, the sound's just fine.
  
  Graphics-wise, the game has a lot of eye-candy to offer. But I had to dock it some points because 
 of its framerate and aliasing. Now I know that I probably sound picky, but whatever happened to 
 Microsoft and ATI's claim that 720p with 4x Anti-Aliasing was REQUIRED for games? Their "Anti-Aliasing 
 for Free" campaign is starting to look like a bunch of marketing crap now, as Perfect Dark Zero 
 does have aliasing, and lacks anisotropic filtering - so distant textures do look slightly blurry 
 (although this isn't as bad as a previous generation game) . And it seems as if running the game 
 in 720p does have its price - because although the game maintains a 30fps framerate most of the 
 time, it drops even below 20fps in more complex scenes; and in some scenes, the framerate tumbles 
 downward for no apparent reason! Just to be sure that the framerate drop wasn't due to texture/scene 
 loading pauses, I went back to where the framerate drop occurred immediately after the framerate 
 picked up again, but it dropped off again (This is in the first level, in a tight corridor) ! The 
 reason why I am docking points of is that the Xbox 360's graphics chip has 48 pipeline units - 
 which should be plenty of power to keep the game running at 30fps, if not 60fps! It is also worth 
 to note that 1080i resolution looks worse than 720p (at least on my television) , and runs slower 
 than 720p.
  
  If there's any perk to purchasing the game, it's the multiplayer. To sum it up: it is the smoothest 
 game on the market right now. Folks, I'm in the land of no Cable or DSL - I can't even get ISDN! 
 I'm on Wildblue satellite internet, and for those of you who do not know, it is physically impossible 
 for satellite internet (right now anyway) to have latency lower than 500ms. This means that most 
 online games like Halo 2 are totally unplayable, because the lag just ruins the experience. Perfect 
 Dark Zero runs almost flawlessly on my satellite connection. I am able to score headshots with 
 sniper rifles - something impossible for satellite players to even hope to achieve, and I do it 
 all the time! Other game devlopers (hint, hint: Bungie) should really take notes of Rare's net 
 code, because if 600ms pings are playable, then virtually everyone can play on this - no matter 
 how bad the connection is. I am really glad that satellite users can play this title, because the 
 fact is that satellite internet users are increasing by the day - one million users are projected 
 to be online by the end of this year! This means that a satellite gamer base will eventually become 
 pretty big - big enough to warrant game developers to optimize their code for satellite players, 
 and Perfect Dark Zero proves that this is not at all impossible, and it that it CAN be done.
  
  Basically, Perfect Dark Zero is a launch title of the Xbox 360 that is a fun game to play. 
 It offers great gameplay, pretty visuals, beautiful music and good sound, and an awesome multiplayer 
 suite (it's the only game I can play on satellite that I can be competitive at) . If you haven't 
 picked this game up yet, then right now is the time to do it - prices are falling everywhere at 
 videogame stores. I got my "Special DVD Edition" for $44. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mope01
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 2, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I am not a fan of this game, nor will I take a significant amount of time to write a decent review 
 - so here's a quick one based on each category.
  
  Gameplay - Repetitive. AI is dumb, level structure is linear, gameplay feels too much like every 
 other FPS out on xbox and xbox 360. This game does nothing to set itself apart from any other first-person 
 shooter other than playing a female lead character. Controls are clunky and can take a while to 
 get used to.
  
  Graphics - Not that great. Looks very cartoonish and some characters look bad at close distances. 
 I hate the view in a scope of any gun. A good start for what feels to be a rushed game.
  
  Sound - No complains, the gunshots sound okay and the voice acting is well done.
  
  Value - 
 Multiplayer is the only reason to play this game, and even that is boring quick. Much like Halo 
 2 - but not a good thing. Does not differ from any other online first person shooter and the level 
 design leaves a lot to be desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigan12
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Pefect Dark Zero is a FPS for the Xbox 360 which is so good that I think that Perfect Dark Zero 
 is the best first person shooter since Halo 2 and the Unreal games, which is really saying something!! 
 I really like the controls. They are tight and responsive and are a perfectly fit to the 360 controller. 
 How you obtain differnt weapons is you must finish the level with them. How you carry the weapons 
 is based on size. So you could carry a couple of pistols but only one sub-machine gun. It works 
 well and is more realistic as apposed to people carrying 20 weapons or something like that. The 
 graphics and sound are top notch and the multipayer is really good too. If you like FPS's you will 
 like Perfect Dark Zero. If you like any action game than you will like Perfect Dark Zero. If you 
 play video games you should buy Perfect Dark Zero. It is really amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike_515
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 2, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I think that this is a brilliant sequel, probably one of the best for a FPS. 
  
  I believe this because of the new first person third person system, it works so smoothly there 
 is no slow camera and it all happens instantly and smoothly. 
  
  Normally you would have to risk getting shot at badly by running completely out to shoot at the 
 enemy witch would usually end badly for you not the enemy, now with Joanna you can hug the wall 
 and look around the corner and quickly poke out surprising your enemy. And if your in the middle 
 of the street with no cover you can roll around to decrease the risk of getting shot at. So now 
 it isnt simply shot everyone in the building because this time they have more realistic shots, 
 so a more tactical approach is required. 
  
  The difficulty of this game is about right I have said Just right in the review boxes but.. The 
 difficulty can be set so if your finding it hard to play, turn the difficulty down, or if you find 
 it to easy turn the difficulty up.
  The secret agent difficulty is the best I think because they have a realist amount the accuracy, 
 without being insanely accurate, especially for Perfect mode and above they get head shots as you 
 go around the corner witch is highly unrealistic, because unless they knew your exact height from 
 the sound of your foot steps there is no way they could be getting headshots. 
  Bang, Bang Jacks coming aim high.
  Tap, tap Joannas coming aim average height.
  
  Speaking 
 of unrealistic ness the easy level bots on multiplayer, ooooh dear, they run around like headless 
 chickens, your lucky if you get a fight out of them, you could be shooting at them and they will 
 be shooting at you then all of a sudden they just give up and start running away. 
  Or you could start shooting at them will there running in another direction and they will just 
 keep on running in that direction, and not even attempt to return fire.
  The ones secret agent and above are smart and give you a good game, and the better you get and 
 they get the better game you will get out of the bots. They pick up all the good guns and get all 
 the good vantage points etc.. fighting these are fun and hard.
  
  The multiplayer online is a blast is it soo much fun all the different new games to play (Infection 
 etc) and always new people to talk to, it is always a great new experience each time you play. 
 Your always left wanting more, i can't just play it for an hour and get on with other stuff, if 
 i play it i have to play it all day and stay up all night until i fall asleep playing it.
  
  The controls for this game are easy to use and easy to learn, the only thing I think they could 
 have done better is add a jump button, rather than having the hold forward at a wall to climb over 
 it, you should be able to hit the jump button and Bobs your uncle, your over the wall.
  
  The graphics are great, the level design and character design is phenomenal, Joanna looks like 
 a real woman, but the only thing I dont like is that it looks like they have an A* cleaner that 
 has cleaned and waxed absolutely everything, there is so much light reflection of everything, it 
 looks good on all levels except in the snow, snows not supposed to be waxed people. 
  
  Overall it is a fun game to play the visuals are great and a gripping storyline. I would recoment 
 this game to anyone good clean fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rydogg
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 1, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Tons of fun at first, easy to jump right in and get going. Interesting story line and multiplayer 
 game types. This made the game fun for a few weeks but after a while it all just got stale. The 
 only replay value would be to increase the difficulty to go for more gamer points or play on-line. 
 However this is not replay to me, a good replay is to play the game and find something new or learn 
 something new every time you play, which adds to the game's longevity. Perfect Dark Zero seemed 
 to lack this for me the online is the same run and gun experience with the variation of a vehicle 
 thrown into there some where, which i felt was boring and mundane. This is why i rated it so low, 
 because it lacks the replay value of several excellent value-games, such as Oblivion: Elder's Scrolls. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillon_o4
Rating: 8
Date: May 1, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  hmmmm what to say about this game...... I really expected this game to be good concidering how 
 good the 1st one was on 64, if u know and played that one you are going to be highly disapointed. 
 Ok so whats wrong with it? Single player is just boring most the time u don't even know where ur 
 goin so u just wait till these little arrows appear on the floor to tell u. Yes ya heard me arrows 
 one the floor, apperently bad guys install lighted up floors to guide their enemys to where they 
 need to kill/destroy what ever they need to very handy lol. Ok multiplayer, what was so good about 
 the 64 version? that you could change almost every option to customize ur game, think they kept 
 that? nope almost every varible is set besides the weapon set. O and the bots they are retarted 
 even on the hardest setting. and for the last catogory online. Now this is where it prolly could 
 of been good if they used a halo-like online system did they? no. If u are a halo like-r or not 
 u have to like the matchmaking system and this online system with PD: Zero is horrible half the 
 time it is you and another player against another other 2 players, but i forgot to mention there 
 is 10bots on each side that just run out in the open just to get pwned by everyone. So in the end 
 its the human players staying back sniping all the cpu's in the middle of the field with and occasional 
 player kill woooooo hoooo that is fun. one of the 1st times i played this game online i had 25kills 
 before i died once and i wasn't even good or trying very hard. You may think o he is just bragging 
 he is good or w\e, no i'm not the greatest it just really takes no skill to get 25kills before 
 dieing. This game needs to be reworked from the beginning the enviroment is the only thing god 
 about it, it looks very good. The character models are very cartoonish. Welp sorry for people that 
 love this game i kinda trashed it, i ushally don't do that but i bought this game for half price 
 from a used store and i still feel like i was ripped off, i will be trading it in very soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zonmom2508
Rating: 8
Date: May 1, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  I wasnt impressed enough with this game as a fpser. I this thought it was missing some bang... First 
 the good that i saw in the game. Well i cant find much good in this game that i can think of. The 
 vehicles werent great since there was only two of them. The graphics were kinda of weird reminded 
 me of the gi joe plastic kinda of look. The story mode was not really all that great. Online wasnt 
 what i was expecting. I had fun with this game until some real games like Ghost recon advanced 
 warfighter and the elder scrolls four oblivion came out. Madden and nba live were more interesting 
 than this. Rare really messed this game up and if they make another one there gonna have to work 
 really hard on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Splayatino
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  It's a great game that you have to understand the concept of to enjoy it fully. When i first picked 
 up PDZ at launch I was exited to play the prequel to my favorite FPS of all time. I thought there 
 would be more weapons & I expected to see familiar weapons. I was dissapointed since there was 
 only about half the weaponds. So I pop in the disk and start playing this game & i keep getting 
 owned by the A. I. So I played my other launch games for a time, but recently I just got back into 
 this game. It's an FPS espionage shooter. So its not about running & gunning. Its about taking 
 cover, and using headshots. Once I played it from this perspective it unlocked the enjoyment in 
 this game. I have recently beat it in perfect agent & i'm working towards Dark agent (it so hard) . 
 In each level there are multiple pathways to proceed, some more hidden than others, and this opens 
 the varitey way up. Depending on which weapns gadgets you choose will make each level feel unique. 
 The multiplayer is fantastic for both newbies (death match) and veterans (dark ops) with many different 
 variants to choose from. Its another reason why this game is fantastic. But my favorite mode has 
 to be COOP!!! I love meeting some random person and owning the A. I. together. It's feels so rewarding 
 owning them on the hard difficulties. This is a fantastic game, but it is geared more towards the 
 hardcore gamer. I hope in future iterations they bring back all weapons from the first game. OH 
 & adjust the sensitivity to help with your aim this is crucial!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_Hayabusa1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  Perfect dark is so good that i really cant belief it. It has fantastic graphics and a amazing 
 gameplay. This game is a must buy for every xbox 360 owner. I really loved this game because its 
 got some great details the lights the caracters the enviorment every thing about this game is really 
 good. And belief me i didnt expect this game to be so good. The only thing that some people might 
 say bad thing its the story i mean i like it but ive played some games with a better story.
  but rusuming this game is a must have for every xbox 360 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 18, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  I remember back in the day when i used to play the game Perfect Dark for N64 it was so much fun 
 that was the game that made me a FPS addict. So one day i hear the next perfect dark will be on 
 xbox i was a sony fanboy and was pissed off i was like EW XBOX SUCKS then i got an xbox and liked 
 it so i decided to get a 360. I was so happy to play pdz i was so pumped up and then when i started 
 to play i was like WTF WHY DOES THE GUN ZOOM SO FAR!!! and WHY DO THE CONTROLS SUCK i played online 
 and had some fun playing infection but then i played agaisnt bots and the AI is close to retarded 
 seriously. I was so mad that rare took one of the best FPS games ever and turned it into crap. 
 This game is good but it doesn't live up to it's expectations. I would suggest getting COD2 or 
 GRAW instead of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gylfi88
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 28, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  The gameplay butchered, A. I the stupidest you could ever imagine, visuals sooo exadurated you wouldn't 
 believe. I mean it looks like everythin has been smeard in oil or babycream or something. And on 
 top of all that it is not even fun. The core shooting is ok but the feel of the weapons is just 
 not right, plus the amount of weapons is like a fourth of the amount on the original game. But 
 here is the worst edition to the game: you opponents (enemies) are on cocaine They are like Al 
 Pacino in the end of the movie scarface he just won't die a regular enemie can take up to 6 bullets 
 in the cest. Holy crap I'd figure they would fall to the ground after the second bullet but no 
 they don't. It's acctually mindblowing how no one of testers of PDZ mentioned that the enemies 
 could take an unbeliveable amount of bullet without dying. And the multyplayer sucks partly 'cause 
 of the thing I just wrote about and partly 'cause of the controlls. Do'nt buy this game if you 
 were into the fist one, play it on N64 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 27, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  it was overhyped and not as good as I thought it would be. Its a bad launch title and shouldnt 
 be seen as a system seller. Its not as addictive as halo and is very hard to shoot. The graphics 
 are bad and I truely believe they do not look as good as either black nor Halo 2. The single player 
 campiagn seems broken and just random missions put together and the ending is about 20 seconds 
 long. Its basically like good job kid the end !!!! Did not feel any acomplishment from beating 
 it
  
  good:
  cheap $50
  32 player online
  works perfectly on xboxlive
  
  bad:
  not good 
  not fun
  it is a port that could have ran on XBox
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jweier
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 27, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark is a perfect waste of time. The levels are so poorly laid out that arrows light up 
 to tell you where to go if you lose your way. I'm sure the developers included this little feature 
 when they realized that no one could figure out where to go in the game. Throughout the levels 
 enemies constantly shoot at you from hidden locations or locations that are only visible through 
 a scope. On a high difficultly level, I had to play the same level ten times just to figure out 
 where to go and where all the hidden enemies are. 
  
  The graphics are laughable. Everything from the rocks to the grass to the sky looks plastic or, 
 at best, like shiny leather. It's as if Rare knew they had a sub-par game, so they slapped high-gloss 
 paint all over it just ot make it look passable. 
  
  Usually I don't pay too much attention to the characters or the story in a game unless they are 
 overtly annoying. In this game, annoying would be a compliment. The tone of this game is a cross 
 between a sub par MTV reality show and a kungfu movie. I lost the plot after the first act. The 
 characters voices and their kitschy little phrases make my skin crawl. Nothing they say sounds 
 real. Do not play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wpardue777
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 26, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Recently got my 360, got this game off ebay for $25, so glad I did cuz it ain't worth the $59.99 
 sticker price retail. I quickly put the game up on eBay and made a couple extra bucks... Sucker 
 born everyday eh?
  
  Anyways, heres the bad:
  
  1) gameplay totally sucks and is nothing like a first person shooter should be.. Thus, b/c the 
 controls are so not action-game like, it is not as exciting.
  2) unrealistic gun fights where you have to unload almost an entire clip to kill someone. Distant 
 shots from a gun is almost non-life threatening to enemies. 
  3) There is no jump function in this game, which this game needs.
  4) Number of people online 
 playing this game is very small and usually u get in a game with a couple bots just for fill-in.. 
 Unlike Halo 2, this game's audience doesn't seem to match it's marketing hype.
  5) All the rolls and other stealthy like movements you can do from the controller really does nothing 
 to improve your chances of survival, only disrupts your camera angles, thus making it hard for 
 you to get your bearings once you're done with the "fancy" movements. 
  
  Now, for the good:
  
  1) graphics good, but won't blow you away
  2) sound is good and consistent
 
  3) multiplayer game variety is great and full of custimization
  4) stats tracking good feature
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X9MMBULLETSX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 26, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  pdz zero first off is a game with amazing visuals and huge multiiplayer support for a console game. those 
 were the only good things i can say about this game. i bought this game thinking WOAH 9.0 game rating 
 its gota be good but it wasnt.... it was a slow fps (i say was cus i brought it back) with only 30fps 
 .... BUT halo has 30fps and its a fast paced shooter.
  also sound sucks big donkeys balls, every time u get shot u here joanna going uhhh huhuhuhuhuhu 
 uh and the voice acting was like listening to someone **** its bad thats all u need to know) . the 
 characters move like theyre doing the robot and have the ai to match... the ai is shit and robotic... if 
 u have know idea what i mean, ill tell u, say i go to hit someone usually an ai in another game 
 wud go hey im goin 2 kill u but pdzs ai has 2 think about it...5 SECONDS OF THINKING.
  
  and the guns r too futuristic it is only 14 years from now not a 100... they ruined the amazing 
 shotgun in the with giving a second funtion or gadget which gives u a radar but i wanna a gun...... just 
 a gun no add ons..... and an m60 which lays **** spikes?
  
  multiplayer is good and dosent lag but is to slow for my liking but if u dont mind that buy a way..... or 
 get bf2mc and kill in a fast humvie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8er4life24724
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 25, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty fun and all but personally i think the storyline sucks the graphics r ok but 
 they really do look like cartoon characters... other than that the gameplay is awesome the only 
 thing i have a problem with is that it is hard to aim in the game but thats no big deal.. the guns 
 feel awesome and i think 1 of the best things about the game is its multiplayer and co-op its very 
 very good....... but 1 other thing ihave against the game is the price i really dont think its 
 worth 50 bucks or more u should wait and get the game when its like 40 prolly and get the new obvilion 
 game (i cant spell) because that game has so much more in it even though i dont have it (yet) all 
 the reviews r enough 4 me to say thats a better buy 4 u so 4 my rating 4 PDZ i give it a 7.6............... 
 o yeah if any1 of u think wat was said about PPDZ being the next halo to xbox to PDZ to xbox 360 
 i think that is absolutly wrong 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZEALOTzeus
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 24, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  The gameplat by itself is awesome the maps are good (not much freedom though) and graphics pull 
 you in. But what really kills my love for this game is the plot. There's some kind of powerful 
 "graal" and evil bad guy but nothing you didn't see coming. the dad dies and the bad guys die and 
 so does everyone else in your path. The plot or characters don't really make you feel for them 
 or even care. Her dad dies, boo-hoo, get over it. If you want to kill guys using gadgets and high 
 tach weapons this game is great. but if you want a game where you actually want to care about what 
 happens then go back to halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anstar97
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 24, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  this game is avery good first person shooter some how im not realy surprised about it im not very 
 enthusiastic about this review. alright perfect dark is set around the year 2020 ur a bounty hunter 
 daddy dies u join mr carington yat yata yat................... whatever the visuals are pretty 
 cool along with the sound. it had me playing all spring vacation an should have u playing to what 
 makes this game unique is the way u can apporch mission objective such as using this thing called 
 locktopus to get through a locked door. Or if u decide not to bring that u can use the demo kit 
 and make an immpressive entrence through the roof by blowing the seling off. the game also has a 
 cool aray of wheapons thats pretty much what i found good in the game besides shooting badies in 
 the ass ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icebuster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Very good graphics. Amazing Multiplayer. Good but short story mode. The story mode is beatable 
 in maybe 4 or 5 hours. It is very fun however. 
  
  Lots of good weapons. Not enough maps in multiplayer mode. Bots are average, a little stupid, multiplayer 
 bots dont ever stop moving. 
  
  Good story. One thing I like is that if you ever get lost in story mode, there will be arrows on 
 the floor showing you where you have to go, and its not intrusive to look at when you do know where 
 you are going. 
  
  Overall a very very good First Person Shooter Game.
  
  The game was expensive, but you have to keep in mind all of the Xbox 360 games are that much money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legionnaire501
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  If I had to rate PDZ then i would give it around an 8.5. The game has its strong points and weaknesses 
 as all games do. 007 fans this game is for YOU. The gameplay is very simliar to "Golden Eye: Rogue 
 Agent, with the gadgets and the way how you can only dual wield pistols and SMGs in the game. One 
 major flaw is it isn't the slightest realsitic (in my opinion) and you can crouch, be twenty feet 
 away from a guard and not be seen even if it is even light out.*Good Luck with gaming* This game 
 grows on you and when in doubt, stick with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjf_80
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  As many, I believed blindedly the hype around this game. Well, the hype is clearly overrated. Whoever 
 started it, must be a pure Perfect Dark fan, since, this game doesn't appeal to me at all, not 
 after playing it anyways.
  
  All FPS games have 2 modes in the games, as routine:
  the linear walkthrough mode, and the multiplayer mode.
  
  This game folds together on the linear 
 story mode. Why? Controls are good, but at certain times TOO good. Let me explain; Joanna responds 
 very good to the aim and movement, but she does tend to "overreact" to quick aiming (if you're 
 in the middle of crossfire, shootout or whatever) - quick movement so to speak. The aim "floats" 
 away, since the control is very very sensitive to the analogue stick, and quick aiming in midst 
 of crossfire always tend to "missaim" sideways/upwards/downwards and shoot thin air several rounds, 
 before the crosshair ends up in the middle of the enemy's torso (if you're trying to get a headshot, 
 then you're just wasting more rounds.)
  
  Graphics in PDZ, in my opinion, isn't what you could call "next-gen", because, even the original 
 Xbox could have rendered this kind of display, no doubt. Characters seem like "plastic dolls" (anyone 
 seen Disney's Toy Story? Buzz Lightyear ring a bell?..)
  
  Condemned is the only game that has a bit next-gen graphics, that I have seen so far (of the few 
 360 games I've played up to date) .
  
  Multiplayer works very well and I recommend (if you really want this game) you play that mode only, 
 either by your self or with friends. Playing the story mode through is one pain in the ass. Halo 
 had much better gameplay when compared, and had that feeling of "oh yeah, I wanna clear this stage 
 and get to the next one", PDZ doesn't give that emotion. You rather go like "ahh crap, I died again.... why 
 do I have to start all over from the beginning again?"...
  
  Sounds. They're great. Actually damn good. Voice actors could have given more emotion to the acting, 
 but besides that, sounds are perfect in the game. Music is great too, and has that futuristic feel 
 to it, when you run down each stage and listen to it in the background.
  
  Summary:
  
  You can clearly see that this game was rushed to meet the request of "good" games at the release 
 of 360. Graphics aren't next-gen, and the controls could have used more fine-tuning, if you ask 
 me. The primary game mode, the linear story mode, is as I said, linear. You follow one very strict 
 path, and have very little freedom to roam around.
  
  Too bad Rare. Having the reputation as great game creators, this games ruins a lot of that rep. 
 Bad publicity is something everybody can live without. The only thing that saves this game from 
 complete catastrophy is the multiplayer mode. Everything else is all flash, no substance.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DangerD00m
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 19, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  At first i diid not like this game but after a few sessions i really got sucked in. The gameplay 
 is fast paced and fun. The sound is good (the nightclub level plays techno, when you go inside 
 its loud and you cant hear nothin, but when you go outside its muffeled like if your really outside) 
 and the guns sound pretty realistic. The graphics are really good you can literaly see all the 
 little sparkles on johannas fingernails! There is also some very good xbox live gameplay to be 
 found in here so if you own an xobx 360 this is one title that you need to pic up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boarding4ever
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  my friends told me this game was going to rock and i heard all the hype about it so i jumped on 
 the band wagon and played. my first problem was the very slow turning of the character making shooting 
 difficult. i spent the first half hour fixing the turn speed. my next problem was the overall ease 
 of the game i'm sure i only died once and that was because i fell off a cliff. the good part about 
 the game is the great weapons and the character voices because they were full of sarcasm. it s 
 a good rent but as for a buy i'd pass. i also tried multiplayer and it was okay but not quite halo 
 material. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furionpride
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  This is the first game I got for the 360. I was a big fan of the original, and this game is pretty 
 good as well. The graphics are amazing. But sadly, that's the only thing that's good. The story... wait... what 
 story?????????????
  My point is that the single player game didnt make sence from begining to end. I dont only play 
 video games for their graphics, but for their story as well. There is a lot of little details that 
 will catch your eye, such as motion blur, and shine effects. REALLY SHINY!!!! anyway, the music 
 is nothing special. If you're a hard-core rocker like me, than you might as well turn the music 
 volume  Halo junkies, like me, will like the gameplay, 
 because it is designed the same way, only making it unique in a way. (if that makes any sence) 
 I've put more than 30 hours, just in the multiplayer. Another think that I disliked was that it 
 took forever to kill anything. If you want to kill one person, you have to empty an entire clip 
 at them. This game is good in a bad way, I guess. Go ahead and buy it, just to say that you have 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzkrieg8131
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 18, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  This game may be good to you but it wasn't to me. I thought the gameplay was just crappy. The graphics 
 are good and the game does run very smoothly (online and offline) , but I just couldn't make myself 
 like this game, no matter how much I played. If Call of Duty 2 and Perfect Dark Zero were boxers, 
 then COD2 would K. O. Perfect Dark in the very first round with a tremendous haymaker to the nose. 
 You might want to give Perfect Dark a try with a rent, but I don't even recommend that. Buy Call 
 of Duty 2. Burn Perfect Dark Zero. It's as simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipzealot
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  My view on this game is mixed, because I am a huge fan of the original Perfect Dark. The game didn't 
 really live up to the hype or my expectations. I think rare could have made a lot more maps for 
 multi-player, but single player was fun and intriguing. Joanna looked nothing like she did in the 
 first one witched seemed odd that rare would stray away from the looks of their main character. 
 I cant seem to get over the fact that the 36 people online play was reduced to 16 now its just 
 the same as Halo 2 or any other good XBOX Live enabled game. I wish that that they would have focused 
 more on the multi-player but its still an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaYap360
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is the prequel to the original hit on the Nintendo 64, Perfect Dark. You play 
 as Joanna Dark once again, with other comrades such as Jack Dark [Joanna's father] . The game is 
 full of gadgets, massive guns, high-tech toys, and action. 
  
  The single player is not quite up-to-par with most killer app First Person Shooters of today. Its 
 weak, to say the least. Most of the events that occur during the storyline are just excuses for 
 action, but I'm not complaining. The positive side of the single player experience is that there 
 isn't very many dull moments and is full of action. The negative side is that is not very immersive 
 and from time to time, you will find yourself confused as to whats going on. It is also very short 
 and can be completed in under ten hours, depending on the difficulty mode you are playing on. Although 
 the single player has its flaws, there is still fun to be had in it. It offers cooperative modes 
 via splitscreen, system link, and XBox Live. Also, the co-op modes aren't just thrown into the 
 game. The storyline is built for co-op; you can play as a variety of characters during the storyline, 
 and you and your buddy will have different mission objectives. A perfect example of this is in 
 the third level, when player 1 is Joanna Dark and is on rooftops sniping enemies to protect her 
 father, Jack Dark, who is played by player 2. Jack Dark has to fight through enemies to meet up 
 with Joanna, and he is at ground level in the city while Joanna is on the roof tops with a sniper 
 rifle. It's also nice to see a variety of gadgets to use to accomplish your objectives and it also 
 helps spice up the gameplay. 
  
  The multiplayer is where this game really takes off. It has many different gametypes, both familiar 
 ones and completly new and different ones. There is splitscreen (which supports up to 16 AI bots 
 that can be set to different difficulty settings) , system-link, and XBox Live with up to 34 players 
 in a match. It also features 'guests' online over XBox Live, meaning you can have players on the 
 same TV playing over XBox Live with others. The multiplayer maps are very well designed and help 
 make the multiplayer experience the best it can be. There is a variety of different environments, 
 with destructable elements, and are all very fun to play on. 
  
  Graphically, the game is hit and miss. I say this because when you play on some of the maps (example: 
 Urban) , the environments take your breath away with their gorgeous textures and structures. But 
 then there are some ugly character models which do not look very 'next-gen'. The character animations 
 are very smooth and look great, its a shame the models look so out-dated for next generation gaming. 
 Its hard to believe that Rare had been making this game for 5 years (first starting on the Gamecube, 
 then XBox, now XBox 360) and the graphics aren't where they should be. Overall, the graphics are 
 decent, but could of been so much more. 
  
  Perfect Dark Zero really boosts the experience of playing it with its amazing audio. The soundtrack 
 is one of the best original scores of the year, and easily the best on XBox 360. There are a variety 
 of tracks, ranging from techno to modern rock. They all sound great and really set the mood for 
 action in the campaign, and help make up for the graphical faults. The gun sounds and effects are 
 all very fitting and work very well to capture the essence of action. The weakest part of the audio 
 component of the game is the voice overs. Although they are not terrible, they could of been much 
 better and need some work. Other than that, the audio is pretty much flawless. 
  
  In conclusion, if you are in need of a shoot em' up XBox 360 game, look no further than Perfect 
 Dark Zero. Its full of great action, amazing multiplayer, and will keep you active on XBox Live 
 until the next Halo is released. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yozee306
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 15, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Perfect dark zero is the first game i got when i bought my 360 seeing as i loved the original decided 
 to get this instead of cod2. when i got home i decided to play some single-player which i had'nt 
 stoped playing single-player for about an 4-5 hours or so then i was done the game was just to 
 to to to easyit could be beaten in a short time and the graphics aren't all that amazing for a 
 360 game seeing as rare had been working on this game for about 5 years i think that would be plenty 
 of time to add some length and maybe update the graphics seeing as ubisoft had mangeded to fit 
 farcry: instincts on the xbox which was probaly the niceest looking game for the xbox has to offer 
 im sure they could have released this on the xbox... anyways then i decided to try this online 
 which is what i thought was the main part of the game which i have to admit i had gotten a few 
 gigles and had a few fun moments on it but after about a week or 2 of playing online i just got 
 sick of it and then there is really nothing else to play so all in all perfect dark zero in my 
 opinion was a amazing experience but was just to short and not as fun as it could be for people 
 to be charging $80 for it anyways i don't think i personally if i could chose again would by this 
 i would probaly rent it first or even just play at a friends house... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxmccloud040
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  the game is not as bad as everyone says it is, if anything it is alot better. the game starts of 
 at a sluggish pace, but soon gathers momentum and towards thge last few levels (such as the intense 
 bridge level) youll be loving every minute, and will keep coming back.
  
  The problems are few, and do not really affect the game much, but if you ponder over getting it 
 (or indeed buy an xbox 360 for it like i did) its a nneed to know thing:
  Length: im not bad at games, but even for me this was short, on agent mode, it took me roughly 
 10 hours to complete (spread over a week)
  Story: Interesting, but towards the end predictable and corny, also most of it does not hang together 
 well
  Graphics: while amazing, up close itsheavily pixilated"
  Multiplayer: not many maps, but rare is promising downloadable extras in the future, so not to 
 worry!
  
  the good points:
  single player: Intense story mode keeps you coming back, massive replayability thanks to fun missions 
 and different difficulties
  Multiplayer: intense and maps vary on size, but overall worth it just for this aspect, also come 
 with an uber fun co-op mode, where you can be in totaly different places 9i. e sum1 sniping frm 
 above protecting u while u find ure way up)
  
  worth getting a 360 for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  this game is amazing completely mind-blowing it's have a great singleplayer campaign and a awesome 
 multiplayer. let's begin with the singleplayer campaign, you got awesome visuals from weapon models 
 and enviroments has a lot of high-res textures and lightning, and it's looks awesome. you got a 
 lot of weapons as well. but one of the reasons to buy this game for is the huge, huge awesome multiplayer 
 component you can the co-op mode or online. let's start with the co-op mode the co-op can be played 
 in split-screen and over xbox live and it's awesome and you got a lot of different game modes in 
 thte multiplayer in online like capture the flag, deathmatch, team deathmatch and so on. and you 
 can play the multiplayer in split-screen as well which also is a hell of a lot of fun. I recommend 
 everyone that's have a xbox 360 to get this game. It's amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aromon
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Gives the player easy ways to accomplish objectives, sweet graphics at some portions 
 of the game, and a comprehensive lineup of weapons. Also, the frame rate is excellent. Not once 
 will it be jumpy.
  The Bad: Some objectives are made too easy, graphics look like a playstation 2 game at times and 
 the gameplay is more sensitive than a 3rd grade school girl. 
  
  It's hard to believe that this game was given a 9.0 from gamespot and then chosen as editor's choice. 
 Almost any XBOX FPS surpasses the gameplay of this game. It's not a bad game by any means. It has 
 an interesting storyline, a wide array of weapons at your disposal, and the graphics are stunning 
 at times. But while playing you will come across unrefined parts of the environment, the AI characters 
 repeat the same thing over and over again and you'll find yourself unable to consistantly aim throughout 
 most of the game. Worth playing, but not worth buying. Save your money and wait until a game comes 
 that is not good, but superb, and trust me, they will be here and will be incredible. (Gears of 
 War, Halo 3, Brother's in Arms) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  The game is just simply beautiful, but after awhile your eyes will bleed because of the blending 
 of the colors of the environment. The story is long, and the multiplayer is a good choice, the 
 but gameplay makes me look like an old man playing.
  
  Let's start at the gameplay. Your player will move like slug, and feels like your commands are 
 always three seconds behind. Look, I am a level 32 in Halo 2, but this game will make me look like 
 I am a 32 year old trying to play a future game. I can't get with the controls, and gets me very 
 frustrating at times. If that element fails in a FPS, I surly won't enjoy it.
  
  The graphics are great, but not the best like Oblivion. The graphics seems there and here, but 
 it's not the best looking game like they say in the Main Review. Personally, I don't think that 
 game should've gotten a 9/10. With Game Informer, they really don't rate the game great, but giving 
 this game a 7.75 out of 10 is good for me. Hopefully, the crew will give Oblivion a good score, 
 and maybe Game of the Month.
  
  Story is just off the hook dumb. You will get a headache when you try to play the game. Why care 
 when this game will get you a headache? Maybe I am the only one offended of the graphics in this 
 game. You start as Perfect Dark OP, Dark. Really, you father will um... brain gotten messed up 
 by this machine thing, that all I got through.
  
  If you want good games for the 360, rent this one, then buy Elder Scrolls: OBLIVION, CALL OF DUTY 
 2, and maybe AMPED 3. And that add beside me is kinda old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treyskillz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  At first I thought Rare could revive their former spot as FPS champ, but it seems all of that talent 
 went to Free Radical. Perfect Dark 0's single player is short and lacks a good story. The AI is 
 **** it can get challenging on harder difficulties but only because it sends countless numbers 
 of people to attack you that spawn next to you (the AI never really gets smarter) . PDZ has its 
 good part, in multiplayer. Its full of varied weapons, game types, and 32 people online and that 
 will last you a good amount of time, my personal favorite is Infection. PDZ needs more characters 
 and levels to choose from, but that can be fix from downloads online. PDZ does not bring to X360 
 what PD did to N64, it does not even beat most shooters out now... its an average shooter, that 
 could have been a whole lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axes03
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  ohh, the thrilling moments before playing this, on the car, on the way home, putting it in my BRAND 
 NEW SHINNY 360. and after playing games like GRAW and fight night3 before this (and boy did i play 
 them) i was hoping and was almost sure that this game would blow me away (being the first true fps 
 on my 360) but WHY? WHY does it have to be like this. TRUST ME DONT GET ME WRONG, i tried so hard, so 
 hard to like, no love this game, but in the end i just gave up. my first dissapointment on my 360 
 and from RARE has sadly arrived in the form of perfect dark zero.
  the graphics are impressive, but not along the 360 standards, not along the xbox satndards either 
 in my view. while GRAW shows how environments in games should be and fight night shows a glimpse 
 of how many polygons a character can have this game is the oposite. while the backgrounds and the
 
  lighting is decent, the characters are JUST PLAIN UGLY. why rare why. just look how good conker looks 
 on the xbox compared to this crap.
  
  Controls are pretty standard, but you cant jump, BUT you can roll (wooppy; sarcasm) it still felt 
 kinda loose to me.
  
  the AI is terrible, just terrible. again ill refer to all the fun matches i had with the bots from 
 conker. this is just weird. the rag doll physics feel out of place and the animation is for some 
 reason "SLOW" (?) 
  YES, multiplayer saves this game from UTTER DISTRUCTION. while it is fast paced and pretty hardcore 
 with some good levels and modes, still it DOES NOT come any where near halo.
  
  Yes, i understand you cant compare a game to certain game or games for that matter. But after playing 
 shooter after shooter of immense qualitty on the xbox and 360, the bar has been raised. this would 
 be the best game "ever" if it was on a sony or nintendo system but i for one expect alot more from 
 Microsoft, RARE, the 360 and most importantly the 50 BUCKS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPhiller
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 11, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I love how this game invisions the future, its awesome. But besides the the game 
 itself is kinda short but is fun, you fall in love with playing it and get addicted to it quickly, 
 the only problem I have with the game are the controls, the sluggishly responsive and sometimes 
 I found it hard to look were I needed to, which isn't cool. But overall the game is nice and worth 
 a definite buy. Ive slowly fallen in love with this game and I am sure you will to =D And in the 
 end it shows that PDZ is back in a new style, a new way, and its..... sorta for the good? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wordtoyomama
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is surprisingly easy. I started playing the game expecting it to be hard. It is worth 
 the money to rent but unless you want to beat the game over and over again there is really nothing 
 to do unless you have Xbox Live or well friends over all the time. Anyway the game is very fun, 
 but I did find myself getting lost many times. The blue arrows that are supposed to show you the 
 way to the rest of the mission disappear and sometimes lead you to more enemies where as if you 
 take your own path you fight less and beat the mission faster. This game has great graphics and 
 kept me staring in awe. This game is among the highest rank of Xbox 360 games, but don't buy it 
 RENT IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricksterlau
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 11, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  U've probably think to urself u gotta get ur hands on this game after playing the flawless version 
 on the N64. I mean, dude, bk then when i first played the game, i was speachless... ur basically 
 just sitting on ur sofa thinking OMFG... you just needed to play the first level and u instantly 
 feel the flawless quality on the game & u knew what the game could provide next wid the best multiplayer 
 deathmatch ever made! 
  
  On the day I brought the Xbox 360 wid Perfect Dark 0, I was just so god damn happy. I honestly 
 couldnt describe that feeling of joy. Who cares if u paid $60 for the game. Its 'Perfect Dark' 
 0 for god sake. So went bk home and slotted in the game. Held the controller firmly and started 
 playing the game. Dude, wat an awesome intro. You no, it juse gets u into the game right away when 
 Joanna opens her eye. U think to youself this day is gonna surpass that day bk 6 years ago by miles.
 
  
  Then you play the first level for about 5 minutes and u think to urself. Huh? Am i playing 'perfect 
 dark' 0 here? Then u just suddenly realise this is just an ordinary FPS. I mean yeh, nice upgraded 
 graphics and lighting by the 360, but there wasnt that raw product feeling u had from the N64 version. 
 
  
  Gameplay - A solid FPS. Does most things right with it too. A very innovative 'cover and shoot' 
 added gameplay which brings that sense of stealth and freshness into the game. Too bad you cant 
 see in the direction in which you are leaning against. and only the side views. You wouldnt expect 
 much from a console FPS and I agree that the aiming fucntion does suck a bit since it is quite 
 hard to control the pressure on the button at some intense moments. Added rolling abilty to take 
 cover. too bad u cant switch 2 handed weapons around like u can in halo 2. Fairly slow paced as 
 well.
  
  Graphics - However bad gamers critized the character appearances, I can say one thing, the environemnts 
 are awesome. There is some phat gap between the 2. Characters look like standard ps2 or xbox graphics 
 but wid added lighting shading and texture. 100% NOT Next-Gen stuff!! Weaponary looks solid. Very 
 good material designs and u can see patterns on the grips etc. Satisfied. But honestly, this game's 
 graphics is all about the beautiful scenary.
  
  Sound - Smart move by RARE to select the same composers from the original N64 version. The soundtrack 
 is not just good, but outstanding. They all suit the environments and suituation that your in. 
 And man, I just love the intro song. I might sound cheesy or watever to some people, but i hoenslty 
 think it roxs. I honeslty wanted to give it 10. But the poor character speech and sound effects 
 from guns just pulls the marks down.
  
  Value - Depends if u play multipalyer. Yes u did pay a huge $60 for it. But if u play multiplayer 
 online, it might just balance the scale. There are loads of modes to choose from, and which most 
 of them are really fun to play when u have 16+ players. 
  
  Overall, this isnt the game that you guys have been waiting for, for the past 6 years. Its a very 
 solid game with lasting gameplay but it doesnt live up to the Perfect Dark on the N64. Last thing. 
 Definitely NOT next-gen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baller_023
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 15, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  When i first got my 360, i was dying to play this game, i really did enjoy it and i had a bunch 
 of friends over and we played it all night. This game is not a single player game, it wasn't made 
 for that, it was made for the amazing multiplayer, its a party game to say the least, and you can 
 obtain achievements online so your gamerscore wont be in vein while playing this game online. I 
 thought the single player was kinda lame, but i absolutely love co-op and had tons of fun playing 
 this game with my friend tryin to beat it and get an achievement. Overall this game is solid, for 
 all the hype it had it did kinda let down especially coming as a sequel to one of the best FPS 
 probably of all time. But lets hope the next one doesnt take as long and build up too much hype 
 or it could kill itself. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyuri
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 10, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a great game in most ways, although a lot of people are very unhappy with 
 the final product, which is not an issue, what is an issue is that most people with that opinion 
 will not accept any other view.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is not the most intuitive game in the world and most times you will not be too 
 clear on exaclty why you are trying to acheive your goal, or even how to do it. If you wait a while 
 you will see arrows on the ground showing you the way, but for example it will show you where the 
 door is and not to the pannel next to it which you need to interact with! That is it for negative 
 comments.
  
  The game looks great in almost every way, and although there is not too much detail in the maps 
 I find that they have just the right amount of objects / clutter. The weapons look awsome (even 
 on a crap television) and if you walk right up to an enemy body you will see that they are fairly 
 detailed too.
  
  The array of weapons in Perfect Dark is outstanding, and there is definately something in there 
 for every type of player (well, except fantasy gamers) . Long gone are the days where a wepon having 
 a secondary firing mode is a bonus, this game has this for every weapon and many even have a third 
 function!
  
  Multiplayer is where this game really shines and plays a lot like a modern day version of golden-eye 
 for the Nintendo 64. I have played online a few times and find it to be a load of fun! if you are 
 like me and are either new to console gaming or console fps type games (both apply for me :D) then 
 dont worry, online isnt too harsh, you will still get a fair few shots in there so long as you 
 try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rasgueado
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is one of two titles available from Rare at the launch of the Xbox 360. Unlike 
 its counterpart, Kameo: Elements of Power, Perfect Dark is a first person shooter prequel to the 
 N64 title Perfect Dark. This new title in the series builds upon its predecessor in many ways, 
 and also stands as one of the best titles on the new console from Microsoft.
  
  In PDZ you play as Joanna Dark, a mercenary for hire that works with her father doing jobs for 
 various individuals and corporations. As the story progresses Joanna is thrown into a world of 
 intrigue that will have her crossing the globe to various locales and killing a lot of guards in 
 the process.
  
  The graphics in PDZ look good. The locations are all highly detailed with good textures and lighting 
 effects, as well as having lots of nice ancillary details as well. The game also sports a nice 
 convincing motion blur effect that seems to be poised at taking the position of being the next 
 overused effect in the first wave of the next generation. The only major detriment in PDZs graphics 
 are in the character models themselves. Some of the models look pretty good, while a lot of them 
 (read: most of them) look a little too blocky and dont quite seem to fit into the world for some 
 reason. The run animations are also set-up to cause the well known skating effect as well. 
 
  
  The sound is also very nice in PDZ. The guns all have fairly big and robust sounds to them as do 
 the requisite explosions that will follow a lot of gunfire. The music, while not altogether inspiring, 
 fits the tone of the game very well. Should you be luck enough to play this title on a nice 5.1 
 system through an optical cable the positional effects are amazing.
  
  The single player game mode is presented as a series of missions that you are briefed on before 
 selecting a weapon and gadget to load up with. The armory, that you will see in between missions, 
 will be stocked with weapons that you have brought back from previous missions. If you wanted to 
 have a sniper rifle in your armory then, you would have to make sure that you complete a level 
 with one and from then on you will be able to select it from the load-out screen.
  
  The levels themselves all look very nice. The environments range from the requisite office buildings 
 and warehouses, to undersea labs and snowy mountain fortresses. Each location is also structured 
 in such a way as that you can attack most of the levels in more than one way. Different difficulty 
 levels will change the types of objectives you must meet in order to complete a mission. These 
 changes in objectives will be reflected in the type of gadgets that you can carry, which will also 
 affect the way in which you will have to deal with obstacles in the levels. Dont have a locktopus? 
 Youll have to shoot the padlock instead or blow a hole in a wall. This type of level design adds 
 to the replay value as you wont be able to just attack the level in the same way at a higher difficulty 
 level. Youll actually have to play it in a different way.
  
  The boss fights in this game are few and generally not all that compelling. Some of them are memorable 
 for how difficult they are at the higher challenge levels, but most of them are fairly forgettable. 
 Its too bad that there werent more interesting bosses in this game but the range of challenges 
 and tasks that will be required make up for the lack of boss fights.
  
  The weapons in the game are fairly numerous and each come with their own series of advantages and 
 disadvantages. Each gun has at least one alternate mode or gadget attached to it, and some have 
 two. Some examples of alternate modes are: infravision, x-ray scope, flashlights, bullet bouncing, 
 grenade launchers, and more. The weapon models themselves all look very nice and are well animated 
 in addition. 
  
  The gadgets in the game youll use far less than the weapons, but these little devices do a good 
 job of breaking up the game play during a level. Each gadget usually comes with its own mini-game 
 that you have to play in order to use it properly. Depending on where you are and what level it 
 is the mini-games will be more or less challenging to reflect that.
  
  Multiplayer was an important part of Perfect Dark, and its equally important here. The developers 
 have created a heavily customizable multiplayer game with plenty of team and solo based game modes 
 to play across Xbox live on. A lot of the game modes will seem familiar holding strategic locations 
 or capture the flag modes but more interesting modes exist as well. Infection is one of my favorite. 
 One player starts as infected and must kill another player in order to infect them. As time ticks 
 down, the goal is to remain uninfected by the time the round ends. 
  
  The options available for setting up multiplayer games will keep things interesting on Xbox live 
 for awhile, as will the available maps. There arent a large number of maps available at the moment, 
 but there are enough and the customization options helps keep them fresh.
  
  In the end, despite having a fairly forgettable story, Perfect Dark Zero stands as a really good 
 and very challenging action game for the Xbox 360. If youre in the market for a good first person 
 shooter that also has great on-line multiplay than you can look no further than Perfect Dark Zero.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroidmaniac88
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 9, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is the prequel to the N64's great title Perfect Dark. You play as Joanna Dark, 
 the protagonist and bounty hunter so to speek. You go through 14 (if you count the mission 0) missions. 
 The story isnt all that good, but the gameplay makes up for it as it is very solid. The sound in 
 the game is great and the guns sound very satisfying. The multiplayer aspect is also great. Thats 
 if you can connect to a game. You will have trouble connecting to a lot of games, even small ones 
 with only 4 people in them. There are 4 deathmatch games Killcount, Team Killcount, Capture the 
 Flag, and Territorial gains. Then for Dark-Ops games, Eradication, infection, sabotage and onslaught. 
 All 8 game types are fun again if you CAN connect. All in all this is a sold FPS and if your looking 
 for a new game for your 360 get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mykey93
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  if you liked halo 2 you would like thi sgame, it has cool weapons but the achievements are a little 
 put there, but i have friends who are gana get 360s so ill be keeping it so ill have time to work 
 on them. The only random thing is... everything soo... shiny, but is a game worth buying because there 
 arent that many great games for the 360, but the ones out there are good expecally if you like sports. 
 They have a nice arangment of game types and a nice matchmaking so its easy to find games, and 
 theres bots, they make you feel better if you just plain suck... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simins4
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 8, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Saying that Perfect Dark Zero is the HALO for Xbox 360 is like saying the Gamecube is the NES of 
 the 1999-2005 consle race, Bull sh*t. This is a step back to the original Perfict Dark. The old 
 school of no school (And that is my whight boy kiking in) . First of all, you can't jump... not 
 actuly a big deal but some of you will be pritty pist. second, there is vary little if no atotargeting... 
 wich isint a big deal eather, becase shewting blindly werks half of the time. THREE, THE GAME IS 
 GLICHE AS HELL... which WODENT be a problem if it didint interfere with gameplay. I had to retern 
 my original copy becase when i killed the boss at the end of levle 3, the game frose. Then I had 
 to go back to Gamestop and traid it in for another one.
  also, the voice acting is tarible at best.
  
  Now, besides that, this game is grate. that might 
 be hard to understand for some of you (OMFG U CANT  
 
  The game is not bad besides some multiplayer absinsise, but this wont be a problem for those of 
 you who once blaid Bond games. the visuals are amasing, the game is fun, the guns are just cool, 
 and you can pic the game up for $50, becase RARE arnt gredy basterds.
  
  I will sugjest try befor you Buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewierules91
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS EXTREMELY INTENSE AND FUN, HAS AN AMAZINGLY FUN SINGLE PLAYER AND COOP MISSIONS AND STUFF, 
 AND THE MULTIPLAYER DOESN: T GET MUCH BETTER. YOU can solve missions anyway you want, headshot some 
 noobs, and bleed. the environments are fun and creative, the vehicles leave more to be desired, 
 but it makes up for that with some kick a*s gameplay and some fun game modes. Play with fire, snipe 
 some unsuspectful civilian, or rip through people with your machine gun. tons of guns and levels, 
 an intense multiplayer and single player, and plenty of online fun make this a MUST HAVE GAME. 
 BUY THIS SH*T. GET IT NOW SHOOT SOME GUYS. blow up stuff. I WOULD GIVE IT A 9.9, but I cant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riot429
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  I'm getting sick off all you noobs and your Perfect Dark is not Halo or Call of Duty 2. It is not 
 spose to be. God it is called Perfect Dark Zero for a reason! It is not called Halo: Perfect Dark 
 Zero or Call of Duty 2: Perfect Dark Zero. It's Perfect Dark Zero it's own game. Now that I got 
 that out of the way. Perfect Dark Zero is what I expected it to be, great. The weapon's are highly 
 detailed and most of the charters look great. The enimies are all the same and don't have much 
 verity. It doesn't make the game horrible. It doesn't even make the quilty go down. The sound is 
 great and I didn't find my self listing to custom tracks. The weapons also sound great and true 
 to the real weapon it's self. The story is well written and you just have to listen and understand 
 it. The weapons, there are many and they are all awesome and fun to use. The controll for this 
 game is perfect. The coop and multiplayer is great and shines compared to other games. You will 
 clip through trees in the jungle level. It didn't bother me and it shouldn't it one, people just 
 like to point out stuff that no one cares about. If you own a 360 this should defintly be in you 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mc2much
Rating: 2.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  this game may have been given a 9 but it does deserve this at all it is probably one of the worst 
 games i have ever played, and i have player alot of games. When u start to play you have no idea 
 what you are ment to do iv been playing it for a while now and i still dont get what is going on 
 with the story line. there is like nothing going for this game apart from the controls (which are 
 just halos controls) and backgrounds. the faces on it are rubbish. one other thing that gets on 
 my nerves is you have no idea where you are ment to go and all i get is that anoying voice telling 
 me to hurry up i just feel like turning off the sound. i highly dont recomend this game unless 
 they give it away even then i would still have to think about taking it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 3.4
Date: Apr 6, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The physics are HORRIBLE the aiming is BAD REALLY BAD and the fact the vehicles SUCK 
 and most weapons are VERY stupid and there are no good ones the gameplay gets a: 4
  
  Graphics: are ok but not very good at all the graphics are ok at a range but upclose it looks like 
 puke. The charecter models suck even more they look like a ps2 game graphics get a: 6
  
  Sounds: OH MY GOD THEY SUCK!!! The music blows the gun shots suck and the voice acting is bad enuff 
 to be a 10$ buget movie with corny ass lines like "im gonna drop you like a bad conversation" Sound 
 gets a: 5
  
  Value: online with cool modes but that dont help: 3
  
  Tilt: Dont buy PLEASE DONT BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: servadac42
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 6, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark has to be one of the best first person shooters ever created. It has great characters, 
 missions and a multiplayer mode that you can play for an eternity since there are so many customization 
 options. There's been a long wait for a sequel for that game, but finally, here it is. I bought 
 my Gamecube only for this game, so it was slightly annoying that I had to buy this addition to 
 my GC called XBox 360 in order to be able to play the game. Oh well.
  
  The controls of the game are somewhat off, they are nowhere near as good as the controls for the 
 original game. The graphics are really nice and the part where this game really shines (literally) . 
 Soundwise the game is pretty disappointing, the weapon sounds pack no punch even if you crank up 
 the volume. And don't even get me started on the "story".
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is an entertaining game for at long as it lasts, which is not very long I'm afraid. 
 If you want a fast-paced shooter with a glossy surface, look no further. If you are expecting another 
 Perfect Dark, on the other hand, you will be sorely dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raymin4
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  The story line of this game is pretty good, better than the n64 original. Since this was the first 
 game I purchased for the 360, naturally I thought the graphics were awesome and they are. The blur 
 in the screen when you turn fast is a nice touch but even after adjusting the sensitivity of the 
 joy sticks I couldn't get the response that I desire. The multi-player is almost as addicting as 
 it was in the original.... unfortunately the campaign is not. I found myself becoming bored only 
 after a couple hours of play. Overall this is still an awesome game for the 360 and I am sure it 
 will become a classic. Great graphics, Great story line, decent gameplay, and good multi-player.... worth 
 at least renting... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thezuki
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 5, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This was one game i was looking forward to on the xbox 360. then i got it and i was highly disappointed. 
 Lets start with the good. The multiplayer. The player is fast, fun and has alot of modes to play. 
 But after about a month of playing it straight i dont like it any more but o well. Now the single 
 player. This game is pretty short and i hate short games. Also it has teh worst story line ever. 
 The graphics are pretty good the sound is good. The best part of the game is definately the amount 
 of guns, this is what seperates this game from sucking butt hole 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T00HuMaN
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This was a very fun game. the online is just amazing! one things there isnt a good consistent rating 
 system (ranking) . The story mode wasnt all that great ethier.... only 12 missions so it wasnt to long. i 
 liked the story better than most people but i still didnt like it that much! But i played all the 
 online i could..... i had some connection problems though, i only could join every 1 out of 5 games 
 i tryed. i dont think it was my hard connection it was just connecting to the game. other wise 
 i loved the online. a decent ammount of game types and maps! you can get this game pretty cheap 
 on ebay and would defintly recomend it for the online play but if you dont have online dont get 
 it! my gamertag is DaMarksman II so send me a friend request if you wanna play or have any other 
 questions! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toasted_Gnome
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 4, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  well, when people said it was going to be the new halo I was interested. Only to be slightly angered 
 on how clumsy the game handled...
  
  Sure the entire conept of the game was great, it had next gen graphics, and had good multiplayer 
 and single player... but what the hell.... it was never that good....
  
  I have played every game mode there is, and I can't say I enjoyed it. The camera angles are wierd 
 (when not in first person) , and the camera tends to go crazy sometimes when simply trying to peak 
 around a corner or roll. these are great features, but they make multiplayer pretty downright confusing... 
 Everyone is constantly rolling around (in my experience) just to dodge every bullet you fire at 
 them, with a gun that shoots off all its rounds extremely fast, and then have to wait a very long 
 time for joanna to clumsily reload the gun and fire again. And why is it every time I mention how 
 hard it is to actually shoot someone with my gun, everyone tells me: "because it takes skill"... well 
 I gave this game plenty of chances to impress me, and it obviously did not succeed... I fiddled 
 around with the controls, to the annoying menu music and tried and tried time after time to get 
 used to them, but they just kept getting more and more uncomfortable. I would either look too slow, 
 or look slightly too fast, and I would try and pick somewhere in between, but then it would be 
 good for shooting someone in my sights but I would turn way too damn slow to react to anything 
 going on behind me, and vice versa. I also wasn't a fan of the whole "the more you turn the faster 
 you go" deal... It was like a damn circus ride trying to shoot someone. I have been playing FPS's 
 for years, and I have never witnessed myself spinning around randomly and looking at the ground, 
 which just shows how bloody hard the controls are to get used to... Atleast in games like Ghost 
 Recon 3, and Halo 2 the settings are more rounded and easier to apply and get used to. Anyways, 
 AFTER I got used to the awkward controls (which I can assure you was a LONG time later) , I played 
 online with my friends, some of them were having a great time, and I don't blame them, ir was one 
 of the first next gen games, it was new and exciting... But I found the multiplayer simply... well... boring... 
 The animations make the characters look like they have a stick shoved up their @$$ and forced to 
 run around with it... The camera goes all wierd sometimes... and when I pour an entire clip of "highly 
 effective" ammunition into a person, I kind of expect them to react, not just run into it as if 
 it wasn't even there... Last time I checked we weren't playing paintball... Well, after I got over 
 that, and complained to everyone about it, I started noticing how bland the gametypes were... what 
 the hell... nobody wants to play capture the flag, on a poorly designed level (like desert, for 
 example, it's so big you never see half of it, and when you try to, the game ends befopre you can 
 even make it...) with no vehicles... What's the point... vehicles are great in games like this, like 
 having a jeep that you can drive all your buddies into battle in, and all pile out in a crazy assault 
 on the enemy base. You never see that in perfect dark. All you ever see is a small squad of people 
 slowly entering a base, or streaming in one by one, into a base, to capture a base or flag with 
 barely any excitement. I know that it is supposed to be a spy/high tech james bond like game. But 
 if they were actually going for that, they wouldn't have put in the giant heavy machine gun, and 
 the vehicles like the hovercraft, which is incredibly awkward to drive, and nobody ever wants to 
 get in with you because it belongs in a junk yard, not a battlefield... Anyway, the game is decent... but 
 not great... it doesn't top games like GRAW (which isn; t that fun anymore) or Halo 2 (face it, it 
 was an amazing game, it had everytrhing you could have needed for chaotic multiplayer matches... but 
 that's not why im here...) . When I play halo i generally have a good time (which WAS the entire 
 concept of a VIDEO GAME) , not a frustrating, hectic time just battling with the controls and listening 
 to diehard perfect dark fans go on and on about how great it is (that's their opinion though) . 
 Oh, and if you do explore the levels more, they are well designed, but not for multiplayer matches. 
 The work put into level design is amazing and I think that the designers did a great job with it, 
 but the game just doesn't work. I'm not trying to put the game down, I'm just asking why a game 
 like this couldn't have been better? And how this much time and effort could be put into it, only 
 to have the entire multiplayer mechanics fail. There is no reason to have a sniper rifle, there 
 are no sniper perches or anything of the sort, yet anything that shoots faster will run out of 
 ammo in around five seconds... There's no median, or real strategy in picking weapons, or taking 
 vehicles, or travelling in groups. Also the levels don't have to make sense, look at Halo 2's (sorry 
 for the frequent comparison) lockout, and cagulation. Sure lockout has a story, but if they didn't 
 want the flood to escape, why the hell would you build a research lab on the side of a cliff?!? 
 That doesn't seem very logical at all. Coagulation is simply a desert are with two pointless (but 
 entirely functional) bases, with rocks and trees. It is a map dominated by vehicles, but it's not 
 difficult to get around by foot either. It shows you that levels do not have to have a deep storyline 
 and have a fat reason telling you why you are there and what's going on to be functional. Overall 
 this game was not THAT great, atleast not as great as it was SUPPOSED to be. If it hadn't of been 
 so overhyped that I went out and bought it for $80 just because it was supposed to be "really pushing 
 the envelope" and "one of the best shooters to date" I wouldn't be writing such a long review. 
 But it really deserves it. It really takes the cake in that category. Hell, it takes the ENTIRE 
 BAKERY in that category. I think this was one of the most overhyped games ever. Even more-so than 
 Halo 2, which was REALLY, REALLY overhyped (I will admit) , but it really delivered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gvanginkel
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I must say I got some good laughs out of watching dead guys flop around and bounce through the 
 air after I threw a grenade. They just kept going and going and going... This game was rushed and 
 you can see it in the execution. The bad guys all look like shiny blow-up dolls and the fighting 
 gets repetitive. I expected more after reading the Gamespot review which tends to me right on, 
 but sadley it was way off. I would give this game a fair rating at best. It's on the same fun level 
 as watching my cat chase it's tale ( it makes me giggle sometimes and then I move on) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan0187
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 4, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  Not an instant classic, not a Halo-killer, and certainly not what it was anticipated to be. If 
 you give it play time it's not a bad game at all. Lots of cool features though, like unlockables 
 and the online co-op mode. Sweet weapons!!! The only reason why I think this game is overrated 
 is that the aiming system feels like a previous-gen game thats all messed up; not like the aiming 
 SHOULD be, considering it takes an hour to turn around even at 100 sensitivity. Im sure anyone 
 who has played this game for at least a couple of hours will notice this problem. Graphics are 
 pretty good. Textures could be more detailed at times. Certain ways you see it it's like watching 
 a cartoon. I would definetely recommend this game to any FPS fans out there, but all in all, just 
 an average experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HighStakes-
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 3, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  The original PD was fun, but lets faces it, it was no Goldeneye 007. It had the same formula as 
 Goldeneye, and with the use of the N64's expansion pack, it even made the graphics look even better! 
 So how PD0 compare to its predecessor? Well, lets just say it could've been better.
  
  Its been six years, and you might wonder if PD0 is really a big improvement over its grandpa. Graphics 
 sometimes is choppy, when someone dies... they tend to "bounce" around or just does'nt look like 
 they died in the right position; and you will notice this a lot when playing the game. Character's 
 have this cheap plastic look during the cinematic, and things tend to slow down a bit when there 
 are too many things going on in the cinematics. Sound is'nt that great either... just does'nt feel 
 like a "Perfect Dark" theme.
  
  So you might be wondering, is this game fun at all? In a word, It is.
  
  You see, PD0 shines 
 in its gameplay. You can now control vehicles, carry a limited number of weapons... and its just 
 a blast to go thorough the rooms and taking down enemies one by one. Speaking of the enemies, they 
 are a lot smarter than the original game... they will take cover, hide, and they are dead accurate 
 on normal setting. PD0 introduces this "cover" option, you might think its just there for novelty; 
 but trust me, you will be using this option quite a lot after about half way through the game.
 
  
  There might be some times when this game has graphics issus; but for the most part, graphics look 
 very good. Its hard to see them from screen shots, but when your playing the game, the game is 
 very smooth running. The Cinematics might have slowdowns, but when you playing the actual game, 
 everything is silky smooth!
  
  Music in PD0 may be terrible, but the sound of guns and people is amazing through your 5.1 surround 
 sound system. When running over snow, sand, or concrete... they actually sound like their real life 
 counter part. Noise made by some of those guns is just fantastic! 
  
  Overall, Perfect Dark Zero was a fun game. The multiplayer is'nt the best, but its fun... and going 
 through the mission with a friend is a very nice touch (enemies are twice as tough) . The game has 
 lots of un-lockables, so it will keep you busy for quite some time. If you were a fan of the original, 
 then you will like it... but if you are new to PD series, or been a fan of Halo-Half Life series, 
 you might want to give this a rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is underappreciated. The graphics are simply amazing and the gameplay is fun. It takes 
 a while to get used to though, especially multiplayer. If you are expecting to be blown away immediately, 
 don't. You have to give it a chance and it will get really fun. This is the perfect (no pun intended) 
 follow-up to the first one. The online is fairly addicting. There are tons of different, clever, 
 unusual gametypes that are really fun. Some people stress that you must shoot people a lot to kill 
 them. They're obviously oblivious. You have to watch your aiming circle. WHen you shoot, it gets 
 bigger and your accuracy gets lower. It's called realism, people. A few shots to the head will 
 surely kill someone. Just make so you give it a chance before deciding you hate it, because there's 
 something great here! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666_NOTB
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was one of the most hyped games before the Xbox 360 came out. On launch day, 
 I go out and buy this game thinking it will be the shooter for Xbox 360. After about 10 hours, 
 I can safely say that it isn't. In fact, this game is a big hit or miss with most people. Either 
 you will really love it or you're going to hate it. I think I'm the first person that's inbetween. 
 The difficulty can be quite hard for newcomes and will take around 30 minutes to 60 minutes to 
 get the full hang of it.
  
  Gameplay: Really slow. If you're looking for something fast paced, don't look here, it's not what 
 you'll want. 32 online player matches are very fun however and if you get the weapons balanced 
 out than you can have a good time.
  
  Graphics: Not good at all, textures look fantasitc. This game needs serious Anti-Aliasing help 
 and the character models are quite rubbish.
  
  Sound: Good, but nothing mind-blowing. Don't really think about it after playing Call of Duty 2.
 
  
  Value: This is tough, I think this title is worth maybe about 30 dollars. I don't think that it 
 as worth the whole 50, and I suggest that most of you (especially Halo fanatics) to wait for a 
 price drop before you consider picking this up. If you like slow paced, then this might be the 
 game that you have been waiting for and it probably won't dissappoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nauman_97
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  Perfect dark zero is a very highly anticipated title prequel to the much appreciated n64's perfect 
 dark and it surely lives upto the hype and the expectations.
  First good impression you get is looking at awesome looking graphics which are truly next gen in 
 every sense of the meaning. Textures are especially worth mentioning. Visuals are also mindblowing.
 
  Gameplay is as good as are its graphics. Its fast paced and very diverse so an absolute treat. 
 Awesome guns, effects and sound really make it a true next gen experience. Especially sounds are 
 as realistic as they can get but unfortunately the voice overs are terrible. Music is outatanding 
 and really add to its overall experience. And multiplayer also makes the game an outstanding title.
 
  On the downside the story is disastrous and really nothing to mention and looks like the develpores 
 haven't paid any attention to it but it really doesn't matter coz the gameplay covers it all.
 
  So in the end i would say that its one of the best fps of all time and if u r looking for a true 
 next gen fps with lots of replay value then look no further than perfect dark zero. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vojkan80001
Rating: 3.9
Date: Apr 2, 2006 5:13 am PT
Review:  This is the most overrated game for Xbox 360!
  After watching so many commercials about this game on TV i had high expectations! I am really disappointed 
 with this game, because when it comes to graphics, this is so last gen!
  There is at least 5 FPS game for original Xbox that look better or are at same graphical level 
 as this game.
  Only biggest fans (there are many sadly) of this game, will find a way to like it and of course 
 overrate it.
  I dont recommend buying this game, its just not worth it! Rent it and if you dont even do that, 
 its not like you are missing a lot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 1, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the original Perfect Dark on the N64. That game was the best.
  So I had high expectations for this. And it hasn't met them, but it's still a decent enough shooter.
 
  
  The graphics are decent enough, though the only standouts would be the guns - they look absolutely 
 terrific. Voice acting is mostly decent and I love the music.
  
  Singleplayer Perfect Dark is just a no thrills shooter. It's not to say it's bad, it's just extremely 
 generic. 
  Multiplayer is where it's at. I can't play online, alas - but splitscreen's always been my preference 
 and it's great here. I'm glad they kept the bots in too.
  Not enough shooters these days have bots, atleast not console shooters.
  
  If you liked the 
 first one, then this would be worth getting - if only for the multiplayer and the sake of completion. 
 There are better shooters out there though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_pettenuzzo11
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  ok ive had this game since i got the 360 and this is what i think that is th e most overrated game 
 ever!!
  
  Perfect Dark Zero 
  
  Graphics=7 
  This is NOT what the 360 can do ive played COD2 and Rare COuldve done much better, some of the 
 enviroments are pretty cool but the characters look like someone took a crap on their faces,
  
  Sound=6
  Well now the sound i must say the Voiceovers in this game are funny the first few 
 times u hear them but then they annoy the living hell outve u cuz they suck really really badly...
 
  
  Gamplay=7
  Well if u have played an FPS then uve played PDZ.. the multiplayer is fun for a little while but 
 the characters move slow and some weapons are too overpowered  
 not to mention that it takes like 300 shots for a gun to kill you, the vehicles arent that fun 
 to drive, ther are only 2 of them, yes they added lil mini games for the different gadgets but 
 they are wayy to easy. the AI is soo stupid u can walk up to them and it will take a few seconds 
 for them to notice you, the co-op play is ok but sometimes on the harder difficulties its a pain 
 in the A** just to get to the next obejective, Rare Really Dropped the ball when it comes to innovation 
 in an FPS
  
  Value=3
  with the crappy single player the ONLY remaining value left in this game is the multiplayer and 
 trust me its no halo 2 when it comes to fun factor, 
  
  tilt=6 
  this game was fun for the first week but after that it got old and repetitive after dishing out 
 69.99 (canadian) to get this is feel used, 
  RENT IT there are better games to spend your money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrpion_5_7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  After purchasing this game, then to hear some harsh criticism from some people i felt underwhelmed 
 when i purchased the 360 at launch with COD2, after spending a good amount of hours with the game 
 i am thoroughly impressed with this game, i enjoy it more than COD2 because.....
  
  The multiplayer first off is a blast, though it takes time to get used to the damage system and 
 the lack of grenades for the left trigger (halo) but after that it becomes one of the most enjoyable 
 multiplayers i ve played and though, slightly diffrent to the origional its just as enjoyable thanks 
 to the return of suprisingly inttlegent bots. 
  
  The single player is very good, but the dodgy cut scenes ruin what story is trying to be told and 
 there are sometimes questionable ragdoll, and the music is good overall, though some levels have 
 questionable music which is a shame after the first ones awesome music. But the weapons, graphics 
 are awesome, though i was hoping for a more "real" graphical style, PDZ graphics do grow on you 
 and i love it!. Some levels are enourmous though levels 2, 3 and 4 arent impressive but they soon 
 get bigger and better!. PD doesnt need a hovercraft, though the jet pack is cool. 
  
  This game is highly enjoyable, its just a notch below the first one, otherwise it s still a blast 
 to play especially if you loved the first. The weapons, graphic, multiplayer are excellent, single 
 player is great as well. I dont understand why RARE decided not to include blood/explosion stains 
 and maybe some better voices in the game would be welcome along with better enemy faces, otherwise 
 a top game!.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GS_darkplayer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I think it more better then the last one. But they should have take more time on making the singal 
 player part of game more introresting then they did. But i have a feeling that that multiplayer 
 part of the game is where is fun is. And I hope one day i will play it honestly. And That all i 
 have to say. And it really for fans of the seiris. And not much for new ones in this IP of REAR. 
 And who want play this game should play the oringal first before they play with this one. And that 
 the fact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vicens17
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  When peolple play this game, they play it for ten minutes and put it down because they don't take 
 time to actually figure out this game isn't a run-n-gun. This game is very fun and interesting, 
 but once you give it some time.
  
  The graphics are a little too shiny at times and, as i like to say, blind you to the point of tears. 
 The charecter models look a little too cartoony for a next gen game. Meanning that they have little 
 to no face animation. And the animations that they do have, look forced. As in unatural.
  
  The sound is very different. The guns dont pack that o-so special that you expect from a FPS. But 
 other than that, the sound is pretty good.
  
  The multiplayer is a little dissapointing though. There are only a few maps. While you can make 
 them bigger or smaller if your the host, they al feel the same. And they are a little confusing 
 at times. They are very weird. As in, you can get lost in a single room. And the action is very 
 slow paced.
  
  So if you own a 360, be weary about this game, while it's all together a good game, it's not for 
 everybody. I suggest a rent first. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aweus
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  And to made a simple statement - it failed. I was excited to see the Perfect Dark franchise revived 
 on new generation console. However Rare simply was not able to make a great game, a thing they 
 did back then on Nintendo 64. As for the visual presentation of Zero I can simply say it is OK. 
 Nothing I could whine about since game looks nice and have smooth FPS. However I did not seen anything 
 which modern medium grade PC would not be able to handle. 
  
  The problem is, PDZ's story and level design are worth nothing. To be honest I don't really know 
 what this game was about. Cutscenes are short and stupid (yes!) while all we care about is simply 
 how to finish this level asap. Worst thing is, levels are also designed poor. We just push forward 
 killing bad guys and that is all. Come on! Where is the subtlety? I like the design of Joanna, 
 but you could expect her to rely more on her agility and clever arsenal. But no. Jo was simply 
 turned into the battle tank. I felt like I was playing Serious Sam. My dear god, she was supposed 
 to do this with style! 
  
  The best part about Zero is the music. I liked most of the tunes and it would be nice to have them 
 on my Winamp, maybe even home stereo system. But music will not make the game alone. At least my 
 ears was not tortured.
  
  If you are new with Xbox 360 I guess it may be a nice idea to have this game for a weekend. Play 
 the single campaign (which won't last long) and go get a new game. Freaks of online game may be 
 pleased since deathmatch experience is quite nice thanks to weapon variety. But then again, in 
 my opinion Perfect Dark should be a single player game with multiplayer bonus, not the other way 
 around. Some people say Zero is a great title. Not for me. I say it is only good (and I'm being 
 generous here) . I wanted a great storyline with interesting missions with Jo as a star. Too bad 
 I ended up without that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 1:29 am PT
Review:  im actually pretty impressed by this game, its got alot of options i liked about it, the online 
 coop is remarkable, the single player is pretty solid, and has some really innovative stages (rooftop 
 escape) you can play 2 different ways in coop. it did have a couple of issues i wish rare would 
 have worked out before its release.
  
  first, there isnt alot of multiplayer maps but ive just gotten news that there will be more for 
 download... a couple of the cut scene sequences were a lil choppy but not too bad. the difficulty 
 is a bit ridiculous at times on perfect agent (agent=easy / secret agent=more missions but easy 
 / perfect agent=learn to hate the magnum and heavy guns cause youre gonna die ALOT!) no room for 
 mistakes.... but the game definately has its good sides too. its fun and you can get alot of play 
 time out of the single player/coop missions. if youre just now getting the game forget about online 
 for awhile until you get the hang of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kramermyth88
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  As i said up there you can hate or love this game for many reasons. Let me go in order first of 
 all the gameplay is able to give some great fast paced shooting different from halo. There are 
 many options within playing the game such as taking cover in any spot to peak out and shot very 
 well done in a 3rd person pesective, also do rolls to dodge and the very wide range of weapon varitey 
 and all of there secondary functions will give you great fun and options. A. I. will do some awsome 
 things such and saying when your reloading and then go in or ask one an other to cover them also 
 the way they move to dodge you. But they can also be extremly stupid such as sometimes in a middle 
 of a gun fight they'll just be unaware all of a sudden or if far away they'll be unaware when you 
 just had this gun fight with all this yelling and loud weapons. The level disigns are very great 
 but at a very small price it leads to a some what bad story line ( But Halo2 now you can't complain) 
 The graphics are very detailed and the lighting is just about perfect. the only thing is that the 
 physics are a bit off. the guns and explosions sound great but the voice acting could just make 
 you cry. The multiplayer is pretty good the only problem is the maps seem to be made for halo 2 
 however with all the customization you can still get much out of it.
  For old Perfect dark fans you'll be disappointed at first but once you get over the takin out features 
 then you'll have a great time (my first disapointment was acctually seeing the menu) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmishJuggalo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I am reviewing Perfect Dark Zero for the Xbox 360. This game is mindblowing wether online or off 
 the single player is excelent the story is great i havent beat it yet cause it is very challenging 
 even on the normal difficulty. One thing i really like about the story difficulties is that the 
 way u do the mission is differnt with the differnt difficulties like on agent its more straight 
 forward but on secret agent u have 2 go around more its tight i really like it it is hard specially 
 the stealth missions but its amazing and the multiplayer MAN I HAVE SPENT ALOT OF TIME IN IT. Its 
 great all the modes are a blast 32 players online (it gets crazy with all 32 and with rockets its 
 soo fun though specially when ure in urban in the hotel there and everyone is blastin!!!) the game 
 modes are killcount and dark ops but each have alot of modes in them like killcount has a all out 
 death match everyman for themselves, team deathmatch, CTF, and tearritorys, and Dark ops has eradication 
 think counter strike but alot better graphics, infection like zombies on halo 2 but alot funner, and 
 2 otha modes i cant think of but anyway there a blast, soo i love PDZ its great the graphics are 
 mind blowing i want 2 see em in hi def i only have a standered TV but the detail that is in everything 
 is awesome the wait was great but it dosent dissapoint my fav FPS on 360 the maps on multiplayer 
 are fantastic its like several maps in one cause they can be bigger and wider if u want them 2 
 be like desert is awesome for snipers when its on the biggest setting. Well i just rented this but 
 ima buy it for my b day i cant wait 2 actually own it!!!! Soo buy this game its amazing or rent 
 it if ure not sure i love it im good at it also like today i was playing a match to 100 kills came 
 in when some guy had 23 kills and i won the match wit 100 and the guy who had 23 when i joined 
 had 67 kills so i owned it it rocked well PDZ IS L337 soo its a must buy!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Instead of going into details and reviewing the game itself I will simply break down the game why 
 I gave it the scores I did.
  
  Gameplay: Almost perfect. I would have given it a 9.5 but the system doesn't operate that way. 
 It is is essentially the same in mechanics to the first Perfect Dark on the N64 with some noticeable 
 changes.
  
  1.) Aiming is a little more precise, some people find that to be irritating, I myself do too. Perhaps 
 this is the programmers way of balancing the game, I don't know. It is not enough to totally ruin 
 the score but it is noticable.
  
  2.) Rolls: Those are quite handy for ducking enemy fire and are very useful in multiplayer if not 
 frustrating. I figure it shouldn't be too easy to hit a mobile target though anyways, and it only 
 helps in the single player mode.
  
  3.) Vehicles: An interesting addition, but not utilized to the fullest, sort of a bonus. The controls 
 are a little shaky as well.
  4.) Changes of secondary functions: Some were toned down to be more fair (Farsight anyone?) Others 
 were added in and were rather effective, particularly the threat detector on the RCP90. This is 
 part of what made the original Perfect Dark so great.
  
  The gameplay is very playable and I am glad I can tune the sensitivity of the controls. Overall 
 very well done, some interesting additions with only a few iffy spots, therefore 9/10
  
  Graphics:
  
  Well, just stunning graphics. Very detailed, a lot of little nuances like the 
 warning on the rocket launcher or tatoos on Chandra's leg make it stick out. Excellent lighting 
 and scenery, the enemies are of course repeats of each other but very detailed. Rare has always 
 had vivid colors and brilliant textures, that cannot be denied.
  
  I cannot say I ever saw through a wall or had a poor job rendering, the camera angles were always 
 fair and useful. Maybe I was expecting that from the techincal limitations related to the N64, 
 but I assure you the 360 does not have these problems.
  
  My biggest drawback was that EVERYTHING was shiny, even objects that shouldn't be shiny were. That 
 held me back from giving a perfect score, therefore 9/10
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound was perfect, every gun had a different firing sound. Silencers silenced shots, the grenades 
 popping out of the chambers made a hollow fwoop noise. Footsteps were spot on, bullets whizzing 
 by were accurate (Can't say I was ever in a gunfight thought) . The comments are hillarious, particularly 
 the deathmatch announcer. Value: No slowdown, oh man that made the game a godsend. Even with the 
 expansion pack PD 64 was hard to play, especially with more than 1 player. The increase in the 
 game's performance improved it in all aspects.
  
  I expected a lot from this game, and as far as game play, I feel I got it. It has 4 play modes 
 in single player, I. E. Agent, Secret, Perfect and Dark agent. The game is much easier in coop mode, 
 and as you progress with harder difficulty settings, more objectives per level open up, giving 
 a more complete game experience.
  I love the fact with two player cooperative you start in different spots, like the Rooftops level, 
 one person plays as Jo and one as Jack from below with Jo covering up top. Or you have to open 
 one door and let the person in from another side. Its a different view on the single player mode. 
 The deathmatch is excellent online, this is where the deathmatch shines with many modes including 
 Killcount to Capture the Flag to a King of the hill game. Dark Ops also offers another set of gameplay 
 types, of which my favorite is I guess Infection, although Sabotage and Onslaught are fun as wel. 
 It's best described as a tug of war between those infected and those not.
  
  The biggest detraction is the lack of challenges from the previous installment. That would provide 
 fertile ground for more achievements or just more fun and diverse play style.
  
  Reviewers Tilt:
  
  What can I say, the game has a lot to live up to, with the exception of 
 what I mentioned above, I have only one major problem with the game overall:
  
  The storyline was sort of thin, I felt they could have bulked it up some more. Particularly I didn't 
 like how stoic Jo was after mission 5, or the ending was sort of weak. I did see some foreshadowing 
 in there. Asking for Metal Gear Solid level of storyline would be asking for a lot, but a little 
 more would have been nicer. Like I said, it is hard to redefine a game that defined a genre. But 
 overall I think that the game delivers a solid follow up, prequel rather to a hard to follow masterpiece. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echmyr
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  This was my first 360 game (it was the only one I saw that I even considered buying when I got 
 my 360) . I have never been a stealth gamer. I am more into the RPG and FPS than stealth games (I 
 have never even play Splinter Cell) , so I was really not sure what to expect.
  
  At first I struggled way to much because I wanted to shot everything. The one time I heard an enemy 
 yell, 'He's not breathing!" followed by a swarm of enemies I realized my mistake. Since then I 
 have advanced (only on Agent level right now) into the story and it has become much more of an 
 FPS than stealh to me.
  
  This game is good, but I wish I would have waited to buy a used version and saved some money. The 
 graphics are good, but I don't see them as really improved over other games I have played on XBox 
 (though I don't have HDTV yet either) . 
  
  Game play is good, but I can't figure out if this was suppose to be an FPS or a stealth game. Seems 
 the game is not sure either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duh_to_the_avo
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I picked this title up when I first scored my 360 back in January. While I knew better than to 
 expect another perfect dark for the N64, I figured this title was still worth the absolutely ludicrous 
 Canadian price of $69.99 for the limited edition version of the game. The first thing I noticed 
 when I popped in the cd was (obviously) the incredibly good looking james-bondy intro. After seeing 
 that I was kindof surprised to see how cartoony the graphics were, not that I'm complaining however, 
 because no matter how strange the cartoonish player models looked, they all looked more realistic 
 than I had expected. While the voice acting definetly leaves something to be desired, the sound 
 effects were, for the most part, quite realistic. However the one reason this review cannot be 
 a nine is the simplicity of the whole campaign. I started off the game on secret agent, remembering 
 all too well the 6 hours I had spent on the original perfect dark on easy. I still managed to blast 
 through this game in about eight hours on secret agent, which is just far too short. I love a hard 
 game and this one definitely did not step up to the plate for me at all. However I am quite pleased 
 with the way the multiplayer on Xbox live turned out. nearly everyone I have ever found on xbox 
 live that isn't a total bag of dicks has come from perfect dark. Only once did I ever have a chuggy 
 experience online, and that was when the host was secretly harbouring an extremely low speed connection, 
 and was downloading music at the same time. One more thing before I wrap this review up is, whats 
 with all the people who don't like the game never using a spell checker? A quick browse through 
 some of the community reviews left me stunned at the sheer ineptitude of some of the writers. Is 
 this what the american (thats right, I didn't capitalize it, get over it) education system teaches 
 it's students? Or were you all home schooled by the kids who licked the lead paint off the walls? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_haydnz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  I got this game along with 3 others when i got my xbox at Nz launch. This was the first game that 
 i played and i must say the first time i played it i was litarally like what is this garbage?
 
  So i switched it off and played my other games. Yesterday i decided to give it another shot and 
 started doing the missions in the single player mode. Well im currently up to mission 8 / 13 and 
 this is what i have so far..
  
  Gameplay - 7
  The gameplay in this game can sometimes be a little boring and the missions are sometimes hard 
 to keep up with and hard to understand.
  
  Graphics - 9
  The graphics are quite decent on some stages but the characters arent to great and there are a 
 few glitches here and there. In comparrison to other games like graw this game is really bad on 
 graphics... but to me its a typical xbox / ps2 game with graphics which deserves a 9 atleast
  
  Sound - 6
  The sound in this game isn't a big thing in this game. Very dodgy music and characters 
 voices are a bit dodgy aswell.
  
  Value - 7
  This game has decent value, id says its worth a rental but maybe not so much a purchase.
  
 
  Reviewer's Tilt - 8
  The missions can be fun at times but can get very boring and you can get very lost with the story 
 line. Although an upside of this game is the online play. This is the best part of this game because 
 it is very fun and the people you play with make the experience even better,
  
  Overall - 7.5
  This game is deffinantly worth a rental but if you decide to purchase it, it will 
 probobly sit on your shelf and get dusty after having a few rounds online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: organic_oreo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  When peolple play this game, they play it for ten minutes and put it down because they don't take 
 time to actually figure out this game isn't a run-n-gun. This game is very fun and interesting, 
 but once you give it some time.
  
  The graphics are a little too shiny at times and, as i like to say, blind you to the point of tears. 
 The charecter models look a little too cartoony for a next gen game. Meanning that they have little 
 to no face animation. And the animations that they do have, look forced. As in unatural.
  
  The sound is very different. The guns dont pack that o-so special that you expect from a FPS. But 
 other than that, the sound is pretty good.
  
  The multiplayer is a little dissapointing though. There are only a few maps. While you can make 
 them bigger or smaller if your the host, they al feel the same. And they are a little confusing 
 at times. They are very weird. As in, you can get lost in a single room. And the action is very 
 slow paced.
  
  So if you own a 360, be weary about this game, while it's all together a good game, it's not for 
 everybody. I suggest a rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xternal
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Features:
  Engrossing single-player action. Brought to life in startling high- definition video, "Perfect 
 Dark Zero" challenges players to guide Joanna Dark on her journey to become the Perfect Agent. 
 A fully interactive world, beautiful graphics and breathtaking special effects combine with Xbox 
 Live functionality to provide players with a one-of-a-kind, single-player experience.
  Gripping, action-packed story line. Players assume the role of Perfect Agent Joanna Dark in a gripping 
 story set years before the original "Perfect Dark," where the action in this sci-fi thriller centers 
 on espionage, conspiracy and a mysterious global conflict.
  Unparalleled online play via Xbox Live. "Perfect Dark Zero" delivers unprecedented online action 
 and flexibility, supporting upward of 50 players online. "Perfect Dark Zero" includes fully scalable 
 environments and complete Xbox Live support with tournaments, rankings and more.
  Extraordinary variety of gameplay options. Players can choose between a story-driven single-player 
 campaign and various multiplayer options including four-player split screen and cooperative action 
 for infinite replayability.
  Massive arsenal of weapons, gadgets and vehicles. "Perfect Dark Zero" will feature many of the 
 classic weapons and gadgets from the original game, as well as countless additions. Combat-enabled 
 vehicles including jetpacks, hovercrafts and motorcycles will also be available to players in "Perfect 
 Dark Zero.
  
  Review:
  Joanna Dark returns in the Xbox 360-exclusive "Perfect Dark Zero," the prequel to the international 
 award-winning and multimillion-selling first-person shooter "Perfect Dark" from famed game developer 
 Rare Ltd. A secret war has begun between shadowy corporations bent on world domination. Joanna 
 Dark and her father, Jack, are caught up in the fight for the planet's future. A routine bounty 
 hunting mission rips open a global conspiracy that will change Joanna's destiny - forever.
  
  Players must guide Joanna Dark on her journey to become the Perfect Agent. Featuring a compelling 
 and captivating story, "Perfect Dark Zero" plunges players into a world of corporate espionage 
 and conspiracy. "Perfect Dark Zero" merges the excitement and intrigue of its predecessor with 
 revolutionary game design, online play and amazing graphics to deliver an experience that defines 
 next-generation gaming and entertainment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastachief2552
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 1:43 am PT
Review:  pdz is the prequel to perfect dark rares blockbuster for the n64. having so much time to work on 
 this game youd think rare would make a game that could live up to its predasecor, but unfortunatly 
 thats not the case. despite a few noteable gameplay abilities and multiplayer this is just another 
 standard fps. in the game you reprise your role as joanna dark, a younger joanna who works for 
 her fathers bounty hunting business. with out ruining much joanna gets mixed up in a plot by datadyne 
 and goes to work for the carrington institue. overall the story is prety bad and has very little 
 to do with the original perfect dark. the multiplayer is realy what saved the game. between ranked, 
 unranked, co-op, local, and system link the multiplayer seems to be where the majority of rares 
 time was spent. all the standard fps gametypes plus a couple of very original ones, co-op is also 
 worth mentioning either on line or of you can play with a friend through the entire singleplayer 
 game. give the great multiplayer this title couldve been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F1esh_Grinder
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 25, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Okay ! Perfect Dark Zero or PDZ is a game that needs to be looked at as if it were two games in 
 one. That being said well start with the singel player game which is a cartoony and almost plastic 
 looking game with the suface of the game that shines everywere in the game. Which is not bad but 
 can get old looking at it after a couple of hours. The A. I in this game is pretty predictable and 
 clunky with the enemy occasional duck and shoot, but nothing new here. The single player maps do 
 feel some what broken and confusing on not knowing where to go, so the game will put blue arrow 
 markers on the ground to kind of hold your hand and guide you were to go. Overall even with alot 
 of problems with the single player game and all the hype and promise of a great single player experience 
 that has yet to be fulfilled, it's still a soild single player game. Next, is the multiplayer aspect 
 of the game, now this part of the game is why you would want to own a xbox 360 at launch alone. 
 Its Fun and fast pace with alot of action going on. The maps also adjust to the size of the amount 
 of players on the roster. the host can customize the room along with weapons and game modes. Also 
 PDZ has a game mode call DARK OPS which is the same game mode froms VALVE'S COUNTER STRIKE which 
 is an awsome bonus. The Bottom line is, the single player side is good but not great as promised 
 and the multiplayer is fun and worth the price of the game alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tdouglass
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  It certainly took long enough, but when Perfect Dark Zero came out, it was the instant success 
 of the Xbox 360. Sequel to Rare's N64 version, Perfect Dark Zero takes plac long before the Skiddar 
 ever show up.
  
  There is the one dissapointing part in Perfect Dark Zero, it serves as a prequel rather than a 
 sequel. Not a big deal, because overall the game is still incredible and amazing, but I wanted 
 to see Joanna after the Skiddar invasion was quelled... ah well
  
  Perfect Dark Zero uses the 360's graphics engine superbly, but cuts a few corners in graphics. 
 You can't see any visible damage on your victims, no bullet holes or injuries, which would certainly 
 have been an easy task to pull off. Nonetheless, the graphics in Perfect Dark Zero are far better 
 than any Xbox title, and show the 360's potential very well.
  
  Sadly, there is nothing new in terms of sound. The typica pre-game mission specs, and various people 
 chatting with you during the missions is just more of the same from just about every modern FPS. 
 Music is nothing special, no fantastic new scores this time around.
  
  The actual game itself is again, nothing new or amazing. A good FPS overall, with various missions 
 that test some fun gadgets. In-game minigames with each gadget adds a bit of fun strategy to some 
 missions. Using your Demo Kit to blow up hovercraft to avoid needing to pick them off later adds 
 a nice touch that gives Perfect Dark Zero that little edge that makes it a great game rather than 
 just a boring remake.
  
  But, Perfect Dark Zero has another facet to it: Multiplayer. The Deathmatch battles gives everyone 
 a chance to play classic killcount/ctf/area domination, while Dark Ops gives a new, clever design 
 to team combat. Dark Ops allows everyone to purchase weaponry throughout the game, (suspiciously 
 like Counterstrike, but whatever works!) giving strategic players the opportunity to plan in advance 
 when you get tired of flying fly-by-wire rockets into people, or picking off your friends or bots 
 with the Jackal (sniper rifle) .
  
  Overall, a good game, I recommend Perfect Dark Zero to anyone who has a 360, but it's not really 
 worth buying the system just for this title. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebushank
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Theres just sumthing about this game. i mean it looks good but thats not enough theres sumthing 
 about the aiming just sumthings there nagging in the back of my mind that its off. im constantly 
 trying to fix it, but with no luck. it is a bit confusing and the gameplay is just too straightforward, 
 relasing a specail limited edotion isint going to get any more players bub. they think it will. 
 this was "THE" game for the 360 but its just like king kong graphics thats it otherwise it would 
 be in the bargin basket in your local laser store.
  
  stay away from this game, it will give you a bad look at the 360.
  
  stay away i tells ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trendkill351
Rating: 2.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  perect dark is a hoirible game with horible gameplay horible single player and horible multiplayer. 
 the only nioce thing in this game is the graphics and that doesnt make the game fun ether. i knew 
 this game was gona suck and no one belived me. all my friends bought it. all my friends hate it. 
 this game sucks, it takes alot for me to hate a game and i HATE this dam game. who got paid to 
 give this game a 9 here.? really? this game is only worth it when u relize this game is bad and 
 instead of selling it u make a useful frizbee out of it because you dont wont people to buy this 
 awful game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparkycolts
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  Ok, so this was the second Xbox 360 game that I bought. I was pumped to see the amazing graphics 
 and great sound that perforated from this game. Heres the review goes..
  
  The positives: The looks: the graphics are amazing for being one of the first next-generation games. 
 The sound: great as well, could have been more improved though. The controls: excellent and smooth 
 as a babys butt.
  
  The let downs: The story line: It was difficult for me to keep my attention on what the story line 
 was, nor was it very interesting. The bugs: I would enter a room and then wait for another door 
 to open only to have to wait about 10 minutes before the game functioned properly. Time spent playing: 
 It took me less than 9 hours to finish the game. Very short game.
  
  Overall the game is good, and just that. I am disappointed and hoping that this is not where the 
 next-gen developers are going considering the price tag of the game was $60. You would think that 
 for this price you should get a game that would be more challenging and would be longer. 
  
  Overall it was just OK, and nothing to get excited about. I highly doubt that I will ever 
 play it again!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TEHNEWB
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a fabulous way to kick off the First-Person Shooter franchise for the Xbox 
 360, but does it live up to it's predecessor?
  
  Perfect Dark Zero's offline story is the usual FPS type of story. Well, to sum it up, it's nothing 
 too jaw dropping. The story is good for about the first half of the game, and then it just totally 
 changes, very odd.
  
  The online play is very fun and addicting, the only drawl-back is people abusing mines (especially 
 in Dark OPs) and the fact that there is hardly any ranked matches anymore. There is also a great 
 deal of stolen kills in just about every game type. It really get's frustrating, especially if 
 you consider yourself a competetive gamer.
  
  The game also feels very slow to begin with as it takes a little bit to get used to everything. 
 
  
  Overall, it's a fairly good FPS, very fun, very addicting, and a very great experience for all 
 FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtryan10
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  My first impressions of the game was very high. it has stunning graphics and i could play it forever. 
 by like three days i got passed 10 mission on agent with ease without spending too much time on 
 it. Levels are very short. I like some of the guns, it is good to have classic perfect dark guns 
 such as the laptop gun. it was good having a secondary weopon button. There is still room for improvement. 
 a lot more guns could of been added, longer levels, more vehicles (hovercraft suks) .
  
  Mulitplayer is great fun. it would be better on xbox live if i had it. Dark ops is some good thinking 
 because everyone loves counterstrike. Not many levels and the big levels can be frustrating when 
 getting lost.
  
  Overall good game and would be a good buy but it is nothing compared to the one and only PERFECT 
 DARK for N64 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -X-Caliber-123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is very well constructed. It gave me a liking to climbing up long tall latters. It takes 
 place in the very very very distant future so naturally it has amazing, killer, murderous, spectacular, 
 all of the above guns that will kick anyones butt. The story mode kindof sucks and they should 
 make you waste your time beating it on all four difficulty levels to get your achievements but 
 hey, big deal. The story does get very boring playing it a second time but the final boss rocks. 
 The gameplays good and the graphics are what is expected. Pick this game up because it is better 
 than most all other X-Box 360 games. Multiplayer is also worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drinkb0x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:37 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  GAMEPLAY: Nice variety of weapons all with secondary features that are (for the most part) extremely 
 helpful. Covering and firing is easy to do and helpful for scouting out dangerous locations. While 
 G. R. A. W. and Call of Duty 2 are a bit more cerebral, PDZ is a fast paced run and gun affair.
  
  GRAPHICS: For a lanch title, PDZ looks stunning. Up close things are a bit muddy, but the levels 
 are vivid and well done. Gun models look slick and their respective muzzles give off a nice flash 
 when fired.
  
  VALUE: For those into fast paced multiplayer with loads of game types, PDZ delivers. The essential 
 Capture the Flag and Deathmatch modes are here, but its the Infection and Onslaught modes that 
 provide tons fun for many hours.
  
  Cons:
  
  SOUND: Most of the time licensed music in video games doesnt fit and seems too corporate. For PDZ 
 i really wished RARE had enlisted the help of an established music act to create the soundtrack. 
 (Like Splinter Cell did with Amon "Cujo" Tobin) The load music, intro music and any other soundtrack 
 elements are dull, boring or just plain irratating.
  
  GRAPHICS: As beautiful as this game looks, there a couple of glaring issues. Rag doll effects are 
 beyond silly and up close, characters look pretty bad at times.
  
  VALUE: For those who love in depth first person campaigns, PDZ is anything but. The story is totally 
 lame and the voice acting is about as bad as ive seen for such a high profile game. Not being able 
 to save mid mission is horribly frustrating at times and kills any momentum the run and gun nature 
 the game excels at.
  
  Verdict: Though it has its flaws, Perfect Dark Zero is a fun, fast paced shooter with some excellent 
 multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I bought for the 360. I was really excited, especially after playing the 
 N64 version and how fun it was. When I first played it I was amazed by the quality of graphics 
 and the story line was pretty similar. The game play is a bit sluggish, and the missions are kind 
 of repetitive, I mean you start a misssion, you shoot a bunch of people and you save someone in 
 danger. I also have a very itchy trigger finger and found myself having to result to the crappy 
 pistole because the auto-rifle I was using quickly ran out of ammo. All in all I feel that its 
 a good launch game, I mean alot better than previous launch titles for other systems, and it also 
 just gives you a sneak peak of what the next-gen of gaming is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kotor_Forever
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 24, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  I will start by saying that the single player storyline isn't going to win an oscar any time soon. 
 But you probably dont care about the story. You want to know if the action is good. IT IS. Whether 
 you prefer a stealthy approach or an assult for the ages, the game will satisfy you. But now on 
 to the best part of the game. The online functionality. With all the standart modes and a few new 
 ones, the online in PDZ rivals Halo 2. With a vast array of weapons, you will have almost anything 
 at your disposal. From guided rockets to darts. Back to the online. There are a few people online 
 who will take advantages of the glitches in the game. But most people will ignore the glitches. 
 The vast array of maps is a nice feature. Especially since most maps have more than one variant. 
 This is definitly a game FPS fans should check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: integra92red
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry but i see this game was a let down. i was hoping the disc i put into my 360 wasn't the 
 game that was dubbed "superb", but when in fact it was. Rare had plenty of development time to 
 fix stupid stuff like dead bodies randomly spazing out on the floor, but for some reason seemed 
 that was OK. odd. i hope we can expect more from next generation ragdoll physics than this in the 
 near future
  
  I'm not the best at FPS games, but i'm not bad either. i had a hard time finding my way around 
 the levels. there really isn't that sense of "hmmm, i bet i should go that way..." but rather, 
 "where the heck am i?".
  
  don't get me wrong, there are some things that were done right. the multi-player isn't too bad 
 (i enjoy infecting people) and beside the physics, the graphics and sound are good. not to mention 
 i could be spoiled by halo. but this game should be considered a $19.99 bargain bin special, not 
 to be confused with $19.99 players choice. it's far from that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  This is a tough review for me because I love the original Perfect Dark. In fact, it's my favorite 
 game of all time. Never before have I invested so much time and energy into single player as well 
 as multiplayer. I unlocked everything, beat everything I could, and put in well over 100 hours 
 playing multiplayer days on end with my friends. But this game pales in comparison.
  First let me start off by saying that while the graphics are very pretty, they could be a lot better. 
 I've seen other 360 games that look much more polished than this one. There were a few instances 
 of clipping I noticed and one time when I looked up to shoot a guy on a ledge, he was standing 
 on air shooting down at me. Any liveliness and realism the game had up to that point vanished.
 
  The gameplay is decent. It gives you plenty of moves that you'll never ever use though. For instance, 
 the roll maneuver is completely useless. I never once used it and I did fine. The best addition, 
 which you still probably won't use much, is taking cover. You can take cover behind boxes, walls, 
 or anything else in the environment. Then you pop out and shoot. But the controls for this are 
 just clunky. Personally, I preferred doing it the old school FPS way, strafing over and shooting, 
 then strafing back into cover. It's more fun and it adds that classic feel this game is missing. 
 But the worst part in this department is the reloading. In the heat of a firefight, it's difficult 
 to tell how many bullets you have left because you're focusing on the person, not your clip. Well, 
 with most of the guns, you have to let go of the fire button to reload. So you may be sitting there 
 pulling the trigger with an empty barrel while the enemies are shooting at you. This was a stupid 
 decision and something that needs to be fixed.
  The sound is alright I guess. I don't have surround sound and all that expensive stuff, so it's 
 tough to judge, but let me just say that even without all that, it still was uncomplimentary. The 
 guns sounded weak, the death cries were almost completely absent, and when a pillar would fall 
 or get thrown, it would have been better with a loud crash, not a thud.
  And now the story. Wow, where do I begin? The story is pretty stupid, and that's being nice. The 
 original's story sucked you in and the places you visited were inventive. This is just another 
 generic environment with generic storylines. And the voice acting, don't get me started. It was 
 terrible. They would try to make jokes during a high tension cutscene which completely ruined the 
 mood and the whole scene.
  The multiplayer is lame. You could sit around all day with the original and enjoy yourself. This 
 is just bland. Enough said.
  Now don't get me wrong, it's not a bad game. It's decent. I'm probably being generous with my score 
 of 8, but it's worth playing. If you enjoyed the original, absolutely pick this up. Even with all 
 of the problems and inconsistencies, it's still nice to step back into Johanna's shoes once more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krulluk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Forget the hype .. this game isn't THAT good. But it's really good. 
  
  Gameplay - hopefully you played it on the N64, sadly the gameplay isn't quite as good. The levels 
 are a tad too long to make you go back to them over and over. The guns are a little off-balance 
 too. The run and gun fun is there though, and you wont get that on ANY other FPS on the 360 as 
 yet ... if you're waiting for Halo3 and need your fix, get this!
  
  Graphics - it's no GRAW, but they're damn good. 
  
  Sound - pretty good, guns sound like they 
 pack a punch, voice acting is ok
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_Iic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  The only problem I had with this game is the way you find things. I was playing and I just couldnt 
 figure out whut to do. So I looked it up on the internet and saw that I had to shoot something 
 on the ceiling. Also there was an elevator button that was up high on the wall and it confused 
 me cuz I couldnt find it. About the sound, there was a time when the sound just blew out. Whenever 
 I took a step it would make a loud noise and everything echoed, it was weird.
  Overall this game is a pretty good one. Its fun and it should pass the time well. I might suggest 
 renting this one first to see if it's something you'd want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petri87
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  In PDZ you take control of Joanna Dark the heroin form the critically aclamed N64 game Perfect 
 Dark. PDZ is a prequel to PD and there by the zero in the name.
  
  Difficulty/Gameplay:
  Whit stupid AI its not much of a challenge at all to play through the Single player campaign in 
 6-8h and that is too short. The controles are just like any other console FPS so to anyone that 
 has ever played a console FPS the controls shouldn't be that hard to master. The multi player is 
 the games high point just as it was back in the days but its still a far cry from the level that 
 Halo 2 is at. The multiplayed can be played against bots or human players both locally and online. 
 It has all the standard multi player modes like capture the flag, Deathmatch, Team deathmatch and 
 so on. The only mode i enjoyed was Infect which is kinda like a "last man standing" mode. A few 
 players start out as infected and they most infect the others by killing them and thus they become 
 a part of your team.
  
  Graphics:
  This is a huge disappointment, sure the textures look shiny and all that but thats about it. The 
 characters are all ugly as hell. They look like dolls. The only character looking remotely next 
 gen is Dark but still not as nice as she could have looked if they would have put more effort into 
 it.
  
  Sound:
  Its what you expect from a FPS. The enemy has their usual shouts and screams and sometime when 
 you observe them from afar you can hear them talking to each other and some of them are really 
 funny and some are just plain stupid.
  
  Value:
  If your not into the mp you wont get much run time out of this game and even if you are it wont 
 stick whit you for long ether.
  
  So If your not a HUGE FPS and Perfect Dark fan then you should just stay away from this title and 
 wait for better ones to come out or just check out Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_freak_mb
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 22, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is an all around great game. The missions, which can be played with one or two 
 players are very intense. The weapons are very detailed, and has a lot of neat extras to them. 
 The arena type multiplayer modes are very addicting as well, with lots of ways to customize the 
 matches.
  
  One thing i didnt like about the game is that is wasnt long enough. I was very suprised after i 
 beat the last level that it was already over. But even though it isnt very long, the levels that 
 are there are very fun, and I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Froese171
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  When i first got this game i thought it was going to be better than halo. It turns out i was very 
 wrong, lets see how the game played out for me.
  
  well i personally thought the gameplay wasnt that great. the hovercraft and the weird flying machine 
 were pointless to me ( you only got to use each once in the game) , and just the feel of it didnt 
 seem right. the graphics were really good when i first looked at it, but when you think of it now, 
 most 3600 games do. It was also a pretty bad storyline, you dont really know whats going on half 
 the time.
  
  all in all the game didnt deliver the hype i expected, and i would suggest to anyone considering 
 buying it to rent it first, because you dont want to waste all of your money and be dissapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beranome
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  This game is really overated. I mean I liked it when I first started playing but now I just can't 
 stand it. I played the campaign and it was pretty easy and it wasn't long what so ever. Usually 
 when you play a game the end is hard but it took me like two minutes to beat it. The multiplayer 
 was also good for a while but after a while you'll get sick of it. Even when you go to play against 
 the bots by yourself it's not that good. I put them on Dark Agent (which is the hardest difficulty) 
 and it took no skill what so ever. I played with two other people and put on the most bots possible 
 too and it was like the eaiest thing I've ever done. I suggest to rent it first before you buy 
 it because it really isn't that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfjeNL
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is my first and best Xbox360 game. The game offers some next-gen futures like: 
 map-bumping, high detailed graphics and a great online experience. This is a great game, not perfect, 
 but great. The single player is nice, there's a storyline in it, but it's a bit short, 12 levels 
 I believe. But we have a multiplayer function so don't worry, the online mode is great, there's 
 no clan support but I can live with that. In the online mode, as well in the two players mode, 
 you can choose among several game-modes like: capture the flag, territorial and kill. The game 
 Perfect Dark Zero offered me several weeks/months of entertainment with me and my friends. I highly 
 recomment this game to Xbox 360 owners.
  (I'm Dutch so don't be angry if I spelled some words wrong) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinnylong
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  Joanna Dark is back but this time on the Microsoft XBOX 360. The graphics on the game are the best 
 graphics on any console. Everything looks so realistic from the peoples faces to the smallest 
 plants. 
  Fans of the original (on the Nintendo 64) will not be disappointed as it has everything from the 
 original with more added. Things that are different from the Nintendo 64 version are the cover 
 feature which really helps you on the missions and online as it makes the game much easier for 
 those who use stealth rather than action. 
  The game is set in the Year 2020, which is three years before the original game was set. The game 
 starts with a training level which is great to get you into the feeling of the game. It teaches 
 you all the basics to play the game including shooting, how to melee, how to avoid lasers, how 
 to hack and more. You then meet up with Jack who you get more involved with in the second level 
 (I dont mean you know what) . As the levels go on it gets harder (as all games do) with the last 
 level being a boss. 
  If you are really fast at completing the missions you might get on the leader boards to prove that 
 you are the best on the game. 
  You can complete the levels on Agent, Secret Agent and Perfect Agent (with Perfect being the hardest) 
 so if you complete it once, you can complete again and again on harder difficulties. 
  The game is also a little bit of strategy as you have to pick different weapons and gadgets to 
 fit in different slots. The guns and gadgets that take up one slot are: P9P, Magsec, Magnum (not 
 the ice cream but that would be interesting) , Psychosis Gun, Viblade, Falcon, Hawk, Grenade, Flash 
 bang and Multimine. The weapons and gadgets that fit into two slots are: CMP I50, Combat Shield, 
 FAC-16, UGL, Laptop, RCP-90, K51-74, DEF-12, SuperDragon and DW-P5. The weapons and gadgets that 
 fit into three slots are: M60, Plasma Rifle, Shockwave, Jackal, Rocket Launcher. You also have 
 to dodge, theres an aim mode, dual wielding, picking up certain weapons, dropping weapons, concealing 
 weapons, disarming, conversation, taunts (this is another feature I love in the game) , controlled 
 falls, turrets, climbing ladders, zip lines and lots more. 
  There are a lot of Gamer Points to get on Perfect Dark Zero. Some will take you five minutes, some 
 will take you five days, and some may even take you five years! As there is stuff like get ten 
 headshots, get one hundred headshots and even get one thousand head shots. 
  Online play is the best online play since Halo 2 with lots of things to do (and lots of people 
 all nearly all the time) .
  There are a few annoying things in the game like when you die on a mission you have to start half 
 way through (if you have got past that point yet) and that some of the support objectives are quite 
 difficult. 
  The game runs smoothly and loading is fast most of the time but when it is loading missions it 
 tends to take a while which is really the only bad point in the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowPM
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  I find Perfect Dark Zero to be a completely enjoyable experience from single player right into 
 multiplayer. The single player campaign throws you right into the story of Joanna and Jack Dark 
 trying to stop the "evil" campaign of Datadyne; your typical evil / futuristic mega-corp looking 
 to take over the world.
  
  The story of the game, although not great, gets the job done and brings along a few surprises along 
 the way. While some would say it's somewhat predictable, others would say ridiculous. Compared 
 to the plots of other games in the past, however, the story is just fine and will definitely appeal 
 to Sci-Fi / Action fans throughout.
  
  Graphically the game is beautiful in HD, while not so glamorous in standard def. , you can appreciate 
 subtle things going on in the background and the levels play this up throughout the game. Levels 
 look very stylish as the theme drastically changes from level to level giving you a large variety 
 of environments to challenge you; eg. Jungle Level and Persian Style Level.
  Either in HD or SD, the graphics are nice, crisp, and definitely above average.
  
  Gameplay 
 is pretty much your standard first person shooter type control style. While the gliding/floating 
 effect of characters takes a little getting used to, most people will find themselves settling 
 into game fairly quickly. Aiming is amazingly accurate, even from far distances, however, there 
 are a few "cover and fire" locations where things just don't work. All in all, the game has solid 
 controls.
  
  The games difficulty is fairly easy to start, however, will offer you 4 settings total from easy 
 - agent to "throw the controller against the wall" - dark difficulty. The harder difficulties are 
 somewhat unbalanced from the starting two, however, they are doable with lots of practice.
  
  The music and sound in the game is very satisfying and suits the game "perfectly", excuse the 
 pun. Seriously though, a complete soundtrack has been made from start to finish and all aspects 
 try and suit not only the gameplay but the level theme as well. If you're in the jungle, you got 
 ethnic drum beats with rock music inserts in the hectic parts. If you're in a club, there's dance 
 music, scripted and all with a nice little guitar solo too. Music is very stylistic to match each 
 level. Weapon sounds are believable and suit all with assurance.
  
  Finally, there's multiplayer which ends up being a major pull, besides some of the crazy achievements, 
 to keep you playing the game long after the single player campaign is over. There are two styles 
 of multiplayer with different sub-genres within each one. First there is the standard deathmatch" 
 genre which encompasses everything from regular deathmatch to capture the flag. The other style 
 is "darkops" which includes a survival style gametype called "infection" where once a person is 
 infected, they join the other infecties to get all the non-infected people; lots of fun here. There 
 are a few more gametypes within this style of play which include destroying key points on another 
 teams base and also a team erradication gametype. All in all, with the option of up to 32 players 
 on Xbox live and bots if your offline, multiplayer is satisfying both online and offline; although 
 a lot more fun online.
  
  While some would say the game is not completely showing off the "next-gen" capabilities of the 
 360, most will find this game a great title to pick up and keep in their "now playing" pile for 
 quite a while. Those who like multiplayer will find something a little extra here will very unique 
 gameplay types and lots of customization. Single players can look forward to 15-20 hours of single 
 player campaign for the lower difficulties, some will brave the other difficulties where a level 
 can take up to 45mins; 13 huge levels in all. Overall Perfect Dark Zero is a very solid satisfying 
 title to play. While the game is not "perfect", (see above apology) it is definitely a game most 
 360 owners should pick up, especially if you're a Sci-Fi first person shooter fan and want a game 
 which will last both online and offline.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rizraz132
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 3:08 am PT
Review:  best game ever m8s i love this game i played it 2 on the n64 and that was even better then this 
 game lol its the best game i ever played :D
  i like this game.
  when i wanted to buy this game and it was selled out i just cried on the floor lol: P
  i wanted 
 the game so much and it was selled out lolz.
  but i buyyed the game a week later lol just buy this game if ur a FPS-shooter fan m8s  
 IS A MASTERPIECE..............
  BEST GAME EVER M8S (and for all the noobs) m8s = mates;) :P :D lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun until you pass it on COOP over LIVE. Then it gets boring, gathers dust in your 
 collection and then you notice that while you were playing it, the art direction = UGLY characters. 
 Its almost like I am stuck back in the land of bad drawing. I hate to say it but as much as I wanted 
 to like the game, there were so many factors preventing me from doing so. Its like watching a movie 
 take a nosedive even though it had a great script and concept but ultimately, a bad director. The 
 character models are UGLY. Honestly, they are. I don't mean to step on anybodies toes here but 
 personally, the character models need LOTS of work. Its almost like the Art Director who set the 
 visual tone for the whole game severly backfired in his choice of personal style and mood. 
  
  This game should have been darker yet its cute. I say darker especially when you take into 
 account the subject matter, what happens in the game and the fact that our protagonist / heroine 
 is supposed to be a spy. I mean her name is Joanna DARK. Why in blue blazes do we not get to use 
 stealth to our advantage and in a NEXT-GENERATION game no less? WHY? The Game Designer and Art 
 Director of RARE really fouled this one up. This game was a first party release from Microsoft 
 and it should have been nothing short of amazing yet there are so many misteps. Seriously. This 
 game could have been THE female contender for Sam Fisher when you think about it. The concept was 
 there (sexy Joanna Dark in formative years) , the story was there (Joanna becomes spy and looses 
 father) yet play the game five minutes and you will realize STEALTH is NON EXISTENT. Shoot out 
 all the lights in a level and you will realize some of them are PAINTED ON. Thats right folks, 
 corners WERE cut and in a next generation first party game no less. Why do I make such a big deal 
 about this? Because Microsoft and RARE made a huge deal hyping this game up and I am DISAPPOINTED.
 
  
  Another highly annoying thing, you CANNOT JUMP even though Joanna is carrying 2 weapons, wearing 
 tights or pants and a tshirt and she should probably be the lightest and most agile character ever. 
 And probably be able to sneak arounf given that shes a spy. NAH. Lets make her a rambo who gets 
 capped easy. Sure the game looks pretty good at times due to the fact that it has bump-mapping 
 on everything but even that grows old. Bump-mapping everything do not a game make. Especially when 
 bump-mapping was being used to death for the Xbox 1 and with good results. See Splinter Cell Chaos 
 Theory for one. In short, skip this if you expect the game to live up to the hype. Rent it, pass 
 it and return it. Its that simple. That way you will not feel short-changed on spending $60 for 
 a rushed game. Oh, and I don't dislike RARE, Kameo was AWESOME. The perfect platfomer as promised 
 and hyped. This is a bigtime miss though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soadrock2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  PDZ is a superb game it has excellent graphics that look so superb you wont have worry about forking 
 out 1500quid to get a HDTV. In which cases is a good thing. Its very easy to get into and was the 
 first real 360 game i ever played (apart from COD2 (i played it in shops) ) and i tookl me around 
 12 minutes to get the hang of it. 
  Although the audio can sometimes sound a bit goofy its still really good and you wont care, the 
 voice acting is great im just saying the death match audio is sort of crap. I recommend you buy 
 the normal version of the game as the collecters edition does host loads of extras but you wont 
 really get round to taking a look at them. I have the collectors edition but i dont really care 
 get whicever you want. 
  I havent played much of this game as of yet but i heard its quite short, but once you complete 
 it you can just mess around on Xbox Live or just play deathmatch etc. by yourself or with some 
 mates. 
  PDZ is a game that all 360 owners must have in their collection because at the moment its probably 
 (going by everyone else) the best 360 shoot em up so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Microsoft_
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  When I received my 360, I didn't have any games since my last system was Nintendo's purple lunch 
 box. So awhile back I bought Halo 2, then NHL 2K6 ( awesome games ) but I heard many good things 
 about PDZ, and I played it, so I decided to go and pick it up. My expectations where 
  pretty good, but when you turn it on, and start your first mission you think "OMG look at these 
 graphics, look at the detail." The following are set up in different category's:
  
  Game play
  
  This is where the game really shines, in this game you really get the feeling 
 of being shot at, and people chasing after you with guns blazing. There are some many different 
 weapons to choose from its unbelievable. You get a pile of missions which are all really fun, you 
 get co-op, which i haven't tried yet. The game play is fast and furious, nothing is slow ( except 
 the loading times ) .
  The mission will keep you busy for awhile, and there is lots of fun to be had.
  
  Graphics
 
  
  The graphics in PDZ are pretty insane, they are not Call of Duty 2, or Kameo, but still awesome.
 
  Everything you can tell has had a lot of work put into it, but then there should have been since 
 the last PDZ was on the N64 how long ago. The lighting is phenomenal, epically on the guns, when 
 light reflects off of them. The environments are also nothing short of amazing.
  
  Sound
  
  Right when you pop the disk in to your 360, you get a nice little intro. There is not a lot 
 of songs, but enough for this Sci -Fi shooter. The guns sound so real, even reloading, like when 
 you fire the magnum, it sounds like you firing a magnum. Not that this has to do with sound, but 
 when you reload the gun, the animations look great. The sound is very polished in this game.
  
  Multi player
  
  The online and offline multi player's are both great. Many bots on screen, 
 as many as 15, running all over and shooting. Then you throw in 2 vehicles the jetpack (my person 
 favorite)
  and the hover craft. When a bunch of people are flying and shooting in a jetpack, and people on 
 the ground are dodging them as they fall from the sky in a blue flaming ball is really awesome.
 
  The multi player is awesome
  
  Verdict
  
  When the 360 came out, I really passed this by, but then after playing it, I was really wrong. 
 This is the most fun shooter since Halo and Halo 2. If you have a 360 pick this game up, you owe 
 it to yourself to do so. I really only had 2 complaints, the loading times, and only 2 vehicles. 
 But thats no big deal. I will give Perfect Dark Zero a 9.9/10. AWESOME GAME!!!!!!!! Thanks for 
 reading this review, hope you agree with it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: clouded1983
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 19, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero starts off promisingly enough, with the infiltration of a Datadyne building. 
 This first level serves as a training level and introduction to the game. Its fairly basic, but 
 nevertheless gives the player a good guide as to the feel of the game as a whole. Its a shame PDZ 
 can't keep up this interesting premise for the full 10-15 hours it takes to finish the game. The 
 problem with the single player game resides in Rare's stubborn refusal to acknowledge any of the 
 modern advances in FPS gaming over the past few years. Games such as Half-life 2 and Halo may as 
 well never have happened according to PDZ. Not being able to jump? What's that all about? Rare 
 say that a roll move is more beneficial. I say that Rare have lost touch with reality. Not being 
 able to walk through shallow water? Crazy! I was playing a level with a friend of mine. In this 
 level we were to ride on a hovercraft to escape from the enemy. At one stage my friend flipped 
 the hovercraft upside down. He had to flip it back over in order to repair it. Fair enough, you 
 might think. However, it turned out that due to the fact that, in PDZ, you can't walk in shallow 
 water, we couldn't actually get back into the hovercraft because it was a few centremetres too 
 far from shore. We therefore had to restart the level. That pretty much sums up PDZ. Not bad graphics 
 coupled with truly awful game design. Whilst multiplayer is somewhat better, it still can't compete 
 with the like of Call of Duty 2 and Halo 2. Take my advice and don't even bother with PDZ. There 
 are better FPS's out for the 360 and there will be more in the future. I think Rare should think 
 long and hard about where they go next. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_black
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 19, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is the follow up to the critically acclaimed game of the same (or similar) name 
 on the N64.
  
  At first glance Perfect Dark looks promising. Smooth (if not cartoony) graphics, promising storyline 
 and some nice animations. Upon closer inspection you'll find Perfect Darks flaws are so big you 
 might wonder how you never spotted them in the first place.
  
  I'm gonna do a pros and cons for this one.
  
  Pros:
  
  - Joanna is back!
  - Graphics 
 are clean (for the most part) .
  - Reload animations are impressive.
  - A nice blur effect when you turn quickly.
  - Some interesting (if not unique) weapons each 
 with two modes of fire and some with three modes.
  - Multiplayer offers a good variety of modes and can support up to 32 players.
  - A nice cover 
 system.
  - Screen shakes when you fire a big gun (effect works well) .
  
  Cons:
  
  - Story is dire, you might find yourself tempted to skip the cutscenes.
  - Speaking of cutscenes, 
 they look awful. For whatever reason the gameplay looks better than the cutscenes. Cutscenes are 
 rough (AA issues) and the characters look as though they're made outta plastic. Lip syncing is 
 bad too.
  - Aiming is sluggish. The default sensitivity is sluggish and when you crank it up (even slightly) 
 its near impossible to hit a fine tuned shot. You'll probably find yourself just keeping the crosshair 
 in the middle of the screen and moving your character level with your enemy in order to get that 
 all important headshot.
  - Slow, slow slow. Running in this game feels so slow. You may not notice it in single player but 
 when you're running from one end of a map to the other in multiplayer you'll realise what I mean. 
 Even when watching other players run it looks as though they're in slow motion.
  - When you run up somewhere to take cover there is a second delay when you're unable to actually 
 use the cover. A second is a long time when you're being shot at.
  - Melee attacks are useless.
  
  -------------
  
  I didn't play the original game so I'm 
 not comparing with my review. Perfect Dark isn't setting new standards and as clean as the graphics 
 are some current gen games put it to shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redsam
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  I did not play the first Perfect Dark, and those I know who did are religious in their respect 
 for what it brought in gameplay, storyline and pure fun for it's time. 
  
  While this is a respectable an honestly fun shooter , it is not going to be remembered as one of 
 the great sign-posts in Xbox 360 Gaming. The story line, and linear path you need to take through 
 world are flat. 
  
  The graphics while nice, and definitely better than old-gen, are just not as stunning as some of 
 the other releases like COD2, DOA4, and even Kameo (an under-rated graphics gem) .
  
  The drivers I expect in immersion, like expanded worlds, real shooting skill (lock on feature a 
 bit of a cheat) great script and voice talent just do not exist. Some of the voice charactarizations 
 are incredibly tacky like a kids Saturday cartoon, well maybe not that good.
  
  All this said, as a knock on next-gen expectations, PD0 is still a good bit of fun. It is short 
 in campaign mode, but that is never a big problem for me. Scenarios are fine, but nothing new here 
 and the final boss battle for me was one pass, guess the weapons right, and you are done.
  
  Have not played a lot of it on Live, but it is fun, though if I am taking a shooter online 
 right now it is COD2.
  
  If you loved PD first time, and addicted to sci-fi/espionage based shooters, it is fun, but don't 
 believe the hype. Perhaps if you go in with a lower expectation it will be very a very satisfying 
 game. I just wanted more to pay off all the accolades with gameplay that could exceed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK47rifleman
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  This game initially is a good game with many different aspect like shoot em up and stealth. But 
 a few missions in you realise all the missions are practically the same and it is not worth the 
 hassle of completing. A good game is one that i play on the lowest difficultly level, which then 
 makes me want to play it on higher levels. This game doesn't do this for me. Also the gamer points 
 are rediculously hard to gain unless you spend many evenings on xbox live tryng to play 1000 multiplayer 
 games. This game is perfect for those who want there basic shooter but a part from that it isn't 
 very good. This was a great game to start off with but i can truly say that if another perfect 
 dark game comes out i won't be buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwnager
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  This game was the best game I've played in a long time. I'm so happy that Rare finally came out 
 with a new shooter, on next-gen at that. I loved Goldeneye and I thought the original Perfect Dark 
 was alright. Rare is an amazing developer. People freak out when they hear you can't jump in this 
 game, but the way they made the roll, is totally worth it. Obviously, to popular belief, the story 
 was pretty bad. I like the campaign, but not the story... this may make little sense, but I liked 
 completing the missions and ignoring the awful story. The story is extremely default and shows 
 very little effort. But who cares! The online is absolutely incredible. The bots that you can play 
 with are NOT stupid. The graphics look the most amazing thing I've ever seen in my life. The guns 
 are so detailed and when I reload my AK47... the lighting on it is just awesome. The game types 
 are very very good, especially in DarkOps mode.... Infection is gotta be the greatest. Unfortunately, 
 there are only TWO vehicles in the game, but both are pretty substantial. The sound sometimes was 
 a little off, because I found myself in rooms completely alone and someone that is supposed to 
 be by me is lagging behind me and yelling "Wait up!" as if they were right next to me. The physics 
 can either be really good... or just hilariously bad. Such as, sometimes when they hit the ground, 
 about 10 seconds later, they're bodies start moving and just fly around the room. Anyone with a 
 360 should grab this game as soon as they see it on the shelves in any store you happen to be in. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shoun
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  From all the hype and nonsense that surrounded Perfect Dark Zero, and the fact that it was a 360 
 launch title, I went into this game with high hopes. However that all changed after the into level. 
 While the graphical presentation is nearly flawless everything else, and I do mean everything, 
 seems like an afterthought.
  
  There isnt a single thing about the Perfect Dark Zeros gameplay I enjoy. Not the weapons, not 
 the goofy gadgets, nothing. The characters are the epitome of poorly developed, uninteresting and 
 hallow stereotypes that are popular today. The dialogue is just as generic, matching the style 
 of the generic characters, and while the voice acting isnt terrible, the actors talents are tarnished 
 by the lackluster script.
  
  But I digress, lets get down to the nitty-gritty.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in Perfect Dark Zero is as generic as you can get. While it may appear to 
 be in the modern age of FPS gaming, it has the appeal of the original Wolf 3D.
  
  Lets start with the core element, the guns. PDZ has your basic arrangement of weapons: Pistols, 
 Submachine Guns, Assault Rifles, Shotguns and Grenades. While you think youre getting a wide range 
 of tools to use none of the weapons stands out from any other. I found myself using the basic Pistol 
 that you have from the start. Not only does it fire rapidly and have an option to be silenced, 
 but it has a fairly long range zoom and can kill in 1 shot, assuming the target doesnt have headgear 
 on. The fact that the most basic weapon in the game is just as effective as the most powerful Assault 
 Rifle is a tremendous and unforgivable flaw in an FPS game.
  
  Also, when you come under enemy fire the force of the shots literally pushes you around and completely 
 restricts your movement. If youre getting bombarded by a strong weapon youre pushed so hard your 
 only option is to wait for a break in the bullets so you can get to cover.
  
  Then there are the non-shooting elements. 
  
  There are levels where you are supposedly use 
 stealth to maneuver around, however PDZ has NO stealth elements built into the gameplay. The only 
 way to achieve a level of stealth is to kill the enemies before they see you, or before they 
 have time to radio for help. You can shoot out lights, but that offers little in the way of a tactical 
 advantage. Heck even Manhunt had a far superior stealth system than PDZ. With all the fancy gadgets 
 you get one would assume you would be able to tell if youre in the dark or not.
  
  Next are the gadgets. Theres a bomb that requires you to practically play a mini-game just to 
 set off. You have to rotate squares and align a grid to activate the bomb. What happened to pins 
 or buttons? Why make it that complicated? Then you have your, and I laugh every time I say this, 
 **** which is a tool that picks some locked doors, not all doors, but some. It uses the EXACT same 
 lock picking mechanic that the Splinter Cell series does.
  
  And I wont even get into hovercraft level.
  
  Graphics: Theres no denying that this game 
 was made popular simply based on its graphics. Everything looks fantastic, lights gleam, reflections 
 dance off surfaces, shadows are cast every which way. The thing I like the most about the lighting 
 is how your vision is affected by moving from light to dark areas and vice-versa. The game replicates 
 the dilation of the iris and youll notice a change after moving in and out of light that allows 
 you to see well. Its actually pretty impressive.
  
  Sound: The sound is very generic. Guns shoot, stuff explodes, snow crunches, blah blah. And like 
 I said earlier, the only downfall to the voice acting is the dialogue.
  
  One of the things that annoys me the most about the game is how generic the characters are. Heres 
 a rundown of the 3 main characters: Macho, Middle-Aged Military Guy, Sassy Black Girl and Spunky 
 White Chick. Not only are the character types insultingly generic, but their dialogue and appearance 
 are just as stereotypically insulting. Even if the gameplay didnt bug the heck out of me I would 
 almost refuse to play the game just based on the fact that the developers couldnt have the decency 
 to create some interesting characters.
  
  Ive tried and tried but Im completely unable to enjoy this game. Its been a long time since 
 Ive been this disappointed with a game, and all I have to show for it is some trade-in credit 
 towards something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewmgreendawg
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 17, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is good looking, not spectacular, but good. The lighting effects are created 
 very well but the game is lacking creativity artistictly. Gameplay is a lot of fun online, and 
 there is wide variety of gameplay variations to keep you coming back. Single player story isn't 
 really fufilling or rewarding and the plot is straight out of a saturday afternoon Sci-fi flick.... but 
 thats not why you buy it... you buy it for multiplayer. My main beef with Perfect Dark Zero is that 
 the control is a little sketchy. Even at the highest look sensitivity i still feel retarted when 
 I first start playing. The highest option sets you about a 3 out of 10 in the realm of Halo's sensitivity. 
 Also, you can't jump in Perfect Dark. Only some ledges are climb-able. Overall it's a good game 
 and one of the only games worth buying a 360 for.... but hey, elder scrolls comes out next week. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bender007
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Great game play not that bad for a launch title, game play was nice good movement control, aiming 
 a little difficult especially when running around getting enemies and improves when standing in 
 one place. Some enemies appear out of nowhere which made it really annoying no jumping makes it 
 difficult to get behind objects when needed to. Enemies can get annoying especially when you are 
 in a dire health situation. Graphics where really good, nice textures and awesome enviroments, 
 the character model is really ugly, but overall graphics are great. The sound was well done went 
 well with the game the sound of the snow when you walk on it is very realistic gun noises weren't 
 bad but I am a little bit questionable about the voice acting. The value is marginal but disappointing 
 for a really good FPS, the buggy aiming, and the enemies that appear out of no where but if you 
 really like challenging aiming for an FPS then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweendrix
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Pefect Dark Zero is a very good game that could have been an outstanding game with just a little 
 bit more development time. 
  
  Pros: Great level design, especially in the second half of the single player campaign. Weapons 
 look great and sound better. Multiplayer is a pleasure.
  
  Cons: The Story is thown together carelessly. Graphics in the early single player campaigns are 
 uninspired and in some areas seem overdone and aritificial. NPC artificial intellgience is average 
 and NPC's movement seems a bit aritificial, especially in the first few levels. Given a few more 
 month's to improve upon these small flaws and Rare has given birth to the greatest first person 
 shooter. As the old saying goes, coulda, woulda, shoulda... however... it's still a very good game.
 
  
  If you read above, the cons I have listed seem to outweigh the pros in Perfect Dark Zero however, 
 let me clarify. This is a very good game that belongs in every FPS lover's game library. The game 
 feels very much like The original Bond for Nintendo 64 and the Original Perfect Dark. The gameplay 
 goes something like this, you dropped off in a level and you are given gadgets and have the option 
 to choose weapons (once u unlock them by finishing a level with that weapon) in order to successfully 
 complete the mission at hand. That said, the single player campaign is quite fun and the later 
 missions in the game are quite extraordinary. The problem is, you have to get through the first 
 3 or 4 seemingly uninspired missions to get to these later; "monumental experiences." The story 
 is hard to understand and it would have been better for Rare to have left this out to let the player 
 make his own story. However, the lack of a solid story does not take away from the overall experience 
 of Perfect Dark: Zero's single player campaign, which if anything, is solid and enjoyable. 
  
  Multiplayer in Perfect Dark Zero is excellent. The game seems to keep from spawning you into 
 troubled areas and give you a fair chance while the action continues to be intense. The selection 
 of outstanding weapons contributes to a strong Multiplayer mode that keeps you playing over and 
 over again. 
  
  Conclusion, Perfect Dark Zero is a very strong entry for the Xbox 360 and a very good game overall. 
 It is easy to overlook the tiny flaws in this game to get to the great overall experience that 
 is encountered when playing Perfect Dark Zero. If you don't have it, get to the store and get it. 
 It's a game worth buying.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Limp_Laky
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for a fast paced, better looking Halo, then you might be dissapointed. For those 
 that love the fast manuverable Halo, this game will feel sluggish. In PFD you walk very slowly 
 and when you start to move and aim you start slow and speed up bit by bit. 
  
  The graphics are amazing. The one thing that I hear the most complaints about is some people dont 
 like how everything looks like its covored in some sort of liquid ooze. I'm not saying that was 
 the best decision but it makes for a cool look and shows off the 360's ability's. 
  
  The gun selection will seem small if you played the original Perfect Dark for the N64. They took 
 the immense amount of weapons and melded some together. Instead of choosing between scope or silinced 
 pistols you can get the whole package in one gun. I was sad to see there was no lethal injection 
 or a sniper that shot through walls.
  
  The ability to change player models is so hidden as of this review I have not yet found it (I am 
 not really trying) . Some of the options do seem a little clunky.
  
  The developers went for a replayable score board based single player, so if you are looking for 
 a fun long single player you will be let down. It is short 10 missions and the last boss battle 
 seems like it was taken out of an action/adventure title. The story is kind of lacking and confusing. 
 I didnt get why you were fighting against datadyne in later missions but used their training software 
 for you first mission. 
  
  All in all a great looking game, that if your not used to the next gen's graphics can even give 
 you a headache. The sound is decent, not the best but good enough. This game is made for multiplayer 
 like it should be, there are a few balance issues. As in vehicles, if your opponent gets a vehicle 
 it is darn near impossible to destroy on your first life. 
  
  If your skepticle rent it, or stick with Halo until Gears of War or Halo 3. This over all a solid 
 game and worth the 50 bucks. This is a great party game when you have your buddies over and with 
 the world of HD TV and big screen TV's getting cheaper and cheaper all the time that split screen 
 option doesnt look so bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heartagram_03
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  The game's graphics are good but the gameplay seems kinda slow, the aiming system is just slow 
 and the AI move pretty fast. It's hard to try and snipe someone, I'm not saying it's impossible 
 but you have to be skilled to use the sniper rifles. Either then the aiming system everything looks 
 good like the weapons you can use, there are alot of weapons and gadgets that are neat. The controls 
 are a bit difficult at first but you'll get into it, it's online multiplayer is amazing, there's 
 not much lag as other games. This is one of the best 360 games online, the multiplayer is just 
 awsome and well put together. The campain is a bit weird to follow and too short. This game is 
 not really what I expected but it's pretty fun when you get into it. Make sure you rent the game 
 first because it may be what you wanted or it can be a drag. To me, I would have said this game 
 is horrible but the online multiplayer makes me change my mind. If you don't have xbox live then 
 this game will get boring but still fun in a way. If you do have xbox live this game is awsome. 
 If you like first person shooters with a futureistic look then you'll enjoy Perfect Dark Zero. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiasmaRising
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 14, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is truly deserving of the thanks that the gaming community gave it. Its graphics 
 are superb, along with the sound. Although the story and multiplayer are slightly broken, it is 
 a must buy for the 360. A word on controls, they will confuse you. But, if you are like many other 
 gamers, you get used to them. It took me around ten minutes to get used to the controls, but once 
 I did, I was already far into the game and enjoying it. PDZ is a must buy that all should at least 
 give a try. One minor note, as stated above, the story is a little fragmented along with the multiplayer, 
 but it is all fun in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fisticuffs
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I was extremly dissapointed with this game considering it was the highest rated 360 launch title 
 here on gamespot. At no point did the game "feel" right for me and never game me those WOW next 
 gen moments that I got from all of my other titles (5 in all) that I picked up on launch day.
 
  The movment and combat never felt solid and the bad guys had no brains at all which was what really 
 hurt the experience for me.
  And the graphics were a mixed bag at best.
  I really wanted to like this game and was never able to even get into the multiplayer at all.
 
  I think rare was on to something but got on the wrong track somewhere and I would actually look 
 out for a sequal hoping the problems were fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PR3D4TOR2
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 6, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game i really perfect like the title says
  i dont really care about strange story ! 
  I love FPS and this really got everything that you need if you are amateurs or pro
  it's not 
 all about story and graphics it's about game play the multiplayer is awesome too 
  It's really has that thing that is somekind grows on you
  Sounds are very good
  Graphics Awesome
 
  Gameplay Unbelivable
  Really a masterpice
  
  if you own a Xbox360 you must have Perfect Dark Zero it's just worth of money and time
  
  The 
 Single Player is long to learn allmost everything about Perfect Dark Zero
  But the true Skillzz you will get in Online ! it has many ways on how to play online so online 
 mode must be played if you own the game 
  
  in fact the game is PERFECT 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haphasto
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 14, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  The long awaited Perfect Dark Zero is finally here. Many of us had anticpated this game for a long 
 time, thinking it was going to be released on the previous gen consoles. Is it worth the wait though?
 
  
  I divide up my review into 5 categories: Gameplay, Graphics, Sound, Control, and Replayability.... I 
 rate them a numeral out of 10.
  
  *Gameplay*: 9/10 As many remember from the first Perfect Dark, the firstperson shooter game play 
 was beyond comparable, except for maybe Golden Eye at the time. Well PDZ is just as fun. 
  
  There are a wide variety of single player missions, meaning you have a new fun objective every 
 mission. Everything here works solidly, and is just plain fun. It gets kind of frustrating at times 
 though. 
  
  The variety of guns and gadgets is great also. Every gadget has it's own minigame, which all have 
 their own little neat twist, it really helps add to the gameplay. And pretty much every gun has 
 a cool secondary mode, which makes for some great strategies. And they have the laptop gun still.... that's 
 got to add on an extra point!
  
  Online play is pretty fun, it's no Halo 2 of course, but it makes for a good time. Some of the 
 weapons seem a little overpowered online, but that's about it. I do prefer the single player game 
 more though. I'll stick to Halo 2 and CoD2 if I wan to go online.
  
  The enemy AI is great, but sometimes unfair it seems, at times it's like the enemies have precise 
 aiming, and they just can't miss . Fortunately the new dodge button makes this less of a hassel 
 than it really could be. I can't say the same for the team AI though. When you are stuck on a mission 
 where you have to escort someone, or are going through the level with several friendly targets, 
 it seems like they just get in the way more than help. 
  
  Fortunately that is the only flaw I have with the gameplay.
  
  *Graphics* 10/10
  By far some 
 of the best graphics i've seen to date from any console, even PC at that. Everything from character 
 detail to environment detail is superb. I don't even have a HDTV and these graphics just blow me 
 away. 
  
  The only problem I have with the graphics, isn't really with the graphics at all (if that makes 
 any sense) it's with Joana's character model, for one she looks a little cartoony sometimes for 
 being in a pretty realistic world, and 2nd, why in gods name do they have to dress her up like 
 a tramp? Honestly why does a secret angent need to be wearing a shirt with a bare midriff? Don't 
 get me wrong... I love my women, but it just makes no sense. It's like they were trying to pull 
 the DOA factor.
  
  And last but not least, the physics. They are fantastic, plain and simple. I mean, who doesn't 
 love rag doll physics?! Nothing like shooting someone from a 100 foot tower, to see his lifeless 
 body tumble downward! Or to send someone rolling down a flight of stairs. The physics help the 
 collision as well, you will never see an enemy pass through a wall after he dies, or see someones 
 arm sticking out from a door infront of you. 
  
  *Sound* 8/10
  I always hate rating sound, because I can never really go into much detail about it, but I review 
 it anyway. The sound is good. Everything sounds rather crisp, from the guns, to the environment. 
 There are a couple of flaw s here, one is the voice acting, which can get a little cheesy at times. 
 I'm not sure if that's what they were going for though. Second, I really don't like the music that's 
 in the levels, sometimes it just doesn't really seem to fit the environment, in some cases though, 
 it works out. But everyone has their own tastes. Overall though the sound is great, except for 
 a few personal dislikes.
  
  *Control* 8/10
  Overall not too bad, I had to do a little tweeking to the sensativity, because when i first started 
 out, the movement was so slow when I tried to shoot somoene. It seemed hard to aim whenever I zoomed 
 in though, and I couldn't find any adjustments for that. Sometimes the controls just seemed to 
 get a little funky, but stayed pretty good through the whole game.
  
  Replayability 8/10
  With the online play, co-op, and 3 difficulty settings, there should be no reason you should set 
 this game down after you beat the single player mission. With the online play not being as good 
 as many other shooters currently out for Xbox Live, you probably aren't going to get as much from 
 it as you may like, especially for those of us who were such big fans of the original Perfect Dark 
 multiplayer. But still, it makes for a good time.
  
  Overall I give Perfect Dark Zero a 9.2/10. Not quite as breathtaking as the first, but still a 
 great shooter, and probably one of the best, if not the best title out for the Xbox360 to date. 
 I can't say it's as groundbreaking as the first Perfect Dark, but If you are going to pick up one 
 game for the 360 right now, this should be it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 21, 2006 11:59 pm PT
Review:  This is fairly good FPS. The single player is pretty good, giving you lots of options on how you 
 want to finish missions. You can either play it stealth, or guns blazing it up. The story is OK, 
 nothing unique or amazing, but it'll do.
  
  Multiplayer is very good stuff. It's not Halo 2 though. I personally think that's a good thing. 
 It feels very different from Halo 2. There's some cheap weapons, but there's nothing along the 
 lines of hording cheap weapons as there is in Halo 2. The gameplay types are super fun to play, 
 epecially Dark Ops. 
  
  This game is worth the buy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fares_bytes
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 13, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, Let me start with e graphics, the enviroment looks fantastic with cool lighting effects and 
 lots of normal mapping, but the character model looks so out of place, looks too cartoony, sounds 
 is just a typical gaming sci-fi sounds with the beeps and what nots and music really techno and 
 futuristic overall average sounds, gameplay is just sloppy with very slow moving AI, I had a very 
 hard time aiming in this game for some reason but I did not worry much for the weak AI, multiplayer 
 to me save this title with the great deathmatches and the similiar counter strike style gameplay 
 with 32 player, rent this games before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunstar7
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 13, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Though many seemed dissapointed with Perfect Dark, this game delivered a good amount of the old 
 gameplay many of us are still fond of. It was an unfortunate turn of events that its predecessor 
 was released at the end of the N64 era, but Zero has brought back much of its glory. The gameplay 
 is friendly and the learning curve for your average FPS gamer is short, the storyline proves to 
 be entertaining but the real star of the game are the weapons. Secondary and even tertiary functions 
 give this game an immense depth when it comes to dispatching enemies. All its good points in order, 
 PD: Zero is incredibly weak in the multiplayer department, the maps are empty and repetitive, the 
 characters are few, and the game modes are quite pointless. Save for this one fact, Perfect Dark 
 is great for the veteran FPS player who's looking for good old fashioned gameplay and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  A first person shooter that has a very interesting story line does not account for the fact that 
 the gadgets are a bit tough to use. The tutorial level is less of a tutorial and more of a linear 
 experience; by the end, you didn't learn much. Playing as a really hot girl is good, but you feel 
 a bit under challenged. The A. I. is plain dumb, and unless you play on the high difficulties, you 
 wont truly get a great challenge. Since this was one of the launch games, nobody expected miracles. 
 Still, with a brilliant graphics system, confusing gadgets, and simplistic A. I., you're better 
 off with Call of Duty 2, or Ghost Recon. If you still have an old XBOX, try Halo (1 or 2) . Still, 
 if you're desperate for futuristic action, you will have to use this until something better comes 
 around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Untitled-One
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  PDZ absolutly blew me away, i thought it was going to be a game that would flop but its more then 
 i expected congrats for you PDZ dunno how they do it but i love this game, this game is as good 
 as the n64 version good job microsoft for making a brilliant game - PDZ absolutly blew me away, 
 i thought it was going to be a game that would flop but its more then i expected congrats for you 
 PDZ dunno how they do it but i love this game, this game is as good as the n64 version good job 
 microsoft for making a brilliant game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuttybar
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 1:43 am PT
Review:  PDZ, well, it isnt a maasterpiece. First there are good reactions. you see these phot-realistic 
 back drops, your holding a very well detailed gun and then you see the character models. They stop 
 this game in a fairly large way from being an outstanding game to play. Its like they tried to 
 appeal to 12 year old japenese comic book fans. Which sucks. Single player has a couple of good 
 moments but feels disjointed. The story is the worst story i have ever played. The holes in this 
 thing are mind blowing. Take this for instance: At one point joanna is rescued on a speedboat, 
 however her father is left behind, when he is literally 5 feet away. The single player is quite 
 difficult on its higher difficulty levels. Then you will get around to playing the very good multiplayer. 
 First off, you can play co-op online with 2 players maximum. This is a very good feature. There 
 are many adversariel game types, way too many for me to go through here. Its VERY customizable. 
 The best is infection. There are always quite a few people playing on the servers. PDZ has managed 
 to at least set the standard on multi-player games for the 360, but is fundamentally flawed, and 
 a few months from now, will most likely be forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwestmaster
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 12, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  pdz is an ok game i found that the single player was not as good as the multiplayer you see the 
 single player is short and fairly easy except at perfect and dark agent levels. however the multiplayer 
 is vary addictive any one who loved the origanel pd or 007 games will like this whith its standed 
 death mach and ctf. but darkops is whare this game is really fun whith eradacation simaler to deathmach 
 ecept that you can buy you wepons infection whare the underarmed infected ones swarm the uninfected. 
 onslat simaler to infection except that defenders cannot leave base and sabotase whare the attakers 
 try and blow up defenders gear. all in all rent this game just to make sure you like it fans of 
 the classic pd will like it but others shuld try it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarus405
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 is the best console out right now and as one of the best release games for the 360, 
 Perfect Dark Zero shows off as much as it can of this marvelous new system.
  The Story in Perfect Dark Zero isn't all that good. The story is quite short and plot twists that 
 should shock you, just make you think: "Oh wait, who was that character anyway?". The game also 
 tends to change locations very quick, even though every mission has an introduction, where your 
 people will brief you on the situation. The story itself has some cliche and absurd characters 
 but with all these problems, the game has a unique and pleasing atmosphere with a cool futuristic 
 "No One Lives Forever / 007" feel of futuristic espionage and information warfare.
  The Gameplay is what makes up for all the other problems. The gameplay feels solid and you will 
 have a lot of weapons to choose from, but you can carry only 4 small slots (Pistols / Grenades 
 / Swords - 1 Slot, SMG's / Assault Rifles - 2 Slots and Bigger Weapons - 3 Slots) so you will constantly 
 be thinking of what to take with you. The weapons don't have specific ammo though, instead there 
 is SMG Ammo, Rifle Ammo, etc. You can choose which weapons to take with you in the beginning of 
 every mission and the choice of weapons before the mission depends on which weapons you have in 
 the list. The list is updated, every time you finish a level with a new weapon in your hands. This 
 list stays the same, that means that if you start on a new difficulty you can take better weapons 
 with you, but ammo might become an issue. Another great thing about the weapon system is the Dual 
 weapon system. The Xbox 360 controller has 2 triggers, if you have two weapons, then you will fire 
 the left one with the left trigger and the right one with the right trigger and this gives it a 
 cool feel, even though it might take some time to learn how to aim effectively like this. I just 
 fire my right weapon empty and while im reloading the right one, i fire with the left one, without 
 staying open for attack. All weapons have secondary fire modes (grenades, silencers, holograms, 
 etc) , if i remember correctly and some of them even have two. When i bought this game, i only had 
 a few parts of the manual in english (the back where the control layout is, a part of the text 
 behind the box and the front of the manual) so i had no idea for quite a while, how to use the 
 second special mode. To those of you with the same problem, it is activated with the Right Bumper 
 and the Left Trigger (hold the first down and press the second) . The only problem with the combat 
 system is that the crosshair is just huge, very huge and it cannot be changed. The crosshair goes 
 red when you are aiming at an enemy though, so atleast you can still effectively shoot with it. 
 You can also fire from cover. This system is similar to that of Rockstars Red Dead Revolver, where 
 you can aim your gun at your enemy without being exposed and then shoot, you have to come out of 
 cover to use a scope, so making headshots isn't that easy. The cover system is a bit fauly though. 
 The Cover message comes about 1 second after you are near the wall, so this doesn't make it so 
 effective as it could be. Also, some times the system will through you in another spot than you 
 want, where you might become exposed to enemy fire. Most of the time it will work fine, so you 
 just have to be careful where you cover. The campaign is 14 Missions long and you also have different 
 difficulty modes to choose from. In the medium level the game all of the sudden jumps from Normal 
 to Very Hard and back to Normal in the last mission, this makes the game very hard at some levels. 
 If you want to have a fun non depressing play through, go with Easy, if you are very good at aiming, 
 you can go straight to Normal. In the missions you will have all kinds of objectives, some are 
 First Priority and others are optional, which adds a bit of freedom to the game. If you play on 
 the harder modes, you will have to do some objectives yourself or from a harder point, so there 
 is some replay value there. The health system is very unique. You have your health bar, which is 
 surrounded by a shield bar. If the shield bar is gone, you will lose health, but will gain it back 
 up to the while line in the bar, if you don't get shot for a little while. But everytime you are 
 hit and the bar goes to this state, the white bar goes down a bit, decreasing your overall health 
 for that mission. There is also a part of the game where you drive a Hovercraft, which is quite 
 impressive and firing from Mounted Machine guns is also an option in some levels. You can even 
 take the Machine Gun / Rocket Launcher with you, if you are willing to fill 3 of 4 weapon slots. 
 You can also break in to some places with the Loctopus (Lockpick) or Datathief (Hacking Tool) , 
 in some levels you even pilot a small hovering machine called a Cam Spy, these moments are short 
 but fun. The worst problem in the game is the saving system. You will have only one loading screen 
 per level, but also just one checkpoint in the middle of the level. If you die and load from a 
 checkpoint, it just feels like you are starting the level all over again. You can save progress 
 only in the end of a level. Overall, the good parts make up for the bad ones and this balances 
 the overall feel of the game...
  The Graphics are truly beutiful. I play on a standard TV and even like that, the game looks beutiful. 
 You will go through all kinds of environments, from High-Tech, to Urban, to Desert, to Jungle, 
 etc. One of the "problems" with this is, that there is no way to easily understand where to go 
 next in the game. There is a Waypoint system in the game, which shows you where to go, when you 
 aren't on the right path. This is recommended for the first play through, especialy in the jungle 
 levels. The game has a steady framerate, which will go down a bit sometimes, but not so bad that 
 you can't aim effectively. In some areas, enemies are hard to see, so it is a good idea to use 
 flashlights, night vision, x-ray vision, threat locating vision, etc in those areas. It is useful 
 to carry atleast one weapon with one of those options, when you are playing a dark mission. Levels 
 have only one loading time too, so the action allmost never stops...
  The Sound is good. The music is surely a strong point in the game, but when you play a level, it 
 is just so loud that it tends to get annoying. When you play this game, switch the Music to 75 
 and Sound FX to 100, this way it will sound normal. Allthough weapons and environments sound great, 
 there are some small issues some time, like some things not having a sound (this happens very rarely) 
 or some other weird little bugs. A good thing however, is that the enemies comment you all the 
 time, like if you are carrying a gun that is bigger than theirs or they will yell that you are 
 reloading and now is the time to attack, etc.
  The Controls are very well made, so you probably won't change them, but they can be customised 
 quite a bit if you want to. The only thing you can complain about is the absence of a Crosshair 
 Size Bar...
  The Replay Value isn't very high, but you do have some objective choices in the levels and a choice 
 of difficulty modes, but for those of you with Xbox Live, this is a game will last quite a while, 
 because the Multiplayer is one of its stronger points, i have heard. There is also a Co-Op mode 
 which might be quite some fun.
  Overall Perfect Dark Zero is one of the best games for the Xbox 360 at the moment, so if you are 
 looking for a good solid shooting / sneaking experience, this is a game that will surely give you 
 all that you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron11291
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 11, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was my first Xbox 360 game, and the first game I had ever played on Xbox Live. 
 
  
  I decided to jump right into the multiplayer, and it is a very great experience. For a while I 
 was playing just Deathmatch games, I won the majority of my games, but it got old after 200+ games 
 that I logged playing deathmatch. Then I discovered DarkOps. It has my two favorite modes, Onslaught 
 and Eradication. I have logged many, many hours playing PDZ online.
  
  The Single player on the other hand is complete blah. That's all I have to say....
  
  so Overall 
 9.1/10 is a great game, especially a great first game for your 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soraclone555
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 11, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is short, bad gameplay, weak storyline, bad control mechanics, just crap to me. The limited 
 edition was a peice of **** **** as far as I can say. There were still some good things though. 
 The graphics were nice and crisp, the multi-player was some fun, the sound design and quality was 
 goo, and the voice-acting wasn't all that bad. And not to mention the arsenal of powerful, and 
 destructive weapons there was to choose from. But is was still a little of a disappointment it 
 couldn't really fill up to the hype it was given. Rare scewed up though, no matter what, theycould've 
 still given it moretime, despite what they say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  A good all round game. Nice graphics, varying levels and fun to play. But enemy A. I is not fabulous 
 and some levels seem a bit pointless. The storyline is alright but nothing to rant about but this 
 is a sturdy shooter that should be in any gun nuts collection. Buy it, play it but not one that 
 will keep you going back for more! The Xbox Live play is amzing though and this will keep you playing 
 for quite a while. If you liked Perfect Dark you will love this but even if you didn't chances 
 are you still will like this just to keep your trigger finger entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kizzle28
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 16, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a first-person shooter that retains many things of the original to make it 
 a worthy sequel. The graphics, sound, and overall polish of the game make the $70 price tag worth 
 it. It's co-op mode and other multiplayer elements only solidify how good this game is. All the 
 weapons are spot on, the voices are generally well done, and the controls and gameplay are superb.
 
  
  On the negative side, the campain mode is much too short. When compared to other shooters, like 
 COD2, its noticeablely short campain is troublesome. Also, one cannot save mid-mission, which makes 
 things frustrating, if your stuck at a particular spot. Its storyline and premise are very dissappointing 
 to me. But I guess FPS usually do not have engaging stories but it does'nt mean that they can't. 
 In COD2's case, it didn't need a story. It was already written. But PDZ's was, for me, lackluster.
 
  
  Overall, this game delivers. This, in my opinion, is the 2nd best shooter on the 360, next to COD2. 
 This is a fine addition to anyone lucky enough to own a 360, especially if you are a fan of the 
 original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenjaminhoppe
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Lets start by saying this is not Halo and does not try to be Halo. But, it's also not Perfect Dark 
 for the N64. The single player game isn't great, but if you can just sit back and play it for a 
 good time, it can be just that. The AI isn't the best, but just crank up the difficulty level and 
 that should make up for it. The story isn't much to speak of, and I couldn't really tell you much 
 about what happened, but like I said before, at the end of the day the game is fun. Now, the multiplayer 
 is a ton of fun. You pick between dark ops and deathmatch games. Deathmatch games have kill count, 
 capture the flag, and the like. Dark ops has more Counter Strike style gameplay where for the most 
 part, one life is all you have. I have the most fun in dark ops, but I will play deathmatch when 
 I want a break from that. You have tons of options and it is easy to get into a game. I have to 
 say I was hoping for a little more from this game, but at the end of the day the game really does 
 deliver a ton of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atom420
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  Rare has been around for a long time and is a well established developer, having created some great 
 smash hit games such as Banjo-Kazooie, Donkey Kong 64 and of course the critically acclaimed GoldenEye 
 007. Now Rare has gone and made a prequel to one of the Nintendo 64s blockbuster titles Perfect 
 Dark, the prequel being called Perfect Dark Zero and still featuring the highly deadly and sexy 
 lead character known as Joanna Dark. This time however the game will be exclusive to the Xbox 360 
 as Microsoft purchased Rare back in 2002. Many people hold the view that Perfect Dark Zero is Microsofts 
 flagship launch title for the Xbox 360 and the game will even come in two editions, a standard 
 edition and a tin cased limited edition; but does Perfect Dark Zero live up the expectations set 
 by its predecessor?
  
  When Perfect Dark Zero loads up you are entertained with a well made introduction music video of 
 sorts which will make you want to jump straight into the action, unfortunately though you may find 
 yourself being deceived. The menu screens are simple and easy to use allowing you to quickly get 
 to where you want, may it be the single player campaign, co-op campaign or even an online multiplayer 
 game on Xbox Live. Perfect Dark Zero does come loaded with every type of FPS mode available at 
 the moment and even makes most of these modes playable online, including the co-op campaign mode. 
 So you no longer have to invite your mate round to play, as long as he/she has the game and Xbox 
 Live you can meet up online and play together, which I think is ultra cool and also a sign that 
 developers are trying to use Xbox Live whenever they can.
  
  The single player and co-op campaigns take you through the same missions but unfortunately Perfect 
 Dark Zero never achieves anything more than average in the mission mode. You might say that being 
 average is good enough but you have to remember that Perfect Dark Zero should be spectacular. The 
 first level as with most FPS games is more of a training exercise rather than a proper mission 
 and it does a good job of letting you set up and get used to the controls that are right for your 
 style of play. The second level you play on though tries to add some stealth elements to the gameplay 
 and to be honest it fails miserably as you will probably end up throwing your controller down in 
 a fit of rage if you get spotted by a patrolling guard. Luckily though Rare has kept the stealth 
 elements to a minimum and most of the time you will find yourself in fierce fire fights. Another 
 disappointment are the levels as they seem to be not that well designed, apart from the later bridge 
 assault mission which is awesome, but on the most part there is nothing that has not been done 
 before and so adds very little more to the very average gameplay. Its not all bad news though, 
 there are some very cool aspects to the mission mode of Perfect Dark Zero, the best being the weaponry 
 available. There are a ton of weapons to collect throughout the game which are all unique and have 
 secondary modes of fire, some even have a tertiary (third) mode of fire. Unfortunately some of 
 these other modes of fire are completely useless, such as the KSI-74s (an updated AK-47) bayonet, 
 but for the most part they are very well thought out and can be used in variety of situations that 
 you are faced with during the game. For example there is jungle level in which you would be wise 
 to use the RCP-90 as its secondary function, a threat detector, will enable you to see enemies 
 normally obscured by the foliage of the jungle surroundings. Another excellent feature Perfect 
 Dark Zero has is that when you finish a mission the weapons you finish the mission with are added 
 to your armoury, so that when you attempt later missions or go back and do other missions again, 
 on a harder difficulty, you have the ability to arm yourself with all the right weapons from the 
 start without having to rely on picking weapons up from fallen enemies. You will still have to 
 find and pick up ammunition though. The graphics of Perfect Dark Zero are not the greatest out 
 there and should be superior considering they are on a next generation console but they just arent, 
 the graphics look the worst when it comes to the characters faces and the strange thing is that 
 the lead character Joanna Dark has a graphically superior face compared to the rest of the characters. 
 Overall the mission mode of Perfect Dark Zero could have and should have been prepared much better, 
 and it is not the fact that the mission mode is very average, even though it is, but the fact that 
 so much more was expected from Rare who have proved they do have what it takes to make a classic 
 FPS.
  
  So the mission mode could have been better, what of the multiplayer modes? Here is where Perfect 
 Dark Zero really shines through, as there are countless hours of fun to be had nailing people in 
 the head with your preferred weapon of choice. I found myself playing on Xbox Live for hours at 
 a time as I just could not get enough of the complete and total fraggage. I think the main reason 
 why Perfect Dark Zero is so magnificent online is not because it offers all of the standard modes 
 of play such as, Killcount (Death match) , Team Killcount, Capture the Flag, etc; and even more 
 modes of play when it comes to the Dark Ops modes, all of which are customisable by the host at 
 any time through the game lobby; no, Perfect Dark Zero rocks online because of the vast amount 
 of weapons available and the way in which the weapons work. You will never get bored as there is 
 so much choice available; do I shoot him/her with my trusty Falcon or do I blow him/her up with 
 the secondary fire bounce grenades made accessible through using the Super Dragonactually, you 
 know whatI think Ill just find a nice quiet spot somewhere up high where no one can see me and 
 snipe a few people in the head with my versatile Jackal. There are just so many options to choose 
 from when it comes to taking out people. Also apart from the standard FPS multiplayer modes, Rare 
 have added what are known as Dark Ops modes (as mentioned above) that breathe a little bit more 
 life into the genre and act as an enjoyable escape from the standard modes of multiplayer mayhem. 
 The only fault that one could find with the multiplayer aspect of Perfect Dark Zero is the limited 
 numbers of maps available, which there are only six of, each of which have different variations 
 depending on what type of multiplayer game you are playing.
  
  It has to be said that without the multiplayer aspect, which is worth its weight in gold, Perfect 
 Dark Zero would be a huge disappointment. If you are not looking for an entertaining story or single 
 player mode but are on the look out for a great online frag fest then Perfect Dark Zero is definitely 
 in your ball park; but I would advise you to rent the game first just to make sure, as next generation 
 games are carrying a hefty 49.99 price tag these days, so make sure before you buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynasty3patriot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  This games isn't as good as halo but it is stil good. The graphics are great. but the cut scene 
 graphics don't fit in with the regular game. they are scaled down. the gameplay fells great. you 
 have all the wepons you would expect. shoutgun, rockets, sniper, and pistols. the sad part about the 
 story is that it is too short. there are only 13 missons. i was able to finish the game in two 
 hours. the online is cool its pretty much the same as halo. when you reload the wepons they soun 
 exactly as they do in halo 2. i wouldn't recommend this as a full price perchase because the game 
 is so short. you will only play the game mabey once again on another diffuculty level. unless you 
 want this game just for the mulitplayer and online you shouldn't spend $60.00 on it. this is perfect 
 for renting for a weekend. its a superb effort to bring a grat first person shooter for the 360. 
 if you have a 360 you should definitly play it and give it a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaGe256
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. Its one the best for xbox 360 thats out. If you dont have this game go to 
 the store and get it now. not only is the 1st player mode great but playing it live is even better. 
 I even dare to say that its more fun than halo in most areas of game play. Im not saying this game 
 doesnt have flaws, but any that it has is hardly noticable........ Now i am just rambling on to 
 fill up space, i think its kind of stupid that they make you write a hundred words before you can 
 submit .... well this should be enough - later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midnitestalker1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  i played this game almost to the end on perfect agent i was on the last level of the game when 
 i left it for a few days as i was playing it mainly on line (to boost my gamer score) & when i 
 returned to the main single player game i was greeted by a message saying that my saved data was 
 corrupt & un usable & so i lost all my hard work.
  
  apart from that minor point the game itself is great smooth frame rate, good weapon choices & gadgets 
 as well to choose from, the AI is spot on once its set on the other settings although on the easier 
 settings it still offers a decent challenge
  
  where the game shines is in the multi player side of things fast frantic 0% lag (sometimes the 
 server can crash not often though) good atmosphere in game just good all round fun which is the 
 most important thing now a days
  you will need a very steady hand if your a camper (like me) as some of the sniping rifles need 
 precise aiming to the head as you can often drop somebody whos got full health & armour with one 
 shot, over all a good all round game but not a great game just worth a rent as the corruption issues 
 are all to common so save you money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 670179139
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Personelly I think this game sucked. Yes it had good graphics but the gameplay and sound were horrible 
 I remember I was playing it one time I shot someone in the arm and killed them this happened more 
 than once for me. I mean why even make games that are no good. I mean it justs makes people waste 
 money around the mid 60s everytime they make bad games for the 360. This game was a horrible follow 
 up on the greatest N64 game of all time. This game could have been way better I meanb yes it was 
 a launch title but maybe they could have made it better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daylightsend7
Rating: 3.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  I was extremely excited to get my hands on PDZ when I first heard about it coming to the original 
 Xbox a fews years ago, and then to find out it will be an Xbox360 launch title.... I was bound to 
 have it! I am a HUGE fan of the original Perfect Dark on the N64, and was really impressed with 
 the story and action.
  Now on to PDZ... I was HIGHLY dissappointed in this game. I felt like I was playing a game specifically 
 aimed for the "kids that follow the fads" group of people, and the main character instead of being 
 Johanna Dark, was played by Linsy Lohan. The action was okay, but nothing stellar, especially on 
 a next-gen console. And don't get me started on the storyline.... can you just say "what?!". I don't 
 want to give away any spoilers, but lets just say the boss-fight at the end is very cliche' to 
 games like "House of the Dead 2". And not only did the story line stray far FAR away from the original, 
 but the boss battles were NOT challenging.... period. 
  Now, amongst this horrid sequel, there was some pretty decent elemnts. The graphics were very good 
 looking, although I think the characters could have looked better. I liked the evadasive roll in 
 place of a jump, that made it nice during fire-fights.
  Weapons: The weapons were also a disappointment. I didn't feel like ANY of them was powerful enough, 
 and the secondary fire mode on a lot of them felt useless, especially since you could only carry 
 enough weapons to fill your slots! So when one of the weapon's secondary fire is to drop it and 
 use it as a proximity mine..... you didn't really want to since you only had one other weapon.
 
  All in all...... I hated this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CassiusVII
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  Awesome! I loved this game. Sometimes I don't agree with gamespot on the reveiws but a 9.0 is pretty 
 good. The game is Long... when I say long I mean you aren't going to beat it in one day like Halo 
 2 long. I mean you actually get your money's worth when you buy it. Especially if you have xbox 
 live. The multiplayer is great. Me and my friends stayed up all night playing this thing seeing 
 who would win the next round.
  Gameplay- Like I said its awesome... its not horribly hard, and its lengthy so you get to have 
 some fun with it.
  Graphics- Pretty good but I dont consider them Great... an 8 out of 10 is sufficient.
  Sound- 
 Annoying at times. Especially when you are the little orb thingy that you have to float around 
 as in the single player mode. The music isn't bad though
  Value- Like I said ." Your going to get what you paid for." Even if you dont have xbox live its 
 still a fun game. You can fight bots in the multiplayer mode if you dont have some friends to play 
 with you.
  I like first person shooters and this is one of the better ones I have played, the only reason 
 I didnt give it a 10 in my reveiwers tilt was because you cant jump, and I dont like that. Its 
 def. worth buying though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadynate82
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  What so Great: 
  The weapon selections are nice to play around with. The graphics are better than some made you 
 believe but there are some shortness of 360 quality. Game play is sporadic as they have people 
 come from many angles due to the smart A. I. system. The dodging system lets you get out alive with 
 creativity due to smart rolls here and there. Many things to accomplish and higher difficulty settings 
 add to replay value.
  
  What so Wrong:
  No jump what the heck is that? cuts down on the creativity for player movement but does not hinder 
 too badly for game play. Story mode is a little basic and easy if just playing through. The on-line 
 multi-player is not for everyone due to level design and re-spawn point management. Shooting someone 
 in the body can take an awfully long time to take down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redmarble
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero, is a good game but I'm glad I rented it first. The Gameplay is perhaps the strongest 
 aspect of the game. The AI on higher difficulty seems pretty intelligent compared to other FPS' 
 I've played. Graphics are good and so are the game physics, except there were two occasions where 
 an NPC's body started bouncing around like a basket ball after I killed them. I saw something similar 
 on Google Video. Some of the AI statements in the gameplay seems tuned in on your behavior and 
 I found all the military jargon from the Datadyne troops kind of nostalgic. Anyway, I know most 
 gamers outside of RPG players could care less about stories but one of the major failings of this 
 game is the story, in three words: Superficial, stereotypical (action type) , and predictable. However, 
 despite this games few failings it's still worth your attention if your an FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kennyleo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I have to be completely honest. I was very disappointed once I saw that PDZ wasn't as good as gamespot. com 
 said it was.
  
  The graphics are nice. Very anime inspired and glossy. The sound isn't too shabby either. Also, 
 the controls are very customizible, tight, and responsive. 
  
  All of this sounds good so far, but the problem is this isn't the game to make anyone buy an Xbox 
 360. Was it supposed to be? Everyone agreed it should have been.
  
  Basically, it boils down to a few things:
  
  If you liked the classic N64 shooters get the 
 game.
  If you like FPS games, get it.
  If you like pure action games, get it.
  
  So why should you care? Well, it's a good game. 
  
  At $60 it's a 8.3. Once the game retails 
 for $20-$30 it's a 8.7.
  
  Bottom line: Good single player, full featured multiplayer that may not produce much new but is 
 still done very well, and it's PDZ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 7, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  this game clearly is more those dark zero dfans from the 64. i was not one of them. i stayed faith 
 full to golden eye. but anyway. having a HD TV saves this game with its clarity and beauty. the 
 game play isn't that but, but again i'm such a hao fan this just doesn't cut it for me. the story 
 mode isn't compelling to me and lacks a true story that will get you to play it. while the weapon 
 allow you to choose from a variety you have to get use to it to play. the online play doens't help 
 it much. i find myself playing way too many capture the flag and not enought death matches. the 
 game also is very dark so unless you have a dark room ro plan on playing this game at night this 
 isn't for you standard to people. overall this game is an absolute rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netsgiantsfan24
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 7, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  If you have xbox live, then buy this game. It is really fun online and there are a lot of game 
 types. The graphics are pretty good for a launch game but a lot of things seem to be shiny for 
 some reason. The surroundings look good but the character models are just OK. The single player 
 campaign isn't that great and the story is hard to follow. The A. I is rather dumb and the single 
 player mode is very short as well. Only took 2 days to beat it. However, if you have xbox live 
 Perfect Dark Zero is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digiesc
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  The game itself tried hard to portray style and elegance, but to a fault. It seems to be they tried 
 to hype the appearance of the game rather than tweaking its game mechanics. The controls allows 
 for a fairly solid game play, but the limitation of a controller VS the environment can make it 
 frustrating to navigate around and take care of the multiple enemies all trying to blow you away. 
 
  The Storyline is nearly non existent. It feels more as if it was put together at the last minute 
 because they had to put some kind of storyline in the game, rather than simply make it pretty. 
 The voice acting could be worse, but it could also be allot better. I am not too certain what the 
 QA team at Rare thought when hearing some of the voices used for the characters and decided to 
 actually put them in the game. 
  Borrow or rent it first. It might appeal to you, but I don't think its deserving of the hype it 
 is receiving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  For a long time, you couldn't mention Xbox 360 without hearing someone ramble on about how Perfect 
 Dark Zero was going to be the killer app to have. So, even though I never really was a fan of the 
 original N64 Dark, I decided to give this game a shot when I finally got my 360. Now I've heard 
 comparisons to Goldeneye plenty, even a few that said, "I don't see how anyone who is a fan of 
 Goldeneye wouldn't LOVE this game." Firstly, yes, I am a fan of Goldeneye and I still say that 
 was the best shooter ever made. BUT, I am NOT a fan of Perfect Dark Zero. I don't know what really 
 happened with this title (ahem*RUSHED*ahem) , but there's just something about it... here.. I'll try 
 to explain:
  
  Graphics: The environments look good, and so do the guns and characters. But wow. It looks like 
 someone soaked everything in this game in Armor All... seriously. I guess the goal was to make it 
 shiny, since apparently that's what people like. But it literally hurts my eyes to play this game, 
 and I'm 24 so I'm no old guy. This one pretty much screams cartoon all the way through. The color 
 palette is just too bright and, because of the games overall feel of "don't take me literally", 
 you never really care about getting into the action. This game is comparative to Goldeneye? Well, 
 actually, in one aspect: The death animations for the enemies haven't improved one bit. You can 
 shoot someone and watch them drop their gun, but still stand there looking at you as if waiting 
 to hear you whisper, "Fall". 
  
  Sound: The sound is ok as long as no one is talking. The dialog is abysmal (the evil woman's name 
 is Mai Hem? Are you f#$%@$@ serious???) , and the story isn't any better. I'm still trying to figure 
 out wtf just happened and I've beaten this game twice... not because I wanted to, but because I 
 couldn't believe that there was no real story. Upon second review.. nope.. not really. 
  
  Control: Shooting is a nightmare for me. The controls are over-touchy and sniping is near impossible. 
 The characters move with all the grace of a passenger bus towing a trailer. There's no jump.. which 
 wouldn't be a bad thing spare that in multiplayer, all you can really do is strafe and pray... that's 
 about it. And everyone goes for headshots, which are as unpredictable as lottery numbers as to 
 whether or not you get one.
  
  Entertainment: Ever wonder what a James Bond game would be like if instead of bond you were playing 
 some super-cheezy character and went around shooting generic, identical-looking bad guys and dealing 
 with techno beats between levels? PDZ is your dream come true! Everyone else, I'd suggest looking 
 elsewhere. Call of Duty 2 for instance, which actually has action. If you get shot in this game, 
 don't worry. It nearly takes a tank to kill you, so just hide for a second and you'll get your 
 life back.. I'm sure there's armor just around the corner too. The one thing that redeems this game 
 slightly is the multiplayer. It can be addicting, but there's not many character models to choose 
 from and you still have to deal with the slow run-walk of your character.
  
  All in all, I was let down by PDZ. Like DOA 4, everyone hyped this game, including Gamespot, to 
 no end. How this game landed a 9 is beyond me. Maybe they got it flipped upside down or something, 
 because unless they were playing a totally different game and didn't know it, this game should 
 never have been given that score. Rent it MAYBE for the multiplayer, if you can stand cheezy. Don't 
 play single player. Please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superbustacap
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a different shooter which is really the only reason Perfect Dark Zero is better than the 
 average shooter. The differences are a few gadgets to use and some simple vehicles as well. These 
 small additons really help this game a lot. The graphics of the enviornments, espcially the walls 
 and floor you walk on look really good, and possibly better than any other game made on any console. 
 As for the regular gameplay, the shooting controls aren't very good, and no where near as smooth 
 as Halo 1 or 2. The average sized campaign mode won't dissapoint you, and the online play won't 
 either. There are many different game types to play online or with bots which will keep you playing 
 a little longer. The sound is also realistic, just adding another simple thing to improve this 
 game. Rent it for sure and buy it if you enjoy the multiplayer enough to keep you occupied for 
 a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VonCreme10
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Words can't describe how much this game makes me want to barf on the floor. The first Perfect Dark 
 was an instant N64 classic. So you would think: now with this new technology, it can be BETTER! 
 no. you are terribly mistaken.
  
  Graph (shiny) ics - When you first play PDZ, you will notice one thing. Everything shines. Ancient 
 cave walls SHINE like someone coated them with wax. Close up, things look amazing. Walls are so 
 detailed it was just awesome. Far away though, you mistaken everything for mirrors. When people 
 run, it just looks so cartoony. The faces are just ugly and bad. The graphics in this game are 
 relatively good, but some things they did to it really made things look messed up. The gun models 
 look great, though. The framerate absolutely sucks, as it slowed down to 0-5 fps twice in one game. 
 Gross.
  
  Gameplay - I just hate the gameplay. Hate it. Against bots, kiss your ass goodbye because expect 
 them to kill you with 1 clip, full armor and health. I unloaded 2 superdragon clips on one guy, 
 and he shot me with a magnum getting a headshot. Mhm... yeah... I think the gameplay could really 
 really be improved. There is no point to the cover-mode they put in, and I think there aren't any 
 tactics in it that would really give you the feeling of a real fight.
  
  Sound - The soundtracks are funky and smooth, and the menus really get your groove on. Weapons 
 sound great, but melee moves are just so funny, it is sad. Other than that, there is nothing special 
 like in a game like COD2.
  
  Value - Save it for the multiplayer. That may be the only reason the hang onto it. The single player 
 campaign is just pitiful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-Mac1H
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a good game for X-Box 360. It has very good graphics. One of the best for 
 the system so far. The single player is great. Very fun and realistic. One shot kills on enemies 
 makes this game's single player realistic and fun. You can play it over and over trying to unlock 
 every weapon and beat it on every difficulty. 
  The multiplayer is not as good. If it held onto the realistic one shot kills of the single player 
 mode it would be better. You can shoot an enemy with 5 machine gun clips without killing them. 
 Online multiplayer becomes very frustrating. There are many different types of online games, such 
 as traditional death match games, and games such as infection wherethe infected player must infect 
 all the other players. The different types of games and a few different levles keep the online 
 gameplay from getting redundant. 
  In my opinion this is one of the best games for X-Box 360. It is a must have for anyone who is 
 a fan of first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossotron
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 6, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  the original PD is my favourite game.. ever so i was overly excited wen i heared about PD zero. 
 When i bout the game i wasnt dissapointed. The graphics are simply amazin and the weapons you use 
 are clever in the way that they are present day guns with futuristic extras (mostly) . To be honest 
 if the game wasnt called perfect dark then you probably wouldnt realise this is the prequal to 
 the other PD. However this does not necceserily have to be a bad thing. I thonk PD zero is one 
 of the most unique games out there with amazin graphics and game play. the story aint much but 
 you soon forget that once usin all the different guns to blow hundreds of enemies away.
  
  The biggest plus of PD zero is the online. Like Halo 2 you have alot of variety... different game 
 modes... weapon restrictions.... but unfortenatly not that many maps. ~The really good thing about 
 the online is it appeals to different types of gamers. For example if you are a fan of Counter 
 strike you can play eradication which is a round based game that ou can play ranked or unranked. 
 The game seems to have adopted elements from different types of games... such as halo and counter 
 strike which makes it simply awsome. (howeveri am not comparin this game to halo or counter strike 
 because its not really like either 1 you can just see where the game got its insparations)
  
  If you have an xbox 360 i would suggest you buy this game for its good gameplay on and offline. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 930ff
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 5, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  So, Rare tried to convince people that this was the Halo of 360. Perfect Dark Zero has been one 
 of the best online experiences for the Xbox 360 thus far. The single player campaign doesn't really 
 have any replay value because its not all that exciting. It is however, not that bad if you play 
 co-op with a friend over Xbox Live or at home on split screen. The online multiplayer is what saves 
 the game. With gametypes like infection & eradication, PDZ is a great online experience. With unique 
 weapons like the Viblade, PDZ changes the way you look at close combat fighting. Overall, the game 
 was a bit a disappointment. But since the multiplayer is so well done, this game is a great experience 
 for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raylen12
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero came very close to being a good game. The graphics are good, but a bit too cartoony; 
 the controls are well-mapped, but, curiously, they do not seem very slick; the sound is acceptable, 
 but the soundtrack gets old fast; the multiplayer is the one thing that was nearly right.
  
  The story in Perfect Dark Zero starts out good, but takes a turn very quickly. The first level, 
 in which your character, Joanna Dark, is inserted within a simulation, is interesting enough, once 
 you get past the tutorial bit. The second level, however, you begin to see what's beneath the paint. 
 Perfect Dark Zero demands you to be stealthy, but non-player characters either are totally oblivious 
 to you even as you crouch right beside them, or they immediately spot you, even when you're in 
 the deep shadows. Anyway, the story is that Joanna Dark and her father are being paid to save this 
 guy named Keigler from being ransomed off to a huge megacorporation. After several missions, Jo's 
 father is captured, and you typically have to rescue him, ending in a horrible cliched death. It 
 follows a basic action-movie plot-line, taking twists that leave you wondering, "Why the heck did 
 they do that?"
  
  The multiplayer of the game is slightly better than the story. You can play on an off Xbox Live, 
 and in two different major game modes: Deathmatch and Dark Ops. Deathmatch is the basic, uh, deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, abd capture the flag. Dark Ops is much like Counter-Strike; you are given money 
 to buy weapons, and then you must go about sabotaging the enemy base, you eliminating all other 
 players, or completely obliterating the other team, or playing a Halo 2's zombies-like Infection. 
 There are a good deal of weapons to use, varying from weak pistols to heavy machine guns. But there 
 is a major problem with the multiplayer, especially when offline: the damage system sucks. There 
 is no other way to put it. Headshots, which the autoaim just make harder, are extremely damaging, 
 as you'll find out as the bots rack up the kills against you (if you're playing on a higher difficulty 
 of bot) . Any body shot, however, does pretty much no damage; you'll find yourself reloading assault 
 rifles multiple times per enemy. Even the grenades have a bare effect.
  
  One of the major problems I noticed was that the controls lacked a sort of slickness. There is 
 an autoaim, but it still seems like it is harder to target an enemy, or simply aim. This is odd; 
 even changing the sensitivity, or turning the autoaim off, doesn't seem to fix it.
  
  In conclusion, Perfect Dark Zero attempted to be a killerapp, and failed. It has many, many problems, 
 and ended up being one of the worse first-person shooters to have such critical acclaim in recent 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BullDogSquad
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  When it came to PD0 I did not know what to expect. After playing through a few missions I found 
 myself getting bored with the game. So I plugged in XBL and man oh man. Takes about an hour or 
 two depending on what you are playing. PD0 offers traditional deathmatch and something that really 
 adds to the experience - Darkops. I have not had so much fun on XBL since I played Halo 2. This 
 game truly defines what on-line gaming is all about. Rare did an amazing job at making the on-line 
 experience fresh. This is what the 360 is all about. If this is any indication of what is to come 
 from rare and Microsoft and am very excited about the 360's future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schaub4heisman7
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is great single player and co-op the first time around. After that, not so much. The 
 deathmatches are terrible; it usually takes multiple clips to kill someone unless you get a next-to-impossible 
 head shot (which it still takes a few hits because of the helmets) . The online play has a tremendous 
 amount of lag, and usually you're just playing against one or two other people and a bunch of stupid 
 bots. This would be a good game to rent because the story mode is fun at first. But it you buy 
 this game, you will play it for a week or two and have no desire to ever play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alocacoc
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 4, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this very short and very sweet. This game is serverly over-hyped. Not worth a purchase. 
 A rare Rare mishap - Kameo is better. Buy Kameo. Bye. Since I have to have at least 100 words... 
 don't buy this game. Rent it from Blockbuster and keep it for a month and only pay $2 for the restocking 
 fee. Done. OK... still not 100 words... I really cant think of anything else to type... GO KAMEO!... I 
 love Kameo I love Kameo.. I love... man wtf am I doing?!?!?... All I know is that I can't believe 
 you need one hundred words for a review of a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpttemplar
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was not the Halo of the XBOX360 launch titles but it came pretty close. Of all 
 the games that i have played on my 360, i have found this game to be one of the best. It has amazing 
 graphics, with amazing detail to environments, weapons, and people, and maybe some of you have 
 noticed that everything is so shiny. (ha ha) One of the best parts about the game is the arsenal 
 you have, although you can only hold a certain amount of guns at one time, no gun in this game 
 is a bad gun. Each gun is equiped with a default fire and a secondary fire which ranges from a 
 holographic dispenser, to a grenade launcher. Perfect Dark Zero's campaign is amazing but somewhat 
 short, but its multiplayer is what really makes it addicting. Many modes of multiplayer allow infinite 
 amounts of fun, but a lack of different levels, is what is aggrivating. I really think they should 
 come out with an expansion pack, or some kind of downloadable maps to add, because the levels get 
 dull after long hours of online play. Even if you dont have online play, multiplayer is stil fun 
 because of the ability to have bots, which was forgotten in the Halo games. Perfect Dark Zero is 
 an amazing game, with a great (but somewhat short) campaign, amazing multiplayer, and kick-@$$ 
 weapons. It'll have you up till the early hours of the morning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukewind
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  PDZ has been getting alot of slack lately from some reviewers and why I just do not understand. 
 This game is fun, it looks gorgeous, and has a rock solid multiplayer that is really addictive.
 
  
  If you are a big Halo fan and expect this game to play like it, then you will probably not like 
 this game. Killing people in PDZ is alot harder than in halo and with no jump button it will be 
 frustrating at first, but if you stay with it you will find a game with alot of depth and replayability.
 
  
  Now with that said there are a few things that annoyed me:
  
  1. The Story is hard to follow and is just dumb (NOT A BIG DEAL FOR ME BUT SOME DEMAND STRONG STORYLINE 
 IN THERE GAMES)
  
  2. The Jetpack is a bit overpowered and serves to throw an advantage to one using it.
  
  3. 
 Voice acting was not very good.
  
  4. Game looks cartoony (This did not bother me because its the artstyle of the game but alot of 
 people seem not to like it)
  
  If you can get passed the issues above you will find yourself enjoying a great FPS Experience.
 
  
  First off on the good side are the weapons, oh my god the sweet sweet weapons, there are tons of 
 them and they all have secondary functions and some have more than that. The guns are some of the 
 best modeled and reloading animations are smooth and a thing of beauty to look at.
  
  The story mode is fun even with the blah blah story and changing difficulty does not just amp up 
 the AI it gives you more objectives which have several ways of being accomplished. Still to this 
 day I can play a level and find some area I never saw before. You also have online co-op which 
 in my attempts were lag free and really fun.
  
  The multiplayer in this game is where you will be spending most of your time so lets get to that. 
 First off like I said before this is not a Halo kind of FPS, the action in PDZ feels very different 
 than in games like Halo. 
  
  Mutiplayer is just plain fun and with several different modes beyond things like ctf and deathmatch 
 it will have you playing for hours on end.
  
  If you are looking for a rock solid fps but want something different than the standard run and 
 gun PDZ is a good choice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrod009
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a good game...
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay rocks with different guns, explosives, and vehicles. Different gadgets and 
 blowing things up makes gameplay addictive. Especially multiplayer
  
  Graphics: I cant say next gen yet, but the graphics are still awesome.
  
  Sound: Very good 
 sound on this game. Lines are not repeated too much at all. You actually here Jack talking to you 
 during a mission, saying things like, "Jo get over here," or "Jo I need backup."
  
  Value: The story mode is long and takes skill to beat, especially when you unlock Dark Agent. After 
 playing, the gameplay seems repetitive and isnt as valuable as Halo 3 will be.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: uhhh it deserves an 8.
  
  Overall, this game is worth renting. At this time, 
 check your bargain bin for this game if your are sure you want it. Since this game is being outdated, 
 you may want to wait for Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter or Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnacondaX
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  This game is yet another good turn out by rare! It puts awesome graphics and great gameplay together. 
 It is a great sequel to the famous PD on the N64. However I happen to be wondering if rare's standards 
 are slipping, where are the 9.5'ers? Anyways none the less this is a greay game. 
  
  The single play mode should last you a while with it's varied objective's and stunning sites. You 
 will find your self in jet packs, hover crafts and holding a whole arsenalof different weapons.
 
  
  One of the most entertaining features of the game is the LIVE mode on it. It offers mmany different 
 modes in various different maps. It proooves to be a fun filled experience and one well worth playing 
 if you have acess to LIVE.
  
  Overall this game is one that is essential to be in your collection if you are a PD fan or if you 
 are just up for a great shoot-em-up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pilot2323
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2006 1:34 am PT
Review:  omg my god this game was woah i luv it me and me m8 or cuz play co-op it is fantastic the graphics 
 are just amazing i mee woah the guns woh the gameplay this is everything a gamer needs i honset 
 ly think its fantastic i cudn't stop playin it ****ing hell !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! i am amazed 
 the game izz just omfg every1 shud get this game or i will chin yaz all kk so al fight ya if u 
 say ought bad aboot it kk or else neway enjoy all you good gamers and the bad shud just curl up 
 and  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopfacemanboy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 4, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  I was dissapointed when I bought this game hoping for Pefect dark with better graphics better campaign 
 more weapons and more features.... I got a sad surprize. This game is not pefect dark, But it is 
 a pretty good game. the graphics are kind of cartooney and the models are like grandpas and britney 
 spears. They also narrowed down the amount of weapons to about 20 and most of the secondary features 
 are kinda obsalite. The campagin is also short but is pretty good. The best features in this game 
 are the newly added Dark-ops mode where you have differd game modes such as Infection which have 
 varied rules and you have to buy your weapon. The games best things are online which can conatin 
 a number of players and up to 16 bots. The speical addtion for an extra $10.00 contains videos 
 themse and gamer pictures.
  
  Not what i hoped for but surprizeingly good.
  
  I'd say rent it because its not perfect dark (like the old one) but if you like the new type of 
 game it is buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultimafanatic
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  It has to be said that Perfect Dark Zero was one of the big Xbox 360 launch titles, it was the 
 first shooter on the next platform of a series of consoles famed for their FPS's, it also must 
 be said that this is worth the wait, if only a little flawed.
  
  PDZ is a prequel to the excellent game, Perfect Dark, made by Rare, the brain behind the genre 
 defining shooter Goldeneye, but this incarnation in the series has recieved a few notable changes, 
 mostly to the games lead charcter Joanna Dark. Gone is the short hair and terrible voice acting, 
 replaced by a younger and indeed more appealing Jo. One that actually looks like a girl, and not 
 a mismatched confused degenerate you'd see in the red light district of Amsterdam. As the story 
 progresses you see Joanna go from a little teenage girl to a fully fledged super agent... with a 
 vendetta, but the story shall not be spoiled in this review.
  
  The graphics are beautiful for a launch title. Light reflects off the guns in real time, character 
 models are very detailed, if a little cartoonish, and the enviroments are incredibly well designed. 
 But due to a new mapping technique used to make walls and floors look more 3D and not "Painted 
 on" everything looks a little shiny and wet. But sometimes the game uses this to its credit, for 
 example in the night-time stages.
  
  The single player is where PDZs faults are found. But here are a significant number of good things 
 about it. Things such as the "Support Objectives" these are secondary objectives that actually 
 benefit you later on in the mission, such as destroying an armoury to prevent enemies arriving 
 later on. On top of this the action is fast paced and non stop. But unfortunatly the story itself 
 is rather weak and straightforward, but apparently rare were intending on making this game like 
 a traditional spy flick. The main fault is that even on normal this game is HARD, frustratingly 
 so. The action is easy, yet the stealth could make you want to throw a controller through your 
 window. There are some incidents involving guards which seem unavoidable. But this still isn't 
 a good enough reason to put the game away.
  
  The co-op is exellent. It isn't simply tacked on like many FPS's but the secind player has the 
 oppurtunity to play the level from a different perspective, litterally playing a whole new level. 
 Supporting player one from far off, and vice versa. The best example of this would be the rooftop 
 stage, where player two plays at ground level and P1 has to cover him using a sniper rifle. The 
 two players are only united at the end of the stage.
  
  Overall this is a solid launch title, showing off many of the 360s abilities, if you're planning 
 on buying the console, consider getting this game with it. As its graphics alone are an excellent 
 showcase for your new machine.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TA_Gen_SaMaXt
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  wow thye did it. thsi is the ideal FPS. i love it either online or single player or playing with 
 ur friends. this is all really fun. there is co-op and there is deathmatch adn a counter strike 
 esque mode in multiplayer called darkops. this is all fun and ive played it for a long time now. single 
 player the graphics are great and that gos for multiplayer to. the single player has much replay 
 value. u can change weapons so u have more replay value. although u move kind of slow which can 
 be annoying, but u get used to it. U CAN BATTLE ROLL!! plus there are jetpacks. this game is awsome 
 with ur friends or not. i mean wow. if u have a 360 buy this game because its awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  I have been gaming since the SMS days of the early 80's, and I think that the original Perfect 
 Dark for N64 may have been the game which spent the most time in any console I ever owned. It was 
 awesome. In University I can remember missing class after class with the promise of "Ok, Just one 
 more game" 
  
  When there was talk that GC would be getting the a follow up I was pretty thrilled, but when Rare 
 was swallowed by MS I wondered if it would ever happen, well a gaming generation later and here 
 we are FINALLY I have my follow up.
  
  From a gameplay stance don't expect some stellar story that keeps you at the edge of your seat 
 wondering what happens next. The story is good enough that you understand why you are blasting 
 person A with weapon B. With that said if you are playing FPS's from some indepth storyline maybe 
 this will not be the biggest problem. 
  
  The play itself is smooth simply said I was very impressed with how little time it took me to get 
 used to the Xbox 360 controller in a PD enviroment. Some Areas are VERY hard even for some of the 
 more seasoned gamers but again you are damned if you do and damned if you don't if the game is 
 to easy its knocked for being easy. I did like the challenge and it was nice when I FINALLY made 
 it by some of the HARDEST area's in console FPS history. 
  
  I found the single player mode took me roughly 14 hours to clear, but thus far I have logged nearly 
 90 hours worth of multiplayer fun with friends so that being said I have no issue with the length 
 of story mode. 
  
  Graphically, what can I say. Just like the first time I saw Super Mario World for SNES or Resident 
 Evil for PSone, Playing this game is like watching the benchmark being raised for gaming. Even 
 in a non-HD enviroment it makes my jaw drop. There is nothing more that I can say other then this 
 game looks amazing
  
  Sound: Solid score and soundtrack, it suits the enviroment very well and I will admit that they 
 have become stuck in my head and it makes the walk through my office much more pleasant, but I 
 think this is where I expected more out of the next gen systems, the surround sound was VERY well 
 done and the weapon effects was good but playing with four friends and the volume cranked it not 
 much different then playing say Halo 2.
  
  Replay, 
  Come on... its an AWESOME FPS that is a great multiplayer. 
  Simply said if you are an angry loner 
 who has no friends and does not have Live, then perhaps you will get 40 hours out of this game 
 in terms of missions and unlockables, but if you have friends or live this title will blow your 
 mind. Its reason enough to get three more controllers. 
  
  Overall, it was the icing on the cake of a very solid 360 launch and the game that has found its 
 home inside my 360 currently and for the last few weeks. The reality is every gen has a very must 
 own games and this is one of them
  
  -Z
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeThAlMoNk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 1, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Perfect dark zero is a pretty good game. It was not as good as i thought it would be. It started 
 out really sweet but as you get further the levels become pretty boring. The controls were really 
 sweat though. The most amazing part of the game were the graphics. They were so sweet they were 
 perfect. I do wish the game was a little longer becasue it wasnt very long at all and i beat it 
 pretty fast. Tehy really should have made the storyline better. It was a little hard to follow 
 in my opinion. Overall this game was good but it ould have been alot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martinhunt2004
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is easily one of the best games out for Xbox360 in term of graphics and thats 
 about as far as it goes.
  Perfect Darks story mode is great in terms of the actual story but is spoiled by horrible AI and 
 repetitive levels. The weapons wile good lack in places especially the sniper rifle with a one 
 shot reload and the heavy weapons with the recoil 
  The Only fairly decent part to the game is the Online Multiplayer and is Dark-Ops game modes which 
 are fairly entertaining in parts but again this is spoiled by bad weapons and some of the map designs.
 
  All in all Perfect Dark is one of the biggest led downs of the Xbox360 launch.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenix14
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Before I got my xbox 360 I read some bad reviews about this game and made me think twice about 
 buying it. But when I got my system, I was between checks so I borrowed it from my friend. And 
 I will thank my friend forever for doing me that favor. The missions alone are better then Halo 
 2, and the game has a deeper story line. I was someone that never really liked first person shooters, 
 I only had Halo 2 to play it online, but this game has completly changed my mind. I even my girlfriend 
 who doesn't play games, loves to watch me play and play it herself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aura_Twilight
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 26, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  PDZ is a shooter thats really ambitious and try's lots of new things and almost gets it completely 
 right.
  
  First I'll talk about the graphics. The graphics are great and you can't see how beautiful this 
 game is without looking at in person screen shots don't do it justice. I found two things wrong 
 with the graphics though 
  1) . the character models don't seem to fit the world and look ridiculous compared to the rest of 
 the world in the game.
  2) . some of the areas have a strange glare on the environments.
  
  As for game play the game is very very deep. All of its guns are balanced. For instance even 
 the strongest weapons such as rockets can be stopped if you use your weapons right. There are two 
 modes in multi player death match and darkops. I recommend starting off on death match to get familiar 
 with things. When you get good and understand how the weapons many functions work I suggest darkops 
 games because darkops is much deeper and much more fun. There's much more competition in the darkops 
 games.
  
  The last thing I have to say about this game is this game has a huge replay value. I've played 
 this game the most of all the 360 launch titles and I enjoy it a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360warrior
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 27, 2006 2:43 am PT
Review:  Perfect dark zero isnt amazingly good, but it is an all around good game. The on-line multiplayer 
 being stunning, add in my eyes right up there with halo, but not above. The on line servers kick 
 you out of games alot when u search for them. the multiplayer also allows you to play with bots 
 so the action is always bangin. The co-op is shoty and the single player is ok. If u love shooter 
 games then buy this, its the best one out so far, but expect better from ghost recon advanced war 
 fighter. 8/10, a must have if in your gaming forte.
  Gamertag   PHINS FAN 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhys1elliott
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  This game is spectacular! It's the closest thing to Goldeneye since..... um Goldeneye! The story 
 takes place before the awesome N64 Perfect Dark. Joanna and her father, Jack own a little secret 
 agent business with a little help from computer wizz, Chandra. Chandra isd very important in the 
 plot actually! It's set in 2020.
  
  There is a massive range of weapons to play with form you're nomal FPS weapons like snipers, pistols 
 and shotguns to utterly chaotic things like boomarangs, swords and mines.
  
  The single player is very good. It's objective system is somewhat similar to last year's Splinter 
 Cell: Chaos TheoryIt has plenty of action.
  
  The multiplayer is where the real fun is to be had, playing on one xbox or playing online it still 
 rocks! It has deathmatches, team deathmatches, Capture the flag all that stuff and it even has 
 a new great mode called dark ops which has a crazy asortment of modes!
  
  The graphics are the best I've ever seen to this moment and the sound is so original ( with custom 
 made rock and dance songs!)
  
  The only bad things about this game right now are the ranking system and the lack of multiplayer 
 levels, but microsoft are having online downloads to sort these problems out.
  
  Just buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 25, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  the graphics are amazing and the wall textures is what standed out the weapons and ppl looked real 
 all the maps were designed good but short 
  
  the gameplay is similar to the original but it does not allow one hit kills , points etc. the game 
 only has the looks but its content keeps it from being perfect 
  
  the sound is great the best music ive heard in a fps game to date but the guns sound repetitive 
 the voicing is excellent its cut scenes are ok though boring the characters yell out curs words 
 which is funny as heck 
  
  the value is again problemistic i mean when i played the n64 there was alot of levels , characters 
 , guns , unlockables , and more difficullt to play unlike this one it did not live to its potentail 
 i thought after 4 yrs thered be more in here then pd64 boy was i wrong this game is over to quick 
 not as bad as HALO 1 and 2 but timesplittters is better then this 
  
  tilt only those who want a fps good enough should pick up and own this but if you expect more then 
 perfectdark had dont think so this is good for a rent for those whod do not want a short game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: readingfc_1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Ive been waiting a good few years since the original Perfect dark. When i heard the news of Rare 
 being sold to Microsoft i was distraught. I had been a life long Nintendo fan, and was now weighing 
 up the possibilities of going Microsoft and buying an Xbox. I was disappointed to see that it was 
 not released on the Xbox, however my thirst for a good FPS was quenched by Halo and Halo2. 
  
  On December 2nd i made my way into Reading town centre to buy my 360 and perfect dark. Aching 
 with anticipation i made my way home after the purchase and stuck the game in and my 360 experience 
 started. 
  
  The first thing that hit me was how the game has gone James bond style. The opening sequence was 
 obviously supposed to seperate the game from its predecessor, but was this a good thing? I went 
 for single player first and chose agent setting for my initial play. 
  
  On first thoughts i remember the graphics hit me straight away. The were simply amazing, and gave 
 me great hope for the 360 ability to produce lifelike environments. Soon after the graphics phase 
 had passed i started to notice the major flaws in the game. Secondly i found the aiming system 
 to be wired. i could not quite get the hang of it. It was either too sensitive or to heavy.
  
  Another thing i noticed which was a big hitter, the game was not fun. How could this be? Rare 
 have been bringing me amazing gameplay on the N64. Where was the quick flashy gameplay? where was 
 the originality which made the first game so high profile? I was ever so slightly dissapointed 
 after all the hype, that the game could be so samey. 
  
  I carried on, and slowly overcame the original fears that the game had lost that charm. It became 
 a bit more interesting, and i found myself wanting to carry on and finish the game. 
  
  On finishing the single player campaign i was not only dissappointed in the length of the game, 
 but also the fire storyline. The story is very lose fitting and does not really compare to that 
 of the original game. Secondly i noticed how bad the voice acting was, it was so different from 
 the original game.
  
  Now you may be thinking im constantly comparing this game to the original, but surely a game on 
 a superior system, a game which is the sequel to one of the best console FPS's ever should fair 
 against its original counterpart. Well i thought so, but obviously i was thinking along the wrong 
 lines. 
  
  Now i get onto the multiplayer. This is actually fun, and superb in comparison to the single player 
 experience. The menu system is set out really well, and newbies will find it easy to get into a 
 game. I also think this is the best example of the trueskill system in any 360 game so far. I always 
 found myself in games with people who seemed to be on my my (lowly) level. I never felt out of 
 my league, which ultimately gave the game a much more 'fun' feel. 
  
  Overall i found this game to have a weak single player mode, but this is weighed up by the pretty 
 impressive multiplayer mode. to date this is the only good online (working) fps, and its is doing 
 its job fairly well. 
  i would recommend this to any fan of FPS but not if you are hoping for an experience as fulfilling 
 as the original. A good FPS, but not quite what i was expecting. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: One_Story84
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 25, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  For some reason I didnt get into this game as much as other people did. online is wack so is the 
 missions. The graphics are pretty neat though. The music got on my nerves. This game is really 
 nothing special just another game. O ya but there are some pretty neat guns in the game and the 
 silenced pistol has a scope so ya thats pretty cool. There are also many different gadgets to work 
 with i cant even name them all right now. if you get the limited edition case you get a bonus CD 
 that has GAmer pics so thats pretty cool... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullhoser
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Although this sequel lacks some of the monumentality of its predecessor, it still shimmers and 
 shins when compared other FPS favorites. Guns are well designed, with strategic as well as enjoyable 
 secondary functions. AI, though at times artificially unintelligent as a monkey full of barrels, 
 can be challenging. It is slightly disappointing that the designers decided to update Miss Dark, 
 I personally perferred the aristocratic 'Bondesque' femme fatale from the first installment (British 
 accent and all) . For the 360 this is a great launch title sure to be worth many hours of play not 
 just in the single player campign, but also in the multiplayer, which the first game was any indication 
 of greatness, should be superb. Sleek graphics, great gunplay, and fun physics make this a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crueltylizer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was one of those games i was sure to pick a winnerspot at the Xbox 360 launch 
 with a cliffhanging story, jaw dropping graphics and over the top multiplayer.
  
  Now i finally got my own hands on a copy of it and completed it and i was a little disappointed 
 i must say.
  
  The game features 13 Levels which in my opinion is way to low. There should at least be 16 Levels. 
 
  There are 4 difficulties to choose from. Agent, Secret Agent, Special Agent and Dark Agent. All 
 adds something more to the levels like extra enemies etc. But nothing that makes you really want 
 to play through the game once more when you have beaten it. 
  
  There is no "real" introduction to the story so your just put into it as you play. At some points 
 the story might seem a little confusing. 
  
  Graphics wise the game has some decent graphics but nothing the Xbox 360 can't handle with ease. 
 The graphics has a little cartoonish thing going on to in my opinion. It doesn't seem to be to 
 realistic like Condemned. 
  
  What makes this game great is the multiplayer and the Co-Op. It is fun and it is what will keep 
 PDZ in your Xbox 360 for a while. 
  
  All in all i would recommend PDZ to people looking for a good multiplayer game. For singleplayer 
 players look somewhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r642916
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  the first thing u notice are the graphics they are ridiculously amazing the online iskindaweird 
 but the game is fun the campaign is like woe! i deffinetly recomend it. o yeah the guns look so real 
 like u could just take them from the screen. wow! the graphics blow me away though they are awesome 
 the only thing that sucks is that the online is sucking pretty bad for me. the online games are 
 really fun i especially liked a online game called onslaght its like u have to defend ur base then 
 attack the enmies infection is kinda boring all u do is walk around as a skeleton not toomuch exitement 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 23, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  This is a well crafted game. The options are there to let you run wild and do whatever you'd like 
 alone or with other people. Co-op is huge for shooting games and this game incorporates it well. 
 The only real issue that I have with this game is that when you play multiplayer with bots, they 
 roll a ton and it almost seems like you have to shoot them forever to kill them. This does make 
 you become a better shooter but it can get old. The graphics on this game are sweet! They aren't 
 the best but I love the colors and almost cell shaded feel that the game has. It's crisp yet fun. 
 Good game that could have been a bit better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobcat63
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 23, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  I have had Perfect dark zero for about 2 months now and its very hard to stop playing. I mean just 
 last night I found myself playing the entire with my buddy in the coop missions. I haven't really 
 played many of the missions all the way through on all the difficulties though. I have been too 
 busy playing multiplayer with bots on the dark agent level and then destroying my friends when 
 they come over haha. The graphics are unbelievable on this game. That is the first thing I noticed 
 and my friends noticed when we started playing. Its almost like you were actually there. This game 
 is best FPS on the 360 and who knows it might put a fight up against Halo 3 when it comes out. 
 This game is a definite buy for anybody who loves FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KiLLer_ba
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  Joanna returns to the Xbox 360 with a bang. PDZ is a Awesome, but there are some problems with 
 the game (Little problems) . I agree with many critics about this.... the Level Design is bad, it 
 bad enough that you will be lost most of the time but rare solved your problem with a colored arrow 
 on the floor showing where to go next. The graphics are good but not as good as every body expected 
 from a next gen game. Also the Rag doll psychics, you will notice sometimes body bouncing all over 
 the stage after an enemy is Killed. What's great about PDZ is the Multi player/Online mode. In 
 online mode you could play rank or non rank games in various modes, like death match, capture the 
 Flag, territories, sabotage, infection ect ect. Another thing I liked about PDZ is Co op mode were 
 you and another played try to beat the campaign mode together, you could also play this Online 
 with another person which is awesome. So in conclusion if you own a Xbox 360 and a FPS fan then 
 PDZ wont let you down. I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni_Ookami
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  This game is a great FPS for the 360, awsome graphics and a very solid online mode make this game 
 a must own for any FPS fan out there.
  
  Single player is very good but the story and plot of the game leave something to be desired... you 
 really dont get pulled into the game or feel for its characters mcuh even after you beat the game. 
 
  
  The game's real draw IMO is its online mode. Though its not quite as customizable as its predicesor 
 on the N64 its a solid online gaming experience with no lag at all.
  
  With multiple modes and the ability to add bots into your games the replay value is very high. 
 Blackops is the best mode you can play IMO its many gameplay modes, blackops is much like counter 
 strike where you have to buy your weapons and the gameplay modes range from eradication (basic 
 elimination mode) to sabatoge (destroy propery mode) , a little of everything for everyone in this 
 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MkII_Templars
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This awesome, first-person shooter for the Xbox 360 with its excellent assortment of single- and 
 multiplayer game types, as well as its incredible good looks and dynamic, intense action for all 
 game players that play this =)
  I love some of the campaigns for this, but over all i love the multiplayer action. very good grapichs 
 and sounds. Excellent weaposn varities, sweet voice overs... and the list goes on, but over all 
 it was a very good 1st person shooter game for the 360 hopes theres more like it =) but yet i recommened 
 wasteing you time and moeny playign this, its a excellent game to play
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazam61691
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Single-player-7/10
  This is one aspect of the game i found to be disappointing, the single-player may be engaging the 
 1st time through, but due to a mediocre story and tedious missions there is no real reason to play 
 through it again except for the achievements.
  
  Multi-player-9/10
  This is where I spent must of my time. The multiplayer has many different modes and variations 
 you can chose from leading to a long and enjoyable experience. For those of you without Live access, 
 fear not, because the developers have thown in up to 15 bots for the multiplayer expierence, while 
 they may not be as engaging as human players, they are still fun to play against.
  
  Graphics-9/10
  The graphics area of this game is where it really shines. It boast some of the 
 best graphics on a console to date. But one area where the graphics tend to fail for me is in the 
 lighting, I found it to be mediocre. But overall the graphics are excellent and way better than 
 anything on a current-gen console.
  
  Sound-8/10
  The sound in this game is good, just not Call of Duty good. While it boast a good techno soundtrack 
 in single player, I thought the weapon fire and explosions to be a little average, which definitely 
 does not ruin the game it just take away from the experience.
  
  Gameplay- 8/10
  The gameplay in this game isn't bad, it just isn't good. The fighting is fun but it is usually 
 short lived, especially in single player. From a multiplayer aspect, it is nearly impossible to 
 get an advantage in combat with this combat engine just from the lack of skill kills from anywhere 
 but the head.
  
  Buy or Not- If you have a 360, you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  What a dissappoint Perfect Dark Zero was. At first i though we had a Halo killer apon us, then 
 you go and play it and find out that its messed up. This game definately doesnt live up to Perfect 
 Dark 1.
  
  The story in Perfect Dark Zero is horrid. The gameplay was too stiff for me and the music was terrible. 
 I loved the gun effects though. 
  
  One of the major problems I have with the game is the lack of guns. the orginial had about 80 guns. 
 This one has 20. where did those 60 guns go? o well, at least Rare made its comeback.
  
  Pros:
  -coverfire
  -laptop gun
  -graphics
  -awesome darkops
  
  Cons:
  -too stiff 
 of gameplay
  -annoying music
  -boring deathmatches 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_75
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 7, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark for the Nintendo 64 is in my opinion one of the best games of all time. It had everything, great 
 campaign, awesome multi-player, fun weapons. It was a practically perfect game in my opinion. And being 
 the fan that I was of the original when I heard that Rare was making Perfect Dark Zero I knew I 
 had to have it. When I got it and put it in and started playing it I began to think, what happened? 
 at first I was really into and somewhat impressed by the game but then I began to look at it in 
 comparison to the original game, and some other better shooters I have played. And here is what I 
 have.
  
  Graphics: First, tell me why the heck everybody in this game looks like a freakin GI Joe. Theres quite 
 a bit of detail put into the enviroments and such, but the characters are just awful in my opinion. They 
 all look like plastic, and aren't very detailed, or animated. They seem so stiff in the cutscenes 
 and even in play. And why does the body armor fall to pieces and fly off the characters when they 
 get shot enough? And what the heck is up with the characters themselves? Joanna looks like a ditzy 
 teenage slut most of the time, her dad just looks like a freak. Chandra looks somewhat normal, Carrington 
 is a Scottish guy when no evidence of that heritage is present in the original, and the list goes 
 on. Also, you will run into the exact same character models as enemys at least a billion times during 
 the game.
  
  Sound: The sound stays somewhat close to that of the first game. And by somewhat i mean barely. What 
 is with the tecno weird music? And the bad voice overs? The only things I can think of that sound 
 good are the guns.
  
  Gameplay: Ah, and here is where the game truly falls short. Is it because the controls are crappy 
 and unuseable? No. The controls are useable but extremely clunky? No. The fact of the matter is that 
 the controls and everything seem to work fine, its just the rest of the items in this department.
 
  
  First theres the weapons. I honestly do like most of the weapons on this game, but then there are 
 those few that have so much wasted potential. (The Jackal being one) And all of the wasted features 
 on them. (The flashlights and night vision mode come to mind) So many weapons have different functions 
 that you can't really use.
  
  Theres also the levels and the campaign. Ah, the glories of having a  
 to mention one that makes no sense. I still have basically no idea whats going on in the game. Seriously, it 
 can really be summed up like this. Some guy makes some device that makes people see hyeroglifics 
 and stuff, and go crazy. Then some other guys want this device so they can take over the world with 
 it somehow. Or something like that.
  
  Also theres multi-player, but compared to the first Perfect Dark's multi-player what else is there 
 to say. Its somewhat similar, but extremely toned down. With only a few different character models 
 to choose from and not really much freedom, this is definitely disappointing.
  
  The Final Word: Its really up to you. Its an ok, but forgettable game if you want it. And most if not 
 all Perfect Dark fans already have it. So its really up to you, even despite its many shortcomings 
 and the sort its still a fairly addictive game to kill some time with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_m_a_n
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Out of all the launch games I bought with my xbox360, the first one I bought was this one and this 
 is also my least played one. Why? Well I went into the game hoping it was something it was not, 
 I was hoping Rare had been hiding a gem for so long that it was going to be the next best thing 
 since goldeneye. Wrong. 
  
  There were several things that struck me after about 5 minutes playing. The first being the controls 
 didnt seem right, didnt feel right at all - im still not used to them. I mean you use the left 
 trigger to zoom but when your holding two guns left trigger is fire, why they didnt just map the 
 zoom button to the right thumbstick is beyond me
  
  The second thing is the weapons themselves, they have about 25 guns in the game and I didnt particularly 
 like any of them, Some even have three modes of fire but I still didnt like them I dont know what 
 it is about them, but they just seem rubbish.
  
  Thirdly the graphics are definately not next gen, xbox standard at best and they are no way near 
 the standards of Call of Duty 2. The sound is pretty awful, if you havent got crappy futuristic 
 music playing, youve got cheesy voiceovers or enemies repeating the same lines every 5 minutes
 
  
  Fourthly the storyline lets this game down too, didnt keep me gripped, im wasnt in a rush to find 
 out what happened next and I seriously got bored after two chapters.
  
  Another annoying feature are the enemies themselves, for a start the character models are fairly 
 limited so you will see the same enemy at least 20 times in each level and also the enemy A. I is 
 pathetic and predicatable which makes the game easier in a way.
  
  The game is far more geared to being played on xbox live as about 40 of its 50 acheivements can 
 only be acheived this way, but I wasnt overly impressed with my experience on live. For a start 
 you get to choose which weapon you'll start with which takes away the fun of everyone scrambling 
 to get the best weapons first and the next thing is the actual maps themselves - poorly designed. 
 The best thing about live is that there are lots of gamemodes to choose from and the rooms are 
 pretty popular with players most of the time and you can also play with bots offline if you like.
 
  
  All in all, i wouldnt really recommend this to anyone, Call of Duty 2 is a far better FPS with 
 superior graphics and enjoyable gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Streetballfan21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark zero is a solid 1st person shooter. It gives you what a good shooter game have. But 
 i thought it could have been alot better. every thing the game has to offer is on the top of the 
 list, but it's a little short of the hype with new gen games. But you still will not be dissapointed 
 with this game. it's great! what needs work on is it's cars and jet-pacts. It's not very powerful 
 at all. mostly the jetpacks. it is to weak! any skilled player can come up to it with any gun and 
 kill it. the graphics are nice compare to a regulare xbox game, but not to other 360 1st person 
 shooter like COD2. But don't get me wrong it's still very nice. The only thing bad about oline 
 is there arent alot of maps to choose from. Any othere thing is the granades are not smooth a other 
 shooters. i have not seen any one using it yet. but if this is the foundation for the next game 
 to come. i got one thing to say bring it on. Overall it's a solid game to play. you you want to 
 get this game Buy It!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Electobulb
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is overall very good. Th elive menu is simple and easy to navigate, and the maps are nicely 
 designed. There are many game types to play, and you never really get sick of 'em. One of the only 
 faults with live is player created, and that is that there are next to no Ranked matches. Who knows 
 how People get top ranks   .Anyway, the Singleplayer is ok. The storyline is ok to start with... but 
 then, we kind of guess what happens. The biggest problem with live AND Solo, is that the Ragdoll pyhsics 
 get out of hand. You might aswell go breakdance on a stage. But like i said, overall=a good game. I 
 reccomend buying this, it is worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChAlDo205
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best game i ever played so yall nigros can sick on me pinus, and its the best 
 game out right now, so yall cant mess with what i am spitin because my rhimes will be fittin, oh 
 yeah by the way nahala is a ufthi and big meenie jerk, with a small thingy, dont frick with the 
 booty of the beast, because yall nigros be trippin. PEACE. oh my god every time i press submit 
 it tells me more than a hundred words more than a hundred words, blah blah blah, blah blah, so 
 yall nigros better be trippins lksdjlskdf jsklfjsdlkf  
 Peace Again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphawolf102
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 2:10 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- Its your regular first persion shooter not doing anything wrong. But not getting anything 
 new. The coolest thing about the gameplay is probably either the way you can hide behind basically 
 any object. Next best thing is that every weapon has a secondary fire and some a thrid which they 
 call tearhanary dont know if that is spelled right.
  
  Graphics- charter can look sloopy but the rest is a truely wounderful world. Wet stuff looks wet 
 i mean like stick your hand out .
  
  Sound-well i dont talk about sound since i dont have a killer surrondsound. 
  
  Multi-player-its 
 has the best of all the games out with a variety of game modes that will keep any gamer entertained 
 for hours.
  
  Well overall this is a game a 360 owner should not be without 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo2maniak
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a good FPS. The story is actualy good and so is gameplay. The story dose end very abruptly 
 though. The final boss battle seamed to be easier than some of the previus battles, but it is still 
 a fun battle. The graphics are good but not as good as RR6. There are many weaponds and they are 
 weel thought out and good. The body armor even falls of when you shoot someone. The sonds in the 
 game are also very good. The multiplayer is also very good with alot of people. I would defonitly 
 recomend this but if you like clasic shooters Call of Duty 2 is beter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siylence
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  The learning curve is 1 - 2 hours because I was constantly finding new tricks to playing it. This 
 game makes Halo 2 nothing but an old, over-hyped game. My brother and I played this together the 
 first time and I was shocked at how cool it was. The characters are unique and smoothe. The guns 
 are definately innovative. And that little vehicle called a what? A jetpack? Is SOOO much more 
 fun to drive than a banshee. This game would be an instant buy for those who love big server deathmatches. 
 Oh, and if you do buy it... make sure you have an Xbox Compatible Router. Update your firmware, 
 ect... ect... because otherwise it'll be hell trying to get on a server. I had that problem recently. 
 Had to upgrade, they show you compatible routers on www. xbox. com so check it out. I give this game 
 a Perfect 10 point Zero 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelda4ds
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  pdz is a great game. it has a better mulit-player mode then a single player mode by far. it is 
 just to short . 14 short lvls (if u count lvl 0) . it is a very fun game and i rock at head shots. 
 so if anyone is head shoting u alot , its me. it is by far the best xbox live game that is out. 
 come on guy, call of duty 2 is just to slow. i have it to and it is the complete opposit of pdz. 
 it has a beter single player than a multi-player. this game disserves a better rating than a 9.0 
 (thats why i gave it a 9.2 lol) . so if you own a xbox 360 and u dont have this game go now to your 
 nearest gamestop or ebgames or target ect. and pick up your copie of this game right now!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BullseyePimp
Rating: 4.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  With nostalgia, I picked up Perfect Dark Zero expecting a simple yet deep FPS, like its N64 predecessor. 
 But sadly, I was so struck with disappointment that I quickly returned the game after completing 
 the single player campaign.
  
  When you first load this game up, you will be greeted with a cheesy, pseudo-futuristic interface. 
 Actually, let me correct myself: cheesy is an understatement. It actually appears that a photoshop 
 amateur spent less than an hour throwing this sloppy interface together. I continued on and began 
 a single player campaign, not letting this little problem bother me. But as I played on, more and 
 more problems greeted me.
  
  The first was the default control scheme; the folks at Rare must have a mild case of dyslexia because 
 the control scheme is totally backwards and farfetched. Changing the control scheme to something 
 more traditional wasn't hard at all, so again, this problem didn't bother me for too long.
  
  Many other problems clearly presented themselves to me as I played through the first "training" 
 mission. Lackluster animations and environments, unbelievably stupid A. I., and, sadly, poor last-generation 
 graphics. Not to mention, the storyline was so extremely boring and strung-out that I was convinced 
 it was produced by a 6th grade english class.
  
  After painfully completing the single player campaign, I loaded up multiplayer on xbox live, hoping 
 for something that would pull this game out of the mud. But sadly, I was again disappointed. Multiplayer 
 gameplay in PDZ is just as poor as the single player gameplay, having unbalanced gameplay, poor 
 weapon placement, and horribly designed levels.
  
  All in all, I was extremely disappointed with this game. If you are looking for a quality, lasting 
 FPS for the 360, then I would suggest that you spend your $60 on Call of Duty 2 rather than this 
 disappointment of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neosword
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  Here it is, the long delayed and long awaited sequel to one of the best N64 games there ever was. 
 It's here, and it's awesome.
  
  The first thing that you will notice when you fire up the game is the graphics. Gorgeous. Nothing 
 much else you can say besides that. All the characters have awesome detail and even the enemies 
 look great. The game does a great job of taking you to a variety of locations to show off the graphics 
 engine. From the streets, to a club, to the rooftops, to the jungle and everywhere in between, 
 the locations are unbelievable. The only bad thing about them is that some of the structure models 
 are recycled several times in each level, but it hardly makes a difference when you consider how 
 nice everything looks.
  
  As soon as you hear the music on the opening cut scene you know the sound is gonna be good. The 
 music has a nice variety of pretty much every type of music you would want to hear in a game, from 
 the mysterious track when you're walking through abandoned halls knowing the silence won't last 
 long to the rock music in an intense exchange of gunfire. As in most games, the music can be easily 
 ignored in firefights, but if you pay attention to the sound of games, Perfect Dark Zero's does 
 not disappoint. 
  
  The basic plot of the game isn't anything to get excited over, but it isn't bad by any means. However 
 it's pretty much just there as an excuse to get you into some trouble and have to blow some stuff 
 up. Joanna (the main character for those who don't know) , her father Jack, and their computer specialist 
 Chandra are bounty hunters and in need of some money. They take a job to find a scientist and it 
 ends being much more than they bargained for. There are several plot twists, but they feel forced, 
 like they decided to do something, then couldn't figure out how to incorporate it into the story. 
 The story is obviously not the highlight of the game, but it's not bad enough to detract from the 
 overall experience of the single player campaign.
  
  Probably the best part about the game is the variety of weapons and gadgets you get to use. The 
 system the game uses to determine how many weapons you can hold is pretty unique. You have four 
 blocks of space, and each type of weapon takes up a certain number of blocks. For example, most 
 assault rifles take up two blocks, pistols take up one, and certain big weapons such as the sniper 
 and chain gun take up three. Also, if you have two of the same type of pistols in your inventory 
 you can dual wield them. Not only is the system for carrying weapons good, the weapons themselves 
 are amazing. Every single one comes with great satisfaction as you chip pieces off of enemies' 
 armor until you deliver the final bullets to send him to his (or her) grave. Some weapons come 
 with a powerful secondary attack that can be used against groups of enemies or finishing one off 
 if you have to reload.
  
  The single player campaign won't take a terribly long time to complete, but fear not, the multiplayer 
 in Perfect Dark Zero is enough to make the game worth a purchase. There are several modes of multiplayer. 
 The first are the regular gametypes such as capture the flag, killcount, team killcount, etc. The 
 next is darkops which is a lot like Counter Strike. You get credits for winning rounds and killing 
 enemies which will let you buy better weapon and gadgets in the next round. However, you do get 
 some credits for losing to prevent things from getting unbalanced. The third and final multiplayer 
 mode is co-operative mode. In this mode you can play the single player campaign with a friend which 
 gives new life to the campaign, as well as a challenge at the higher difficulty levels. 
  
  In the multiplayer and at several points in the single player campaign you get to pilot vehicles. 
 One is a hovercraft which goes pretty fast and can have a gunner. The second is a jetpack, which 
 has a built in machine gun and can fly around the map very quickly. Although the vehicle list isn't 
 extensive, they are both very fun to play with and very powerful to wield.
  
  All in all, Perfect Dark Zero is a great game on so many levels. The game is easily recommendable 
 to anyone who likes first person shooters or was a fan of the first. Overall, this is a game that 
 should not be missed by anyone with a liking for the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: villie
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a prequal to the N64 title Perfect Dark. The story this some may find confusing 
 but it basically starts off by doing basic missions to find out info on certain people and a company 
 called dataDyne. but in short its all about revenge. The game has 14 missions where you travel 
 the world. The level design has great variety and unbelievable graphics. All the textures on the 
 buildings, ground ect are all amazing and the bump mapping is in the right places. The game has 
 REALLY FUN AND GREAT Weaons. approx 30 of them and they all have a modern day style to them with 
 a futaristic twist. and they all also have a cool alternative fire. The games difficulty matches 
 each difficulty setting fantastically. if you go to agent (easy) its really easy. Secret Agent 
 (challenging) then the evil Perfect Agent which gives you NO checkpoints. This is really hard but 
 this game is that damm fun you just wont care cause you will be able to restart the level and have 
 fun lol. and Dark Agent. I have not unlocked this yet but you do so by completing Perfect Agent 
 and i hear this difficulty makes you want to rip your harir out lol. and then theres the Multi 
 - Player. This has only 5 Levels but each has 3 different sizes (small medium and large) it has 
 32 players max on xbox live. and off line and online multi player you can have the option of A. I 
 Bots which may be pretty dumb but they are xtremley deadly and know how to blow your head off. 
 It has all rthe modes you'd expect. Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture The Flag. and others like 
 Infection and Dark Ops (Dark Ops mode basically manipulates the gameplay of Counter Strike) Well 
 thats all im saying as i could be here all day telling you about how much deph this game has. If 
 you got a 360 BUY THIS. If you dont, buy a 360 WITH this. 
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody4890
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was ment to be the best launch title. well just to clear things up, its not. 
 far from it infact. PDZ sees you take the role of Joanna Dark, a secrect agent, and a young girl. 
 you must travel to various exotic locations and shoot people to fufill your quest of... well thats 
 just it. the cutscenes are some of the worst i have ever seen. and the music made me cry. the graphics 
 are ok in normal def, nothin special, but in HD, they are quite amazing .the game is to fiddly, 
 and to repetetive to shine. it feels as if it has been rushed to be a launch title, and has to 
 many glitches to be a essential 360 game. if your going to buy it, then its for the multiplayer 
 and xbox live, otherwise, buy Call Of Duty 2 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: citrus_oranges
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 12:07 am PT
Review:  I didn't have this game, but I played it for a really long time at my friends house. It dissapoints 
 me and most ways. The AI is really dumb and its so dumb me and my friend laugh at it. I was expecting 
 it at least near good as perfect dark orignal, but it feels like it failed and hardly make it as 
 a killer ap.
  And for those who gives high scores... you pitied the game because the first one was so good, you 
 just dont have the courage to admitt the game is quite bad.
  
  graphics-The graphics are good, but it the models are ugly up close, shiny and there is no anti 
 laising.
  
  controls-aiming issues and some controls in the buttons feels off-placed.
  
  gameplay-who knows futuristic guns are weak compare to modern days? The single player dissapoints 
 me in stoy, save points and annoying body flyings.
  
  sound-the music... its okay I guess, nothing to special or anything.
  
  value-better off renting 
 and make your final decision
  
  tilt-this game isnt complete, it feels like it needs an extra year. the gameplay... if its only 
 better I would give it a higher score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kike_u80
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game, of course no game can compare to PERFECT DARK for N64. But this is a 
 high quality game. The graphics are excellent, the enviroments are well designes, the only bad 
 thing is that the characters look aweful when you are near to them.
  The music in the game is really cool, and the sound while you are playing is great. The gameplay 
 is fine, but not as good as it could be expected. You cant run : ( That is a really anoing thing. 
 But is the only problem with the gameplay, the other things are right, like for example getting 
 cover behing a box, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xX_WEASEL_Xx
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Hmm... this one was kinda tough to review. I believe that the original Perfect Dark is much better 
 and now and then i still dust off the old N64 and play it. However, PDZ is still a good game. If 
 your pretty much sick of Halo and need something new and different it is worth it to give PDZ a 
 try. I like it but that just might be because i was a huge fan of the original so i can see why 
 some people wont like it. It is really hard to kill someone as you have to empty like three clips 
 into their head before they die. That is why i mostly play infected. Its like a spin off of zombies 
 in halo. You get to buy your guns and if your killed by an infected guy your infected. Infected 
 people are weaker and only start out with a pistol so its fun when your not infected and your killing 
 all of them with your better weapon. So i say PDZ is worth a rent and if you like it you can buy 
 it and if you dont like it dont buy. I only bought it for multiplayer so i dont now anything about 
 single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 1, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  This game was dissapointing to me, greatly. I was a big fan of Perfect Dark of the N64, and seeing 
 a game like this . . . it ruined the whole feel for Perfect Dark. I was hoping for a sequal . . 
 . not a prequal. The game is lacking all the wicked sick alien arsenal. The multiplayer is just 
 plain boring, it may be fun for a couple of minutes but after that, it just plain sucks. I would 
 recommend to rent it first, and if you like it, good, then buy it. 
  
  The graphics arn't the best with some graphical issues, such as Gamespot said that the characters 
 can look bad sometimes. The official XBox magazine said that Rare spent more time on Joanna then 
 they did everything else. I believe this. On the multiplayer map, Desert, everything is way too 
 shiny and unrealistic. Not to mention there is only a couple of maps and everyone of them is big. 
 
  
  Sometimes it can take up to 40 shots in a someones chest, in multiplayer, to kill them which I 
 think is ludacrous. The characters can't even jump. What good is a FPS without the characters not 
 be able to jump.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  Originally released in 2000, Perfect Dark was the N64 game to own. Even better than the amazing 
 Goldeneye, Perfect Dark was the best game on the Nintendo 64. Perfect Dark Zero, the prequel to 
 the hit seller, put you back into the shoes of the sexy Joanna Dark as she finishes her training 
 and attempts to prove herself to her teammates and her father in a real life situation. The story 
 at the beginning is a bit confusing, and I did not understand it really well, but towards the middle, 
 your father gets kidnapped, so you must go out and rescue him. The people that kidnapped your father 
 are up to something bigger though. They find a massive energy source that, if in the wrong hands, 
 could pose a threat to the world. Now, it's up to the young and inexperienced Joanna to save her 
 father and save the world. While you must save the world, a massive array of weapons and gadgets 
 are available at your disposal. You have shotguns, automatic rifles, pistols, grenades, sub-machine 
 guns, even a sword, and a plethora of gadgets such as the Demo Kit, the Locktopus, and the Audioscope 
 which all help you to complete your missions and wreak havoc on your enemies. Overall, the use 
 of these weapons allows for massive bits of destruction, and gives the player a great feeling of 
 satisfaction once they've blown through an area. But, the player cannot really blow through areas 
 very easily, even on the easiest difficulty. You must make use of any available cover: walls, boxes, 
 even ice blocks, to avoid enemy fire and explosions. From here, you'll see everything from a third 
 person view, which is really cool, and it manages to pull it off very well. There is a couple of 
 vehicles you can use, but I wish that there were more situations in which you could use them. In 
 addition to single player campaign, PDZ also includes a couple more things you can do alone to 
 earn some achievement points. Dark-Ops is a mode in which you face waves of enemies in rounds. 
 It's sort of like a survival mode, and it gives players a good challenge. Also, there's multiplayer 
 included for both local play and play over Xbox Live. The multiplayer here is pretty standard, 
 and plays just like most FPS online games like Far Cry and Halo, so there's really nothing new, 
 which I guess is a little bit of good and bad. Overall, the gameplay to Perfect Dark Zero is just 
 cool. It pulls off a James Bond-ish sort of feel to it very well. The graphics for PDZ are just 
 fantastic. I have no HD, and I'm still extremely impressed with the graphical presentation. Character 
 models look really good -- especially Joanna. Also, in the campaign, you'll travel to a variety of 
 locations from snow capped areas to deserts. Each one of these locations looks absolutely gorgeous. 
 Usually before a mission, it gives you a look at the environment, and it'll definately make your 
 jaw drop, even if you don't have HD. Throughout the game, online and offline, there isn't that 
 many graphical problems and glitches, and on multiplayer, there isn't much lag at all. Overall, 
 the graphics in Perfect Dark Zero are fantastic, which they should be because it's a next gen game. 
 The absolute best part of Perfect Dark Zero is its sound. From voice acting to the music, everything 
 in this game works together to produce the coolest atmosphere ever. Like I said earlier, the game 
 manages to pull of a great James Bond type feel to it, and the music contributes to that a lot. 
 Hearing the music in the game, makes me glad that I have the special edition that comes with the 
 soundtrack to the game. Overall, the sound to PDZ is extremely good. To finish, Perfect Dark Zero 
 is a great way to kick off the next generation of gaming. The graphics, sound, and overall feel 
 of the game is just absolutely cool. Only thing I wish is that the campaign was just a little bit 
 longer and made a little more sense. Other than that, PDZ is the way to go if you want a great 
 futuristic shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sneezymarble
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  This has to be THE worst game I have every played in my life. Here is why:
  
  1. Screen tearing. Especially if you will be playing this on an HD set, you are going to notice 
 a severe amount of screen tearing.
  
  2. NO AA! Regardless of what Microsoft has told us, not ALL 360 games have anti-aliasing enabled. 
 It's hard to miss with this game. The motion blur (which some are calling AA) does not make up 
 for the lack of true AA.
  
  3. The controls. This is perhaps one of the most annoying things in the game. The control response 
 on the thumb sticks is very slow. This makes it nearly impossible to aim well.
  
  4. The story. The story is an incoherent mish-mash and completely ruins the gameplay.
  
  5. 
 Stuttering. This occurs primarily during the cut-scenes. It is hard to believe something like this 
 was allowed to make it to the final press.
  
  6. Voice acting. It's a complete and utter joke.
  
  7a. Enemy A. I. Another complete and utter 
 joke. There is more sophisticated A. I. in Geometry Wars than in this game.
  
  7b. Really really dumb enemies. One of the more annoying things that some of the enemies do is 
 simply charge you carrying no weapons and just begin punching you. Even if you are aiming a plasma 
 rifle right at his noodle he'll just keep on coming. Like I said before. The enemies are extremely 
 dumb.
  
  8. Perfect Agent mode. This is truly a shame. The story and gameplay begin to make a little more 
 sense once you've made it to this difficulty level. However, the experience is completely ruined 
 because, it appears, that in a idiotic effort to increase game time the developers decided to give 
 the enemies absolutely perfect aiming abilities from any distance with any weapon regardless of 
 how they are moving or how you are moving. This turns what could have been a fun "action/spy" adventure 
 into an exercise in just staying alive. Coupled with the players horrid aiming ability and you 
 have a very difficult experience. Not difficult in a graceful way, but in a "this is just stupid, 
 I want to break my controller" way.
  
  9. Level design. I believe the waypoint system was developed when it was discovered that the level 
 design was horrible. It is very easy to get lost (which is also partly due to the story line or 
 lack thereof and vague objectives) and it will happen. 
  
  10. The mission objectives are not very clear. It is also not explained in the game that somewhat 
 clear objectives are explained through text only and in your "D-Pal". However, like I said, this 
 is not made clear in the game, so some times you'll find yourself going along in the level and 
 then notice that you've failed an objective you didn't even know you had.
  
  10. There is no save game feature. Here we are in 2006 with cosoles that have 20GB hard drives 
 and tri core cpu's but PDZ still treats you like your playing a PS1 game. Your progress is only 
 saved at the end of levels or at specific points within a level. This isn't to much of a problem 
 untill you get to "Perfect Agent" difficulty. At that difficulty levels can take up to and sometimes 
 over an hour to complete. Of course in real time it takes much longer as you are sure to die several 
 times which means that you'll be starting from the beginning over and over and over again.
  
  11. There is no jump feature. I understand why this is not in the MP portion of the game. It 
 keeps the retarded looking bunny hopping fools at bay. However not too often, but often enough 
 you'll find yourself having to walk around obsitcles that your 4'5" grandmother could climb over 
 with ease.
  
  To sum it up. Save yourself some frustration and just pretend that this game actually doesn't even 
 exist. It will certainly keep you from thinking back things about your Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfan-atic
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was maybe the most-hyped game for the Xbox 360 launch (well except for Oblivion) 
 and it was also the sequel to one of the greatest shooters ever made. So it had to be good, right? 
 Well, it is, do not listen to those lukewarm reviews on the web. 
  
  Perfect Dark Zeros graphics are overall good. Excellent weapon design, the environments are great 
 to, and the smashing effects are good enough. But there are also some downs. NPCs are horrible 
 designed, and some effects on the surroundings are maybe to exaggerated, like the Plastic Wrap 
 that gives the place a shiny look, why in the world would leather shine like that? 
  
  The Gameplay is really cool. At the beginning might be a little bit hard to understand for Halo 
 players, but give it 30 minutes and you are set. I was a little disappointed that you couldnt 
 jump, but its nicely replaced by the wall covering feature. The camera zoom is neat; it will implement 
 a senility press zoom, on LT button. 
  
  Sound is maybe the best feature in PDZ, featuring a techno based music, and incredible sound effects, 
 you will be really pleased with this one.
  
  Multiplayer is good, not incredible, but you know, good. 16 player on ethernet connection, 32 Live, 
 you can add bots, and the feature that let players change size of levels and variants make it wort 
 a while. Still there are not so many levels to stays hours playing...
  
  My only big complain is the storyline. It will make you not care about it, so you will be just 
 killing people along the way, not understanding why, making the middle game missions became really 
 boring at first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyderfan1212
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  When i first popped PDZ0 in my 360 that night i have to say i was a bit worried. The training mission 
 wasn't very good, and i thought i might not like this game. ON the first mission though, things 
 heated up. The action was intense and fast paced, also very satisfying. The singleplayer is pretty 
 well done, but its short and the Storyline is forgettable. After missions 8 i didn't care what 
 was going on. While just playing SP is somewhat average, the way to fix that is play Co-Op. Co-OP 
 is so much fun. When your playing over live with a friend you can have some great moments together, 
 have a few laughs and just have some fun. This game has EXTREMELY detailed weapons. The character 
 models, are okay, not very great. It seems to me they went of the "plastic" look. The game still 
 looks great though. When the people die, it seems it not exageratted enough. When you shoot some 
 with a shotgun, they kinda just fall over, when in real life they would be blown back. 
  
  This game is all about MP and MP really does rule. There are two section of multiplayer
  
  
 Deathmatch- The deathmatch section contains games such as deathmatch, and CTF. When playing a team 
 game you spawn in a lobby where you can pick your weapons than you can teleport to spawn ports 
 you've taken over in the map. You can also put up to 16 bots on.
  
  Dark Ops- Dark Ops rules. In Dark Ops you have to earn money by doing certain taks or winning a 
 round to buy weapons. Dark ops is much more tactical game and is also more fun. If you die in one 
 round, than your dead. Dark Ops is more slowpaced and more team oriented. Some games in Dark Ops 
 is Earadication, where you just kill of the other team. Also there's a game when one team defends 
 a base for as long as possible. Sabatage when you try to blow up the enemy's supplies. There are 
 also more Dark Op Games
  
  IN Mp you may of heard people complaining of the armor, and it taking too long to kill someone. 
 All you have to is aim for the head and shoot short contolled bursts and you'll have no trouble. 
 Although there is not many maps, they are large and alot of fun to play.
  
  PDZ0 is a really great FPS, also a great party game. if you have a 360 you should really purchase. 
 
  
  See ya on the battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: platinumrug05
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely waited and waited and WAITED for this game to come out, and now that it is finally 
 here, i must say, i am highly impressed. When i first popped it in my 360, i wasn't expecting it 
 to be highly engrossing. Although there are some turning points. You still follow Joanna Dark through 
 her exploits as a top agent, although she doesn't mean Carrington until later in the game, which 
 he looks so much different than his N64 counterpart. You find out about Joanna's past partner's 
 and enemies and how they die, which they die in high resolution fashion. Real beautiful *tear*. 
 Just playin. Seriously, let's get into this review now.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game far exceeds expectations for me, although i do recommend CoD2 
 gameplay is superior to PD0's, although i have to say, they're pretty close. The gun feels a little 
 awkward at first with learning to handle the gun and going through the missions with companions. 
 The firefights get real intense in certain spots. And then, although the enemies are relatively 
 smart, PD0 shares the same problem that most FPS games share nowadays. Easy and Normal difficulty 
 settings, the enemies are kind of weak, put it on Perfect or Dark agent, you need a few cheat codes 
 in order to beat the game on those difficulty settings. It's common though. The weapon i love the 
 most is the Shotgun, i absolutely love this gun. I use it all the time in online play, and i beast 
 with it. So if you see me online (platinumrug05 is the gamertag) with a shotgun, BEWARE!!!!
  
  Graphics: Graphics are next-gen in my opinion, it looks better than Halo 2 at the maximum requirements 
 for the regular Xbox, so i mean, that means something when coming from certain gamers. I found 
 a little bit of shady spots when it comes to online play, bodies will fly around uncontrollably 
 and other glitches will happen, and it's slightly annoying. But not that much. The new quirky type 
 feeling to the character models is weird at first, but you'll learn to get used to them as time 
 goes on.
  
  Audio: I love the voice acting in this game, however the lines could have been better. "Shut up, 
 before i drop you like a bad conversation" is a wonderful excerpt from Joanna's father. Excellent 
 line people. The guns sound authentic and quirky, especially for a luanch title game.
  
  Value: I find value in this game to be really promising. If you can go through the game and beat 
 it on single player on Dark Agent mode, then you know you need a girlfriend and a life. No offense. 
 You can play online co-op, so just in case you don't enjoy playing games by yourself, you can easily 
 get with a friend and go through the entire game on all difficuly settings. You can even do it 
 with complete strangers, that is the wonders of Xbox Live.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: The game is super awesome and i highly recommend it to people. Although, watch 
 out, once Halo 3 comes out, (i fear) that PD0's online multiplayer will soon drop. So until it 
 comes out, get as much play out of the online services as possible. Also, get a 12 month subcription 
 if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeTer__GriFFin
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok this is one of the most anticipated games of the XBOX 360 launch, the sequel to Perfect Dark, 
 the "sequel" to goldeneye on the n64. Is it all its hyped up to be???
  
  Not quite. 
  
  When I first played this game, I wanted to like it so bad, i told myself i loved it, because i 
 didnt want it to be bad. And actually i really did like it. However, it is lacking the certain 
 charm the original PD had. PDZ is definately one of the most impressive looking games for the 360 
 launch, and this is excruding the character models. The background textures are amazing. Those 
 are really great. But the character models... What is wrong with them, they took a serious game 
 and made it look like it came from a shoenen jump manga . They look like cartoons, not exactly 
 what i was expecting. Also the controls in this game, utter garbage. they suck. for some reason 
 it just feels wrong! You really have to play it for yourself to understand what i am saying. The 
 single player campaign is too short, its good, but too short. The multiplayer is where the replay 
 values at. They did this excellently. You can play huge games over and over, and there is no need 
 to connect to knew games each time either because they hold over untill the party leader quites. 
 The sound in this game. Uh the guns sound really nice, and the effects do to, but the voice overs 
 just blow. It sounds like this is the actors first run through the script, honest. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megarath1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  wow! when i first choose this game off the shelves i knew there was something about this game that 
 was excellent and i was right! when i first turned on that 360 and started perfect dark zero up 
 i was blown away, ohh the grapics were amazing and the sound thumping out of the surround system 
 was unreal!
  
  Perfect dark is somewhat of a good game for it has excellent controls heaps of story that'll keep 
 u wondering and the levels are immersely created giving the game a real feel as if you're there. it 
 also has fairly good multiplayer that people would be happy to have a go on live with ( not as good 
 as halo2) !
  
  Finally i say that Perfect Dark Zero is worth the money you have in your wallet, and will entertain 
 for hours, and hours on end! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xploded
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  When I first picked up my xbox 360 i knew the launch games wouldnt be the best of the system itself. 
 If you have a high-end pc (unlike me) then you would see the graphics are still a little better. 
 But if you have a crappy-im-to-lazy-for-geforce whatever then thats my kind. Pick this game up, 
 it is simply amazing to see the xbox in action. The best you will ever see out there right now. 
 This and callofduty 2 are leading the 360 with a proud amazing adventure. You picked up a xbox 
 360 pick this game up aswell, my recommendation, and look at my reviews im very picky about my 
 games. Go ahead, go and look 
::::::

::::::
UserName: idealbasher
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 16, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  It's tempting to try to put Perfect Dark Zero in perspective by spending a lot of time on topics 
 other than what makes it such a terrific action game. One of the highest-profile Xbox 360 launch 
 titles, this near-future first-person shooter is the long-awaited sequel to a highly acclaimed 
 Nintendo 64 hit, and it happens to be one of the biggest games to be released by veteran developer 
 Rare since its well-publicized acquisition by Microsoft several years ago. Perfect Dark Zero's 
 sci-fi theme, together with the circumstances surrounding its release, also means it's destined 
 to be compared to Halo: Combat Evolved, the game that defined the Xbox (so yeah, no pressure) . 
 But let's stick to the point: Perfect Dark Zero's stunning presentation, excellent assortment of 
 believable weapons, exciting tactical firefights, and fully featured single- and multiplayer components 
 combine to make it easily one of the best first-person shooters this year and one of your best 
 options in the Xbox 360's starting lineup. Despite some minor shortcomings, the game is still a 
 tour de force for the Xbox 360, and it's just a thrilling experience that pushes the already-extremely 
 competitive first-person shooter category still further forward. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crisisinlondon1
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero, which for the longest time known as the next Halo is here. I have to start by 
 saying the game is great, just not Halo great. I started in on single player and was impressed 
 with the graphics. Lighting looks great, the enviroments are lush and detailed, and all the guns 
 look authentic. The only complaint I have graphically are the character animations. Some of them 
 walk like ducks while others look fine. The sound is great and a little interesting. While I enjoyed 
 the techno soundtrack which seemed to fit the game well, the voice overs were weak. Weapons sounded 
 great and added to the fact that the game is beautiful to look at. The single player is a healthy 
 length and the multiplayer is just flat out sweet. Their are 3 modes system link, splitscreen, 
 and of course Xbox Live. Their's online and split screen co-op which is a nice addition and makes 
 the games single player levels seem a little more fun. Their are also the standard deathmatch modes 
 with bots. But the real winner is the Dark-Ops game mode, this Counter Strikish' multiplayer mode 
 requires humans to play and plays out through rounds. With 32 players the games online gameplay 
 is one of the best for the 360 yet. Theirs also a plethora of weapons ranging from 357. magnums 
 to high tech plasma rifles so that there's a lot of shiny toys to play around with. Overall the 
 game is a great way to kick off the next generation and is definitely worth a play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcmantey
Rating: 2.8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game expecting something great like a Halo, and it was utter crap. This game feels 
 like it is in slow mow, the AI is just plain retarded at times, the multiplayer is nowhere even 
 close to Halo 2 online or even CS for computer. The single player campaign makes no sense and it 
 is impossible to follow. What is up with Rare, the only good game they have made is Goldeneye fo 
 N64. They really dropped the ball on this POS game, I bought it bc of the hype at luanch and it 
 turned it to be totally depressing buying it and owning it. If you are a die hard gamer looking 
 for a great FPS for 360 avoid this game at all cost and get COD2 that is a well $60 spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apoc112
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  When I think great shooting games, I think Halo, Far Cry, and Goldeneye. To this list, I submit 
 Perfect Dark Zero, for a few simple reasons...
  
  1) Innovation. Sure, the FPS genre is packed with run-n-gun games utilizing high-tech weaponry 
 like PDZ, but with the unique covert elements and the utilization of cover and acrobatic moves, 
 the gameplay is intensified and really provides a unique experience in a shooter genre that's overloaded 
 with mediocre games.
  
  2) Customization. There aren't many things in PDZ that you can't change to your liking if you want 
 to. There are independent sensitivites for looking and aiming, toggle or hold settings for crouching 
 and cover, freely-customizable button layouts, a slew of bot settings for multiplayer matches, 
 lots of weapons and ways to use them... if i put more thought into it, i'm sure i could come up 
 with plenty more, but you get the point. What i like about this game is the freedom to set up a 
 multiplayer game with a few friends and just go humans vs bots or try something crazy. Hell, the 
 number of weapon sets alone has proven to be enough diversity in the games to keep us all interested.
 
  
  3) Difficulty. I've gotten tired of the powderpuff era of gaming that we slipped into for a few 
 years there. Thank god Xbox's lineup of games has taken into account that many of the people that 
 play their systems and games are in their 20's and actually DO remember the days of Contra and 
 Ninja Gaiden (the original, of course) . Games used to be so hard that the only way to make it through 
 them was to die and try again... usually finding just a better way to die. Maybe it's just because 
 i haven't put the time into this game that i have into games like Halo, but i find the single player 
 stuff on secret agent to be hard enough to actually warrant dying and trying again.
  
  In summary, I think the game is one of the better launch games for 360. It offers fun and unique 
 gameplay that is both approachable and immersive. I recommend it, at least as a rental, for anyone 
 who's a fan of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshcutgrass1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics are good on the characters and guns. The environments are a little too shiny, 
 but it looks good like that. The AI isn't bad like ive read, it is actually pretty good. Good enemies 
 will give you a run for your money, but simple guards will take cover if they arent well armed. 
 If they have a good weapon expect to run for your life. Gameplay: The controls are good but could 
 have been a little smoother, but they are fine. The cover system is great fun to use, problem is 
 that you have to wait a split second for the cover symbol to come up. Isn't a normal problem, but 
 a split second of standing still could kill you. Besides that it handles well. Sound: The sound 
 is funny sometimes, during the cutscenes they will say some korny lines. The lip synching isn't 
 great, but it wont kill you. The futuristic guns are kool and sound kool. When you silence some 
 of the guns they sound so awesome. The enemies also say korny lines during gameplay. Its all fun! 
 Value: This is where this game shines the most. The game comes with a single player story, coop 
 story, offline that plays with up to 15 bots and friends can also join some of the bot fun with 
 you, and online up to 32 players. The multiplayer is a ton of fun and where the game's life expands. 
 Tilt: Overall a great buy for anyone, whether you liked the original perfect dark, FPS games in 
 general, coop games, or online games. After a 8-12 hour single player game, this game lives on with 
 great multiplayer, similar to a little known game series called HALO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORDOderus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  This is a really good game, could of been better in some areas, but good nonetheless.
  Graphics-Pretty amazing stuff, although at times it doesent look the greatest it still makes you 
 think next gen, from the way water looks to the detail some of the textures have.
  Sound-This is pretty good too, the music is ok but sometimes can get annoying, the ambient sounds 
 are nice, like the sound of the snow crunching under you feet, and the sound of water.
  
  I would reccomend this game to anyone who enjoys fps and who likes perfect dark, real good game 
 that has me excited to see even better stuff for the 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optimous012
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 15, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  A great showing of what is to come on the next 360 games in the future. This game was one of the 
 first to come out the first shooting game of the 260. And probably going to be one of the best 
 through out the years. It had great game play awesome graphics and a great online play. If you 
 have a 360 and don't have ths get it its a worth buying game. Also the guns in this game are phenomenal 
 of how many different things you can do with one gun by itself like the special buttons. Its a 
 never ending play with xbox live and you can race to get to that number one spot on the leader 
 boards to show your number one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacs25
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 15, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  With all of the graphics, sound, and playability you would expect from the newest and most powerful 
 console system ever, comes to to you another fps otherwise exactly the same as every other fps 
 you have ever played!!.
  
  O. K. it is a great game but if you were waiting for the revolution of gaming... keep waiting because 
 its not here yet. In the mean time any gamer could wait well entertained by this fast paced accurate 
 and challenging tribute to action fps games. 
  
  Although I'm not really convinced that this is the best we can hope for I can tell you that it 
 is very hard to be disappointed in a game that runs as smoothly as perfect dark zero. the action 
 is intense the story is good and though a little more run and gun than i personally like, I have 
 to admit I haven't been motivated to play much of anything else since i bought it. This game couldn't 
 possibly disappoint any fps fan and with only a few titles available to 360 owners this game is 
 a sure hit until halo 3 arrives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostsniperOP
Rating: 5.6
Date: Feb 15, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Single player
  
  Im going to start with the AI first. O wait, what AI? AI stands fore artificial intelligence. Which 
 there is none. The AI is as dumb as A brick. The story bored me to sleep. And the fact that I can 
 shoot the AI 2 or 3 times in the head and they dont die dosent help much. I have to admit that 
 the guns are cool and being able to duel wheeled is sweet. It still doesent help. They could of 
 done grate things with this but they didnt. I dont even think they tried. If your looking for 
 a single player game this is not it. 
  
  Multiplayer 
  
  Multiplayer is worse then single player, because its just such a let down. You have to shoot people 
 in the head about 2 or 3 times so they die. even if they dont have armor. This makes lots of game 
 play problems. You cant even kill some one with a full clip of a smg. Why they shipped the game 
 this way I have no idea. If your looking for a 1st person shooter please do not buy this game. 
 Its worse then pacman.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: richyc89-2
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  perfect Dark zero is the perfect start to what will hopefully be a bright future for the abox 360. 
 It is a solid launch title , with impressive visuals and a great multiplayer mode.
  
  seeing as before receiving an xbox 360 for christmas (thanks bernie XD ) i had never previously 
 had much experiance with an xbox and was not very confident about using the 360 controllet as i 
 am so used the the controller of a PS2, i was very releved to find that perfect dark was very easy 
 to pick up and play and it helped me to get to grasps with the xbox controller.
  
  the single player story mode is relativly simple and should not take to long to complete, although 
 you can choose to go back and compelte it on harder difficulties as this will unlock further achievments. 
 
  
  however the stort mode is just the training groud for the multiplayer modes. it is in these modes 
 that the game particully acheives. i have spent most of my time on the game playing on xbox live. 
 in my opinion it is the best game out so far for the xbox in terms of online play. thier are many 
 different game modes for you to play including capture the flag and killcount, and also team killcount 
 if you prefer being part of the team rather than an individual.
  
  in summary this a solid launch title witj an easy to get to grips with single player mode and a 
 multiplayer mode which will have you coming back for more over and over again.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlissCntrl
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  The storyline to this game is awful. I keep thinking to myself, "why did I waste all that time 
 going through the campaign?" The single player is painful, big stages, lots of ways through, but 
 if you get stuck, it takes a long time to get the hint arrows. no health packs make it hard stay 
 alive at times. the guns are neat, and the saving grace to this game is that it's a lot of fun 
 to play on live. Vehicles aren't made invincible to everything but the one uber weapon. You can 
 go toe to toe with a vehicle with a little skill and all the guns have great secondary and tertiary 
 capabilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoopage
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 15, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  This game rules, its a fact...
  Ive allways lved fps and this game really shows how a FPS 
  should look like. Great graphics 
 and really good weapon kit.
  The enemy Ai is a bit of a disapointment, really they only run sideways and if you dont want to 
 be an easy target you dont like this game, cause you
  will be an easy target.. The Enemies are running around like retards.
  It really shows the next 
 gen, the explosions, the side looking thing that allways makes you cry cause of the pixilated ares.. 
 
  This is a really good game with alot of replay value, aspecially the online multiplayer mode.. 
 Makes this game the most action based and cs lookalike with the buy modes and such.. 
  I give it 9,5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaChaorules
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  while call of duty 2 might have some online problems, perfect dark zero is a great mulitplayer 
 game. Single player may seem boring to you with the short and easy missions. Graphics with all 
 the buildings look good but if you look at the characters they seem blocky and not so detailed 
 which makes it look weird. the characters graphics look horrible compared to the ones around them 
 which makes the game seem weird sometimes. Online can grow on you as this is the best online game 
 right now for the 360 i think. Unlike call of duty 2's online this game doesn't have any problems 
 and will go fun just like maybe halo 2 when you play on xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekey
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 14, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that takes a while to drip out of the thin hype faucet, once you get 
 past the glitz and the glamore, what your left with a decent, but ambitious FPS. 
  
  First we'll start of with the graphics, which has a unique look. (Its a fairly pretty game) The 
 drawn distance is a wonder to marvel at and the poly models are average. The camera is good, the 
 run feature in this game animates pretty well, some times if you blink it looks like a good CGI 
 movie. This game has a fantasy sci-fi futuristic look. That makes you wish they would rerelease 
 the oringinal perfect dark with these graphics. To say that this game doesn't look next-gen is 
 a over statment, I could not see the original Xbox doing this games graphics.
  
  Next sound. It is convencing, but the quasi Halo 2 sound effects isn't happening here, the guns 
 sound like they were firing health pellets, but at times the gun fire can get intense. The AI is 
 blocky (some stages the enimes act like they shooting in a shooting range instead of taking out 
 an intruder. The enimies are not as smart as they are in lets say Halo (But this ain't Halo)
  
  Next value. It's pretty straight forward. It has its good points and some negative points, 
 but it's worth checking out. Why? because it has its bad points but it does do some things well. 
 Like for example the stealth camera feature is unmatched. You can hide around corners and look 
 at enimies and aim at targets with persion. Also the story is okay, I would say give this game 
 a try, if your already COD2ed out, or just want to play a sci-fi FPS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBRM
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer - Acceptional, The Rest - Not.
  PD always stood out in my mind as a game to be remembered for the Nintendo 64 console, but PDZ 
 is the opposite. Where PDZ shines in multiplayer is lacks (I think) somewhat graphically, in areas 
 like originality, and utilization of the next-generation features for Xbox 360. In some cases, 
 things that are repeated are good for a franchise (people keep coming for more) , but unless (if 
 there is a sequel) PDZ 2 or whatever the title is a jaw-dropping game, I probably will not buy 
 it. I'm sorry Rareware not on this one... but I wish you'd bring back Donkey Kong or some of those 
 old N64 favorites (for me that is) .
  Back to technicality, PDZ does have decent gameplay, storyline, and even graphics... but as compared 
 to Call of Duty and some other games I did not find it as intreguing. The multiplayer has kept 
 me busy though, I do enjoy squashing newbies with secondaries and multi-mines =D.
  This game is worth-playing and some will like this game alot or much less than others -- this one 
 is based on your prefrence. Overall, I think Rareware could have done better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squid_man
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 14, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Pretty standard Run-and-gun gameplay. There is essentially no Interesting features in 
 the gameplay, aside from a roll and the wall grab everything is all pretty standard.
  
  Graphics: The bizzare rubbery character models that even from a distance look a bit odd, but up 
 close, Gahhhh, so ugly. The enviroments too are oddly shiny. The gun models are the only good looking 
 things in the game.
  
  Sound: Never have I heard such awful music in a game before. Weak Techno Tracks follow you throughout 
 the game, and are all annoying or just plain bad. The opening scene when the game first starts 
 is so bad that it could make your ears bleed, were talking avril lavinge bad. The gun's and explosions 
 are weak as well. The tiny pops that most guns make and the small explosions of grenades, mines 
 and demo kits sound like effects from a bad 50's war movie.
  
  Value: Surprisingly this game has good bang for your buck. The online is its only saving grace. 
 It comes with your standard DM, TDM Ect. but the addition of some counter-strike inspired games 
 spices it up nicely. IF you can get past the horrendus graphics, gameplay and sound then you can 
 have some fun online trying to nab the many achievents Rare has for you. On the other side of the 
 spectrum the single player is terrible. The missions are all dull and occasionaly seemingly impossible. 
 The ass-bad level design can have you wandering around through identical corridors and rooms over 
 and over again until you finaly find what you have to do or give up. Even the Co-op online cannot 
 save this mess of a singleplayer.
  
  Final Word: Go live or go Home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stranger_tan17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  this game is absolutly amazing... the graphics were the best i have seen ever, i mean there is 
 no lack or visual effects any where u can zoom into bricks and see the cracks and everything i 
 mean this game is a sick game. I was the first game i tried on 360 and it was definatly worth it... 
 i cant stress to you the amazingness of the graphics i recomend this game to everyone hahaha i 
 also loved the idea that all the dead bodies stay where they die!!! the multiplayer is very good 
 as well. this game was one of the best for N64 and now it is one of the best for X360... I LOVE 
 MY XBOX 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trenton_huggins
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 13, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because of good reviews, and the knowledge of countless players online... The 
 online is good, but aiming sucks, and the single player is just weak.. you have no idea where enemies 
 are patrolling, so you walk in blind and see somebody and you shoot, then 9-10 other guys that 
 were there but you didnt know turn and kill you. Also there is not enough description on the objectives, 
 the the little line you follow takes forever to appear. Beside the fact it fades away for a while 
 then comes back. So you will be following the trail, it dissapears... then you think your still 
 on the trail. but your not anymore... BACKTRACKING... rent. dont buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xJellyBirdx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  I am changing my review after I discovered the spectacularity (its a word) of the multiplayer. 
 Originally I was just a fan of the campaign and I gave the game a 8.4 because of its good gamepay 
 but lack of multiplayer but now I find that the multiplayer is better than the campaign. I think 
 I trashed the multiplayer because I did not understand "Dark-Ops" enough to enjoy it but now I 
 have found the true beauty in it.
  
  Gameplay: Tough in a good way. The aiming is much different from Halo and Halo 2 as it has very 
 little auto-aim but this buts everyone on a even playing field and eventually the best players 
 will stand out from the rest, giving the game some depth.
  
  Graphics: This isnt real? That is the question I ask myself as I lie dead on the cobble sone streets. 
 Nothing else needs to be said.
  
  Sound: Nothing too special. No bad sounds but nothing extraordinary. I personally do love the sound 
 of the silenced weapons. Makes me feel like a professional.
  
  Value: Not too good. Not one of a kind and not the only FPS (first person shooter) released. With 
 Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (comming) out and the infamous Call of Duty 2, it puts PDZ in a 
 difficult situation, especially with COD2 fixing their multiplayer.
  
  Recommendation: If you already have a shooter for the 360 that you enjoy then don't bother getting 
 it. This game was a good launch title but now other games are going to come and give it the bump. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghog2293
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 2, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is one of my favorites! I haven't played the first one but this game is totally 
 worth it! This has a good plot to it and has a really cool spy theme with addicting entertainment. 
 There are cool futuristic guns and gadgets to add, and the graphics aren't something to complain 
 about. The co-op makes the game a lot of fun and has kind of the same multiplayer as halo but with 
 not as cool maps or vehicles. It may seem like a quick game, but with all the time you'll be playing 
 with this game's addictivesness, it'll actually be a pretty long time. To make it quick, this is 
 a must have for gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haz_4x4
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 13, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Since i have got a xbox 360 i got perfect dark zero with it and knowing me all into racing games 
 i didnt think i would like it but i was suprised how good it was the gameplay was brilliant and 
 the graphics were crystal clear it was very enjoyable with a bunch of great maps and a huge range 
 of beastly weapons to use you could never get bored.
  you also have to play this game online... its amazing sure it is not better than halo 2 but it is 
 very fun lots of stuff to do i highly recomend this game if you have a xbox 360.
  YOU HAVE TO GET THIS GAME IT RULES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alock
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is not what I expected. Single player is unoriginal except the coop is fun. Multiplayer 
 is not fun at all. You set up your own games in multiplayer so someone could just get a high rating 
 by playing what their good at. Some of the games like infected are ok but killcount just isn't 
 what it should be. It takes so many bullets to kill someone and with you not being able to aim, 
 it just makes it harder than heck to kill someone. Oh unless you shoot them in the head than they 
 die pretty easily. Which is fine except for the part where it takes three clips with an AK to kill 
 someone in the body. The main reason this game sucks is because you can't aim. It sucks horribly. 
 Change the sensitivity, or do what you want to try and change it. It still is horrible. No auto 
 aim and when you zoom in your reticle moves slower than a turtle. This game was rushed and it is 
 the worst game I have ever bought. Play at your own risk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cytosoul
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 13, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Single player:
  
  When you first start playing through the single player in this game, there is a rush of anticipation 
 and you can't wait to get through Mission 0 and get on with the true story mode. But once you dive 
 head-first into the game and storyline you become very disappointed. The first thing that is of 
 disappointment is how you are thrown into the story without any build up at all and at the same 
 time the game tries keep it suspenseful. The keyword here is "tries."
  
  From this point on you are bombarded with linear seeming levels with arrows to guide your path. 
 This is frustrating because you have no idea which way you need to go for long periods of time, 
 when finally arrows appear to guide you down the right path. In between the levels are cheesy cut 
 scenes and characters that always seem to make stupid decisions. I don't want to ruin the horrible 
 storyline but I will give you an example of characters and stupid decisions. Ex. Somebody dies 
 while trying to protect you, when the whole time the situation could have been avoided and nobody 
 needed to die to begin with. It also seems like this same somebody wants death throughout the whole 
 game.
  
  As the story unfolds you also begin to wonder why so many people are dying for some specific research, 
 with no clues as to what this research is. Even after you find out what the research being fought 
 over is, you still don't understand why everyone is killing each other over it until you begin 
 to near the last level. And even after that, the deaths of so many over the research seems stupid. 
 It is as bad as mass killings just to gain the knowledge of a simple equation which could be re-researched 
 instead.
  
  Multi-player:
  
  Now, after all of this rambling on about the single player; you are probably wondering how I could 
 still give it a good score. The truth is, even though the single player is horrible, the gameplay, 
 graphics and sound are great. And all of this combined with the multi-player makes for a fun time. 
 The multi-player is the first one in a fps that I have played that can actually stack up to Halo 
 2.
  
  Weapon balancing isn't that great but the great thing about weapons is that the weight of each 
 weapon affects how fast you move. For example if you have an M60 out and are moving really slowly, 
 somebody with a pistol or sword could out manoeuver you and get behind you or run away. 
  
  The radar system is also great and makes for some strategic gameplay. Fire a loud gunshot and you 
 appear on radar, a louder shot makes you appear longer; but if you fire a silenced shot, then you 
 will not appear on rader at all. Only certain guns can be made silenced, and a silencer makes a 
 gun more accurate... which can be good or bad.
  
  The idea of secondary fire on guns has also always been a great gameplay addition, even though 
 not all of them are balanced. Most of the secondary functions do have their advantages and disadvantages 
 though.
  
  The greatest gameplay mechanic in this game is the slight 3rd person aspect. You can do rolls and 
 you can hide around corners and behind small objects (ledges, boxs, rocks) , Metal Gear Solid style. 
 Rolling is great in a gunfight while reloading or rolling to cover, but a disadvantage is that 
 you take more damage while rolling. And for hiding around corners, you go into 3rd person view 
 and can see whats around the corner. You can also shoulder your gun around the corner for a better 
 shot. For those of you have played Metal Gear Solid or even Kill Switch, it is almost exactly like 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatality4u
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is the quality first person shooter for the Xbox 360 and can be considered the 
 best launch title for the Xbox 360. Although the storyline acts as the predecessor to the earlier 
 N64 Perfect Dark title, it does not stray to far away from the previous games style of game play 
 and story presentation. That fact may be a comfort to those who have held the previous Perfect 
 Dark title as the epitome of multiplayer gaming, but for those who are looking for a new and innovative 
 title to take full advantage of the Xbox 360s capability and next gen title may be disappointed. 
 Regardless of the all-to-similar style of gaming between the titles, Perfect Dark Zero does give 
 a solid title for the Xbox 360 to compel its fan base to grab a 360.
  
  In Perfect Dark Zero you will play the game as the Joanna Dark and up and bounty hunter with her 
 father. As you continue on through the campaign you will grow as a bounty hunter and as a person 
 through 12 deadly and sometimes difficult missions. Also as you continue through the campaign you 
 will gain access to new and deadly weapons and so long as you finish with the new weapon, you will 
 be able to start the following missions with the weapons, which will come in very handy when it 
 comes to playing some of the harder missions. With the multiple difficulty settings, playing the 
 campaign over and over will be no problem and you will find yourself doing just that in order to 
 get more of the achievements. The campaign will take you approximately 10-12 hours to beat, but 
 the bulk of the time played with the game will be done in the multiplayer portion of the game that 
 so many people considered to be the best for any N64 game and even better than Halo by others. 
 
  
  The multiplayer portion throws in a majority of the usual game types, with some new types that 
 will make you doing some different types of multiplayer gaming, especially one type that is very 
 Counter-Strike esque. This type will allow the defense team to purchase weapons and the offense 
 not. There is also a variant in which you will be playing a zombie style of game play where the 
 infected players will attempt to affect new people to join there side. Quite frankly the multiplayer 
 makes up for the somewhat sub-standard single player that you might get tired of if you really 
 dont care to get all of the achievements for the game.
  
  The AI in the game can be quite frankly very stupid at times. There will be times where they will 
 be a little intelligent and actually try to move around obstacles to flank you, and then there 
 are times, where they will follow this short little path and only attack you, while staying in 
 the path, to fight you while you are staying behind cover easily killing them. The sad part is 
 that there could be times where they can be very hard to beat when they are seemingly functioning 
 properly, yet those times are very few and far in between, which is very disappointing, but as 
 said before the best part of the game is definitely the multiplayer, which you will play predominantly 
 against other people not as predictable and sometimes not as stupid as the AI.
  
  Being as it is the future, you would expect to see some really cool weapons that you would use 
 to blow away your enemies, you might be disappointed if you are expecting to find some laser weapons, 
 or lots of heavy weapons to use because most of the weapons will seem very similar to some of todays 
 weapons. For the most part all of the weapons that are being used in the game are the standard 
 weapons that you would find in the real world, with pistols, AK-47 variants, and the trusty rocket 
 launcher. Now the weapons will have an updated look and sometimes name they will act exactly the 
 same way as their real world counterparts. The weapons get hi-tech when you encounter the secondary 
 function of the weapons, which will give you pretty much useless secondary features unless you 
 use the silencer or the P90s threat indicator which you will find to be the next best thing to 
 sliced bread. All-in-all do not expect to find some spectacularly futuristic weapons. 
  
  The game play is pretty much the sole reason as to why you would get the game. The single player 
 portion of the game does provide some nice and fun moments, but the most memorable moments will 
 be those that you create yourself with your friends or enemies online and you pull off that incredible 
 20 kill spree, before it takes the combined force of all of your enemies to take you down. Of course, 
 those moments will take a lot of practice and luck to some extent; they will be the best moments 
 of the game. The multiplayer portion does also provide the best variety of any part of the game, 
 although the single player does give you a somewhat small variety of missions and tasks to perform, 
 you really dont have any that difficult or extraordinary to do, other than running and gunning 
 and finding keys. You will have to perform some destroy aspects during the single player game, 
 but those are few and far in between and the pain in the butt that it is sometimes to get in the 
 right spot to use your gadgets, will be frustrating with a capital F.
  
  The graphics in the game can be considered something to be talked about. Despite the fact that 
 the Xbox 360 is next gen it does not look very next gen despite the little intro scene that you 
 do before the game actually gets into game play. It is also disappointing that there are no nice 
 looking cut scenes with all the capability of the Xbox 360, but I guess you cant expect everything 
 when the game play can be truly awesome. There will be times that you will notice minor technical 
 flaws that are nagging considering the fact that it is next gen, but there will always be times 
 in which you will see them no matter what gen the game is. The general gaming graphics could be 
 considered current gen with the Xbox, but that point could be disputed until the horse was long 
 decayed. The only other real problem is when you get up close to some of the characters they will 
 look pretty bad, but this wouldnt be so bad if it were not for Madden 06 where the characters 
 models look incredible, but with the next gen it seemed that game developers had to either choose 
 between length of game play or graphics, and not really be able to provide outstanding for both 
 quite yet.
  
  The sound of the game is what you would probably expect and you will definitely hear all the weapons 
 in clear sound and the voices will come across nice and clear, but at times the gunshots will drown 
 out the talking that is going on and that can be quite annoying when you are trying to listen to 
 the storyline or get some critical intel to be able to continue on your mission. Despite the fact 
 that the sound of the weapons can be overwhelming, the sound of the game can be considered crystal 
 clear and the voices of each of the characters are nice and varied and will provide the listener 
 with the distinction between each of the characters, even though most of the time voices of characters 
 can seem to blend together in large games.
  
  The value of the game is very good if you are an Xbox 360 fanatic or if you are a multiplayer fanatic, 
 because the multiplayer is what will keep you coming back to play the game more and more. If you 
 buy this game you will most likely find yourself coming back to play this game more and more in 
 anticipation of the next wave of games, and especially until a game will be able to provide you 
 with substantial number of hours of game play, like the up and coming Elders Scrolls, or possibly, 
 the long but extremely fun Need for Speed Most Wanted. If you want a game that will give you a 
 ton of game play time and a fun time with friends online, this is definitely the game for you and 
 considering some of the poor reviews that other games have gotten, this game seems to be the primo 
 choice for all new comers to the Xbox 360.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosyndrom
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero, definitely a game that you should have in your library of games. Why? Its just 
 so darn fun, and the graphics, oh wow, definitely no the best but there are alot of neat graphical 
 features implemented in the engine that are really well done; sometimes Im getting shot at but 
 I just have to stop and admire the detail, truely amazing. Lets get into the details.
  
  Gameplay - 9
  Perfect Dark Zero includes implements a very nice and easy to use control layout, 
 very easy to learn and remember. The game is just so, action packed, makes you feel like a badass 
 while your dual pistols are plastering some poor guard. Not to forget the many multiplayer modes, 
 classic modes such as deathmatch, team dm, capture the flag, and PDZ also introduces quite a few 
 of its own modes, that are really fun.
  
  Grapihcs - 9
  You have to see this game in action, the amount of detail is incredible, and the scale in which 
 everything around you is, its just amazing, no the graphics are not the best ever, but just take 
 notice to the small things, and you will start to apprieciate how pretty this game really is.
 
  
  Sound - 9
  Sounds are done very nicely, weapons sound real and as they should, also pretty amazing. 
  
 
  Value - 9
  Although I don't see myself playing through the single player campaign again, there is multiplayer, 
 and its quite fun, at first it was a little dull, the server I had join had me running around for 
 enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 12, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong this is a very good game, but since Rare has been working on this game for five 
 years and you ask yourself was it really worth the wait. The first thing you notice is the very 
 mediocre storyline, it just goes one way and the other and the ending boss fight oh boy was it 
 disappointing. Just forget the story because what this game really shows off is the amazing sound 
 and graphics this game has probably one of the best original scores of the year, it should be sold 
 in stores, but this game also has horrific voice acting though. The graphics are nothing to forget 
 either, it's got absolutely fantastic gun models and environments but what really holds down the 
 graphics are the very average looking cut-scenes. The thing that really makes Perfect Dark Zero 
 a must have for first person shooter fans is an unbelievable online component. You can have up 
 to thirty-two players playing at one time, you can have some very exiting fire fights. To wrap 
 it up i did love the online but the single player not so much. If you don't have xbox live I recommend 
 that you rent it, but if you do have xbox live this game won't disappoint, well not that much. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pribylbr
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game had waaaaaay more hype than it should have had. I was expecting the best thing 
 since sliced bread but instead I got your regular average game. There is no auto aim like in Halo 
 so you are constantly shooting all over the place to hit someone. It can get very aggrivating online. 
 The single campaign is fun for a while but it gets old. There are a bunch of different options 
 online, but none are spectacular. The sniper rifle sucks really really bad. It one shot then you 
 have to reload and zoom in again. The zoom button zooms in according to how hard you pull in the 
 left trigger which is stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meatwad_Gamer
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a dissapointment to me. The original game was almost perfect, but this game 
 simply isn't as good as it's predecessor.
  The camapaign ins't as good and it offers few thrilling moments.
  
  The graphics are great, 
 I'll agree with that. The designers put a lot of detail to the game graphics. The sound sounds 
 good, but the music isn't really good. The multiplayer isn't as addicting as in the N64 and playing 
 this on Xbox Live sucks. This game is a total letdown.
  
  So if you're going to buy a laucnh game for the Xbox 360, don't buy this game. Buy Dead or Alive 
 4 or Call of Duty. I fyou're a PD fan, stay with the N64 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rikei
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  FINALLY IT CAME OUT!!!!
  
  I wanted this game to come out for so long. When it did i was not disappointed by it at all because 
 graphics and all the stuff put into it was ok. The only thing that got me was there is only 13 
 levels to play and the last level was not what i expected and the jet packs are to cheep i think 
 they should have made them easy er to destroy. The co-op and the amazing death matches and the 
 live made up for it. I liked how they kept some of the weapons from the N64 one. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GazzaB
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Okay, ill start with graphics. The game was part of the launch line-up for the Xbox 360, so obviously 
 the game isn't expected to be utilizing the full power of the console, but it should still look 
 pretty sweet, which it does. But the characters in the game look pretty bad. Almost every enemy 
 is bald which confuses me, and they look like they're made out of rubber. They're skin is so shiny 
 its unbelievable. In fact, the whole game is unbelievably shiny. Even sand in shadowed parts is 
 still shiny, which is a little stupid. Other than that, the graphics are pretty good. The guns 
 look amazing, the lighting is good, and the explosions look cool. And the special effects like 
 the x-ray vision also looks pretty neat.
  The single play part of the game is pretty bad. Its short and boring. It was a burden to play through 
 it. The only thing keeping me playing through it was the 10 gamer points you get for finishing 
 it. You should actually get at least 50 points for actually playing through that piece of s***. 
 Anyway, take a note; If you dont have Live or any friends, dont get this game.
  Anyway, the multiplayer on the other hand is pretty good. There are many types ranging from deathmatch 
 to infection. All of these games are fun, and the multiplayer levels are pretty good. The support 
 for 32 people makes the game a whole lot better. And the fact that you can choose or purchase a 
 gun to start the match with is also pretty neat. I feel that there weren't enough multiplayer maps, 
 but this can be fixed through a download from Xbox Live Marketplace.
  The music to the game is alright at times. It has an electronic theme to it, and does fit in well 
 at times with the game. On the other hand, the video at the start of the game is pathetic. The 
 music is appalling, and it annoys me everytime i turn on the game.
  Overall, i think it is a very solid multiplayer game, but lacks in the single player department. 
 There are definitely better shooters out there, so only if you have them all, can you get this.... and 
 yes, that was an order. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellshuricane
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I origonally wrote this review in early 2006 on my other gamespot account but iam now transfering 
 it, here is my review of the 1st killer app for the 360 
  
  This game was suppose to be the Xbox 360 starting killer application. The games graphics may be 
 one of the best for Xbox 360 but its overall fun and satisfaction is not as high as games like 
 Call of Duty 2 and Project Gotham Racing 3. The level satifaction is a a let down since there jsut 
 divided into missions with only one checkpoint the whole way through! The game is great and very 
 fun with a wonderful online life but doesn't live up to its killer app name tag in my opinion. 
 Halo 3 and Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion like games will be carring the Xbox 360 not anything Rare 
 throws up (Kameo, Elements of Power and Perfect Dark Zero) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neutralx2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Overall I liked this game a lot. There are only a few complaints I have about it. First, the storyline 
 is awful. I dont just mean bad, I mean terrible. The good news is that while the single player 
 story is bad, playing it is actually a lot of fun. My second complaint is the controls. For some 
 reason, they feel really odd. If you have ever played Rainbow Six 3 on the Xbox, then you have 
 sort of an idea of what I mean. It took me a while to finally get the controls down decently so 
 I could actually hit what I was aiming at. Everything else about the game is great though. The 
 graphics are extremely good and the audio is just as good. The weapons feel good to shoot and each 
 gun is tricked out with secondary fire and sometimes a third function. The single player campaign 
 offers a pretty good level of challenge and the AI does its job well enough. One of the big reasons 
 most people will be buying this is for Xbox Live. From what I have played (maybe about 3 to 4 hours 
 on live) , its extremely fun. The levels can range in size from real small to insanely huge which 
 is good. The game supports a ton of players (way more then halo 2, I think 64 players) and games 
 with that many players are extremely crazy and intense. If you are looking for a Xbox Live FPS 
 for the 360 then pick up PDZ. If you are looking for a good story driven single player experience, 
 you might want to look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyBluNightWolf
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 12, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  Okay i know this is a 360 game and i shoulf be excited to review it but not even close. Ofcourse 
 it has good graphics frick it better for a 360 launch game. But with half the 360's not even working 
 im not sure anymore. I think i am going to wait until the ps3 comes out before i make a major finacial 
 decision. The ONLY redeming factor of this game is its online play. It is pretty entertaining and 
 i would say competitive with halo2. But online being the only good thing about a 360 game doesnt 
 really make me want to dish out 60 bucks to but it. Though BlockBuster is starting to rent the 
 360 games it might be barely worth even 7 dollars. That is just how i feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmac_daddy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 11, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game. Not the game it should have been, not the game I wish it was, but it's a good 
 game. It's the return of without a a doubt, THE greatest FPS of all time, Perfect Dark from N64. 
 N64 was so good. I wish I still had my N64 so I could play it all day. It was truly a special game, 
 one that deserves a spot in the Video Game Hallf of Fame. In my mind it was the best game to ever 
 come out in the last 15 years. No one could deny that it was spectacular.
  
  However, as I wondered as to how good the sequel would be, I pondered that it would be a flop. 
 Well, it wasn't a flop, but it wasn't a instant classic.
  It was very, very fun. That all I have to say.
  
  The graphics are extremly well done. The 
 shine and glissen the guns give off is spectacular. It's a superb job that Rare did with the grpahics. 
 
  
  The split-screen was the highlight of the orignal Perfect Dark. And it's still the best in the 
 industry. The bots are smarter, and will team up you. They don't give one inch. They will take 
 advantage of anything mistake you make. The levels are still desinged well, and can be massive. 
 There are also new additions like the new guns system, where at the beginning, you have 15 seconds 
 to choose your weapons, and the new machines, includng a SWEET hover bot that can not only walk 
 around, it can fly. It's pretty sweet. 
  
  The weapons are excellent. Remember the awesome weapons from the original? They're still here. 
 The Falcon, the Psy, the Plasma rifle, the Laptop gun, the Mag, they're all here. And there's some 
 new addition, like the Shockwave, a sweet sniper, and the Vibrane sword, which can eb both a shield 
 and a sword.
  
  The point is that it's a whole lot of fun. ALOT. You WILL play for a while. Unless your mommy tell 
 you get oof the PC or the Xbox. Just kidding. Anyway, the game will bring your down memory lane. 
 It's so cool.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickb1993
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  I spend several hours a day playing this it is one of the best games i have ever played but i agree 
 with some other people it does need a bunch of campaign work. The only down side is that the Shockwave 
 wont shoot through walls no more. Also i think you should be allowed to double wield diggerent guns 
 like the UGL Liberater and the Phycosis gun (even tho it sucks i just needed a wierd e. g.) . Campaign 
 is to easy to beat on secret and agent but on perfect its just well.... perfect although i havent 
 played it yet i think dark will be a little tough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedDemon821
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 11, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  Quick note before you read: This review turned out much longer then I expected, and I know many 
 of you dont want to take the time to read the whole thing, so I titled each section. If you want 
 to read about only certain parts of the game, just skip through and find the section you are interested 
 in. 
  
  Let me start by saying that this game does look extremely good, although I expected a little more 
 from the X-Box 360. While the graphics are crisp, many character models look far too stiff, and 
 movement, especially in the cut scenes, is very awkward looking and unnatural at times.
  
  Now, on with the review. 
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is the much anticipated sequel, or more accurately, 
 the much anticipated prequel, to the Nintendo 64 game, Perfect Dark. Perfect Dark Zero drops you 
 into the shoes of Joanna Dark, a rookie freelance secret agent, and ultimately takes you through 
 the events that lead up to the original game. I dont want to spoil any of the plot for you, because 
 unfortunately there isnt much of one in this game, so every little bit counts. Just dont expect 
 much from the single player campaign, its real strength comes from its online multiplayer modes.
 
  
  Campaign Mode:
  
  The relatively short campaign mode, consists of 14 missions, which provide you with a decent level 
 of difficulty, that will steadily increases as you go from mission to mission, and it also has 
 a nice variety of locations. Unfortunately, the missions begin to get fairly annoying later in 
 the game, mostly because the checkpoints are placed in such aggravating positions. Sometimes you 
 will end up being forced to redo half a level, all because you accidentally over looked one enemy, 
 with a grenade launcher, who, after seeing you slaughter all his comrades, decides to blow you 
 sky high with one well placed grenade. Whats even worse, is on the harder difficulties, Perfect 
 Agent and Dark Agent, there doesnt seem to be any checkpoints whatsoever. So you can literally 
 play perfect the whole level, make one mistake at the end, get killed, and then be stuck replaying 
 the entire level. Since several of the levels are relatively long, this can be a serious problem. 
 It ends up making the game just about unplayable on the two harder difficulties.
  
  Now, all that said, the campaign isnt without its good points. The enemies are fairly intelligent, 
 and will use decent strategies on your from time to time. Although, if you are playing on the normal 
 difficulty setting, Secret Agent, you will have to progress fairly far before you begin to see 
 much intelligence in your enemies. Also, as I said earlier, there is a nice variety of levels, 
 and each level differs as you go through it, so you dont get that, havent I been here before 
 feeling too often. The best part about the campaign, is the enemys reactions when you shoot them. 
 Depending on where you shoot the enemy, he will react differently. There isnt anything funnier 
 then shooting an enemy in the ass, and watching him hop up and down screaming, while holding his 
 butt cheeks.
  
  Cooperative Mode:
  
  Cooperative, for anyone who wants to play through with a friend, supports X-Box Live, LAN, and 
 local games, So whether your little brother wants to play a game before he goes to school, you 
 are having a huge LAN party, or you want to play with your buddy who lives across the country, 
 you are covered. Its actually quite fun most of the time, but in small doses. If you play it too 
 long you will be ready to kill your friend in a matter of hours. It lets you play through all 14 
 campaign levels, sometimes running right next to each other, other times you are split up and one 
 of the players goes through a completely different part of the level, that you cant play in the 
 single player mode. If you die, then you had better hope you are in a location that your friend 
 can revive you, or you are going to most likely have to restart the level.
  
  Weaponry:
  
  Obviously, I cant review an FPS, without talking about the weaponry, which in this game, is 
 simply amazing. There is a total of about 17 different ballistic weapons, all with multiple functions 
 like grenade launchers, radar jammers, and silencers. There are several thrown weapons, like hand 
 grenades and proximity mines, and there is one kick ass little sword which doubles as a bullet 
 shield for a short time. All the weapons are divided into 6 different categories, Pistols, SMGs, 
 Close Combat, Assault, Thrown and Heavy. Each weapon (with the exclusion of the Heavy and Close 
 Combat classes) loads with the same ammo as the other guns in that class. Which means if you kill 
 a person holding a DW-P5, and you have an RCP-90, you will pick the ammo and it will go toward 
 your RCP-90 ammo, because both weapons are in the SMG class.
  
  The weapons in each class are as follows:
  
  Pistols: Falcon, Magnum, P9P, Magsec 4, and the 
 Psychosis Gun
  
  SMGS: DW-P5, RCP-90, UGL Liberator, and the CMP 150
  
  Close Combat: Shotgun, Viblade, and the Combat Shield
  
  Assault: KSI-74, Laptop, Fac-16, and 
 the Superdragon
  
  Heavy: Sniper Rifle, Shockwave, M-60, Plasma Gun, and the Rocket Launcher 
  
  Thrown: Frag 
 Grenades, Multi-Mines, Flash Bangs, and the Hawk Boomerang
  
  The game also has an interesting array of gadgets. They have the locktopus (yes you read that right, 
 the locktopus) , which allows you to unlock any old school doors. The Datathief, which also you 
 to hack computers and security panels. The demkit which allows you to blow holes in certain walls 
 and blow other objects to kingdom come, and the revive kit, which is used in the Coop and darkops 
 modes only. It allows you to revive fallen teammates.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  As I said in the beginning of this review, this game really stands out in the multiplayer area, 
 which has two main modes, Darkops and Killcount. My personal favorite is Darkops.
  
  Darkops:
  
  Darkops consists of 4 game types, in which you can only play against other human 
 players. Those game types are Eradication, Sabotage, Onslaught, and Infection. All of these consists 
 of 5, 10, or 15 relatively short rounds. If you die in any of these games types (with the exception 
 of Infection, which I will explain later) , then you must wait out the rest of the round in a death 
 screen, unless you are revived by a teammate. At the beginning of each round you are allowed to 
 buy weaponry, if you survive a whole round then the weaponry you were holding carries over into 
 the next round, which in turn allows you to save money. You are awarded money at the end of every 
 round and also for killing other players or getting assists.
  
  Eradication is a pretty straight forward game type. Both teams spawn at different bases, and the 
 objective is too kill the whole other team before the time expires.
  
  Onslaught is basically an offense defense game type. The attacking teams objective is to infiltrate 
 the other teams base, and eliminate them all. The defending teams objective is to defend their 
 base from the attackers. If you are on defense, you are no permitted to wonder far from the base, 
 if you do your character will begin to take damage.
  
  Sabotage is also an offense defense game type.. The attacking team is attempting to destroy as 
 much property as possible, while the defending team is trying to keep them from destroying it. 
 You can either shoot the different targets, set Demkits on them, or just walk up and beat the crap 
 out of them with the butt of you gun.
  
  Infection, is a little different from the other three. You start off with 1 to 3 of the players 
 infected. All the other people spawn on the other team. The objective is for the infected players 
 to infect all the normal players by killing them before the time runs out. Or for at least one 
 normal player to survive the round uninfected.
  
  Killcount:
  
  Killcount is full of your basic game types, which you can play against bots and other human players. 
 This category consists of Killcount, Team Killcount, Capture the Flag, and Territories. In these 
 modes, instead of buying your guns, you simply pick them up off the map, and when you die you simply 
 respawn, instead of being forced to wait out a round. Im not going to go into anymore detail about 
 the game types in this category, since I feel they are pretty much self explanatory. 
  
  My Personal Opinion:
  
  In all, this an awesome game, that could have used some more work on 
 its single player mode. If you have X-Box Live, a load of other friends who own an X-Box 360 and 
 the game, or you can have fun for hours at a time shooting bots in the different Killcount modes, 
 then this game is a definite buy. But if you are just getting it to play through the single player 
 mode, then I would strongly suggest you only rent it, because you wont get much replay out of 
 this games campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tischla
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 10, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  perfect dark zero has been underrated if i do say so myself. it has some fun and innovative multiplayer 
 game types that are alot of fun. unfourtunately the single player is not worth it but 4 those of 
 u who dont have live the bots r a great addition that should be in every multiplayer game. 4 those 
 of u who do have live, multiplayer is wat makes this gamne fun and is the reason to buy it and 
 keep it. alot of weapongs with good variety, well done cover system and great secondary functions 
 4 the weapons make the game as good as it is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hannahsbf
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 10, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Great game I loved the graphics otherwise the gaeplay was fun the online was amazing I also met 
 this idiot in onlinewho thought the gae was halo3 so i shot him and hacked his account it was fun 
 well like the game this bla bla bla is what i use for words ba bl bl blb lb blblblbl b lb bl blb 
 lb lb lb lb lb lb lb lb blb lb lb lb lb bl bl blb lb lb lb lb bl blb lb lb lblb lb lb bl blb lb 
 lbb b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b 
 b bmmnmcnmcnxcxccx cn n nv nv nv vn vn nv vn nv nv vn vn vn v nv vn vn vn vn vn vn vn . v nb kf 
 bf f f f f fff f bf k k hbhgkhb kbkfhbfk bhkfhkf bhkfbh kbk fk k k fkfh fk fk kf k fkh fkhfkhfk 
 k f fkhfk fk h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
 h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h 
 h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h 
 h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gods_Crusader
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  Perfect dark is a very good lauch game, it has good graphics, decent sounds and very good online.
 
  
  Graphics:
  This games graphics is very original, its kind of hard to explain, it looks slightly cartoonish, 
 but not in a bad way. It makes it look very original. The guns look good in first person view, 
 the good thing about this games graphics is the armor. You can actually see the armor flying when 
 you shoot an oponent and youl see holes in the armor were the bullets have hit. The backgroud is 
 not bad either nothing really special about it though.
  Sound:
  The sound in this game is kind of funny, when you roll with your character you will hear a kind 
 of moan, kind of like womens tennis. The guns shots are same old same old, but nothing really stands 
 out in the sound department except the strange liitle moans that occur.
  Gameplay:
  The online is very fun, lots of fun options like eradication (last man standing) , infection, wich 
 is really fun kind of like zombies on halo. Theres also classic deathmatch, team deathmatch, and 
 ctf. But the best one is were one team must defend a base with the guns they bought and the oposing 
 team just keeps flooding in with simple pistols, team with most time surved wins.
  
  I highly recomend this game, highly additive online play, and very good replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asadNAWABI
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 9, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Perfect dark zero is a very highly anticipated title prequel to the much appreciated n64's perfect 
 dark and it surely lives upto the hype and the expectations.
  First good impression you get is looking at awesome looking graphics which are truly next gen in 
 every sense of the meaning. Textures are especially worth mentioning. Visuals are also mindblowing.
 
  Gameplay is as good as are its graphics. Its fast paced and very diverse so an absolute treat. 
 Awesome guns, effects and sound really make it a true next gen experience. Especially sounds are 
 as realistic as they can get but unfortunately the voice overs are terrible. Music is outatanding 
 and really add to its overall experience. And multiplayer also makes the game an outstanding title.
 
  On the downside the story is disastrous and really nothing to mention and looks like the develpores 
 haven't paid any attention to it but it really doesn't matter coz the gameplay covers it all.
 
  So in the end i would say that its one of the best fps of all time and if u r looking for a true 
 next gen fps with lots of replay value then look no further than perfect dark zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e10mgs
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 9, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  The highlight of the 360 launch. The game to start 360 LIVE. Will it live up to the hype? 
  The short answer is yes 
  
  Gameplay- 
  PDZ sticks with a more traditional FPS style, it 
 perhaps doesn't offer anything amazingly new but what it does do it does well. The guns are varied, 
 the game has trational AK's aswell as futuristic weapons. Probably the best feature of the guns 
 is the secondary fire option, an imaginitive array of different fire- from throwing the whole magazine 
 at an enemy to creating a fake player to confuse enimies, This feature keeps the play varied. Another 
 cool part of the game is when you kill a bunch of enemies the body's stay were they fall, they 
 dont fade away like most games. This with an advanced physics engine creates a truly 'next gen' 
 experience. 
  
  Graphics- 
  The graphics are amazing however the game does not use the 360's power to full. A slight dissapointment 
 is that cut- scenes are no different from the graphics in general play, is is upsetting when you 
 think of the graphics that could of been achieved. Apart from that it is solid and a lot better 
 than anything around on current-gen. Truly brilliant if you have a HD-TV but still looks impreesive 
 on standard.
  
  Controls- 
  The controls are standard Xbox first-person shooter controls. No problems here as it sticks to 
 a tried and tested formula. 
  
  Multiplayer- 
  This is were PDZ really comes in to its own. All standard modes are here like deathmatch, capture 
 the flag and team deathmatch but there are also much more like: eradication- a game mode where 
 'the last team standing' applys. A new game mode where your team has to defend a base and many 
 more. In some game modes you buy your weapons before the game, this gives it that 'counter strike' 
 rewarding feeling. All games can be played with up to 32 players and 16 bots if playing on your 
 own. The game suffers from no lag whatsoever and runs as smoothly as the single player. The game 
 selecting system works very well 
  
  Lifespan- 
  The game comes with co-op and single player, the missions are good but probably not something you 
 will come back to many times after completion. If you have LIVE this is a game that will keep you 
 playing for literally weeks.
  
  Conclusion- 
  PDZ is an excellent online title worthy of starting LIVE's launch, however if its single player 
 your looking for Call of Duty 2 is better.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgrewal16
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 9, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero.... when you hear it took them 5 years to make this thing and u see the final 
 product you're like thats all?"
  
  But remember Rare was bought out by Microsoft and little corporate restructuring occurred and also 
 the game changed platforms so perhaps thats another reason for the long process....
  
  Gameplay
  
  Well this game is fun.... I mean the storyline doesn't give us an Oscar winning 
 script but in the mix of all the action it doesn't really bother the feel or the gameplay aspects 
 of PDZ... its decent enough but I was a little upset that Rare couldn't come up with more (after 
 all it is a prequel and even the Star Wars prequels sucked ass until Episode 3) . There are some 
 nifty new things in this game such as each gun has a secondary feature (add a silencer, flashlight, 
 heat vision etc..) . There is also the 'Cover' feature which allows you to stand or crouch against 
 a wall and view your surroundings in a 3rd person view which gives you better awareness of your 
 surroundings. 
  
  Co op is so awesome... it makes you re-strategize almost everything in the missions.... and some 
 missions are just HUGE which makes it even more enjoyable. The graphics are cool..... the baddies 
 are not like Call of Duty 2 AI but those bastards are hard to take down and do some nifty moves 
 to piss u off even more! (When the AI just irritates you to the point where u wanna blow your TV 
 up, you know that the game has done its job well)
  
  Control
  
  Im not gonna spend too much time here, they are responsive, easy to learn and execute, something 
 we've come to expect from big name FPS.
  
  Sound/Music
  
  The music is very pleasing..... I thought Rare could've added more to the soundtrack.... but some 
 tunes are catchy (mission 11 the African Level has a really cool vibe to it) while others are just 
 inappropriate for some levels. The debriefing music right before you start each mission gives you 
 that bounty hunter/spy feel. The sound of the guns, wound shots and other effects are above average 
 adding realism to the already realistic looking weapons.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are decent... not groundbreaking but admirable... some characters however look very 
 sloppy up close and the cut scenes are pretty horrible! But the guns look great, the levels are 
 in great detail (the Jungle levels and the Trinity levels are great too) and the lighting effects 
 are just sick... Rare paid attention to detail in the broadest and narrowest sense.
  
  The character models as mentioned before are not great but Joanna has the sexy appeal....... beautiful 
 but that deadly look...... and Jack looks like an older version of Rambo..... you dont play him 
 much unless in the co-op mode.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Now when it comes to FPS.... storyline, gameplay are needed and since PDZ lacks in the story... they 
 make up and I mean they really make up for it in the multiplayer section. The mark of a great FPS 
 is not in the single player campaigns but in the multiplayer because it is the multiplayer that 
 adds life and value to the game so that it is played for years to come and PDZ has one of the best 
 Multiplayer options since Halo 2.
  
  AI Bots, death match, great weapons, cool scenarios (some are counter strike like.... Death Ops) 
 add great variety..... even the offline multiplayer would keep you busy for months...... great options...... just 
 amazing how long you can play this game for. This multiplayer is honestly impressive and this factor 
 alone should give you justification to purchase this for the Xbox 360.
  
  In conclusion, given the gameplay, audio and great looking guns and the massive and addictive multiplayer 
 options... Perfect Dark Zero is a must buy for any fan of the FPS genre... although its not revolutionary 
 it enhances of what is good in the genre and adds to it (the 'Cover' feature, and secondary gun 
 features) . The game is fun and that is the bottom line... graphics dont mean nothing unless you 
 can have fun and hours of it and PDZ provides just that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: glesniak
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 8, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I got this game and when i got home couldnt wait to put it in. I was thinking about all the memories 
 I had with the first Perfect Dark so i had high expectations for this game. I was very very disappointed. 
 I expected after such a long wait for a sequel, it being on the new 360, and RARE owned my Microsoft 
 now, thats it would have been fun.
  
  First, the levels look nice, but the missions seem dull. 
  
  Game play and controls: I would 
 have expected more control wise, it just seems like its not up to par with the other shooters. 
 Its takes about a million rounds to actually kill somebody. Melee mode gets you lost and twisted, 
 while with no jump feature, it already lags behind the top selling shooter (Halo)
  
  Xbox live: Well i got on thinking this was going to be fun when in actuality, i was bored. Its 
 the same thing, run around shoot people, unload about a million bullets into one person and them 
 still not die. Lack of vehicles make it even worse. Overall the game is just boring. I dont see 
 how anyone thinks this game was ever better then the original. The controls just arent up to par, 
 and neither are the game modes. XBL was just boring except for territories. 
  
  Overall I just expected a lot more from this game. Nothing too fancy really. No jump, lack of vehicles, 
 poor game missions and game play, Multiplayer just got more annoying then fun, VERY headshot dependant, 
 and it takes about 100 bullets to actually kill anyone. 
  
  Rent it first, dont buy it, and see how it was. Halo is still far superior, and its not even on 
 the 360. Better off getting Call of Duty 2 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXboxgamer73
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is the prequel to the smash N64 hit Perfect Dark. As an owner, and major player 
 of this N64 masterpiece, I had high expectations for Perfect Dark Zero. So does Perfect Dark Zero 
 live up to the expectations? Well, to break the ice, not really, but it still offers up a good 
 dose of fun from time to time.
  
  Gameplay: Perfect Dark Zero runs very smoothly. The massive arsenal of weapons, most with secondary 
 and tertiary functions, adds a great deal of beef to the shooting and overall action. The aiming 
 system is a bit tricky though. Even with rocket launchers and heavy machine guns, it can be a chore 
 to actually hit the target. This is especially true for online gaming. The speed of the game is 
 decent in single player, but online, it can feel like your character is running in syrup. This 
 combined with some of the larger online maps can lead to frusturation and very boring situations. 
 There is a slew of gametypes available, ranging from standard deathmatch to the very interesting 
 Infection. All of these gametypes can be very fun if you have the right players and weapon set 
 up, but at the same time, can be extremely boring if the weapon set up and map variation doesn't 
 match. Overall, the game can feel like a mixed bag, boasting moments youll wish you had a camera 
 for, and other moments you'll wish you had your money back.
  
  Graphics: PDZ0 looks pretty decent for the first of the next gen games. The animation and rag doll 
 physics are a blast to look at, and the effects are very well done. Graphics wise, all the environments 
 have a nice shine to them, but in larger areas, things look kind of boring. Character models look 
 good, but it's hard to tell if the developers took things seriously since the characters seem almost 
 real and cartoonish at the same time.
  
  Sound: PDZ0 has a great soundtrack, which you'll come to love as soon as you hit the nightclub 
 level. The entire single player game is accompanied by a great soundtrack as well, however, the 
 online has almost no music, which can make things seem pretty dull when your waiting for a new 
 round to start in a Darkops match, or your simply traveling across a giant map with no enemies 
 in sight. Weapons sound great. The cutscenes have some cheesy dialogue, but thats expected, since 
 the story in general is horrible, if there is a story... I can't really tell.
  
  Value: For the price, Perfect Dark Zero can be a good value. If you don't have Xbox Live, just 
 skip this game or give it a rent. If you do however, you will often times find that this game is 
 worth every dime since matches can range from insanely boring to flat out awesome. Like I said, 
 it's a mixed bag, so experimenting with maps, gametypes, and weapon choices is a must if you wish 
 to get the whole experience.
  
  Tilt: I would reccomend Perfect Dark Zero, because on it's own, it's a great game. However, for 
 those who thought the game would be just as great and adrenaline pumping as the N64 Perfect Dark 
 Zero, try not to be be suprised, because this game feels totally different. Overall, this game 
 has it's ups and downs, but it can be a very entertaining experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 2.8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  all i have to say is this game sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks and sucks. it starts off fun then 
 gets boring and reppettive. online sucks cuz u spend so mush time shooting armor off and theres 
 no fun in it. story gets dumb after a while and you get tired of dying and having to retry the 
 level over and over again. this game sucks and i hate it so im going to go trade it in and get 
 a better game. if i had any say in how this game was created i would add more save points, better 
 online play and make sure that matches are fair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  Epic shooters will love this. Honest. Shooting down in great graphics, using sleek guns... Ya know, 
 from the other Perfect Dark (it really was perfect!) this is one of the best shooter games ever. 
 Oh, and the sound? Better than black blams. A game you should get if you own an Xbox 360. A great 
 start too. Oh, this game is almost perfect. Buy this game, get the other... free!
  
  P E R F E C T D A R K Z E R O I S N ' T R E A L L Y P E R F E C T O 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just4pool93
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a great game. It is not as good as the original, but stll makes for a great 
 game. The graphics are awsome but the gameplay is a little faulty. I like the game, but I have 
 played better. It is not better than any other 360 exept for Madden '06 and FIFA Soccer. It deserves 
 less than a 9.0. OXM (Official Xbox Magazine) only game it an 8 out of 10. It gave Call of Duty 
 2 a 9. It also gave PGR 3 and Need for Speed: Most Wanted a 9. Those were the best games at launch. 
 So in the end, Perfect Dark Zero still is a pretty good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 08willej
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 7, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  People are bashing this game because they bought CoD2 and want it to do better, well i got news 
 for you guys, this is a great game. I bought Call of Duty first and I loved it and i was the same 
 way i was sayin that PDZ sucks just because, then i got PDZ and i love it. Its is as good as CoD, 
 i think CoD is jus a tiny teny winey bit better jus by a hair but this is still a solid solid game.
 
  
  The Online play is what gets everyones attention, i never get lag all the different modes so it 
 never gets old and last but not least theres a lobby so u can talk to uir friends not like in CoD2 
 where after the game is over it puts you back at the menu which is stupid but still fun and great 
 as well.
  
  The single player to me was terrible, i hated the single player had no desire to play it, not sure 
 why jus never got my attention, while CoD2 had a GREAT campaign.
  
  Overall this game is fantastic if ur one of those ppl who jus hate it to hate it change ur mind 
 cause this is a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gohanmohan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  This game really did grab me by the balls and clenched them until it demanded I completed the campaign, 
 which I did, in one day. By no means is the campaign short, it's just that the gameplay was so 
 immersive and reminded me of Goldeneye that I just couldn't let go of the controller. However there 
 were distinct problems that prevented it from being better, which it could definetly have been. 
 First of all, the emotional attachment to the game characters, there was none. When (Spoiler alert!) 
 Joanna's dad dies, you'd think she would give a **** but she seemed to forget about the whole ordeal 
 in a matter of seconds. No cry for vengence, no tears, just a short line something along the lines 
 of "take this **** or aimed at the person responsible for the crime. 
  The hovercraft, that really was a horrible vehicle to drive, especially in multiplayer, where trying 
 to run someone over was near impossible.
  The multiplayer levels are really underwhelming it has to be said. it would be absolutely amazing 
 if we could play on maps from the original Goldeneye or Perfect Dark, maps like Archive, Stack 
 or Complex. That would have really been a great tribute to the loyal Rare followers, who, lets 
 be honest deserve a little something extra for all the patience they have had.
  
  All in all, a really good game, with amazing gameplay, some absolutely stunning graphical set pieces 
 (esp motion blur) and amazing music and audio mean that this game has an amazing replayability 
 value. Its just a shame that the multiplayer is no where near as good as it could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDemon91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 6, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is one of the 360 games that people were excited about.
  The best thing in PDZ is the single player campaign has the best graphics. In PDZ you play as an 
 agent named Joanna Dark and you help your father Jack Dark. Basically the story is a stealth/melee 
 combat. If you don't like the single player campaign maybe you would like the online multiplayer. 
 It's as good as Halo 2. The single campaign and the multiplayer are very similar. The game is truely 
 awesome if your a fan of FPS ( First Player Shooter) you should go buy PDZ while you still have 
 the chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 6, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Because there simply isn't enough futuristic first person shooters, here's Perfect Dark Zero, the 
 stuff rumors and delays are made of. Well, it's out, and it's at least good enough to stand out 
 from the pack, one that makes a good companion for that shiny new Xbox 360.
  
  Set sometime in the past of the futuristic world of the first Perfect Dark, you begin where a young 
 accent-less Joanna Dark working with her bounty hunter father on some mission that ultimately blows 
 up into some grander scheme involving the two major companies from the last game. Most of the cool 
 conspiracy stuff from that game is long gone, sadly. The story is your basic corny action fare 
 and just solid enough to get you interested in seeing the whole game through.
  
  The story mode is similiar in format to that of the first game. Each mission has a set of objectives. 
 The primary objectives tend to involve getting from point A to B, while the secondary objectives 
 are optional, but will make your life easier by reducing enemy resistance. In the missions, you'll 
 get a nice and steady mix of combat and stealth so rarely will the action get stale.
  
  The action is something of a mix between Perfect Dark and Halo. Outside of body armor, your main 
 health regerenates with a moment of rest without taking harm. However, your overall health decreases 
 as you get hurt so you do have to watch yourself. Also, you have a limited number of slots for 
 weapons, forcing yourself to make tactical choices in each area. You can select which guns you 
 start a mission yet from all the weapons you've found so far, so you can go back to earlier missions 
 with the big guns you've found later on.
  
  The neato gadgets of Perfect Dark and Goldeneye are gone, replaced simply by two different lock 
 openers and a 3 second time bomb. You do get some nice variations of Splinter Cellish goggles later 
 on, including an absolutely spiffy X-ray vision made to snipe off skeletons. Indeed, the actual 
 weapons are the star of the show. You have a large assortment of handguns, semi-autos, rifles and 
 whatnot, along with various Perfect Dark trademarks like the Laptop and Shockwave. Many guns have 
 some creative secondary mechanisms, from transforming into a gun turret to projecting a hologram 
 of yourself. The ecleptic selection of guns give the game a special flavor.
  
  The AI isn't the sharpest tool in the FPS shed. Enemies tend to run out into the open shooting 
 at you with little regards for cover. But they do make for an entertaining fight. You on the other 
 hand have to rely on cover. You can lean on most walls or croutch behind some surfaces, where the 
 game switches to a third person view in which you can sort of safely aim and peek out to fire. 
 There's no jump, but you can roll around to dodge fire (and lets be honest, it looks stupid to 
 play a deathmatch and see people hopping around and firing) The gunfighting in the game has a unique 
 flavor which makes it stand out from the pack.
  
  The campaign is about 10 to 15 hours long, with multiple difficulty settings for those who choose 
 to back and rake up some achievement points. Probably the one notch against the game is that there's 
 no save system during missions. You get one checkpoint and that's it. This really only becomes 
 a problem for two or three of the longer missions, but it is rather bothersome. The game also has 
 a great co-op mode for two players, online or otherwise. Since many of the missions find a way 
 to work both players in the mix and in different situations all the while still throwing a lot 
 of enemies your way, the co-op mode stands out as an enjoyable experience in itself.
  
  And then there's the multiplayer. All of the customization options found in the first game are 
 here. You get to choose from a variety of excellent maps, what set of weapons to use, the number 
 of computer-controlled bots and so forth, within the confines of a deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 capture the flag or territory control style gameplay. And that's just the standard mode : Dark-Ops 
 is a take on Counter-Strike, with an assortment of team-based objective modes while players can 
 purchase weapons between the action. All the while remaining relatively lag-free. Everything in 
 the multiplayer comes together really well, giving you no shortage of things to do and people to 
 kill.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero looks mostly great. That seemingly everything in the world is shiny actually 
 contributes to the game's futuristic style, rather than detract from it. The game is silky smooth 
 most of the time, only slowing down in one of the later missions. All of the effects, the explosions, 
 the gunfire, even transistioning from first to third person view, looks great and makes the game 
 that much easier on the eyes. The one notch against the game's look is that the characters look 
 too much like action figures with awkward facial features and obsenely long arms. The voicework 
 in the game is solid enough to get by, if a little overwrought. You'll constantly be pelted by 
 radio orders guiding you through. The soundtrack, however, is great. It's a largely techno-espionage 
 themed selection of music that always fits the situation. Even the opening cutscene is taken right 
 out of a Bond flick.
  
  While Perfect Dark Zero doesn't rewrite the book of first person shooters, it's a great game in 
 it's own right. It's a silky smooth, fast-paced and very enjoyable first person shooter that'll 
 quench the thirst of action lovers and please the fans of the original game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowpet
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 6, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  For me it is to much cartoon, i mis the substance from Half Life 2. But it is not a bad game, not 
 at all. It a was disapointment, when i played the game the first time. But again try it your self, 
 mybe you love it.
  I look forward to play call of duty, Halo 3, Oblivion, NHL 07, Gotham 4, Half Life 2 aftermath, 
 and more more more more more more more more more more more more more more more more more more more 
 more more more more more more and more more more more more more more more more more more more more 
 more more more more more more more more more more more more more more more more more more more 
 more more more more more more more 360 and xbox 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nilihist
Rating: 6.6
Date: Sep 29, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Rare games are suppose to be rare i dont get it. This game is not rare but is doesn't suck either. It's 
 just too slow and need's more work. It's multiplayer suck's but campaign rock's but short. YEAH Halo 
 is better than this. And about the purchase ,if you like slow gameplay buy it , if your a halo fan 
 dump it. Ive beaten the game in 3 days so you'll be board with it ,unless your interested in the 
 multiplayer WHICH I HIGHLY DOUGHT. SO SKIP IT.
  
  RENT IT RENT IT REN IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENIT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT 
 IT RENT IT REN TIT RENT IT RENT IT REN IT RENT IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necrones
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was a fun game, but a bit of a disappointment. The graphics were all they claimed 
 to be, and the gameplay was pretty good, but in this day an age you need more than that. 
  
  The storyline was pretty lame. At no point was a really interested in what would happen next. 
 It was also rather short, and it seemed a bit disjointed. You'd go from one part of the world to 
 the other without really knowing why and nothing ever made much sense. It was done really just 
 for the sake of getting a variety of different environments in the game. 
  
  By far the worst feature of the game was the development of the characters, or should I say lack 
 of development. Because of cheesy lines and archetypes that are I find too familiar and too hard 
 to find appealing or to sympathize with, the single-player is a real let-down. 
  
  The gameplay was adequete, but the AI was not crippled by intellect, which is another thing that 
 is a bit inexcusable in todays world. Games need good storylines and smart AI if they are to make 
 any kind of lasting impression or having any replay value in their single-player modes. Fortunately 
 the multiplayer action in PDZ is pretty fun, so that is what saves it.
  
  So if you want a compelling storyline that you'll spend many intense hours playing through, you'll 
 be unimpressed by PDZ. But if you really don't care about that, then its a fun shooter that will 
 give you some pretty solid multiplayer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaunmt1979
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 5, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  if you are a fan of the original perfect dark, then please do not buy this game. you will probably 
 be dissapointed. i will review this game categorically..
  graphics: not bad but also not worthy of being considered next gen. the graphics actually look 
 much better if you stand completely still, but when you start moving there are some big problems. 
 first, if you are moving while looking at lights you will some glitch that happens throughout the 
 game, there are a lot of lights here. and that glitch got old by the first level. the good graphics 
 rely on things like shiny textures like nice looking floors walls etc. joanna's weapon animation 
 is good. alot of it will leave you saying "i could have seen this on my xbox or gamecube." the 
 enemies dont look great at all. the enemies also bounce all over the place in their death animations 
 making it terribly unrealistic. the worst part of the graphics is the between level cutscenes. 
 i have seen better looking, better moving characters on every of the previous generation systems. 
 not only do the characters look horrible during cutscenes but the graphics in general looked much 
 worse during them. 
  sound: gun sound effects sound very nice. i did enjoy that alot. the enemies say alot of the same 
 repetive things and none are particularly entertaining. "shes got a gun" is something you will 
 hear them constantly say. the music sounds good but is boring. it is basically trying to sound 
 kind of like the original perfect dark but hipper. suffers by making you hear the same music over 
 and over.
  gameplay: this is where the game really doesnt deliver. its very frustrating dying on the same 
 level 20 times when each time took you 20 min. there are never more than 1 checkpoint per level 
 and its usually pretty far in. some levels have no checkpoint at all. while most levels arent too 
 long you can easily lose by a npc being killed. it also moves very slow in some levels and if you 
 carry a heavy weapon, which are the only good ones, your character moves extremely slow. the cover 
 feature in which you hide behind walls, boxes etc and can peak out and shoot is clever and done 
 pretty well but after about the third level isnt much use anymore. also whereas goldeneye and perfect 
 dark had gadgets you again have some. the ones in this game though are really just annoying. anytime 
 you want to hack into a locked door, about 2 to 3 times per level, you must pull out your data 
 hack and do this little puzzle. it gets annoying after the second time you use it. there is another 
 gadget for blowing things up that is equally annoying. 
  value: the multiplayer i guess boosts the value a little bit but the single player will most certainly 
 make you feel ripped off for paying $50.
  overall: this is a game with "next gen" graphics that are underwhelming, gameplay that doesnt live 
 up to its predecessor and suffers from lack of any type of entertaining story and bad level design. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 5, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was supposed to be the killer app for the Xbox 360, and it has yet to live up 
 to that name.
  
  PDZ is obviously a prequel to the original [high scoring] Perfect Dark for N64, but fails to live 
 up to the title ot it's forefather with bad storytelling and crappy AI.
  
  Though, it does have it's strong points. The multiplayer is very diverse and exciting, with many 
 different weapons to choose from, and different gametypes to own at. The graphics are great too, 
 from real life physics, to the ambience of the temple level.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is most definatly a good investment, though it will prove disappointing later 
 on, because the most you'll ever play it at a time is 3 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barbierian205
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 5, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  PDZ is an interesting game. Those of you who are expecting a game that lives up to the original 
 Perfect Dark on N64 are going to be disappointed. But, if you take this game with the correct expectations, 
 it is pretty good. As far as the gameplay is concerned, on the surface, it plays like your conventional 
 FPS, but there are a few underlying components that spice up the action a bit. The 1st of which 
 is the roll. With the lack of a jump, I guess this semi takes the place of it. By pressing the 
 Left Bumper, you go into a little combat roll. This really isn't particularly useful except for 
 when evading enemy fire while reloading. The other, more major quirk is that every weapon has a 
 2nd function (some even have a 3rd) Secondary functions range from your customary silencer or flashlight 
 to an automated turret or even a personal force field which protects you from enemy fire. Whatever 
 the weapon you have, you can be sure its secondary function is useful in one way or another. Movement 
 in the game is decidedly slow, but you can put your weapons away to gain a little more speed. The 
 guns have a certain weight to them, and they feel real enough, but sometimes the gameplay can feel 
 flimsy and that detracts from the experience, especially when compared to games like Halo and Halo 
 2. In the graphics category, the game doesn't really look good, but it doesn't look ugly all the 
 time. The weapons definitely are the best looking here. They are shaded perfectly, and look the 
 most like real weapons in any game I've ever played. The character models, on the other hand, are 
 some of the ugliest I've ever seen. some of these people look like no human I have ever seen. The 
 environments are the real killer though. The problem is EVERYTHING is shiny. In some places, this 
 looks good, but most of the time, it looks like Rare made it shiny just to hide the fact that most 
 of the environments look like they are out of an Xbox 1 game. There is not much to be said about 
 the sound in this game. The weapon sounds and soundtrack are good enough, but nothing special. 
 Also, the voice acting is laughable. The single player campaign is another big sticking point. 
 Its 13 levels are uninspired, badly designed, boring, sometimes seem to have no point whatsoever. 
 The story is way too underdeveloped and uninspiring at best. Whatever you do, don't buy this game 
 for the story, because you will be terribly underwhelmed. There is a co-op mode, but that doesn't 
 change the fact that the level design sucks. Overall, Perfect Dark Zero is a big letdown when compared 
 against its N64 parent, but it is still a justifyable purchase if you can stomach mediocre graphics 
 and single player campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zenwork21
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 8, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is not even close with the best first person shooter around. Some of them are still much 
 better than this one even if they are on previous generation console. (Halo, time Splitter on ps2)
 
  Some of the missions are really boring level design quite obvious, and you are just looking forward 
 to finish them hoping that the next level will be better.
  On the contrary oc Xbox live is really good and you are going to have a lot of fun with the differents 
 options available there. 
  So if you wait a little bit maybe you can buy it used, that's my suggestion.
  regards
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiruva
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 5, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  the game is really good, the stealth thing is not really my thing but it is fun. i love the shooting 
 it kicks ass. the models look pretty bad and so do cutscenes. it is great fun to play. the weapons 
 are all reallly unique and fun to fire. not all good weapons but still fun. the ai is pretty intelligent 
 and fun to fight against. and even in deathmatch it is tricky on dark agent. perhaps the shooting 
 is not as intense as i would like. and the enemy die unrealisticly. e. g. if you get shot in the 
 leg 5 times with a pistol u aint going to start running around. i loved this game but i think the 
 last level is a load of bull****. it is easy all you do is stand in same place snipe with an assult 
 rifle and nail him with a shotgun when he jumps on your platform. the campaighn is also to short. 
 if Quake 4 framerate was as good as this i would have got that but is is not. so it was not first 
 choice but it still rocks. if you are a fan of FPS get this. it is fun with only a few flaws 'character 
 modles and cut sceans'. i am a huge FPS fan i am getting "when they come out" far cry, timeshift 
 and halo3 and i already have COd2 if you have a XBOX 360 you have to get this it is the best launch 
 game by a long way and is the best game i have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddenman5
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 5, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  Overall Perfect Dark Zero is a good game. The graphics are awesome, especially if you have an HDTV 
 and the sound effects are great. In that aspect of the game it really draws you in. However, a 
 very bad storyline takes a lot away from this game. If the storyline was better Perfect Dark Zero 
 would have the potential to be one of the best shooters on the Xbox 360. There are a lot of futuristic 
 gadgets and weapons at your disposal in this game which can be a lot of fun. Not to mention the 
 secondary and tertiary actions that some of the weapons offer. The varying difficulty levels can 
 allow you to breeze through this game or it can leave you with a big challenge. I would suggest 
 that you rent this game before you buy it. Perfect Dark Zero could leave some gamers who are only 
 looking for action very satisfied. However, if you are looking for something more Perfect Dark 
 Zero can be very disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick109thou
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 5, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  This game is very good.. from the game play to the sound all the way to the fun factor. If you 
 are looking for a tactical shooter and a action shooter.. you can get both out of this one game.. 
 not only do you get the type of game you want you get the best visuals and hours of fun... there 
 are many weapons and alll of them have secondary functions from turning your gun into a auto turret 
 to just adding a silencer.... you will have so much fun playing the many game types.. there is a 
 wide variaty and lots of creativity, and there is a totle of 32 possible players online with scalable 
 maps.. this is a must buy game. so if you get it I hope you have the time of your life. thanks for 
 reading
  BeerGoggles09 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killa178
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  Wow this game is really awsome to me i think is the best X-box 360 game currently made. The gameplay 
 was way better than the last Perfect Dark., It had so manny good features than the other one. Even 
 dou you can't jump it is still a great game. The graphics are pretty awsome they look so good on 
 the gameplay and the storyline. The weapons are really cool, they look pretty good. The Sounds were 
 perfect they couldn't be any better. The Weapons and the other thing sound like if it is on real 
 life. It deserve to cost $50.00 on U. S and $60.00 n Canada. Please make the third one next year 
 or earlier but do the 3rd part please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamfunk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 8, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was on of the games that I was looking forward to playing on the Xbox 360 for 
 the longest time. And when the day came that I finally got to play it, I have to say... I was very 
 impressed. There are so many things about this game that are really solid, and few that are not. 
 The graphics ARE next gen, and the gameplay has everything that a good First Person Shooter should 
 have. There are although a few faults, such as the small amount of clipping (what game doesnt have 
 it) and wretched storyline. The multi play is where this game truly excells. Although there could 
 have been a few more maps, the variation of each map keeps the game interesting. Also having the 
 copious amounts of weapons keeps the game very intereting. All in all this game is one of the better 
 games for the Xbox 360 so far. I also think that it is better than Call Of Duty 2, which is still 
 a solid game, but doesnt compete with PDZ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgfreak
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  By far the best multiplayer shooter for the Xbox 360. Great fast-paced gameplay that runs smooth 
 with 30 players or less [Xbox Live] . Although the storyline was a bit weak but the multiplayer and 
 a few cool co-op missions make up for it in the end. Easily worth the money. Some cool weapons 
 and nice secondary fire modes. HOLY CRAP, I looked at the graphics once and blinked and looked 
 again and well my eyes were correct. Insane graphics that are easily noticed by mission 2, which 
 has some cool lighting effects. Runs great on Xbox Live, though you will start noticing lag when 
 the party reaches 30 people or more. Wonderful AI bots which can be somewhat challenging on the 
 highest difficulty. Fun multiplayer gametypes to keep you playing day after day. Even though you 
 cannot create any gametypes you can manage up to 5 different weapon combinations to make game making 
 quick and easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjolnir334
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was to be the Halo for the Xbox 360. Unfortunately it isn't even close. It feels 
 as though it isn't sure what it's trying to be. A reason for this may be the history of the game. 
 I'm sure many of us can agree that the original Perfect Dark was one of the best games for the 
 N64. Rare planed to release a follow up on the Gamecube. Then when Microsoft bought the company 
 it was moved over to the xbox. Then it was finally moved over to the 360. 
  
  This game gave me more mixed reactions than any other. There were good and bad points about everything 
 in it. Let's start with the graphics. The two best effects in the game are an amazing motion blur 
 and some great looking reload animations. Now the character models and the environments are a different 
 story all together. Some of the characters look fairly good, but I found that most of them came 
 across looking cartoony. This would be fine if that were the look of the game, but it's not. As 
 for the environments some can look amazing, while others can almost look like the original Xbox. 
 Sound is another mixed bag. Weapon sounds were awesome. All of the guns sounded like real guns. 
 On the other hand the voice acting is all right at best and the music is terrible. The damage dealt 
 by the weapons was the thing that confused me the most. If a target is not wearing armor it's one 
 shot to the head or 4 or 5 shots to the body for a kill. This makes the game feel similar to Counter-Strike, 
 but if the target is wearing body armor it means it can take up to a full clip from an UZI to get 
 rid of that body armor. 
  
  The single player is a huge let down. For starters the story is terrible. I realize that if I want 
 a good story I should read a book, but when it detracts from a game then it's a problem. A huge 
 problem I had with single player is the objectives. There are many that are escort missions that 
 if that can easily result in an instant failure. I thought we had gotten rid of that style of game 
 play in the last generation. Saving in the single player is some of the worst I've seen. There 
 are usually only one or two checkpoints through out a level. This means you may start back at the 
 beginning of level if you or the person your escorting dies. In most games once you get a checkpoint 
 you can save and quit, then next time you play you will start at that point. Not in Perfect Dark 
 Zero, instead you must start back from the beginning of the level and do it over again.
  
  The only redeeming factor about Perfect Dark Zero is it's multiplayer game. Although some of the 
 ideas in the game are completely stolen from other games. Like buying your weapons at the beginning 
 of each round. Still the the multiplayer game is fun and does require a fair amount of strategy. 
 And with 32 players online it's probably one of the better multilayer shooters out for the 360.
 
  
  Overall Perfect Dark Zero is a fairly average game. There is nothing really special about it. It's 
 multiplayer will be able to tide you over until a great multiplayer shooter arrives. In the end 
 I suggest trying Call of Duty 2 for a fps fix. It's single player is far superior, and even though 
 it doesn't support nearly as many players, it's still an excellent multiplayer game. Due to it's 
 terrible single player I just can't recommend Perfect Dark Zero.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berzz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I just bought my Xbox 360 yesterday and I bought this game along with it. I've played roughly 5 
 hours but for the small amount of time that is, I can say this is an amazing game. I loved Perfect 
 Dark for N64 and I've been hyping Perfect Dark Zero for alot of time now.
  
  This game has lots of action, amazing graphics, and a good storyline, I love all the different 
 gadgets and weapons you can choose from. 
  
  This game gives you a good idea of what future X360 games will be like. 
  
  The level structure 
 on both singleplayer mode and multiplayer mode is amazing, it is great how you can interact with 
 all the objects on the level as well as all the different ways you can take to surprise the enemy. 
 The graphics are at its best also. I haven't finished the game yet, but from the levels I've played 
 I can say I've liked every single one of them.
  
  I've played some Xbox Live matchs and I can say it's cool also, I can say alot of it since I haven't 
 played much. I have yet to play Co-Op and lots of other things.
  
  I recommend you buy the Limited Collectors Edition since it brings you cool stuff and a bonus DVD 
 with great extras.
  
  -berzz  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enjoi291
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 4, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Perfect dark zero is a pretty sweet game. The graphics are the best , well duh its the XBOX 360 
 lol , but still graphics are great even for 360. The story in this game is great , infact the way 
 it ends im pretty sure we will see much much more of the perfect dark franchise. If you like sniper 
 , assasination and just plain flat out combat you will love this game
  
  The multiplayer gets its own section because it is so sweet!!!!! There are 6 or 7 levels to choose 
 from , Lots and Lots of guns , up to 14 or 15 AI players and many modes. The modes include deathmatch 
 , team deathmatch , capture the flag and some others i cant remember. The all out gameplay is great 
 and has alot of twist and turns for you.
  
  I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS GAME TO ANY BODY WHO OWNS AN XBOX 360 EVEN IF YOU DONT LIKE 1ST PERSON 
 SHOOTERS OR SHOOTERS IN GENERAL YOU WILL LOVE THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukasz_erecinsk
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 4, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is not what many have expected. In truth this game lacks a great amount of work to be 
 considered next-gen. I was very disapointed at first, but I thought that that is only the first 
 impression, yet the game did not "grow on me"
  The gameplay is poor. The game doesnt do anything which has not been done ages ago. 
  What i 
 found to be a great problem was the amount of time it takes one to defeat an enemy . It takes like 
 20 -30 ! shots in order to kill someone. That is crazy ... especialy if you compare it to Call 
 of Duty 2.
  
  Graphicaly the game is not next-gen, nor is it in terms of sound.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike3oOo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Ladies and Gentlemen boys and girls, this year marks an amazing year for video games, because this 
 year marks the return of Rare! Yes that amazing company who developed almost everyone of the best 
 games on the N64!
  
  You remember Goldeneye (the godfather of console fps games) and the even better and sexier Perfect 
 Dark. Well now 5 years later Rare has returned and has braced the world with Perfect Dark Zero 
 the prequel to the wonderful classic.
  
  So does it live up to all the hype, the gossip, and its acclaimed predecessor? Hell yeah it does, 
 and then some. Read on to find out why Perfect Dark Zero will seriously make you think about getting 
 that pretty 360, if you haven't already gotten one.
  
  Graphically Perfect Dark Zero looks amazing. My eyes are in such awe, even now just thinking about 
 the game makes my jaw drop. You will see everything from superb lighting, awesome effects, amazing 
 physics, crazy reflections and more. But its more than just a hyper show, the game has some seriously 
 awesome art style, and makes its futuristic settings, all the more wonderful to witness. This is 
 definitely the best looking launch game on the 360 in my opinion.
  
  The Gameplay is just as spot on as its wonderful visuals. Basically picture the N64 classic, now 
 add much better visuals, a more robust control scheme, bigger levels, and a wide variety of awesome 
 weapons, gadgets, and thats what you get with PDZ. But my god Rare has absolutely amazed me with 
 this game.
  
  Everything is top notch, from the get go you will be facing hordes of enemies, taking cover behind 
 walls, and shooting the **** out of things. But the thing that honestly separates this game from 
 the rest of fps games, are the mission structures, and the awesome arsenal and wonderful level 
 designs.
  
  I absolutely love the new third person wall cover, and the new roll feature. This helps make for 
 a much more diversed stealth scenario, and helps you get out of the line of fire. Also the game 
 features a very robust Co-Op gameplay, that allows you and a friend to experience the single player 
 differently then say if you were playing a solo game. But playing solo is a blast too! And with 
 3 different difficulties, that alter the levels and missions, it makes the replay value rocket 
 sky high.
  
  On top of the games awesome single player there is also a robust multiplayer. This is where the 
 game will live on for months and months and probably years after you beat the single player game. 
 You have your basic set up of multiplayer components like deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Capture 
 the Flag. But you all have this new online mode called Dark Ops. Which is basically a new take 
 on the Counter Strike type of gameplay.
  
  This is one of the most insanely addictive multiplayer games around. And once you play Dark Ops, 
 and witness the insanity that is Perfect Dark Zero, you will never go back to Current Gen or Halo 
 ever again! Another awesome thing about the multiplayer is that there is bots, and vehicles. But 
 my truly favorite thing would have to be the Jet Packs, which are basically a mech that flys, trust 
 me its totally awesome!
  
  Overall I am completely amazed by what Rare accomplished with Perfect Dark Zero. There were a lot 
 of doubters out there, but I always had faith in them, and knew they would pull threw. Compared 
 to there wonderful efforts with Conker earlier this year, Perfect Dark Zero not only beats it, 
 but it completely rains miles over it. This is truly a Next-Gen experience through and through, 
 and I will be playing it for years and years to come! Thank you Rare, and welcome back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alik2004
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  u might be one of those people who got an xbox360 well if u are then u must make ur self one of 
 those people that has pdz.
  
  perfect dark was one of those games that when u play the one player mode u endup happy but when 
 u fire up the multiplayer well ,u cant put it down .... now lets look at pdz its got a great one 
 player mode but not revlotionariy but its great all in all .... but wait why did i give this game 
 a near perfect score then?
  yes u guessed it right pdz has the best multiplayer u can ever find on the xbox360 or best yet.
 
  
  its multiplayer is sooooo addictive that u cant put it down it truly is a very nice experince and 
 u will want to go back to it .
  
  the graphics are truly next gen.
  the sounds ar fantastic and if u were a fan of the old perfect dark u will remeber a few sounds.
 
  
  to sum this up if u want a truly next gen experince then pick up perfect dark zero and i dont think 
 u will ever put this game down be it from its cool single player or masterpice multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invader_luj
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  Before I start I just want to say that i really liked this game, or at least I really tried to 
 like this game. I tried to play by looking at more than just the graphics or shiny new tricks the 
 360 can throw at you and many of the problems that i had happened as I started playing the game 
 on the two highest difficulty settings, but I'll save that for later.
  
  Graphics:
  Overall the graphics are great, not as good as they are going to get later in the 360's lifespan 
 but better then the good old Xbox. I really like the light effects and particle effects, having 
 used some guns that are basically real world counter parts I can honestly say they got this part 
 right. Really the only thing i did not like about the graphics was the character models. All of 
 the people seemed to be smeared with Vaseline and had an odd shiny appearance in light. Still altogether 
 a good start for a new system.
  
  Sound:
  The music, although not what i would prefer, fits quite well in the game. The npcs also have good 
 chatter if you listen carefully. About the only gripe i have is with the silencers. Silencers on 
 an assault rifle make much less difference in sound then in this game. The real world difference 
 in about 50-60 Db and could still be heard even 200 yards away.
  
  Gameplay:
  I saved the worst for last. In the lower difficulties its not as noticeable as you can basically 
 just run and gun your way through the levels but once you get to perfect and dark agent there are 
 noticeable AI and other problems. Enemies start to glitch and sometimes wont shoot or even try 
 to hurt you when you stand right in front of them. NPC's who tell you to get on point randomly 
 run in front of your already firing gun and die, forcing a mission restart. Once in the Trinity 
 Escape level i had the head friendly npc stop firing his gun altogether and instead simply ran 
 towards enemy fire. The only reason I gave this game a six instead of a three was because of bonus 
 points for the multiplayer game, which i might add is superb. Although not as refined as Halo 2's 
 multiplayer game the ability to add bots is nice.
  
  Value:
  Just a quick tip make sure you get the regular version for 49.99 and not the collectors edition 
 for 59.99.
  
  Yet again I really liked this game and would definitely recommend buying it, if only because of 
 the multiplayer mode (which far outshines COD 2) . And if you don't like FPS games buy Project Gotham 
 Racing 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FergieCR123
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  I bought this game with my Xbox 360 it was this game or Gun. I am happy that I got this game instead 
 because Gun was not that amazing. The Graphics are the some of the best I have ever seen. They 
 are so smooth and the water effects just made me drool. The missions are unique. Most first person 
 shooters have you doing the same thing every time which is complete objectives and get to the end. 
 However, in Perfect Dark, the feel of the missions change. There are stealth ones and sniper ones 
 and off course the blast your way through kind. The multiplayer is pretty fun but suffers from 
 networking issues with routers. I suggest you buy this game for your Xbox 360, there is more value 
 to this game than a rental holds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirRocky
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  After playing this more, I felt the need to add to my review. The original text of what I had to 
 say follows the new stuff.
  Recently I've been playing PDZ alot more online. I found that there are many fatal bugs that really 
 ruin the multiplayer experience for players. Most times, the host will kick people for exploiting 
 these, but there are a few hosts or players that find it amusing to cheat in multiplayer and allow 
 it to go on.
  
  The worst flaw I have seen so far, allows a player to walk on air and sneak back into the spawn 
 room for the other team. When doing this, they are then able to shoot and kill other players because 
 they have already teleported out. Let me explain further. When you spawn in the spawn room, you 
 cannot shoot or doing anything hostile. However, once you are teleported out, you can. If you can 
 glitch and get back in, there are no controls in the game to prevent you from shooting in there 
 again, so you can then go nuts on everyone spawning. What does that mean? Well, if one team does 
 it, the other team is basically out of the game and can't do anything.
  
  The second flaw, allows for players to use the roll feature to climb up hills in places that were 
 not meant to be climbed. I've seen it done on 2 different levels, even allowing someone to walk 
 onto the other side of the map in a non-playing area.
  
  Hopefully Rare will release a patch to fix these errors, but since it's been 4+ months now since 
 it's release and Rare hasn't done any patches or updates to the game at all, nor made any mention 
 of it, I wouldn't hold your breath.
  
  If it weren't for people abusing glitches, the game would be alot better. My original rating was 
 an 8.9, but I am dropping it significantly for gameplay until Rare fixes it.
  
  *Original Review Below This Point*
  
  Having never played any previous games in the Perfect 
 Dark series, I can only comment on how this game is independently of its predecessors.
  
  While the graphics for this game are certainly not on the same level as Call of Duty 2 and the 
 style of this game is very different, PDZ has been one of the most fun multiplayer experiences 
 I've had in a long while.
  
  The variety of online play choices is awesome. From traditional deathmatch/team deathmatch/capture 
 the flag modes, all the way to Infection, onslaught and eradication this game has it all. And if 
 those weren't enough, Rare even decided to throw in some 2 player co-op.
  
  Probably my favorite online mode so far has been Infection, so I will talk about that first. Infection 
 splits players into 2 teams. The first team starts out with 90% of the players, and allows those 
 players to purchase any of the weapons designated by the lobby settings. These players sole goal 
 is survival. The second team, the infected, starts out very small. Players on this team start with 
 just a pistol and are unable to purchase any weapons. These players also look like a blue glowing 
 skeleton, making them very obvious and fairly easy to spot.
  
  Members on the infected team can die as many times as they want, with no set limit. Whereas members 
 of the healthy team are limited to 1 death. Once they die, they are automatically switched over 
 to the infected team and become one of them. The round ends when either all players are infected, 
 or time runs out and the healthy team has people left alive.
  
  Some of the greatest moments for this mode are when you are the last person left on your team and 
 groups of infected blue glowy skeletons are rushing you with pistols while you attempt to hold 
 them off with shotguns, machine guns, and rocket launchers.
  
  Other multiplayer modes are equally as fun, with some allowing players to use jet packs and hovercrafts. 
 Overall online experience alone in this game makes it worth the price you pay for it.
  
  Singleplayer is alot of fun as well. There is a decent variety of mission styles and not all of 
 them involve killing everything you see. A certain degree of stealth and speed is needed for all 
 missions. To enhance the single player, all of the solo missions are available to be completed 
 cooperatively online (or locally) . My only complaint with the co-op is that some missions were 
 clearly designed for 1 player, and using 2 on them seems awkward or just wrong. Other missions 
 clearly were designed with 2 people in mind and work quite well in co-op.
  
  Personally, I think this is the best FPS on the 360 right now (which doesn't say much since there 
 are only a few) ... however, I think this may be one of the best for the 360 until Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechosenone827
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 3, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  To get right off the bat, I play my games on my 17 inch flat screen PC monitor and when it is set 
 up to 1024X768 Perfect Dark Zero's graphics look incredible. The controls are solid and to get 
 to the point, it is just plain fun to play. The only problem I have is that the game can be finished 
 in about a day or two with only 13 levels, but the multi player and unlocking all the xbox live 
 achievement awards make the replay value great. I rented this game and will buy it soon, but at 
 $60 a game, it is a little steep. If you have the money, buy this game, this is definitely one 
 to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinjennison
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 3, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  When I first put PDZ in my system, I wasn't at all impressed. If you're not interested in hearing 
 why myself and many others WEREN'T initially impressed, save some time by skipping to the 2nd paragraph 
 (this is a long review) . The control scheme felt foreign to me, the graphics looked almost like 
 everything was made of plastic and I was definately spoiled by the auto-aim from Halo 2. I had 
 9 games at system launch and this was the first I put in my system and the LAST I actually played 
 through. Looking back now, I'm glad I did it that way because PDZ came to the right system at the 
 wrong time. I attribute my initial negative feelings for this game to having played Halo too much 
 for too long. I played Halo 2 for over a year, almost once a day. So after that, I had certain 
 things I expected from an FPS and this game differed in almost every way. The most notable difference 
 had to be the auto-aim. It's barely noticable in this game, so don't be expecting to pull no-scopes 
 left and right like in Halo 2 and if you are still pulling no-scopes left and right: You rock. 
 Go beat Dark Agent! =)
  
  Enough about that. Perfect Dark Zero IS a great game. No game is for everyone but after playing 
 through this game on perfect agent, dark agent, and playing a LOT of multiplayer games I am still 
 not tired of this game. In fact, although a lot of it was frustrating, it was dark agent that really 
 brought me to start to appreciate this game. There are a LOT of weapons in this game! At first, 
 this is one of the aspects that puts people off, so many weapons, how could they all be useful? 
 It's a little intimidating at first but each weapon has it's own unique purpose and since you can 
 only bring so many to battle you are constantly forced to develop a strategy for the level at hand 
 (in single player) . Now once you've unlocked the plasma rifle, granted, you're not going to use 
 much else but since you don't unlock that until late in the game it doesn't ruin the fun. In fact, 
 it's what made going back through it on Dark agent more fun because I got to use it on all the 
 levels I hadn't used it on when I played Perfect agent and it made them a totally different experience. 
 But I am talking too much about one weapon, this game has MANY MANY more. They all have really 
 unique secondarys from making enemies go crazy and attack each other, to laying down turrets and 
 caltrops, to reprogramming mines and turrets and special sight modes that are at times invaluable.
 
  
  The story is probably the weakest aspect of this game. It's not presented very well, as most of 
 it is told in the menu screen, just with text. That was really a big letdown and the only reason 
 I don't score this game higher in my "reviewer's tilt". I actually read a PDZ book prior to buying 
 the game (hoping it would be like Halo, yes I admit I'm pathetic) and that only made me more disappointed 
 int he games storyline because the book was awesome. For those interested I believe it's called 
 PDZ: "Initial Vector" and takes place after the game (but you don't need to have played the game, 
 I hadn't) .
  
  The graphics took a couple hours to get used to, but once I started to appreciate the artistic 
 approach to a world somewhere in between realistic looking and pixar-like appearance, I thought 
 the graphics were great. Keep in mind I was experiencing this on an 46" HDTV so I can't attest 
 to what it looks like on an older TV. The textures are very detailed, the faces look cartoony, 
 but perfect in thier cartoony way (not misproportioned or anything) . One odd bug which I guess 
 should fall under the graphics and is both annoying and hilarious: Often when you kill people with 
 the Plasma or an explosive weapon of some sort, their bodies will just bounce around and fly everywhere 
 randomly. This doesn't happen a lot, but it will definately happen to you if you play the game 
 for a couple hours and use heavy weapons. If not for unpolished things like that, and some areas 
 where I would shoot invisible walls and kill myself with the plasma or fall through the floor, 
 etc. I would have given graphics a 9. Due to the small glitches, I'm going with an 8.
  
  The sound is an easy one to discuss. It's top notch! Awesome gun sounds, and there was a lot of 
 gun sounds to make in this game. The soundtrack is great, it's a shame the story didn't match it's 
 quality. The Halo games had set the bar high in the soundtrack category but the sound effects are 
 better than in Halo 2 (mainly because this is a next-gen game I'm sure) and the soundtrack is great 
 (although I prefer Halo 2's) .
  
  Finally, the multiplayer. Awesome! Not to mention you can play the whole campaign in co-op which 
 is a LOT of fun and hopefully Halo 3 will follow suit in this category. There is a ton of multiplayer 
 modes, all the deathmatch/typical modes are covered like killcount (slayer) , team killcount, CTF 
 and a territories gametype and then where the real fun is at are the Darkops modes. The is a survival 
 type mode called Eradication where you have one life and whoever wins makes a bit more money in 
 the round and like in coutnerstrike with the money you make you can buy weapons (you ucan buy weapons 
 in all darkops modes depending on what team you're on) . Don't worry, if the losing team loses enough 
 rounds they start to make more money so that it doesn't become totally imbalanced. There is also 
 "Onslaught" where you try your best to defend a base (you only have one life) against a rush of 
 people only armed with Falcon pistols. You can buy what you like in this mode, from mines, to turret, 
 to rocket launchers: whatever you think will best help you survive the onslaught. There is an "Infection" 
 mode which wasn't my favorite but many find it fun. In this mode a small number of people, or one 
 person, starts as infected and as they kill others the amount of people infected keeps growing 
 until there will only be a few survivors running around trying to keep away from all the skeletons. 
 The last darkops mode is "Sabotage" where one team is trying to destroy the other teams equipment/boxes 
 while the other team trys to defend it. This mode, in my opinion, seems a little pointless as usually 
 it just ends up being played the same as eradication.
  
  If you've read this far, you deserve a break! Go play some games! Hope this review was helpful. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NocDesigns
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 3, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  I played this game a lot and thought the graphics were quite nice. The game itself was ok, but 
 it didnt grab me. A next-gen game should pull you into the action and make you sream when being 
 shot. You need to actually be there for it to be a great game and i jsut wasn't feeling that at 
 all. The game of darkops is great though, but not with only a few people. If more Xbox 360's had 
 been made so live was full then this would be absolutely great, but with only a couple thousand 
 people the game really falls short. The weapon models look great and everything sounds great also. 
 One thing that really brings the game up has to be Jetpacs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceReject
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 3, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  So I loved Perfect Dark on the N64. I was really, REALLY impressed with the gameplay, graphics, 
 EVERYTHING! You can imagine that I had my hopes set high for this game.
  
  IT DIDN'T DISAPPOINT.
  
  As a Halo player I was immediately confused by the controls. Everything 
 was back to front and there was me thinking to myself... how the hell am I going to get to grips 
 with this!? But after 30 mins I was "in the zone" lol. 
  
  The graphics are UNBELIEVABLE, when you throw out a grenade you know your going to get one hell 
 of an end result! LOVE IT, LOVE IT!!!
  
  The guns are astonishing and the sound..... perfection, couldn't have done that bit any better 
 myself! 
  
  Away from the astonishing graphics..... as we know they are good... the gameplay is great (I use 
 the word great for a reason) there is a real mixture of things to do but I felt at times the developers 
 had forgotten to put things in... or thought to themselves "Hey! maybe we can put this there". 
 For example there is a jet pack thingy in the middle of the jungle!? Don't ask me why.... but at 
 least they actually put it in! It's the only time you get to use it during the missions (Unless 
 I am missing something) . I feel they could have made better use of the vehicles they had or maybe 
 could have put more in.
  
  Phew. Let's move on. Can't believe I had something bad to say about this game.... wait a moment.... 
 here comes another!!!
  
  Game length.... too short!!! Far too short!!! Was the only major problem for me. Killing bosses 
 took up like 2 levels and considering there were 13 in total!? Naughty developers! N. A. U. G. H. T. Y!!!!
 
  
  I'm thinking that at the start of production of PDZ the makers were having a great time with the 
 levels... thinking they had all the time in the world. Then they were given a deadline....... ARGHHHH 
 HURRY HURRY!!!! Put that vehicle in the jungle QUICK!!!! 
  
  I hate being harsh but it if the developers had spent more time on this game and maybe would have 
 released it in the summer they could have maybe put ... 2-3 more levels in and made more use of 
 vehicles (c'mon who doesn't love using the vehicles!)
  
  But I don't think I could have waited till the summer.... could you???
  
  Favourite level.... 
 got to be the club! the sound is hot!! You can hear the music banging from outside and when you 
 go in, graphics..... PHWOR!
  
  Moving on.... Multiplayer rocks!!! It is so much more fun playing with somebody else. i love choosing 
 the level, weapons and the vehicles!!! But where did the "Design your own character" go??? LOVED 
 that on the N64 version. Bring back plzzz if there is a sequel (fingers crossed)
  
  Ok so this review has gone on far too long!!! I hope there is a sequel to PDZ. But please more 
 levels ; ) and let's see if we can crank up the graphics and sound - if thats even possible!!! 
 
  
  You got to buy this one guys. It may be short, but still theres easy, hard & very hard to do - 
 if you can be bothered. But I always get bored of playing games on normal, then hard etc.
  
  But really ASTONISHING GAME!!! Definite must have for all xbox360 owners and IMO just charts 
 below Halo 1 for me, but I swear halo has stolen a lot of ideas from PD... don't you think???
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPS-Army
Rating: 4.1
Date: Feb 3, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Take this in mind that I am fan of FPS, I enjoyed the first Perfect Dark, and that I hope Rare 
 gets taken apart and sold off to the lowest bidder. I would usually structure this in some way, 
 shape, form; but I'm not going to do that.
  
  *ATTACK*
  
  How many years did they have to make this? I know that it is difficult to produce a game when the 
 console it is to be released on is changed, but really, this uninspired peice of garbage isn't 
 what we'd expect from a big name like Rare, even under the crunch. Seriously, what the hell were 
 they thinking? 
  
  My guess was that they weren't, they thought they'd capitalize on the success of the previous title. 
 Kind of like Halo 2. 
  
  The story is weak, meandering, pathetic dribble. A crack smoking, retard, ADD monkey could come 
 up with better story telling. The combat its sluggish, repitiion; the enemy AI is almost on par 
 with that of the their brethren, on the N64. Joana Dark looks like she belongs at a rave, or atleast 
 on some FOX mellow-drama. Jack looks like a pansy. The weapons are craptastic and the armor, though 
 interesting, is tedious. The only kudos i would give to you, other than polishing your graphics 
 for years on end, would be an interesting INVENTORY SYSTEM. 
  
  Thanks for wasting my time and money, Rare
  
  -FPS Army out
  
  PS. Where the HELL is Elvis? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpshooter188
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 2, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  the game is good. but its definitely something that has to grow on you. 
  the game is a bit slow paced and youll find yourself running around with empty hands to get to 
 where you need to go since some of the bigger weapons REALLY slow you down.
  
  A few things they messed up on is the style of gameplay.
  your health bar is roughly that of 
 the old pdz. it took like 20 plus rounds to bring your opponent down but since everyone was running 
 around pretty quickly it was often intense and what not.
  
  the problem here lies in that they slowed the characters down to bring in a bit of realism and 
 counter strike (they even have a mode that resembles counter strike)
  
  but they left the health bars in. it takes a good WHILE too bring someone down. especially if your 
 not that good. i. e. if you have your sights on them and your plowing them you can expect to reload 
 once or twice before they go down. or if they get a hs on you a few times then your gone.
  
  in general a great potential but they threw in a few ideas together that shouldnt of been there.
 
  
  more multiplayer options (such as handicap health etc. wouldve been a great bonus) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_Kaliaver
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 2, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all you might say. i mean wow, yet it did miss something loading your saved campaign 
 games. yea it saves what mission your at but if you save in the middle of a mission be prepared 
 to start it all over again. But don't fret this game has much more going for it.
  Perfect Dark Zero pulls up a good spot with being a sequal to an amazing Perfect Dark for the N64. 
 Story is great the missions might be ridiculousley hard at times but hey you can go online and 
 play them co-op that way. Yep the online is one of the best things you will find with this game 
 32 (i think) players) max to game 8 different types. Including normal Deathmatch as Killcount, 
 Team Killcount, and then the famous Capture the Flag. But it pulls in some different ones not used 
 in all games with a Territories (as some might know from Halo 2) , Infection (Area 51 style) , Eradication 
 (Counter-strike) , onsluaght, and sabotage. Now if you don't have xbox live you might think dang 
 those won't be much fun. But oh they will, with an amazing bots that can really get to kill you 
 and make you say things you shouldn't. Now you might think these game types will played in all 
 the great looking locations as in the campaign, well guess again there are only 5 maps. Now don't 
 get me wrong these 5 maps aren't bad they pull out the more peopel you have in game the more areas 
 that are open (feature from area 51) . 
  You might have played Perfect Dark for the N64 and loved those weapons now watch out because not 
 of them are here. Most of your basics are like your magsec, laptop, dragon, cimpso, and rocket 
 launcher (i dont know if its still called slayer) , oh yea and cant forget the tranquilizer gun 
 (there might be more i just cant remember) . But if you loved that farsight say goodbye also say 
 goodbye to the two different dragons (now there is only one) , the cyclone, AR34 (i think thats 
 one) , dont forget proximity pinball grenades. Now they did leave out mroe i think but they did 
 add some to make up for it. But i will always feel the pain when they left out the magsecs 3 round 
 burst and pistol whip. Every gun now have the beat down but magsec has a crappy rebound shot. If 
 you think they only have guns, guess again they have a sword :) which can be very cheap at times 
 but oh yea vehicles also which can also feel cheap at times. 
  Now Perfect Dark was a run an gun action shooter game. Now they want you to hide and sneak a little 
 more which isnt bad. But they still don't have jumpin!!! they now have rolling and hiding behind 
 walls which is acually a really cool addition.
  Overall an amazing shooter that is filled to the brim with fun and a lot of content to deal with 
 didnt i mention 50 achievements. it is a buy for Perfect Dark fans and people who love shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypto_136
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  This game in my opinion is the best game for the xbox 360. I know some people think it's like kameo 
 elements of power , dead or alive 4, or condemned crimanl origins. But i think it is Perfect Dark 
 Zero i decision on best xbox 360 is that this game has awesome graphics, awesome gameplay, and 
 awesome visual effects. I only RARE makes another perfect dark game with the same things this awesome 
 exclusive xbox 360 game has with the same features this magnificent game has. But i realize this 
 maybe the last perfect dark game ever and i will enjoy this awesome game if the series ends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volcom12
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 2, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  well i hated this game the old one was way better they just tryed to hard on this game grapics 
 are good and all but that is it there is gay fake guns in it and the only good thing to ride is 
 the jack pack and everthing else suck i mean there is so many better games out there instead of 
 this one and please believe me it sucks and i cant believe i am saying it sucks i used to love 
 it untile they had to screw it up by playing around with there products i love me and u no i love 
 me so go leave me alone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pallexor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 2, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  OMG its good its so **** good the graphics is nice its fun and its good. If you 
  thinking on to buy it you shal buy it its so **** fun online its good..... and muchmore. If you 
 need a friend send a massage to......... Palle FI i hope you set me on the friendlist BYE Bye bye 
 se you on Xbox360 if you need gamerscore you shal play killkount you can get speed gamerscore and 
 the achivements are fun like,10headshot,10 melee  kills, and more 
 the and you can play co op campain play thats fun. the bosses is fun .the difficulty is good and 
 the weapons is good and when awry weapon has 2fireing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UberCoolCamel
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  First of all, lets get this out of the way. Halo 2 is over a year old. Stop comparing games to 
 it! I mean come one, its the next generation. Halo 2 isn't the best game ever! Now to the review.
 
  This game is either extreme action with automatics and rockets and grenades, or stealthy sneaking 
 with sniper pistols and silenced sub-machine guns. Or somewhere in between. Whatever you want it 
 to be because of the flexibility of the game. You can choose any weapons to start off with (just 
 as long as they add up to four slots; Heavy weapons take 3, assault and smg take 2, the shotgun 
 and the combat shield take 2, and the pistols, thrown and viblade take 1) , if you have gotten it 
 in-game (you have to have ended a level with it with you) . The game is so much fun. It gives you 
 support objectives that are optional, but they make the game easier later.
  The games controls are just right and feel natural. The game is completely balanced. If you roll, 
 you are obviously much harder to hit. but to balance it out, you take extra damage. The guns are 
 amazing with secondary fire that vary from turning the UGL into a landmine to turning you invisible 
 to turning an enemy psychotic.
  The multi-player is divided into DeathMatch and Dark Ops. DeathMatch is your standard run of the 
 mill Killcount, Team Killcount, CTF, and Territories. Dark Ops is a more stealthy, slower game. 
 It starts like Counter-Strike with you having 30 or so seconds to buy your equipment. The game 
 modes are eradication, infection, onslaught, and sabotage, with infection and sabotage being my 
 favorite. 
  Eradication is just team against team Dark Ops. Onslaught puts defense against assult where defnse 
 can buy weapons but can't respawn and assult is stuck with the falcon till they find something 
 better. The teams switch from assult to defense every round. Infection is not team based, though 
 it helps to work together. One person starts out infected while the rest of the people are normal. 
 everyone can buy guns except the infected. The match is free for all, though it is almost team 
 because the score is not affected in humans kill humans or infected players kill other infected 
 players. If a human is killed by an infected player, they respawn infected until either everyone 
 turns infected or the time runs out and there are still humans. In sabotage, there is a defense 
 and an assult. The defense trys to protect boxes, satellite towers, radios, and other things from 
 assult by eliminating them. Assult trys to cause as much damage as possible to the defense by destroying 
 the boxes and radios and stuff by either a det pack (you start with one, no need to buy one) or 
 a gun that you bought. Teams alternate every round.
  This game is incredbly fun anyway you play! This is a must buy and IMO, a system seller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h2_mike
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is uninspired, where should I start? The story is just flat out bad no real point to 
 continue it. The characters are boring and stale. No humor at all in a game where it should be. 
 All of glicthes with guns sticking to the walls, terrible shadow resolutions and then instant smooth 
 shadow resolutions when the angle is changed. 
  
  The combat play in single player mode is rather easy and unchallenging. Story is predictable and 
 boring. the single player maps are each unique and very good looking. Gun modes are right on target 
 with them looking like some in physical reality. The graphics are okay but not the best available.
 
  
  Multiplayer is alright not anything new, bots are pretty good but maps are few and limited.
  
 
  In the end Perfect Dark Zero is okay Xbox 360 launch title definitly worth a check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaMightyMe
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I got PDZ and my 360 on Christmas, so I've been playing it since then. The graphics leave something 
 to be desired, and the aiming feels a little weird compared to other console FPSs. But the music 
 is really funky, I liked that most about the game.
  
  The graphics, while they are great, are a little unbalanced. I mean, the environments are all WAY 
 too shiny and the characters look too cartoony but the guns look ultra realistic (really, the guns 
 are the best-looking things in the game) . The best showcase of the graphics would be the Bridge 
 level, where the game's graphics really shine. Its safe to say that everything in the game looks 
 better from a distance. You get up close and the shiny surfaces are likely to blind you. The motion 
 blur is a fun effect, but a bit unnesicery. It does nothing but make you dizzy when you spin in 
 a circle for too long..
  
  Now on to my biggest problem with the game: the aiming. Like every Xbox FPS, this one is going 
 to be compared to Halo. While this one does have an auto aim, it also has two reticles. A big outer 
 circle, which really doesn't do anything, and a tiny inner circle. You only hit what is inside 
 the inner circle, which is really annoying for the 'accurate' weapons because the inner circle 
 is REALLY small. It widens when you fire, but that does nothing but add to the frustration. If 
 you're using a shotgun, or assault rifle, or something like that it isn't a problem. But for pistols 
 and sniper rifles it takes a while to get used to it. Oh, and before I forget, grenades have to 
 be found, equipped, and thrown. Unlike Halo, you can't just pull a trigger and throw nades whenever 
 you feel like it. Annoying.
  (Also, the zoom doesn't work by clicking in a button. You zoom farther/closer by how hard you pull 
 the left trigger. Took me a while to figure that out.)
  
  The single-player campaign is fun, if you don't pay attention to the story. The A. I. is moderately 
 intelligent, they'll sometimes take cover behind walls or throw grenades at you to get you out 
 from behind a wall or blind you. There is a dodge button that makes you pretty much impossible 
 to hit except by rockets and other things that go 'boom.' It is a little overpowered in multiplayer 
 because you can reload while doing it. Then there's the 'cover' option. Its pretty much useless 
 unless you want to take a gander at Jo's outfit or see your enemieswhile you're recovering your 
 health. The health recovery works alot like Halo's shield regeneration.
  
  Multiplayer is fun, I only play Deathmatch. Dark Ops is a waste of time, If you die you pretty 
 much have to watch until everyone on your team or the enemy team is dead. Which can take a LONG 
 time on these big maps in the game. Also, the vehilces (namely the jetpac) can be overpowering. 
 Unless you have really good aim for the headshot, you'll end up dieing several times and wasting 
 hundreds of bullets on that one guy in the jetpac. On some maps I've ever gotten in a jetpac, flew 
 across the map and into the enemy spawn point, and raked in the kills.
  
  I think that's everything..
  Good game, not the Halo killer everyone thought it was going to 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaclarks
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  PDZ really is a great FPS, the graphics (mainly particle effects, explosions, and blur effects) 
 are some of the best ive ever seen. However, at times they can look repetitive, and not all of 
 the characters look amazing. Dont get me wrong I love this game, but i has a fair share of issues. 
 The single player is hit and miss. Some levels (like the rooftop level) are amazing, while others 
 are simply poorly put together. The game puts arrows on the floor when you get lost, which is nice 
 but is an obvious quick fix for poor level design. 
  If your a big live player, this is the game for you. The multiplayer truly is amazing, in nearly 
 every way. There are tons of modes and different ways to play, it would be hard to ever get sick 
 of it.
  If some of the single player levels were fixed, this game would be near perfect and would rank 
 up there with the Halo series, but with a great multiplayer mode and hit and miss single player, 
 this game will forever stand as a really good game that should have been great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tctctctc
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 1, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Awesome, with the same feel as the first Perfect Dark, only with more complexity to the weapons 
 and more weapons choices. Co-op play is one of the best I have ever experienced, and this can immerse 
 the player in the game more, as you play with different skill levels in both learning from, and 
 teaching the other. The graphics in the game are really cool, but the characters faces get quite 
 ugly when viewed from up close.
  
  The "Quickmatches" (deathmatches) as in Killcounts or Team Killcounts can be real fun, especially 
 when going up against the more experienced game players who know the weapons and the tricks to 
 the trade.
  
  All in all, it is a must have game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firestorm10
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is an excellent shooter that anyone who likes first person shooters and a challenge 
 will love. This game has it all - great graphics, great weapons, outstanding game modes, and a 
 fun campaign. I'll start by talking about the most important thing in a shooter - the weapons. 
 Every gun in PDZ has a secondary feature (and some even have a tertiary feature) which can be anything 
 from attaching a silencer to tricking an enemy's radar to registering you as an ally to a vision 
 that detects hostiles on the screen. The graphics are excellent. The weapons look amazing, and 
 the characters don't look bad at all. Now gameplay is awesome. There's no jump, but instead, there 
 are combat rolls and cover moves. The combat roll makes an enemy unable to lock on to you, but 
 you'll take more damage if hit while rolling. Cover moves can be hiding around a corner and jumping 
 out when an unsuspecting enemy gets close, or ducking behind a low-lying wall, only to jump out 
 and shoot the next victim to cross your path. The game may be a little difficult at first, but 
 once you play for a couple of hours and get good, your difficulties will be forgotten once you 
 are playing online. There are an excellent variety of matches, ranging from standard deathmatches 
 to more tactical games, like sabotage, where one team must bomb various points on the map, while 
 the other team is trying to defend the points. Or, if you don't feel like playing online, you can 
 always play splitscreen with up to 3 of your friends, and add some AI-controlled bots. The sound 
 is terrific. The soundtrack is great, and kicks in at the right times, and fades out when necessary.
 
  
  In short, get this game if you like FPS's. PDZ provides a challenging experience, and a great multiplayer 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerofshadows
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 31, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  before i start i would like to say that although i don't own this game, i have played through most 
 of it, and spent countless hours on the multiplayer. 
  The graphics are very impressive, for current gen that is. However its just not wat 'next gen' 
 is about to me. 
  Its a good game as it's easy to pick up and play, but a little on the short side, and well unless 
 you hav the 'gold live' package, its appeal runs out shortly. 
  The sound effects are great, and so are the weapons. however wat sux is once u switch it off and 
 back on again, player 2 always starts wiv pistols. wat makes this worse is wen player one never 
 gives you chance of being player one.
  overall a good game, but by no mean s it in halo's, or even timesplitters league. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesseandnikki
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 30, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are good, more than I expected. Blood effects are awesome, which to me adds to the 
 thrill of getting a headshot. The missions aren't what people make them out to be. I've heard things 
 like "Your just given a reason to be put in some action". I find this not true.
  
  Most of the missions are mostly run-and-gun, but stealth objectives and reconing is a part of the 
 game too. 
  
  One of my favorite cualities of the game is the transition from FPS to OTS when you take cover 
 behind a wall or do a roll do dodge bullets. The gadgets are also pretty cool to use, but seem 
 pointless at times. Also, each gun seems to have a specialty. Some guns you can equip silencers 
 while other you can throw and then shoot, causing a large explosion.
  
  The gameplay is fun. For some reason the online environments look a little bland to me and the 
 learning curve for online is a bit steep. In one level I spawned inside a cave and couldn't even 
 peak out without getting sniped, so weapon balance seems to be an issue.
  
  If you liked Halo 2, and still do, than just rent this one. If you're looking for something new 
 than definately add this to your collection of 360 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiftstar183
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 30, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  Once any gamer whether Fan or not, sets their eyes on this game, it'll have them Droolng with their 
 eyes POPPING out. (literally) this game is incredible. RARE knocked the ball way outta the park 
 with this game. I had some doubts when i heard PDZ was in Development, (like who wouldn't) a blockbuster 
 game on a 32-bit system Era under a Stable Company, Makes a Jump To a POWER-HOUSE Company (MS) on 
 a Next -gen Console. but they did it. i haven't beaten the game yet, wanna take my time and enjoy 
 all the work RARE put into it. Heard the Story was Short :- ( hope not, but even if. Great Game 
 Amazing Graphics. Like most of the Next-Gen games out now, this one's a Must Have For any Gamer, 
 who was lucky enough to find a 360 lol lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codizzle42
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 29, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very fun game, I like the single player mode although it could be a little better. 
 This game is great to play on Live, but takes a little while to be able to compete with other people. 
 One of the best features of this game is its off-line multiplayer, what I like is the fact that 
 if you have a friend over you can play multiplayer and against 5 or 6 other people those being 
 bots. That is what I think sets it apart from Halo 2, at least in my mind it does. Dont get me 
 wrong Halo 2 is a great game ,but I really like PDZ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackrm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a decent First Person Shooter experience, too bad it's dated gameplay and 
 scuzzy Single Player Campaign make it fall short of it's potential.
  
  The gameplay in Perfect Dark Zero is pretty unique compared to other FPS games. The aiming system 
 is meant for those with ideal hand-eye coordination, so beware if you have trouble aiming in other 
 FPS games! The Campaign is what poisons the game the most. The stale story behind PDZ makes it 
 hard to understand what you are doing in the game and why it matters at all. Aside from the bad 
 Single Player mode, the Multiplayer experience is great. This is possible as satisfying as Halo 
 2's online play, which is quite an achievement.
  
  Graphically, Perfect Dark Zero is good at certain moments and poor at others. The weapons in the 
 game appear to be first-rate. The textures and lighting effects make the guns appear to be life-like. 
 While the weapons look good, the characters and the environment aren't as impressive. Everything 
 in the game appears to be coated in with a glossy layer, which can make it appear plastic at times. 
 Still, Perfect Dark Zero is great looking by most means.
  
  The sound is another amazing element of the game. The combat in the game sounds terrific, especially 
 the guns firing. The soundtrack is pretty unique, and sets a good tone when you are in certain 
 levels. Perfect Dark Zero sounds excellent with a 5.1 Surround Sound System!
  
  If you are a big fan of multiplayer FPS games, I would highly recommend picking up Perfect Dark 
 Zero immediately. While the Campaign is pretty malicious, PDZ's excellent Multiplayer Mode makes 
 it worthy of it's $50 price tag.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is a solid FPS, but it could have done way better in several ways. Hopefully 
 the next Perfect Dark will learn from it's mistakes and improve on it's weak points in this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 29, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Well when i first started playing this game I didn't like the slow gameplay of the single player 
 mode. So after a little co-op i went to the online section. The frame-rates are pretty slow but 
 and the gameplay is over-rall slow , but the online play is awesome. 
  
  There are modes that you attack the oposing enemies base , games where you start off with one infected 
 guy and then he kills someone and they become infected. The deathmatch mode is pretty dumb though. 
 
  
  The game is very fun though when you can find people who communicate on the headset alot and have 
 strategy going. The game goes up to 16 players only , falling way short of the intented 56 players 
 but it remains fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRickel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Having beat the single player mode pretty early on, I was worried this title may have not been 
 worth the hard earned clams I had shelled out for it, but a simple option screen away gave me the 
 joy of a life in Dark-Ops. I would go as far as saying this is more than just a title to hold one 
 over until Halo3. It is an entirely seperate genre. Halo is great, don't get me wrong, but what 
 PDZ has managed to do is more than hold it's own against a giant of Multi-player like Halo. Not 
 many titles can make someone continually want to go back in. They lose their luster after a few 
 months of play, unless your one of the truly hardcore that live and breath the game. PDZ allows 
 anyone to "want" to come back. I've never been too big on Deathmatch. After a point it begins to 
 seem like mindless killing, but Dark-Ops is all about team play, and it works so well. Anyhow, 
 if your looking for something just a little different, but enough of something your used to, then 
 pick up PDZ, and see you on Live! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanetanos
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Although the Xbox 360 did not launch with Halo 3, Perfect Dark Zero is a perfectly good first person 
 shooter to tide you over until then. The fundamentals of this game are executed perfectly. It is 
 fun to play, easy to get into, and deep enough that it does not get repetitive or boring. The AI 
 is fairly effective, hiding behind corners for cover, and following you if they are not eliminated. 
 Granted, the AI is nothing like its counterparts in a game such as F. E. A. R. But it gets the job 
 done. 
  
  In addition to great gameplay, this game does a really good job with the new power that the Xbox 
 360 brings to the table. Most of the visuals are very detailed, and the stylized artwork is tremendous. 
 
  
  The soundtrack, and sound effects for this game are also very crisp and appealing. 
  
  Overall, this game was very well done, and is a must for first person enthusiasts who own an 
 Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Attunnel
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero may be one of the most anticipated launch titles for the Xbox 360. However, many 
 fans were bought the game and hated it. The story mode starts of weak and doesn't really get any 
 better from there. You're first mission starts off in some launch base piled with henchmen and 
 spider bots. In fact that is just about the whole storymode, and it is just about as exciting as 
 it sounds (not exciting at all) . 
  
  The multiplayer happens to be the best part about the game. There are two game modes: Darkops, 
 and Deathmatch. In these two modes you will be able to play in different senarios. Deathmatch consists 
 of the generic scenarios such as Killcount (deathmatch) , Team Killcount, and Capture the Flag. 
 You will probably be spending most of your time playing Darkops game variants though; you can play 
 Eradication (elimination) , Onslaught, Infection (zombies) , and Sabotage. Darkops scenarios are 
 mostly team based games. 
  
  Where this game really shines is the guns. I won't tell you too much about the guns because it 
 is more fun to find out what the guns do for your self. All of the guns in this game have a secondary 
 fire, which allows you to be able to do something like shoot a grenade or light up all the enemies 
 on your radar. Some guns will also have a tertiary fire. This usually just allows you to preform 
 minor functions like adding a silencer or turning on a flash light. Some weapons do have very useful 
 tertiary fires however. 
  
  The graphics, as you will notice are very detailed. The world is filled with texture and plenty 
 of shiny things. While the graphics do not look very real, they are very very detailed. There are 
 a few draw backs though. The player models are absolutely hideous. Unlike the game world, your 
 player models boast no details. The lights are also so annoying that you are often tempted to just 
 shoot out all of the lights in any level. They're often blinding and placed in every single unnecessary 
 place you can think of. 
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is a game that would be well worth your time; but it is mostly for the people 
 that have Xbox Live. Unless you have Xbox Live, or a lot of friends who love lan parties, you might 
 want to pass on this one. You may also get a very bad first impression, I suggest you stick with 
 the multiplayer for a while. You are likely find it very enjoyable, but if you still aren't impressed, 
 by all means return it and get CoD2 or any other unoriginal game you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prestonwuzup
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game on and off xbox live. The difficulty varies between settings ALOT so its good 
 for noobs and pros alike. This game is nothing like Halo2 but that makes it even better because 
 now there are 2 great FPS instead of just one and this one is the better of the two. (yes i own 
 both games) . this is not a Halo killer but this game is undeniably better than Halo2. those who 
 say otherwise in my experience have been those who suck at PDZ and are simply average at Halo2. 
 I think ppl dont like this game because they suck at it and NEED the simplicity of Halo2.
  
  EVERYONE SHOULD BUY THIS GAME.
  
  my live name is 007 Darkness and i rep the (clan of eagles)
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-Ashoori
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  Many of you kids know by now that the short-comming of Perfect Dark Zero was its uncohesive storyline. 
 Unfortunatly, many people don't understand what Rare was trying to pull in this game. They diverted 
 their focus from the story to focus more on the action. Just like N64's Goldeneye and Perfect Dark, 
 the action was what it was all about in PDZ. A lot of cynical gamers are out there are overly concerned 
 about the storyline of this game while ignoring what this game was all about and what is was meant 
 to be. Another concern the many people has is the fact that the ai in this game is no Stephen Hawking. 
 To be honest, in this type of game, I would rather have 30 average enemies to blast in a room than 
 having only a few smart enemies. 
  I bought the game not really to take a role of anybody, but to get a good fix of great gun-action 
 and firefights in stunning graphics. I didn't care about the story at all. All I ever cared about 
 in this game was about just jumping in and pull the trigger and cause massive havoc! I haven't 
 tried the multiplayer yet but I do believe that it is the uncharted apex of this game which I haven't 
 uncovered yet. Ladies and Gentlemen, I believe that Rare has greatly accomplished what they meant 
 to offer in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaded4Life
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  The downfalls of Perfect Zero are apparent when you first boot the game. The thing that most will 
 see first, are the graphics. They are not what you would think from a first party nextgen title. 
 The art direction is extremely entertaining though, with the colourful environments and characters 
 that Rare is known for. The second disappointing part of this game is the short single player campaign. 
 Instead of throwing in new levels they threw in re playability to the single player portion. This 
 was done by adding new objectives to the missions, come on guys give me some more levels! The saving 
 point of the game is for sure the multiplayer, Xbox Live has never been so much fun (besides Halo 
 2) . With all the different modes and levels to chose from, you can't go wrong with PD multiplayer. 
 So if your a fan of Rare or FPS in general you'll want to play Perfect Dark Zero.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  This review is based only on the single player portion of the Perfect Dark Zero. It's also based 
 on my first run through the game.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is the prequel to the original Perfect Dark released on the Nintendo 64. You 
 again play the role of Joanna Dark and are out to stop a crazy business man from getting a artifact. 
 For starters the story is lame, the characters are boring, and the short cutscenes don't do a good 
 job or telling the story. Through most of the game I had no idea what was going on with the story, 
 I was just playing through the levels not knowing how I was affecting the overall story. The missions 
 were ok, but nothing great. I found myself getting lost alot because sometimes the different areas 
 of the level look the same. I was always having to wait for the waypoint icons to come up to show 
 me where to go. Sometimes mission objectives wern't clear and I would fail objectives. I guess 
 I just felt disconnected from the game. There were times when there was some really cool firefights, 
 but most of the time I was just completing mission after mission, not really knowing what was going 
 on, and not really having alot of fun.
  
  This game does look great, the levels look good, the weapons look great, but some of the characters 
 look bad. If they would of worked on the story as much as they did the graphics it would of helped 
 this game out alot.
  
  The sound is good, the soundtrack is cool and the weapons, sound effects, and voices sound good.
 
  
  Overall, when playing this game through the first time I didn't really like. Not understanding 
 the story and getting lost in most of the missions isn't fun. I've started playing through it again 
 to unlock weapons and I'm enjoying it a little more. I would recommend that you rent it before 
 you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATMAJ
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  there was allot said about this game, some good some bad. my magazine gave it a 7.0 while others 
 gave it 9.0 or somewhere around that. that was probibally because they didnt play the game on xbox 
 live yet.
  
  SINGLE PLAYER
  allright before multiplayer there was the single player. some people think this is more important 
 that the MP and that it will allways be that. but actually the single player in PDZ is not all 
 that good.
  You play as Joanna Dark she is the son of Jak Dark they run a little bounty hunter operation, they 
 are backed up by Chandra. She is like the briefing intel feeding helpdesk in this game. You play 
 mission to mission unlocking them in secuence. you can choose from 4 diffrent difficulty settings:
 
  AGENT: if you cant hit a tank with a machine gun
  SECRET AGENT: your good at shooters but not the master
  PERFECT AGENT: you are the master
  
 DARK AGENT: this is brutal you will die for sure. this is gonna take a while
  
  GRAPHICS: they are splendid and if this is the standard for 360 where in for one really nice looking 
 ride.
  only it gets a 9 because everything shines a bit.
  
  the first mission is indeed training and while explain all the neccecary things shortly. but the 
 mission afterthat can be a little confusing. Jack will say that you need to keep you head down. 
 so i just put on the silencer and make headshots. after the first i get like : didnt Jack said 
 to keep your head down?
  
  Basicly this is a stealth mission, only the problem is you haven't done it in this game yet so 
 you really need to play the mission allot if you want to truly make it stealthy what is indeed 
 a must ore else you cant complete your first objective. 
  
  the following missions will go till half through the game and then take a the story fore an overhaul. 
 i wont explain for the people who dont whant it to be spoiled. but is goes whay to fast! a little 
 explaination and you get a new sexy outfit and BOOM you part of a new team.
  
  Talent on the voiceacting could have been bether cause the enemys have taunts like: Ah you shot 
 me! ( no sh%d) why you.......! and , I'M GONNA GET YOU FOR THAT! there are allot more and allot 
 more looneyer. also the tone of the voices arent that great. you will hear high pitched voices 
 screaming in agony or taunting you. 
  Joanna alos sounds a little to young for here age and she has a change of accent from (brittish 
 so ive heard) to american.
  also Jonathan a ''commando'' you will encounter sounds like a character from the teletubbies. 
 
  
  and the story on its own is told way to fast
  with certain KEY moments like you would called it arent infused with the amount of emotion you 
 would expect in an class AAA game.
  
  CONCLUSION SINGLE PLAYER: is you do not have Xbox live. do not get this game. it doesnt have the 
 value for only offline play.
  get call of duty instead. or better get xbox live.
  
  
  MULTYPLAYER: now this is a good launche game.
  you can choose from to main catagorys to play 
 each with there own set of rules:
  
  DEATHMATCH: find you guns on the map mode
  Killcount : your basic freeforall deathmathc
  Team killcount: team deathmatch
  Capture the 
 flag: obvious
  Teritoiryal gains : grab hot spots on the map for points for you team
  
  DARKOPS: buy guns with money you start with and can earn by being victoryous and getting kills.
 
  
  INFECTION: Hard to explain but the most fun for me , but all the modes are fun. think zombies from 
 halo 2. but if not infected you can buy guns
  Oslaught: team A holds base and buys guns, team b attacks and have infinit lives but cannot buy 
 guns.
  Eradication: every body hase one life and buys guns. you eliminate the opposite team for points.
 
  Sabotage: destroy enemy equipment and take turns in defending your equipment.
  
  I am a halo2 fan but i have to say PDZ is better. the amount of options to play it online are absolutely 
 allmost endless. go stealth with silenced weapons detection gear and a sword.
  go rambo with a heavy machine gun and explosives
  and so on and so on. the guns are WONDERFULLLLL 
 AMAZING. they are incredible detailed and have realistic sounds (as fare as they are realistic 
 mind) . all of then have 2 or 3 functions. 
  and they are all balaced in such a way that they can all stand up to each other if used the proper 
 way.
  
  there so much to tell about the MP that i could wright on for another hour but i will spair you 
 that. 
  
  MULTIPLAYER CONCLUSION: the guns are great. but 2 vehicles suck, althouhg the jetpack with walk 
 mode is fun (like a robot suite from the matrix only striped down allot) . the modes are lovely. 
 and the maps although not allot (yet ) can be changed in size changing the way you play completly.
 
  
  Just read this: have you got an 360?
  have you got xbox live?
  do you play with honour and do not get pissed when you get headshotted when you just bought a expensive 
 gun?
  if the first 2 are a yes and even better the 3e one.
  
  BUY THIS GAME. go one co-op with your friends. revive then when there dead and give them you backup 
 weapon. hold you ground against waves of zombies/skeletons. charge the last man in eradication. 
 blow up everything in sabotage. wipe down 5 guys with an machine gun in a thight corridor with 
 fear for you own life.
  
  play this game, rent this game, borrow this game. 
  
  but most of all: play it online.
  
  MaximusMC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nashinator32
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jan 28, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  This game sucked! Single player was boring and multiplayer sucked a new one. Single Player was 
 atroshous and wasn't even worth finishing. Multiplayer missed the fluidness and design needed to 
 create a decent multiplayer experience like Halo 2 or Call of Duty 2. Horrible dialoge, sound, gameplay, 
 and story made this game reak of awfulness. The best part of the game was the weapons models. It 
 had the best I've ever seen. Aside from that it sucked! I mean Quake 4 was better.. even... Predator 
 Concrete Jungle. Did I mention it sucked! Microsoft is going to have to a better job If it wants 
 to out do PS3! How did this game get a better review than Call of Duty 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatherTryMe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a big fan of the whole future first person shooter deal, and I think they're going down 
 with the WWII FPSs', but this is the best game I've played in a long time. With the total let down 
 of Halo 2, I needed something good for a microsoft system. Then came PDZ. Holy crap. The graphics 
 are great, but the character models are a little rubbery and cartoony. The music is awesome and 
 is some of the best un-licensed music I've heard in a while (Shadow the Hedgehog-worst music ever) 
 The game play is incredible, a lot like the first PDZ. Finally there are bots in this one! Not 
 since 2002 have I played a decent game that didnt have totally retarded AI. Multiplayer and co-op 
 are some of the best on and offline experiences I've had since, ironically, Halo 2. The multiplayer 
 is so fun and simple you have to play it. Enemies are red, allies are green its that simple. But 
 there are only 2 vehicles in the game, only 1 is really worth using, but damn is that jatpac fun. 
 With a plethera of weaps and gadgets, this is a great game to have in the line up of any launch. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 28, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the first games that I bought for my 360 and I got it specifically to play online 
 with. I had heard about problems with CoD2 and so wanted to get a game that I had a good idea would 
 work.
  
  So I picked up a copy and fired it up and jumped straight into a Live match and it blew me away. 
 This game looks amazing, totally amazing.
  
  It is a sci-fi themed near future 'first person shooter' that should be the centre piece of anyones 
 360 collection. There are a wide assortment of game modes to play, either online or offline and 
 they are all well balanced and great fun.
  
  The best thing for me though is the cooperative play mode where you can play through the entire 
 single player campaign with a friend. Absolutely great fun and not as easy as you would think as 
 well.
  
  Online, I experienced no lag or disconnects (as opposed to CoD2) and it played like a dream.
 
  
  This really is the best shooter at the moment for the 360 and one that should be in everyones collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThornWithin18
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  PDZ is an incredibly disappointing game. The controls are muddy, the story is weak, and the multi-player 
 is far too arcade oriented for its own good. The voice-overs are completely awful, and will most 
 likely drive you insane. Overall, I can't really recommend this game to anyone, unless you're so 
 in love with Perfect Dark as a whole that you must get this game. If you're going to spend money 
 on a Rare 360 game, buy Kameo instead.
  
  Or, if you want a great FPS to play on your 360, go buy Halo 2 and save yourself the trouble. Perfect 
 Dark Zero is by far the largest disappointment of the XBox 360 launch lineup. It wasn't worth the 
 wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MACMALLEON
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  PROS: 007 on the N64 was really fun to play, and probly still is. If you are familiar with that 
 game then you will see simularities in Perfect Dark Zero. Good first person Shooter. Good Multiplayer, 
 2 player Co Op aslo available via X-Box Live. There is also a new cover feature that is really 
 cool. You switch from first person to 3rd and then take cover with the ability to shoot around 
 corners and over your sholder. REALLY nice looking game. The environment really looks nice, even 
 on a standard TV.
  
  CONS: Player Models looks really crappy. Moving feels like im on ice, making shooting very irratable. 
 Just like 007 for the N64... no jumping!!
  
  BUY OR GAMEFLY: Its a toss up so im gonna have to go with Gamefly it! Fun game but this may not 
 be your cup of tea if you are ecpecting it to be the next Gen version of Halo... people.... nowhere 
 close to Halo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havokmaster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  PDZ, the first of two Rare games available at launch, is a welcome addition to the collections 
 of XBOX 360 owners.
  
  The game, in development since the gamecube, is an extremely beautiful looking game, but lacks 
 in other aspects of the game. The single player is short, but addictive but has that kind of cheesey 
 Hong Kong b-movie storyline.
  
  You play as Joanna Dark, a secret agent, intent on bringing down the DataDyne corporation. You 
 have access to a vast array of weaponry including high tech pistols and advanced rifles. There's 
 not many MP maps, but the ones there is, they are HUGE.
  
  If your a fan of Sci-Fi shooters, pick this up, you will love it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fry_Loc6
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  Mostly everything about perfect about perfect dark 0. I love the all the differnt weapons at ur 
 disposle. And there secnodary options are very entertaining. The graphics are top notch. You have 
 not played a console FPS that looks this good. The explosion effects are awsome. The multiplayer 
 is 1 of the best parts of the whole game. There is your standered death match, Team DM, and CTF 
 which can all include bots.. But there are special modes which are called dark ops which is a blast 
 but you cannot include bots for some reason. But despite all of that, there are some flaws but 
 most of them are pretty minor. Like the stupid story, the touchy physics, and the bad VO. But despite 
 all of the flaws, PDZ is a must buy for any1 who has a Xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasticlink
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 27, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game on 360 I played and I was all excited about it but when I started playing, 
 I thought that this game could have been a lot better. First of all, I thought that the surrounding 
 graphics of the game were amazing and I was impressed. But when I saw the character graphics and 
 how crappy they are, I was really disapointed. They were so bad that it did not fit in at all with 
 the rest of the game ( I liked more the people in Time Splitter and Halo) . The people in the game 
 run also really weird. Another thing I didn't like about the game is the storyline and why it takes 
 more time to reload than to shot. It takes about 3 sec just to waste one round of ammo and reloading 
 takes longer ( Really fustrating) . The guns in the game are not so advanced. I liked more the guns 
 in the first perfect dark.
  And sometimes there are glitches like enemies walking through a wall. But apart from those things, 
 it's an okay game and multiplayer is pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tranz07
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 27, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  If you dont have xbox live, there is no reason to get this... 
  the single player is fun, in an n64 kind of way, its not meant to be
  call of dutyish with crazy 
 AI and intense battles, your suppose to run throw missions as fast as you can and with the most 
 skill possible. The graphics are pretty but the art style will piss many people off, lets just 
 hope the next Perfect Dark is more like the original...
  
  Multiplayer is the GREATEST part of this game. You can tell that more time was given to make sure 
 this is the #1 online shooter on 360 for a LONG LONG time... and if you have Live you need this 
 game... 
  im not going to mention ALL the great modes... 
  just that it NEVER lags, and runs great with 32 players!
  
  And finally its not halo, it doesnt 
 try to be halo, and that is what makes it great
  its pdz, and plays unlike any other fps that has come out lately (plays more like goldeneye) , and 
 the lack of heavy auto aim requires players to shoot wisely and be skilled... 
  
  IN THIS GAME, GOOD PLAYERS WILL DESTROY LESS SKILLED ONES
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warfighter101
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 26, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that I had high expectations for ths game. It turned out to be good, 
 but not at my expectations. The single player is good, but could of used some more work. There 
 are some glitch errors and some occasional crappy voice work. It also could have been longer. The 
 multiplayer is what stands out in this game. It is fun and easy. Xbox Live games are a lot of fun 
 with it's different modes. Co-op is also very good. It makes the single player campaign a lot better. 
 Perfect Dark turns out to be a good prequel to the award winning game and a great start for the 
 Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTomlinson21
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 26, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark: Zero is a game I had wanted since about August. Well 2 days after I got my Xbox 360, 
 I bought this game.
  
  Well first I put in the game and I'm PUMPED! Then in about 3 days I played 9 missions, and I wasn't 
 quite as impressed with the game as I thought I'd be. I mean everything was great, but the story 
 was kinda BLAH.
  
  Then I finished the game and the ending was pretty bad.
  
  Overall the story wasn't horrible, but could have been better.
  
  Then I got online with this 
 game and I was AMAZED! The online is great. Everything about it is amazing. This is what makes 
 the game, just outstanding. If I knew about the game's ok story, I still would have bought it for 
 the online. 
  
  The graphics are pretty damn good, especially in HD, everything looks smooth.
  
  I personally 
 think the music is pretty good, and the gun shots, and every other sound is great, especially the 
 sound of foot steps on different types of ground (i. e. snow, brick, pavement)
  
  The gameplay is pretty good and looks great. The only bad thing about the gameplay motion, is the 
 swinging of the sword. When you see someone swing the sword it looks kinda crappy.
  
  This game has lots of replay BECAUSE of the online, which is it's best feature.
  Overall, this 
 is a must get game in my book........ if you have online.
  If you don't have online, then I would rent it first.
  
  But if you do, THEN GET THIS GAME! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jak2k5
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 26, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a great game, despite what some people have been saying about the game. Personally 
 I like the game since I grew up playing Goldeneye 007 and Perfect Dark, but someone who's first 
 FPS was Halo probably won't like this game for various reasons and one of them being that you can't 
 jump.
  
  The Story isn't anything great, its very boring. You would be better off just playing Co-Op on 
 a Xbox Live so you have someone to talk to while playing this boring story mode. Believe me once 
 you beat story mode you won't want to play it again.
  
  Now even though the story mode is nothing great the Multiplayer is amazing. It has 2 sections of 
 game modes which are Deathmatch and Dark-Ops. Dark-Ops is more of a strategy type gametypes. Deathmatch 
 is mostly just killing people, capturing flags, or capturing territories. You can have up to 32 
 people in a game. You can also have bots in a game but not in ranked games. Bots can either be 
 easy or hard depends on what difficulty you put your bots on. 
  
  If you want Perfect Dark Zero for its Multiplayer I suggest you get, afterall I bought it for its 
 multiplayer and I'm enjoying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1_Hit_Killer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 26, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  This was my first 360 game and I was sort of met with mixed reactions. The second you pop it in 
 and see those amazing graphics you know that next gen has arrived but still some of the character 
 models look like they could've used a lil more work and variety, the game has a cartoony feel but 
 it's not as bad as many people make it out to be.
  
  The single player of this I have to say, is VERY dissapointing first of all the story seems to 
 be non-existant and because of this you just feel like you're going from one lvl to another without 
 any purpose. I mean sure the variety of the levels is great but why are you there in the first 
 place? Because of this many of the lvls feel like you're just going from point A to point B shooting 
 anything in the way.
  
  The multiplayer on the other hand is a whole different story, you've got a lot of different gametypes 
 all the amazing weapons at your disposal make it feel really fresh each time you play a game. Having 
 32 player matches is just mind blowing sometimes because the game NEVER lags, unless a lot of explosions 
 are going and if this happens it's just a minor drop in the framerate.
  
  Overall, great graphics, weapons and control (even if it takes a lil bit to get used to) but some 
 very dissapointing single player. If you have Xbox Live GET THIS FOR SURE, if not maybe a rental 
 and see if you like it since some people do enjoy the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happierthanU
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  No wonder why it was $50! This game doesn't crack up to its other brothers and sisters on the 360. 
 And definitely doesn't crack up its original "Mother" Perfect Dark. It gives you the freedom of 
 having fun. But the inaccurate mouth moving, bad campaign, and shallow story gives it a bad taste 
 and after-taste. Im only replaying it for a bigger gamerscore. The multiplayer keeps it alive just 
 like it did with halo 2. I think that the real value of this game is about $40. It was done before 
 it I really got into it. Im just waiting for a sequal. To see what happens after the first perfect 
 dark. But.... back to multiplayer. Fun, addicting, totally better than halo 2s and a little better 
 than quake 4's, the only other game with an appealing multiplayer. I encourage you to rent this 
 when they start renting out 360 games. Because buying may disappoint you. It may not do that to 
 others but may to some. The people look like plastic! I know!!! WTF?
  Final- 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeyhotel
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jan 26, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Maybe I am just expecting a little too much with my $500 360, but this game seemed pretty lame. 
 1st off the graphics are not any better then what could have been pulled off on the old xbox. Execpt 
 the intro to the game, but seriously i really don't givve a crap about that 'cause i might watch 
 it once. The characters are pretty ugly too, not to mention they always look akward when they walk 
 around. I guess I just expected a lot more after seeing the review here at gamespot, but everyone's 
 got an opinion, right. The game play was at times fun, and some of the weapons were cool, although 
 i ony used 4 guns thoughout the whole game. I thought the online play was just out and out lame. 
 I think i have just played Halo too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResidentAlien
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  1) the graphics are not that great. The character models are way overused it looks like everyone 
 is related and are twins +.
  2) the level design is terrible. I like non linear game play, but getting lost in a FPS then have 
 to replay 20 minutes of level to MAYBE go the right way is absolutely ridiculous.
  3) of course there are annoying cohorts in the game terrible voice overs
  
  Online
  The online 
 is definitely challenging and IMO better "SKILL" wise than Halo2.
  on the other hand
  1) the variance in motion due to carrying different weapons is way to exaggerated. 
  2) hitbox 
 is a bit crazy. I can shoot you 100 times with a CMP from 2 feet away and you will live. But I 
 shoot you with a pistol in the head from 100 yds away and your dead.. seems to be way to one sided.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcpicasso
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 26, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  This was a game I had been waiting for since the original on the N64. So naturally when it came 
 out on the 360 I rushed to purchase it. The good points first. Some neat features in the game. 
 Co-Op is always nice in case you get tired of fragging your friends. And the use of Bots is nice. 
 The cover and fire option was a great feature to add. The vision blur when you turn sharply and 
 move quickly add to the realism. Unfortunately that about sums it up. The graphics are lack luster. 
 They don't come close to newer PS2 and XBOX games much less provide what you would expect from 
 a new high powered console. The cover feature is neat but unneeded in this game as I quickly learned 
 I could just walk through the game shooting everyone and barely get hit. The AI is terrible as 
 enemies just charge right into gun fire to be slaughtered. In addition the game was so short that 
 I bought it used and returned it completed in 3 days. On the whole I really wouldn't waste my money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barnakl
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 25, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the game quite thoroughly. The multiplayer aspect was the most fun i've had in a while. 
 The option of completing the game cooperatively online was a plus to me. Multiplayer also gives 
 you the option of deathmatch for people who just like to shoot-em-up and Darkops, which is for 
 the more tactile player. The achievment system also gives you goals to get so that the game's life 
 lasts longer. The storyline was very weak as most reviews say. It seems as though they were only 
 concentrating on gameplay. It's also short. If you have Xbox Live it's a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redknight218
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  This is what it is and either you like it or you love it, headshots own the game entirely and if 
 you have no armor any weapon might as well be a sniper rifle. I love the game and after a few hours 
 of playing, I highly recommend that you play through the story mode first on agent difficulty (easy) 
 before you tackle the pros online. Also if you play halo FORGET ALL YOU KNOW EXPECT THE BUTTONS, 
 same buttons but melee attacks are worse and inaccurate for sure, sniping people is to hard when 
 using the rifle one bullet reloads I wonder why, they have guns that shot plasma and cloak you 
 yet they cant fit say 4 bullets in the sniper so u can kill people with it? With such easy headshots 
 get an assault riffle, aim near the head and let lose, 8/10 times H E A D S H O T will flash on 
 the screen. This game has fun modes to offer with some RPG elements as you kill for money and buy 
 better guns, defending bases ands such but there is also capture the flag, territories and team 
 death match. Once you get good and used to the aim on the head and kill all concept you can have 
 an enjoyable experience and the story, its not so bad and the ultimate boss is great to fight 
 while you listen to Somewhere Belong by linkin park. Pick it up if you dont have call of duty 
 2 but if you have to choose dont let the $10 drop on the price tag fool you, its a fully capable 
 360 game, not next gen yet but it is getting there. Dont worry, it offers a lot of play but a 
 lot to work on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seram
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Bad Character models, bad character animations, bad voice acting, bad story (theres a story?!!!) , 
 and crappy sound effects. Multiplayer, no different, slow gameplay, very very very slow paced in 
 most situations, achievements are very seldom to come by, actually the system is messed up and 
 doesn't know that you achieved an achievement half the time, so this game is really a dissapointing 
 launch game. Worst launch game out of the "most anticipatedlaunch titles I think. COD2 and PGR3 
 are my favorite. This game provides no next gen gameplay, and is nothing new. Rare tried to make 
 this game as much like other shooters as it could, making it boring because of how it will seem 
 like your playing an old game. Also, the cartoonish art style (made to look cartoonish on purpose) 
 isn't done well. You can tell thats it's some cheesy American art that tries so much to be like 
 anime. This game overall once you add all these things up is horrible. One of the worst games I've 
 ever played. Consider yourself warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero has gotten mixed reviews all over the board. Gamespot was one of the only places 
 that gave it a high score. Well, it deserves this score. First off, the graphics are astounding. 
 Rare has done an awesome job with all the textures and light blooming. The multiplayer is definately 
 the best part about it though. There are plenty of modes to keep you up hour after hour. Every 
 match is fast, intense, and keeps you on the egde of your seat. The single player while not the 
 best is still definately worth playing. I felt like I was playing a cousin to Goldeneye. Rare did 
 a very good job with that part also. I did catch a couple of glitches, like when you go down ziplines, 
 but nothing huge to complain about. Overall Perfect Dark Zero, in my oppinion was the best 360 
 launch title and should keep many of us busy for a good while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Rofler
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  When someone says Perfect Dark we all think back to the classic FPS game that redefined what FPS 
 was about. We think back to a game which we all know and love and had so much fun with.
  
  Now when we think of follow up we think of even better and more joy to play. Not true.
  
  Perfect 
 Dark Zero is an ok FPS. It is not horrible but it is not great either and i expected better from 
 Rare. The gameplay needs some getting used to as the melee combat is ok but some of the gunplay 
 is pretty hard because of an awkward aiming system.
  
  As a prequel this game takes place before the whole story in the N64 game. You play as Joanna of 
 coarse and go through a range of...14 levels. Ok NOT good. 14 is pretty poor and it doesn't help 
 that some of these missions arn't to good and some are fine. 
  
  The graphics are really good with nice looking scenery and decent character models. The sound is 
 also great with a good soundtrack and all.
  
  You could probably squeeze around 10 hours out of the single player mode and another 20 or so out 
 of multiplayer. Multi is alot of fun and probably better then the single player.
  
  Its a shame that the follow up that we have been waiting for for years after the originals release 
 is not to good. This game has not lived up to the Perfect Dark name and it kind of makes me sad 
 to think back to the originals release and all the joy it brang then to look at this ones release 
 and shake your head. Sorry Rare but not a great job done here. If you were a hardcore fan of the 
 original, a definent buy simply because its Perfect Dark. If you wernt to high on the original 
 then a rent and then maybe a buy.
  
  Damnit Rare just make a sequal to the original or even better a modern remake. *sigh* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hypn0sis
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Overview:
  
  Perfect Dark Zero (or PD: Z) is a sequel for one of the most popular titles on the nintendo 64, 
 Perfect Dark. You play Joanna Dark (a hot redhead with some exeptional killing skills) and have 
 to save your father (and later the world) from a evil concpiracy led by the company DataDyne. 
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  First let me start out by saying that if you have trouble aiming in games like COD2 and quake 4 
 on the 360, you will have much bigger troubles with PD: Z. The Aiming is different from most fps 
 games on the console and its harder to learn. The aiming seems to be really hard to controll (we 
 tried all kinds of settings) and you will definately have to put aside a week or so just to learn 
 this properly before you can play online or at high difficulties - that is unless you wanna die 
 all the time.
  
  The Singleplayer game is pretty straight forward and offers loads of weapons (25+) and is your 
 basic action game. Nothing really new here except for a cover system, that lets you hide and easly 
 peak out of your cover take a few well aimed shots and hide again. The weapons and style of the 
 game reminded me of the original title as well as Goldeneye 64 (which is a good thing) . 
  
  The singleplayer alone isnt that much to talk about, the story is pretty weak (and unrealistic) 
 and only a couple of levels really shine and shows the games real attributes. The game tries to 
 mix head on action with stealth and ends up doing a average job at both. 
  
  The stealth parts (you will mostly notice them on high difficulty settings) doesnt seem like have 
 been put alot of effort into it. Its basically three rules: use silenced weapons, kill from distance 
 and dont come close to the opponents because then all hell breaks loose. Sometimes you get spotted 
 for no obvious reason at all, sometimes you dont get spotted when you really should. 
  
  The action is your normal fps game, however there are a few flaws to make this a top notch game. 
 The AI is weak, even on the highest difficulties the only difference that seems to happend is the 
 AI beeing better to aim and having the ability to get shot alot more times. The opponents you encounter 
 are half good at taking cover but for the most parts they just run straight at you shooting. 
 
  
  You can play all the missions in co-op mode (either on split screen or tru xbl) , which increases 
 the livetime of the game and the enjoyment but the game itself is short. Singeplayer can be completed 
 in 10-15hours.
  
  I would rate the singeplayer gameplay a 6-7, its decent for a fps but we all felt like it lacked 
 thouse last touches that made the original so good.
  
  Gameplay - multiplayer
  
  However, PD: Z supports multiplayer online, and this is were the game really shines. 32 player support, 
 lots of different game modes (from eradication - your regular team survival game known from other 
 semi realistic fps games) to capture the flag, and deathmatch. It allso has some interesting new 
 modes, infection, sabotage and domination.
  
  The netcode seems to be really great, i experienced no lag at all from my 20 or so hours of playing 
 online. I found this to be amazing because the games are hosted by normal players - and i have 
 not played any other fps game - on pc or on consoles were you could host a 32 player game lag free 
 on a 256kb upload dsl connection.
  
  However, i did have problems with the game not finding any games and disconnecting from xbl but 
 i reckon this is more my router settings than the game itself.
  
  Online is fun (alltho it only offers 5 maps, theese maps all come in different sizes etc and Rare 
 has confirmed that they will release a couple new maps that will be free to download from xbl markedplace) 
 and varieted with all the different game modes, and this will keep you bizzy for months (if you 
 learn how to aim that is) .
  
  Gamplay multiplayer score would be a 9 (and 8 if it didnt have such an amazing netcode)
  
  
 Graphics
  
  PD: Z graphics are in one word: wierd. They use all the latest high tech shading and rendering but 
 not all parts of the game looks good. The character models have a cartoony feel over themselves 
 and if you look close they dont look very detailed (the faces) . Some of the character models allso 
 looks totally out of context and i sometimes wondered if they just upgraded the poly count on the 
 n64 version on some of the models.
  
  Weapons, explotions and environment looks mostly great. However the environment and character artstyle 
 is a bit wierd and it looks like Rare didnt quite decide if they wanted the game to look real or 
 cartoony, giving a mix of both in some places.
  
  Id give the graphics a score of 8, but in doubt.
  
  Sound 
  
  The sound is quite possibly 
 the worst part of PD: Z. The sound proximity could use more tweaking, and alot of the noices from 
 weapons are subpar.
  The soundtrack however is decent.
  
  Score: 7
  
  Value
  
  The singleplayer is short and weak but overall if you have xbox live you can keep playing this 
 game for hundreds of hours without getting bored - score 8.
  
  Conclusion: PD: Z has its pro's and con's , it wasnt quite what we excpected from Rare but its stll 
 a decent fps. The multiplayer however makes it a better than average game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Micia87
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Well, first of all I have to tell you that I'm Italian, so i apologize for the
  way I speak English...
  
  This game is really interesting, it offers a good and fast action, 
 an
  essential thing for any FPS, awesome graphics, also thanks to the Xbox360, good gameplay, and a 
 great multiplayer mode, both online and not, in split-screen, letting you play this game for a 
 long time, which is a good thing considering a game's cost these days...
  There are many, truly many weapons that you will be able to choose from,
  each one well characterized 
 and different from the others, you'll love their sounds (my favourite is the sniper rifle :P) !
 
  
  In the mission mode, wich can be played also in multiplayer mode, in 
  split-screen or linking two consoles, you are Joanna Dark, a spy, who works for an agency, the" 
 Dark bail bonds", with her father and with a
  hacker, Chandra, the story takes place in 2020 and it's useless to tell that you are going to control 
 her throughout the missions that the agency will receive.
  
  A good feature is that you will be able to protect yourself behind crates
  or walls, in order 
 to jump out and shoot your enemy when they will be
  out of ammo, a thing not so diffused in this game genre, during these actions the view will flip 
 in third person, allowing you to understand better what is happening around.
  There are a few things that disappointed me in Perfect Dark Zero:
  the soundtrack could have 
 been better, even if it fits well, it is repetitive and
  it does not emphasize pretty much the action, there are only few exceptions;
  the plot is not 
 so good either, but in my opinion, it isn't important, even
  if it could disappoint someone who really cares about it.
  
  It is absolutely a good game, 
 before buying it consider also
  Call of duty 2, maybe you will find it better.
  
  Good: Bad:
  excellent graphics horrible plot...
  well done multiplayer
  many weapons
  
 
  Well, I did my best, thank you for reading my first review :)
  I hope to have been of some help!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rancid125
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark has got to be the best game out for XBOX 360. The game is all around great, well, 
 accept for the offline single players.... I really enjoy online play, it's just outstanding. If 
 you like a good online game, then pick it up... but if you don't like online.. then don't buy it. 
 The graphics aren't the best, but they'll do for now... This is most deff. the best launch game 
 out.. so go out.. pick it up, and let me own you. Oh, and another thing... this game actually takes 
 skill, well i think it does, so if you don't like games that take skill, then there is another 
 reason to not pick it up.... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron_anvil
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 25, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty good, im enjoying the multiplayer even tho the gameplay isnt as good as Call 
 of Duty 2. the main bonus with this game is there is no lag when playing online, this makes it 
 so much better whilst blowing people apart!
  I havent explored the single player yet, i prefer deathmatches really, once you get used to the 
 way you move etc it becomes pretty addictive!!! Its definately worth buying if uv just got yaself 
 a 360 to try out xbox live! And for all i know the single player could be amazing, im gonna use 
 the co-op mode to play it with my mate which could be awesome!
  
  Bang Bang now ya dead! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeyHawk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is the best Xbox 360 launch game in my opinion. It has a great sense of style, 
 great graphics, sound effects, music, and story. It really has it all.
  Let's start with the single player mode. You play as Joanna Dark, some kind of futuristic super-spy 
 who works with her father in the year 2020. Basically, you're fighting against this organization 
 called dataDyne, and you do this by completing missions. The missions can actually be quite hard 
 when playing on higher difficulty levels, but they're always fun. The game has many weapons to 
 choose from, and they all feel very realistic, especially the reload animations. Those are amazing!
 
  The real meat 'n potatoes of this game is in the multiplayer, namely the online-multiplayer. There 
 are a bunch of maps to choose from, each with different size variants, and you have access to all 
 of the weapons and vehicles you saw in the single player campaign. There are 2 categories of matches, 
 DeathMatch, and DarkOps. DeathMatch is your standard set of game types, including Killcount, Team 
 Killcount, Capture the Flag, Territorial Gain, etc. But the DarkOps will appeal to the more hardcore 
 audience, as it features games like Infection, where the object is for the infected team is to 
 kill and infect all of the non-infected within a certain time limit. If the infected succeed within 
 the time-limit, they win. If the non-infected hold them off long enough, they'll win. You get the 
 idea.
  Overall, Perfect Dark Zero really rolls together great graphics, sound effects, music, gameplay, 
 story, and multiplayer into one fantastic game. And there's even a Collector's Edition if that's 
 your kind of thing. I guess what I'm trying to say is: If you like first-person shooters at all, 
 get Perfect Dark Zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenJaws219
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 24, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  With Perfect Dark scoring so many high marks and gamers were all anticipated about its sequel, 
 Rare had some big shoes to fill. PDZ had been compared to Halo, mainly because it was both FPS 
 and launch titles. It can; t be help that every game will be compared to its genre's best, but PDZ 
 should definately get a different look.
  
  Let's start off with the story, I guess there aren't much great deal to it, there wasn't any plot 
 twist or anything that will surprise you, to say the least it was pretty average, and disappointing 
 when you compare to Halo.
  
  But it's the gameplay we're looking for right? What Rare gets it right when no other developers 
 got is AI bots, they make offline multiplayer that much fun, and you can use them too online. Lots 
 of game mode, although I hope to get more downloadable map. Dark Ops games are pretty fun, really 
 cs style.
  
  The graphics are probably one of the best at launch, people complaint about player models, too 
 cartoony and stuff, personally, it shouldn't be such a big issue. One thing that struck me was 
 the special effects they did so when Joanna is switching a weapon, it seemed ultra realistic, I 
 think it was a motion blur effect, it was awesome and mind-blowing and definately the strong-point 
 of the graphics.
  
  The campaign is short, final boss fight really sucks and all the time when you're playing PDZ, 
 leading up to the final ending, it just didn't deliver. Overall, it's a good launch title, FPS 
 fans who sit aside everything will benefit from the game the most, and the multiplayer is absolute 
 blast to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triple6e1999
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 24, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is very arcadish, you would think namco made it. Every sinlge stage is full of Techno 
 music, its more like your shooting your way threw a club ( which you do in the first level ) . 
 Perfect Dark Zero reminds me of Time Crisis at the arcades. I guess if you like that kind of gameplay, 
 you will enjoy this game. I found it very boring, you will find your self making sure your not 
 crouched becuase you move so slow threw out the levels. Only thing i found good about this game 
 was of courseThe Graphics- Duh!! its a xbox 360. thats about all this game has to offer. 
 Theres noway this game is a 9.0. I had more fun playing and Call Of Duty 2 360 Demo then I did 
 playing 3 hours of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechedude
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to the year 2020. You are a agent working for Jack Dark, Your name: Joanna Dark. There 
 is a guy called "killian" who is evil and he dies early in the game. In the middle you meet a guy 
 who is really, really short. He turns out to be the C. E. O of dataDyne a evil company. throughout 
 the game you encounter easy missions, short also. However the multiplayer is just as good (or better!) 
 than Halo 2 sure it doesnt have clans, but it is still good. As of getting co-op achievements they 
 are pretty easy as well. Getting a 1000 headshots might seem easy, If you play PDZ day and night. 
 as for the casual gamer, You may never get it. En total : luke-warm single player fiery multi-player. 
 Cool co-op. and there is a low amount of language but still, it gets a lil' gory every now 'n then. 
 
  
  
  Warning: this game is ONLY for people over 14 for blood and language. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acesion
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark to sum it up in just a few words puts you in the front seat of a GT F50 Ferrari and 
 then just as your about to go it says move over im driving. This game forces you down narrow paths 
 with few options of play. First you can no longer jump in this game limiting you to what feels 
 like doom just on a next gen system and detracts much from the fun that jumping has brought to 
 gaming and though it was done so that is would keep the flavor of the origonal game it makes it 
 obsolete to other FPS's of today. Seccond the Aiming feels as though it has a drag so that once 
 you stop pushing on the tumbstick it keeps moving making it hard to shoot. Third the cover system 
 is totaly screwed up it takes about 3 sec to aim and then during that time you cant turn to compensate 
 for the time it takes you to turn the corner. This game is riddled with many minor bugs due to 
 its being released before a proper beta test of the game to catch many of these bugs. Also before 
 i forget many of the animations though most likely due to the fact that you play a girl your person 
 runs in a bay watch pose including the slow motion efect and when you punch you hit like a girl 
 which takes about 6 hits to kill someone. This game though great in graphics lacks much in gameplay 
 which results in this getting a 6.9. This is also aided by the fact it has no storyline. Also much 
 of the music sucks at least you can play your own tracks. So dont get this game unless you really 
 loved The origonal or if you want the online play which by halo standards is minimal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_OWNS
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 23, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark the first xbox game shown is it over hyped? hell ya its over hyped i dont even think 
 it should be the top 10 ever besides before it came out the sound it just lame, the bad guys just 
 stand there, this game is not worth $70 its just an waste of time and money. its to hard and just 
 boring and hard. but at least the mutiplayer is fun i just love how they did that, but single player 
 by far call of duty 2 is better i hope you argue and like this review and dont waste your money, 
 so one leason rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thavon
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jan 23, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  let me just say i was extremely look forward too playing this game 
  i mean i played the first one for the n64 and goldeneye for countless hours
  so i had high expectations 
 for this game but boy was i surprised. from 
  the get go this game was overwhelming disapointing but as i played i 
  keep hopeing it would 
 at least get a little bit better but it didnt i mean it
  took 5-6 years for this **** big disappointment . ok i said to myself
  this game maybe the online 
 game would be better it wasnt its way to
  hard to kill with out getting a head shot or using grenadlaunchers
  i mean what the **** it take 
 3-4 hits close range with a shotgun to 
  kill someone. i mean the single player game is a flawed nightmare the
  online isnt to good i dont 
 know what the **** gamespot was thinking 
  giving this unfinished shit a 9. come on i know it was super hyped up but 
  a 9 come on. save 
 yourself the disappointment and get call of duty 2 
  you wont be disappointed in fact i traded my pdz for co d2 and i couldnt be 
  happier now thats 
 almost next gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrMatta
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero receives a 9 by Greg Kasavin.
  Suck my &^%$ Greg. You probably got alot of money from Microsoft to do so. It's not the first time.
 
  Thanks for letting me spend 60$ on crap again.
  
  To the point:
  I played Perfect Dark on the N64 for ages.
  Did multiplayer for 5 days with friends (hours in 
 game; 120+) ,
  finished mission on every difficulty setting.. why? because it was FUN.
  
  FUN is what makes a game, 
  not shiny (and in this game they were really overdone shiny) graphics.
 
  
  Storyline was so linear i could predict what would happen when the
  mission started, also lame overused plot twists.
  The villian of the story wasn't fun,
  the 
 enemies were even more retarded than Goombas,
  and everything was so unclear what to do, it's good they
  had pointing lines or i would've wrecked 
 my 360.
  
  I like voice acting in games, but when i hear my objectives ONE time,
  it's enough... apperantly not, because here they repeat everything 10 times 
  in 1 minute when 
 i am searching for my objective:
  JO GET TO THE RADAR, JO GET TO THE RADAR, 
  JO GET TO THE RADAR, MOVE IT DARK, DARK GO TO THE RADAR, 
  GET TO THE RADAR, MOVE........ 
 
  OKAY STFU I GOT THE MESSAGE!!!
  That was one thing that drove me nuts.
  
  Second thing was that enemies can spot you from the other side of the world. And hit you.
  There 
 was a jungle level in the game (ofcourse) and enemies could shoot
  me through trees, and could see me behind bushes.
  I got hit 20 times and i didn't even know 
 where that damn gunfiring was coming from. Now that's FUN!
  
  Only good to come from this game is the funky soundtrack, and maybe
  the Character Model of Joanna 
 herself.
  Those excluded, there's really not much replay value here. 
  
  Or FUN.
  
  Dissapointed in you Rare.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo786
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Ok if i say this is the best fps game ever i would be wrong. Thats right this game has some brilliant 
 features and some very dull. The multiplayer of this games leaves u shocked its so perfect u almost 
 feel as ur in the games the AI is far better than other games opponents run when they are on low 
 health and grab armour (unlike other games fight till death) . The single player mode is where u 
 realise this games is not so good u have to sneak up opponents and ur always listening to ur dad 
 not my style i just like to go up to them and "bang your dead". Some times you have to walk for 
 miles to find some1 to shoot and get dull. Some levels are way too horible in the way they are 
 set out.
  Buy it for life and multiplayer reasons only 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juraii
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jan 23, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Like I said this game is far from perfect I tried my best to get use to the game but it was not 
 worth it since being a fan of the original I went in to this thinking it would be worth it this 
 game is good in some ways do get me wrong graphics wise good and bad. the game play is good as 
 for as one player goes, but the bad part is the game is extremely short and when you play multi-player 
 you will very quickly get tired of the flashy gun fire that will get old very quick. One last thing 
 is that there was not extra feature not that thats a bad thing I just would have like to have seen 
 something from the old game, or how hard they worked on the game which look like they didn't so 
 I would say this game was a bust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathOfACamel
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  i seriously have nothing to say, this game is just so bad. it is extremely overated. I was severly 
 disappointed when i played it. if you have it, you wasted $60 on a crap game. if you dont have 
 it, dont get it. believe me, it is pretty bad. You should get Call Of Duty 2 or Most Wanted. excellent 
 game. but run and hide if someone comes up to you with Perfect Dark. i really had to write this 
 review, its the first time i have ever written one, but i felt it was important because this game 
 is just so incredibly terrible.
  
  
  and by the way. its called freedom of speech, cause im pretty certain several people are going 
 to get pissed of when they read this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chiefinator
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  This game was good in the fact that it had great graphics and sounded perfect. But that is about 
 where it ends.... The gameplay was so slow and multiplayer is somewhat choppy... Bots are quite 
 nice in this game but it didn't make it near the $50. The weapons are quite impressive but in multiplayer 
 make it seem like you are playing with toys because last time i checked a grenade in the mouth 
 doesn't just bring you down to 1/4 health. The game was fun in the aspect that it had vehicles 
 that you could drive but, they were pretty worthless and the multiplayer doesn't allow you to go 
 everywhere possible. Overall if you have got the cash to spend and feel the need for a futuristic 
 shooter that ill compares to Halo or Halo 2 but is your last resort besides every launched game 
 out there except for Quake 4 get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michiguy1982
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 22, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  What can i say for this game other than i thought the new xbox 360 was suppose to improve on alot 
 of the graphics and stuff. I am disapointed in the improvement on all of the release date games 
 that came out for the 360. Which means to me it can only get better. I will just make a list of 
 good and bad things.
  
  Good: 
  -Muliplayer is VERY fun, especially when using rocket launchers only. You can spend hours going 
 at it with the rocket launchers directing them to find your opponent. 
  - Alot of different weapons, the most i have seen in a shooter ever.
  - No problems with frame 
 rate, the game moves VERY smoothly
  - Some amazingly looking next-gen graphics in some areas of the game
  
  Bad: 
  - Wished it 
 had more than just 14 missions
  - Most of the game has current-gen graphics much like Halo 2
  - Doesn't do anything more than 
 be a normal shooter game. It needs to step it up and involve more
  - NO MAPS, you have no clue where you are going until you are lost and they help direct you with 
 this blue arrow line on the ground 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyrico2109
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the best game is have ever played, other than halo of course. This game has 
 amazing graphics and visuals and also great gameplay. I just recently got a 360 and this is basically 
 the only game i have played on it. the game doesnt take a long time to get used to, so its really 
 fun to play. The multiplayer on this game is also amazing too. You can customize just about everything 
 that you can think of, and also you can fight with bots during multiplayer, so if you dont have 
 enough people to play a regular match you can use them. If you are a fan of any shooting game and 
 have an xbox 360 this is a must have, i highly reccomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RevolutionPro30
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  game is fenomenal, excellent gameplay tight guns. its truly perfect rico and  
 this game is sick G and the game is fun, also the temple level is exciting and the subway is tigt. 
 Mostly i enjoyed putting on lost of bots to face only 2 humans. on secret agent, game can get very 
 challenging. when you put a bot on perfect or secret agent. it is very hard to kill them. stand 
 by and entrance and have all your buddies equipt with shotguns. (easily the best gun in the game) 
 and when the bot walks in. Pot em baby, blow them up. but be careful. if you get in the open the 
 bot will instantly kill you with a headshot,, and for very good challenging experenced gamers. 
 use 2 or 3 perffect agents. Good luck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burgessjacob
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 22, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  i got this game thinking it was going to be great. i was wrong. the gameplay is slow. the aiming 
 system sucks. and there is nothing in this game that hasnt already bean presented in others. everything 
 in the game looks as if its been laminated so everything is shiny. also when your in the game playing, 
 when u turn everything seems to get a little blurry and it gets really anoying. the story sucks, 
 i dont know what to do or where to got 99 percent of the time. i was hopeing that the multiplayer 
 would be better but its not. its just as boring as the story and isn't worth the time. if you have 
 ever played timesplitters or anyother game like that. dont get perfect dark. you will be disapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinton015
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero delves into a futuristic world with some pretty #$@& cool gameplay. The gadgets 
 used are topped by no spy game around, except for Splinter Cell, and its FPS gameplay is also first 
 rate. A great combo of Stealth/FPS gameplay is rare in the fairly small genre. Not since the original, 
 has anything been so good. Many Bond-WANTABES, have came out, but the only Bond that ever did it 
 was Goldeneye for N64. Even then the bond series was more blow stuff up than sneak around.
  I'm not saying Perfect Dark is all stealth though, for that it is mostly not. PDZ mixes the stealth 
 when needed, but primarily relies on run and gun gameplay to get it through. With a powerful array 
 of weapons, P-90, Fac-10, Super Dragon, and more you can't really go wrong. However a slighly bogus 
 carrying system only lets you carry a pistol when you have a large weapon. This MAY be more realistic 
 but it leaves something out in the gameplay.
  Perfect dark Zero's online is very fun, and by far the funnest on the XBOX 360. CoD2 still hasn't 
 reached full potential in that area (Patch coming Soon) but some of the games of the nicely done 
 infection mode can get really wild. Similiar to Halo 2's Zombie, Rare hit it right on the head, 
 as well as including a siege mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyashabosk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 22, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a amazing game with beautiful graphics.
  Alittle short but it has good multiplayer.
  
  The new cover system and the dual wield adds 
 alot of dept to the gameplay.
  The characters are perfectly animated and the surroundings looks incredible, things seems to shine 
 alot more then they would in real life.. all though this isnt completely realistic it sure is pretty 
 to look at, and thats what count right :P
  
  As i said the games 14 missions (if you count 'Mission 0') is alittle short..
  But the games 
 multiplayer functions are alot of fun and will keep you busy for awhile.
  
  The multiplayer has a interesting type of game called Dark ops..
  It plays alot like Counter 
 Strike where you have to buy equipment ect..
  
  Overall its short but sweet
  I can easily recommend this game :)
  
  PS: Joanna Dark is hot :o
  Redheads ftw :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsferro
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  This game is about as next gen as my grandmother's girdle. The graphics are granier than half the 
 the games on my ps2 and If a friend came over wanting to see the power of the 360, I would be genuinely 
 embarassed to show them this game. I used to hold GS in high regards, now I wouldn't trust a word 
 they say. Save your money, as the review STOLE MINE with If "This might be the killer app that 
 makes you go out and buy a 360", I might as well throw mine in the trash, along with my bookmark 
 to this increasingly questionable website. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 2:28 am PT
Review:  Rare seems to have totally lost their touch. First Grabbed by the Ghoulies, then the Conker remake, 
 now this. Perfect Dark Zero shows a pretty face, but then stabs you in the jaw when you play. There's 
 a motion blur when you turn fast, which looks cool, but makes it kind of tricky when you're trying 
 to hit the guy shooting at you from behind, and the ridiculous weapon recoil does'nt help either. 
 Also the weapons are so run-of-the-mill I guarantee any FPS fan has seen them all before. Taking 
 cover is cool, but is really not necessary at all. Your enemies are graduates of the "Doom" School 
 of A. I., blindly charging with all the grace of a rampaging bull, somehow unloading clip after 
 clip with unerring accuracy while you fumble with that annoying motion blur. Their high-pitched 
 voices are meant to be funny I guess, but like most of this game they only irritate me. The story 
 is minimal and makes little sense. All I remember is something about research and staring at Joanna's 
 booty during cutscenes. (For shame.) The only thing I see PDZ having going for it is the fantastic 
 visuals and the online fragfest monkeys looking for something else to do after Call of Duty 2. 
 Perfect Dark Zero is mediocre at best, broken at worst. If you need a FPS, buy Call of Duty 2. 
 If you have more money burning a hole in your pocket, buy another copy of Call of Duty 2. This 
 one ain't worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SanAndreasfan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 20, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This game absolutely blew me away.
  
  The gameplay for campaign is not the best, but the online makes up for it. The campaign is not 
 the hardest thing in the world, but its managable to beat the game without dying once. Although 
 a lack in campaign the online mutiplayer is simply the best. I have yet to experience any form 
 of lag, which makes the game much more fun.
  
  The graphics in this game are mindblowing. And with a good blur effect to to top it off. The characters 
 can look ugly if u get really close, but it makes up for that in the blur effect. The games graphics 
 r amazing and can only be done on the 360 so far. once the ps3 comes out, the graphics for games 
 might be better.
  
  The sound in this game is superb, and every time u take a step, u hear footsteps, just like in 
 real life. 
  
  I dont think this game is worth 60 dollars, if u want the collectors edition, since the second 
 disk is plain and boring.
  
  Anyway this game should not be missed by anyone who has the 360, and liked the perfect dark for 
 the Nintendo 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adoobes
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 20, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  The first thing i would like to tell you is this game is not great. I feel microsoft hyped people 
 up a bit to much for this game. But that does not mean the gamme is bad. This game is probobly 
 the best title available for the 360 to date, that scares me. The gameplay is great i only had 
 minor control issues. The sound is mediocure nothing great but not bad. The real reason you should 
 buy this is the online play. The online is very well done and should keep you playing for a while. 
 The gigantic flaw of this game is the gliches "floating in mid air after you die" It is just not 
 acceptable on a next gen system to me. The big question is should i buy this I say Yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Hero1991
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  This game is 1 of them games that is very hyped up that doesn't live up to the hype that it was 
 recieving. The graphics are not exactly next generation graphics, The sound is alright but I expected 
 alot better sound effects, the value is quite large due to the XBOX LIVE function but I highly 
 doubt you will keep playing this game on XBOX LIVE, basically the game is mediocre and the gameplay 
 is no exception, the gameplay is so mediocre that I couldn't carry on playing. I was very upset 
 by this game, I thought it would be a great game because the original Perfect Dark was quite good 
 but it looks like I was wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socomgamer27
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 20, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Wow what an incredibly great game. The single players was disappointing with somewhat intelligent 
 enemies but none like those in COD 2. Mouth-watering graphics as well as great sound and soundtrack 
 its a good package. The character models were not as on par as the rest of the game, but everything 
 else makes up for that. Multiplayer is the best thing here. So many options u'll be playing this 
 game FOREVER. Just get a match going with your friends and it will NEVER end. Hours upon hours 
 spent playing. Definitely worth buying for the multiplayer not so much the single player.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: narcolepticshee
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  This game was great when i first loaded it up, great visuals, great controls. But as the game progresses 
 the missions become more of a chore than an enjoyment and this game is VERY head-shot reliant, 
 in that it's pretty much impossible to kill someone without a head-shot, unless you want to waste 
 a whole magazine of ammo. So far, i haven't been able to fault the graphical look of the game or 
 the sound. The game itself is quite good, just the fact that you have to headshot makes the game 
 more of a chore just because there's no variation in how you kill someone. The positive point of 
 this, is that you start to get damn good at the game because you always go for the headshot. Haven't 
 played multi-player yet, because of the head-shot factor - but will probaly venture into it soon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICCCKevo66
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 20, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  This is the first game I got when I got my new 360. I was a huge fan of the first Perfect Dark, 
 so I thought to myself, "What could go wrong?" I had this game for two days and got bored with 
 it, so I took it back and got Call of Duty 2. I got my full money back because it was used, which 
 should've been my first clue. Yes, the game does have amazing graphics and yes, I was in love with 
 it at first, but after the first "OMG this is an Xbox 360" feelings wore off, I realized this game 
 just plain sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboi25
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed the Perfect Dark title for the N64 a lot. The story line was great and the weapons were 
 amazing. But when I tried this game, I found it to be a big dissapointment. The graphics are not 
 as amazing as everybody says. When you look at the characters faces it looks like old xbox games. 
 The type of guns I found were still good as in the original. I did not like the story line for 
 this game not to be as good as the original but still pretty solid. I also liked the co-op game 
 type for it. The online multiplayer was not good as I played. Correct me if I'm wrong but there 
 is no ranking in any way. Every game doesnt matter, so you can be going against sombody much better 
 then you and you can do anything about it. It is a decent game, somthing that you should rent but 
 probably not buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skin_ticket666
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 20, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  this game is so great, it is alot more different than the N64 version, this game's co-op is different 
 than single player when it comes to using certain devices, there are 2 switches for certain doors 
 that you both have to push, so it provides a little more of a challenge and it involves the 2nd 
 player more than any other co-op game. graphics... excellent, the bodies dont fall through anything, 
 and i have yet to find any glitches, which is definately good. the multiplayer blew my mind, not 
 only can you have bots, but the levels can be huge! so many great weapons too, not as many as the 
 n64 version, but this ones weapons are well thought out. if you havent played this game yet, buy 
 it, you will definately not be dissapointed with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doa_luver
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  ok everybody, i mstarting over on my review cuz there's a lot more problems in the game then i 
 wrote about be4. fisrt of all, wtf is up wit the stroyline! i mean come on! who made up that crap! 
 i seriously think that this is one of the worst storylines ever. the first mission i had no idea 
 wat wuz goin on until after i played it a few more times and i figured out it wasn't a real place 
 they were at just a simulation or whatever they were talkin about. then i kinda got into the story 
 but when the zeigler guy put that thing in jacks head they totally lost me. 
  
  and i really didnt like the whole blue arrow thing. u could barely c it and sumtimes it took like 
 10 m, ins 4 it 2 show up so i wuz jus standing around like an idoit not knowing where i wuz goin 
 and goin around in circles. and chandra wuz really startin 2 annoy me, her voice wuz drivin me 
 crazy. the cover thing wuz kinda cool, but i dont really c how u can aim @ sum1 from behinmd a 
 rock or sumthin without even lookin @ them, but it wuz still cool. 
  
  the characters were also pretty bad. joanna look wuz ok, i mean they could've had more of a variety 
 of clothes. she only had like 4 outfits. Her hair wuz cool i guess. but didn't really like her 
 voice, i like the british one better in the first game. chandra wuz hardly in the game except for 
 her hearing her freakin voice evry 2 seconds. she didn't even help u! she would tell u 2 go sumwhere 
 and they didnt even have a map 2 tell u where 2 go! i mean come on! i really didnt like jack cuz 
 he wuz annoying 2 and he wasn't even that good of a shooter! 
  
  the missions really made me mad cuz they were so boring and frustrating (especially the jungle 
 one where u could barely c anything) and again with the stroyline. wtf were they talkin about! 
 i cant even xplain the stroy line cuz i would probably confuse myself. and they didn't really explain 
 anythign about joannas past. they said the prequel was supposed to talk about how she became the 
 perfect agent blah blah blah but who cares? and i dunno if any1 remembers but joanna had a sister 
 named velvet! and i wanna know where she wuz this whole time. and where wuz her mom? 
  
  xbox live the most fun thing. thats what i usually play whenever i play that game cuz thers nothin 
 else really 2 do unless u wanna try 2 understand the stroyline! but sumthin that really made me 
 mad wuz carrington! he was weatrin a skirt!!!!!!!! and he had white hair already! he wasn't that 
 old! and jonathon jus wasn't the same as the original. 
  
  i know pdz isnt the original and never will be but this game jus wans't even close 2 as entertaining 
 as the orignal one (and that one didn't even have xbox live or anythign like that!) 
  
  i would say rent not buy and overall the game could've been better......
  
  (and plus, the 
 dialogue sux! i mean did u hear wat jack said! "i'll drop u like a bad conversation" come on!) 
 lol
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoo3
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 19, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  before the game came out, i just knew i wouldn't like it. the fact that there was no jump gave 
 me the gut feeling that i wouldn't like it. the people who were chosen to play a demo of it during 
 mtv's debaucle last year were showing a fake enthusiasm for the game. reviewers of the game couldn't 
 agree as to how it would pan it even after playing it. but still, i wanted it to be good, so that 
 i would like it.
  
  unfortunately, i walked into best buy, put pdz in my hand, paid for it, walked out of the store, 
 drove home, and put the game in my 360. my first impressions were, "OMG, this chic singing in the 
 title animation is awful, but that's ok, it's just the opening credits. the game isn't based solely 
 on the merits of a tone deaf chic singing in the title animation."
  
  so, i selected my first mission with the hardest difficulty possible. i was a bit new with the 
 controls of the game and had to get used to them for a while. my first problem was the aiming - 
 no matter what i did to the settings, i couldn't get a comfortable control on the aiming in the 
 game. and since i couldn't successfully master the aiming, i had to start over on an easier setting. 
 this made the game a little more enjoyable... for a short time.
  
  once i was free of the aiming nuisance, i started noticing problems i was having with other aspects 
 of the game. the cover became annoying. as much as i like the idea of cover, it doesn't work well 
 in the game. it has a lot of downfalls. for one, you can't just walk up to wall or other object 
 and press a to automatically take cover. you have to wait for the "press a for cover" to appear 
 on the screen. so, with that you can't take cover whenever or wherever you like, just when the 
 game will allow it. and with that said, when you take cover, you might be taking cover to the left 
 or right of an object, leaving you completely open to take fire from the left or right side. awesome!!! 
 and you know what, even the cover isn't very real, it's a cool concept, but you can aim before 
 you pop out of your cover. that makes it a little too easy to kill others. more skill would be 
 required to aim after you pop out of cover.
  
  the texturing in the game was out of control. it's as if a beginning animation student was let 
 loose on the texturing. bump maps were overused and overexagerated. railings don't look like a 
 slim jim's wrinkly outer skin. surfaces appeared to be coated in a shiny glaze as if the floors, 
 walls, and rocks were covered in a thin layer of ice. walls, ceilings, furniture and guns all had 
 the specularity of a polished aluminum wheel. overall, the textures could have been better. they 
 went too far overboard. instead of a professionally done game, it had the appearance of a game 
 that had a very green design team working on it.
  
  the lighting in the rooftop getaway was about the best thing i saw in the game. it gave the feel 
 of high dynamic range lighting. the only part i didn't like was the rays of light coming through 
 the overhead openings and windows. the rays edges were too sharp instead of being diffused.
  
  i wasn't impressed with the multiplayer at all. that's all i have to say about that.
  
 
  the breaking point for me was on the snow level. after passing through the short tunnel into the 
 area with the guards walking around and the guards in the towers, i gave up. here's how it went 
 down. i passed through the small tunnel after killing a guard. to the right were some stationary 
 objects (perhaps they were rocks or ice or something of the likes) . i moved over behind them to 
 take cover. the guards started shooting at me, so as soon as i got the "press a to cover," i did 
 just that. but i didn't take cover. i was still in first person mode. but wait, i couldn't move! 
 what the?!? so i hit "a" again and i could move. i was given the "press a to cover" again, so i 
 tried again. again the same thing. i couldn't move and i was stuck in first person. meanwhile, 
 the guards are really pounding on me with the guns. so, i restarted the level. several times. each 
 time the sme thing. so, that ended my pdz experience.
  
  pdz found its way to ebay, and i made all but 3 dollars back.
  
  so, before i end this review, 
 let me say, "kudos," to rare for getting it done by launch. let me also say, "thanks for making 
 a crummy game, rare, and you can stick it where the sun doesn't shine." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brianj2001
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jan 19, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Wow. The hype for this game was amazing. I understand how some people just don't want to let go 
 of it. But this game was horrible. I haven't met a single person in real life who liked this game. 
 I know people who sold it back to the store on the same day they got it. They did so many things 
 wrong in the game. For starters, there is no navigation system. No map. Just a voice that tells 
 you things like "Go to the train station". OK, great, where is it? How do I get there. If you wait 
 anywhere between 1 and 10 minutes (Seriously) then a path will light up. Only it can be hard to 
 see and not entirely accurate. If you play through the game a few times, you'll get used to the 
 level design and you won't need it. Unfortunately about 80 percent of your time will be wandering 
 in circles. Even with that, I still beat the game in less than 10 hours the first time I played. 
 The story line was non existent. Cut scenes that were cut so they didn't make sense. Can you say 
 "What? What just happened?". They leave out anything that could make the story coherent. They leave 
 just enough for you to go, ok, so this is what's happening... That's stupid.
  
  Multiplayer: I've played some deathmatch and co-op. Deathmatch is supposed to be a halo deathmatch 
 clone except without the gun. Of course, deathmatch is deathmatch is deathmatch, but nearly everything 
 felt so ripped off. The ability to cover in the game is a little interesting. The ability to dive 
 doesn't add anything to the game. Co-op was a nightmare. Remember the lighted path I talked about 
 before, you now have lighted paths to each other. Where do you go? I dunno. You stand side by side 
 waiting for a lighted path to show up for half an hour because you already spent half an hour going 
 in circles because everything looks the same. 
  
  I don't like saying bad things about games because there's always going to be something, but in 
 this case, there's simply nothing good to say about it. Well, the graphics were good. Umm, level 
 design... No, Weapon design... No, Character development.. No, I'm running out of areas, but I guess 
 I did find one area. After reading all this, Just don't buy the game. Spend your money on something 
 better or more useful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blou847
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jan 19, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who has actually played this game and compared it to any other shooter will realize that 
 this is just a lame attempt at a crappy run and gun shooter. The graphics are really good, but 
 it seems they spent a bit too much time on those and not enough time with the game play (which 
 is horrible) . If you like games like Rainbow Six 3 or any Tom Clancy games, only buy this game 
 if you plan to break it for fun. Anyone who wants more than one hour of fun or some actual strategy 
 don't buy this game. But if youre a complete moron and like to pick up a weapon and run around 
 like and idiot taking two or more clips to kill someone even if youre Annie Oakley (or the male 
 equivalent) then buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: famang7
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This Game is great for online play. The single player is good, but co-op is more fun, and you can 
 play co-op online. This is one of my two best 360 games (COD2) . If you don't have xbox live, i 
 wouldn't get it. 
  
  Great for xbox live!!!! Great for xbox live!!!! Great for xbox live!!!! Great for xbox live!!!! Great 
 for xbox live!!!! Great for xbox live!!!! Great for xbox live!!!! Great for xbox live!!!! Great for 
 xbox live!!!! Great for xbox live!!!! Great for xbox live!!!! Great for xbox live!!!! Great for xbox 
 live!!!! Great for xbox live!!!! Great for xbox live!!!! Great for xbox live!!!! Great for xbox live!!!! Great 
 for xbox live!!!! Great for xbox live!!!! Great for xbox live!!!! Great for xbox live!!!! Great for 
 xbox live!!!! Great for xbox live!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgreenawald
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 19, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This game starts out a little cheasy through the training level, but WOW does it change. The graphics 
 are reallly incredible and quite simply the gameplay gets dramatically better as the levels go 
 on. The guns and weapons are pretty sweet, and the shooting is as close to real as I have seen 
 in regards to if you hit someone in the leg they act like they got shot in the leg. The best description 
 I would have would be that this game, at least the level I am on, is a cross between Splinter Cell 
 and Far Cry Instincts.... pretty sweet would recommend this game to anyone who is ready for a great 
 first person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falker27
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 19, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a very fun shooter game. I think that anyone who enjoys Halo will love this 
 game. I have played about 30 minutes online and it was very fun. I think the best part of this 
 game is two player campaign. On some of the missions you can go in completely different places 
 then the other player. One of you will act as the sniper taking AI off the ground and off of rooftops. 
 While the other player is running around trying to get the rest of the AI. Very good game and when 
 I first got it, I wasn't a huge fan. Just need to get past the first few missions then the game 
 unlocks missions that are out of this world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesmondPills
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Off the bat the worst thing about buying this game was the wait to get home and play it. This is 
 a solid console FPS that has all the shine and polish into it that one would expect from a "next 
 gen" game. Of course there are things that people complain about to be different from the rest 
 like, "I was completely let down that the developers left out the sense of smell from this game. 
 Im going to give it a 5.0". Lets me be honest with you, this game will more than adequetly suppress 
 your feelings of boredom. Whether your playing the single player campaign ( which is not the best 
 or most substance filled plot in the history of gaming, but not a monumental surprise) or the endless 
 hours of fun playing multiplayer on Live. 
  
  I have to admit that I do scrutinize games when they come out and recieve tons of hype and amazing 
 reviews. You know who the people are that are serious gamers with knowledgeable insight and you 
 know the ones that aren't. Keep that in mind when deciding whether to buy. All the hype and the 
 reviews have been right on the money with this title. Good job on making a sure fire classic with 
 Perfect Dark Zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHADOWSTRYK3R
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  To me, Perfect Dark Zero has to be one of the most anticipated games of all time. We all thought 
 we had seen the last of Ms. Dark after her first memorable appearance on the Nintendo 64, but as 
 always, Rare surprises us not with a sequel but a prequel!
  
  Now, I bet you just want to know whether or not Perfect Dark Zero is worth getting. Well, I can 
 safely say, yes it is. Perfect Dark Zero is one of the most well constructed First Person Shooters 
 out at the moment. By that I mean its got pretty much everything you would want in an FPS; a whole 
 horde of weaponary, gadgets, characters, enemies and an acceptable storyline. Oh, and let's not 
 forget superb graphics and controls!
  
  The most impressive thing about Perfect Dark Zero is the core shooting. It's just so satisfying 
 to take out enemies with a well balanced weapon, or hit them over the head with it! You can dodge 
 out the way and hide behind walls for cover, you can see that Rare was focusing on the shooting. 
 It definitely pays off, because ever enemy you encounter offers a unique and memorable experience 
 each time when you take full advantage of Joanna's abilities. It's almost flawless.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero really has it all, the graphics are stunning, I've never seen anything so clear 
 and beautiful. Havok Physics are also incuded which makes every object you hit fall over or roll 
 out the way. There is a a certain realism about it all, but there's also a certain comic book style 
 about it too. The character models definitely have that comic book look about them and that's not 
 always a good thing, as they sometimes look a bit ugly up close.
  
  The sound in the game is very good, especially if you have some good speakers. It's very sharp 
 and the sound of the weaponary is almost 'perfect'. The music in the game isn't really anything 
 special and you might find yourself playing custom soundtracks instead! 
  
  The storyline and voice acting is definitely a weak point in Perfect Dark Zero. For some reason, 
 Joanna has an American accent in this, yet she had a British accent in Perfect Dark. The voice 
 actors really aren't that great, and they almost seem a bit 'cheesy' and laughable. The storyline 
 is very predictable and a bit stupid (something about a superweapon the leader of datadyne wants, 
 etc) but I really didn't pay attention to it, I was enjoying the shooting too much! That's the 
 thing about Perfect Dark Zero, its really all about the shooting, and you don't have to have a 
 great storyline to make that all work. 
  
  Perfect Dark Zero's mulitplayer is definitely worth trying out. Bots can be included in matches 
 if you don't have a lot of people playing and they're quite challenging too. The maps are very 
 large, and you won't have trouble finding someone to kill if a lot of people playing! There's the 
 standard array of gametypes to choose from but the highlight of the muliplayer is the Dark Ops 
 mode. This mode is very similar to Counter-Strike, so you get to choose your weapons at the beginning 
 of the game and engage in a tactical duel with any number of players. It's fun if you're playing 
 with lots of people you know, and it doesn't really suffer any lag online or offline. HALO 2 players 
 might not like it immediately, but when you get into it, its hard to stop!
  
  With the huge range of FPSs around at the moment, you'll need a good reason to buy Perfect Dark 
 Zero and the gameplay is definitely a good enough reason. Don't take it too seriously, the story 
 and characters are all just deliberate stereotypes that you will expect in this kind of game. It 
 may not offer the same calibre of story as Call of Duty 2 or Half Life 2, but its still an extremely 
 impressive game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwadsworth
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 19, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  think of james bond then think how ad most 007 games are. Now forget them this is what good old 
 JB shoulg be like. 
  
  You play Jo a red with a gun!!! Don't mess with her . This gae is northing sort of brillant however 
 this game does hae a couple of control issues however if you spend a little time these can be sorted 
 out.
  
  The games is fast paced sort of gun shooting swapping action we like the game Oozes style and is 
 swish and sexy very much what JB should be doing 
  
  Some of the voice work in this game is sometimes ff the wall but we can always ignor that, this 
 game does remind me in someways of XIII which is not a bad thing the whole game has been put together 
 quite well however this is not for all hard core gamers - just a note the game can be slightly 
 diffrent betwen skill settings so its worth playing the harder settings 
  
  in general i love this game its no halo but it doses not need to be this game standsalone very 
 well go buy it now!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cancerbad
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 19, 2006 1:43 am PT
Review:  When i read reviews for this game i was preety stoked to get it, I am a BIG Halo fan and i thought 
 I'd try something new... When I played it I thought to myself that this could actually be preety 
 good! That feeling did'nt last... As the story kept getting more ridiculous and the gameplay got 
 more and more redundant I realized.... Maybe I should stick to Halo.. You can not call me close 
 minded because i assure you I am not.. I bought the game did'nt I?
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is very strange... I'm up to strange when it is a good kind of wierd but 
 this is more aggrivating than anything... Although when you are running with a gun it would cause 
 some disturbance in the aiming this just gets annoying... The control of the game just feels too 
 loose.
  
  Graphics- This game does look very nice.. I would give it a higher score but it is just to Barbieish.. 
 It looks so plastic... And the enemies just look strange especially when close up.
  
  Sound- First off the voice acting is terrible.. It's not that its terrible voice acting (it is terrible 
 voice acting though) and its not the stupid dialogue that is clichueish and dumb.. The voices do 
 not go with the characters... Joe should have a voice like angelina Jolie or someone like that.. 
 she shouldnt sound like a pre teen/teenage girl... the musics descent nothing special.. and so 
 is the sound effects.
  
  Value- the storys terrible, burys itself before it really starts... no replay value... And The 
 online play is good but a little too complicated and the gameplay is not too good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGFINE
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is wicked cool, I've played throught the campaign & it all works out smoothly... Real 
 spy game, few lines are a little corny, I love the motion-blur effects, it makes it look alot more 
 realistic, it's multi-player is unmatched out of all the launch titles, I only have a few complaints... 
 It really shouldent take a full clip in someone to kill them... Sometimes it get frustrating, it's 
 pretty difficult to score a headshot in a close combat situation... I love how the put multi-player 
 bots in though, thats what every game needs... & it's online is wicked... I honestly have never 
 experianced lag online yet, & I've played at least 100-200 games... & the guns just look so cool! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Webcamera
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark: Zero takes place three years before Perfect Dark took off. You start the game infiltrating 
 a DATAdyne complex, ordered to destroy it's CPU. As you proceed trough the halls of this futuristic 
 building you get acquainted with the general controls. You learn how to fire, take aim, roll for 
 cover, duck, etc.
  When you finally reach the CPU you get to steer a little CamSpy down a few pipes, blowing up the 
 CPU at its core. But as soon as you finish your job, the Spider Bots protecting the complex go 
 mental, attacking everyone that crosses their path. From there, the game's a big rollercoaster 
 ride, taking you to places as Hong-Kong, Peru, and ofcourse the DATAdyne main building. Supporting 
 this rollercoaster ride is a story that won't make you go "Oh my god!", but it's still pretty enjoyable.
 
  
  After you finish the singeplayer campaign this game is far from over. After all, the holy grail 
 of each First Person Shooter is the Multiplayer mode. And this game has one. And it's not disappointing. 
 Not at all.
  Next to the general Deathmatch, Capture the Flag and Territorial Gains you get the DarkOps mode, 
 that let's you enter the world of corporate conflict. I personally have absolutely no experience 
 with this mode, so I'm not going to discuss it. After all, it would be a bit awkward to do so...
 
  
  Perfect Dark: Zero features amazing graphics. You get a gorgeous blurring effect if you turn around, 
 snow reflects sunlight, and so the list goes on.
  The sound is awesome as well. The guns sound 'just right', lifelike ambience in the jungle, snow 
 cracking underneath your feet... It's pretty lifelike, if you ask me.
  The voice-acting, on the other hand, is rather disappointing. Only the voice of the main character 
 seems right. The others just arent that good.
  
  All in all, Perfect Dark: Zero is a great game. If you like a challenging singleplayer supported 
 by an awesome multiplayer you should pick this game up now. And with now I mean... Now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elveon
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I recently piked up my copy ofPerfect Dark Zerodue to all of the great reviews ive heard 
 , i couldnt of been more exited , as soon as i got home i rushed into my room and fired my 360 
 , at first i was amazed by the amazing graphics , the best that i had ever seen in a FPS , but 
 then i started getting deeper and deeper into the ridiculous story , i mean realy who thought this 
 up , in one stage your objective is to sneak into a base to find your long lost father , you easily 
 cut through the guards in the surounding area and then simply walce in through the gate with no 
 consiquence , then a cutscene starts in wich the mainBad Guysimply starts talking to you 
 as if you DIDNT kill all of his henchmen , then his daughter walks in and challenges you to some 
 sort virtual reality game , so you sit down in a chair and you easily beat his aprently unbeaten 
 daughter .............. their really is no need to go on it gets weirder and weirder . Lets move 
 on , i have to say the weapons are top notch , they all have secondary actions like scopes , flashlights 
 , grenade launchers ETC , the animations are just as great , realoding has never looked this good 
 . Youd think that the enemy A. I would be prety good on a next gen game , quite simply its embaressing 
 , the henchmen ran is if their walking , they do not react to your presence as quickly as youd 
 think they would , they just suck. Finaly the multiplayer pales in comparisson to the original 
 Perfect Dark , the bots are to dumb , none of the maps are interesting , its just not fun.
  
  So to wrap up my review ill end with a word of advice , DONT BUY THIS GAME its a waste of your 
 hard earned money , at most this game deserves a rental
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_Kaniff
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  As i write this review i have beaten the game a couple times. I have been murdered ruthlessly in 
 multiplayer. As i write this article i am in much anticipation for Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. 
 I wasn't even going to buy this game untill i had beaten Call Of Duty II several times. This game 
 is great on the eyes and on the ears. The weapons are nothing short of cool. The game is fun to 
 play again which is a really rare quality in games. The weapon selection before the level is really 
 cool. However, it would be nice to have as many weapons as you darn well please. Anyhoot, the game 
 is fun and is doing an A- job of tiding me over until March 20th. Kaniff out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheeserlord
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 17, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game on the show on mtv I was a little skeptical because It didnt seem to 
 look much like a next gen game by some standards, but boy was i wrong. This game just does so many 
 things right, from the unbelievable graphics to the wicked fun and intense online play which by 
 the way holds up to 32 players which is awesome. The crowning achievement of the game though it 
 def. the already mentioned online play, the game types are so much fun to play and there is never 
 any lag on live even when theres a match filled all the way. Also online they have a coop mode 
 which is really nice and something that halo 2 def. shouldve had without a doubt. This game is 
 just great and will be in anyones 360's library for long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 8, 2006 1:21 am PT
Review:  The only thing you need to know about Perfect Dark Zero is that it delivers all the action and 
 thrills you are seeking. But that doesnt make the game perfect, quite the contrary actually, Perfect 
 Dark has a great many issues, and I am going to try and address them all for your reading pleasure.
 
  
  Firstly, I will say this about Rares long awaited game: it is a damn fine first person shooter, 
 and one that is well worth your time, and even money. But the aforementioned issues the game has 
 do result in a few points docked from the overall score I will award the game at the end. 
  
  The main problem Perfect Dark Zero has is its story. Though most in-game stories are not all 
 that important, especially in first person shooters where the central focus is on the action, the 
 one Rare has crafted here can often irritate and perplex. The story is just bad. There, I said 
 it, but equally as bad is the bulk of voice acting and the general story presentation. But you 
 know what; it doesnt matter, because the action this game captures is nothing short of stunning. 
 Though every time one of those hideous cut-scenes plays, youll wince. 
  
  But the good news is that about ninety-five-percent of the game is all-out action and carnage. 
 And this is where the game truly shines. With its mixture of stunning (although a little too shiny) 
 visuals, and thunderous audio, not to mention some of the best weapons ever seen in a videogame 
 before, you are set for a huge thrill-ride of a gaming experience. All of those things and more, 
 plus rock-solid gameplay, affirm the game's dependability as a great experience. 
  
  From a visual standpoint, Perfect Dark Zero was evidently an expensive, high-profile development 
 project for Rare and Microsoft Game Studios. Just about everything in terms of the games production 
 values reek of something that had a lot of money behind it. Everything from the easy to navigate, 
 and highly slick menu screens, to the obscenely high polygon counts on textures and characters 
 all ensure your eyes are in for one visual treat after the other. Again, the visuals are not perfect, 
 but regardless, everything in this game looks both stylistic and delicious to behold. 
  
  Was Perfect Dark Zero worth the wait though? I suppose that really depends upon what you thought 
 of the original. If like myself you thought the original was one of the greatest first person shooters 
 ever made, and you expect the same from this sequel, youll probably be disappointed. But if you 
 take Perfect Dark Zero at face value and see it for what it is, you will be in for one seriously 
 good time. 
  
  But ultimately, this is a weaker game than the Nintendo 64 original, but dont confuse that to 
 mean that it is a bad game. Perfect Dark Zero is a truly great game; it is just a different experience 
 than the original, though many aspects of it are completely familiar. 
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is a monstrous game with a very grandiose posture, but a somewhat fragile shell, 
 kind of like a dog with a loud bark, but a soft bite. It wants to be a huge and epic spectacle, 
 and for the most part, Rare have succeeded in making just that, but the flaws and drawbacks the 
 game has handicaps it. 
  
  Still, what this game does is prove its worth in many other ways. As mentioned, its visuals, audio 
 and solid all-around gameplay prove to be winning aspects, aspects that are good enough in their 
 own right to warrant a purchase. I would highly recommend this game to you, especially if you love 
 weighty action games, becasue they dont come much heavier than this.
  
  Overall Score:
  
  8.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnm00
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 28, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  UPDATED - 2/27/06
  
  If youve followed any of my past reviews, youll notice that a couple years ago I wasnt too into 
 first person-shooters. Im still not very good at them, but, overall I can get into them now more 
 than ever. Especially when its a quality game. So far on the Xbox360, both Call of Duty2 and Perfect 
 Dark Zero are FANTASTIC FPS games.
  
  When it comes to PD0, first of all, I love the style of the game. Im not much for intro movies. 
 I think theyre generally a waste of time. While theyre fun to watch the first couple times, it 
 gets old after a while. I have to say, though, the intro for Perfect Dark really gets you into 
 it. Its very James Bond-ish. Cool music, strange, wild visuals, just a really cool feel. It really 
 sets the tone for what's ahead.
  
  The graphics for Perfect Dark are ver, VERY nice. Its a 360 game, so it should look great. And 
 in my opinion, it really does. The player models are really well done. I have to say, Joanna Dark 
 gives Lara Croft a run for the money on the hottie scale. Seriously, though, the characters are 
 well designed and look great in every situation you see them in. The shadow and lighting details 
 as well as the overall look & feel are really top notch. Its fun just to sit and look around to 
 soak it all in. The HUD is also nicely designed and doesnt get in the way of the fantastic looks. 
 There's also a very nice variety to the characters. They aren't all just cookie cutters of each 
 other.
  
  From an audio perspective, Perfect Dark is the best sounding game Ive heard. Again, Ill compare 
 it to my the only other FPS that compares, Call of Duty 2. Whereas Call of Dutys sound makes you 
 feel like youre in the middle of WWII, Perfect Dark really makes you feel like youre in the middle 
 of a spy movie. The soundtrack is hot. The voices and dialog is very good. And the ambient sounds 
 are fantastic. For example, in the basement of the nightclub, the music from the club is muffled 
 and bassy like it would be if you were really there. Its almost spooky its so real. The sound 
 effects are also phenomenal, especially with surround sound. You hear the shots wizz past you and 
 feel the rumble of a nearby explosion. The surround sound helps a lot in finding an enemy in multiplayer 
 games.
  
  The gameplay in Perfect Dark is also very well done. At first, it took a while to get used to the 
 visuals, so it was a little hard to spot enemies. Sometimes youd hear a shot and feel the impact, 
 but completely cant find the bad guy. That was a bit annoying, but you start to learn what to 
 look for. Overall, though, the controls are very well done. Simple to learn and when you get really 
 good at it, it's all second nature. I love the left trigger aiming thing (also in CofD2) . It's 
 a great way to focus on an enemy and add realism as well. The movements, view and fighting controls 
 are all very sensible.
  
  I've now made it through the story mode on the basic difficulty. While challenge at spots (for 
 non-hardcore people like me) , it wasn't too difficult overall. My biggest complaint was finding 
 out where you're supposed to go. On most levels, it's not exactly obvious. But, all the missions 
 varied in task, local, and challenges, which was very enjoyable. It's a nice mix of stealth, chaos 
 and strategy which makes it more interesting. You can also play co-op, which is a nice feature. 
 Its fun to pair up with a buddy and work together to solve the missions. I'm going back on the 
 harder difficulties now, and there's even more tasks to accomplish, so it's almost all new in some 
 ways.
  
  Multiplayer mode is EXTREMELY addictive. I've been playing a lot now in that mode, and it's easy 
 to lose track of time. One thing I really like (again, for a non-hardcore person like me) , is that 
 you can play multiplayer on your own against the computer. That may sound like a contradiction 
 of terms, but the reality is, it's a great way to learn how to do multiplayer, without being demoralized 
 by dying every 10 seconds. Hopefully I'll gain enough confidence to get back into a deathmatch 
 online, but for now, I'm enjoying my BOT opponents. The variety of multiplayer games is great: 
 Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag & Territorial Gains. All challenging with different 
 strategies required to win them. There's also the DarkOps missions for more variety. The locations 
 are also varied, just not enough multiplayer maps, in my opinion. But, they are still a lot of 
 fun to play.
  
  I got Perfect Dark thinking it would be a fun multiplayer game when my brother and nephews come 
 over. And it is great for that. But, Perfect Dark is so much more. It's an awesome game from a 
 story mode perspective, from the multiplayer, and the co-op games. It's an all around perfect game 
 for so many different reasons. If you like FPS games, I think you have to get this. If you don't 
 like FPS games, try it, you may just find yourself completely immersed like I've become.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeavysetHollis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a must for any self respecting FPS gamer.
  
  The single player story line is rather weak but it's fun to play through.
  
  It's the multi 
 player that makes this game rock, I have had at least 4 LAN parties in the last two months. if 
 you don't have many friends over, or many people in your XBL game you can just add a few opponents 
 with the bot system. "very handy"
  
  And the Graphics are no joke. the best environment textures I have ever seen in a game you could 
 spend hours looking at the beauty of this game alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceCOLEd
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a game based as a prequel to the hit game, Perfect Dark, but it seems to be 
 the worse of the two. In Perfect Dark, you were allowed almost any type of multiplayer options 
 and an experience that lives in our minds still today. Perfect Dark Zero on the other hand, has 
 very limited multiplayer options and will probably be forgotten about when HALO 3 hits the shelves.
 
  In my opinion, HALO has really ruined FPS games in some ways, because it offered very basic options 
 and a generic multiplayer, but people loved it because it offered great graphics and a whole bunch 
 of fun. Today, I think game producers think they can get away with making generic, but fun games 
 and not have to pay as much for production, unfortunatelymost people love games that offer infinite 
 options, like me! Im speaking for myself when I say this, but you dont have to.
  Anyways, back to my review PDZ offers what many people love in a game, great graphics and sound, 
 replay ability, online modes, and an interesting storyline. If you own an XBOX 360, I highly suggest 
 picking this one up. It will crave HALO urges and still offer a newer and interesting storyline 
 and gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuessWhooo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  The graphics were ok, mainly the detail of the level designs, but the characters seem like they 
 were a ushed process (especially the goons you'll fight) . Upon first playing this game I was somewhat 
 pleased with the weapon assortment but there's stil a feel of emptyness when playing it. As oppose 
 to Call of Duty 2, which is a game that I think deserved a better rating.
  
  As far as the online play... Don't believe the hype. You will find yourself getting highly fustrated. 
 The "gunbutt" mechanism is all screwed up, very unatural. You will find yourself relentlesly butting 
 a person, after moing them down with an SMG, and they won't die. Another player will come ang accidently 
 slip and miss you and hit them with a bullet and take your kill. Just rent it and save the dissapointment. 
 It also has some graphical glitchs as mentioned by gamspot, I found mine frezzing towards the end 
 of some later levels... Such dissapointment. Get Call of Duty 2 or wait for Gears of War or the 
 new Ghost Reacon, I high recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunslingers
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 16, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  A littel short campain but great mulitplayer. Beat the capain so fast but the muitplayer still 
 keeps me occupied. not halo caliber but ok. I will say that the last boos is pretty hard. I can't 
 wait to do some more multiplayer. I like call of duty 2 i bit better. Get nba live 06, halo 2, 
 call of duty 2, maddan 06, and ea soccer. These are the game i recomend These game. This came erans 
 a buy it or at lest rent it. I loved the bots for when i don't wana go on XBox 360 live. Or play 
 with my friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racer12mike
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 16, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't, at all, what everyone hyped it up to be. The game is very boring and dull. The 
 graphics arn't next gen at all either. The floors and walls look ok, but they over did it with 
 all the glare. The characters look like complete garbage too. I've honestly seen better graphics 
 on the characters on my PSP. So after the single player flopped, I decided to go online since that 
 was supposed to be the BIG thing on there. That also was a major dissapointment. It was just so 
 boring! I felt like I was sitting there playing by myself, and I had no enthusiasm about doing 
 good because I just didn't care. The bootom line here is, save your money and get Project Gotham 
 Racing 3 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morgoth18
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I am very impressed by this game. it has been a long time since a good first person shooter came 
 out were you can fight bots, or like in the old perfect dark, sims. i still reefer to bots as sims, 
 old habits die hard i guess. so back to the topic, i love how they made all the guns in this game 
 fair. not one is better taht the other, well only for certain jobs. they made it so all the guns 
 ballance out and not one all mighty gun, FARSIGHT cough cough. also the sniping in this game is 
 more difficult than all the other guns no and you need some skill to do it. the one shot and reload 
 is awsome, because if you are online and you get shot with a sniper and dont die, now you have 
 time to get out of the way and head for cover, unliess you get hit in the head apparently. and 
 i talked to some people who didnt like the game, they said it was to different from the old game, 
 so i told them to shove it. i told them the reason it is so different is because it is going from 
 a consol from two generations ago, to a 360, I LOVE IT. so then they had to rethink their former 
 logic. so in my mind this is by far the best shooter since halo combat evolved, sory i didnt like 
 halo 2 that much they got away from the main character to much. so taht is my stoy and im stickin 
 to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kokoro360
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero brings in many aspects of the shooting genre and doesn't do anything particularly 
 new, but does them very well. There's alot of depth to be held into this game and you'll be glued 
 to it just blowing caps into your enemies for quite some days (or weeks)
  
  Graphics: Excellently high-tech. The lighting effects are the biggest highlight in this game's 
 visual standing. The bump-mapping on the rocks in the desert stage reflect sunlight unusually, 
 but very beautifully. Gravel doesn't look near as shiny in real life. All of the concrete, dirt, 
 and granite seem to be extremely detailed (and sweaty) . The weapon models are absoulutely amazing. 
 They each have thier own visual flare and will reflect light to give it a crisp look. The character 
 models are a good start for next-gen, although they put too much detail in some characters and 
 not as much in others.
  
  Sound: This game's audio is its weakest point. The dialouge is quite cheesy and gets pretty old 
 fast. The voice-overs aren't really up to par, but the music is alright. It ranges from rock, to 
 some country, to pop. You're actuallly better off using your own songs in some cases.
  
  Gameplay: The story is well.... meh. It doesn't really do anything unique. You're basically fighting 
 this massive corporation and trying to save the world and stuff. Nothing special. The characters 
 aren't too interesting other than Joanna Dark and maybe her father, but that's about it. The cut-scenes 
 are quite nice, but brief. The weapons in this game are amazing. They range from shotguns, to swords, 
 to even boomerangs. In multiplayer you have two types of games, Deathmatch (which you can play 
 standard modes like CTF and Killcount and set up bots for missing human players) and Darkops (Which 
 only allows human players and is Counter-Strike esque.
  
  This game seems to do pretty much everything that an FPS should have right. Not to mention this 
 game is at a $50 price tag, which is cheaper than the standard 360 game. Quite an achievement this 
 one is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bass7
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  This is a really fun game in my opinion. It is kind of hard if you first start playing but you 
 get used to it. I just think it is a good game because I loved the fisrt one. This one is kind 
 of nice because it tells you the back story for the first Perfect Dark. Personally I don't like 
 this one as much but is still fun if you play online or you want to play this and then play Perfect 
 on the N64. This is a wonderful launch game and i was glad to see it did well. I just hope Rare 
 continues to make good games. Too bad Nintendo had to sell them otherwise I wouldn't be reveiwing 
 this now. Well if you like shooters and like furturistic ones then Perfect Dark Zero is the way 
 to go, if not go with Perfect Dark for the N64 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deaner04
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  At $50 this game has to be your obvious first title for your xbox 360... it is action packed and 
 has great multiplayer online...
  At first I did not like the game but after playing a bit of eradication, infection, and other cool 
 online modes that replica counter-strike gametypes and our under ground "zombies" game type made 
 up by the players of Halo 2, I started to like it...
  Although the graphics do not look that good on my standard tv... I have not heard of how they are 
 on the hdtv yet...
  Overall i would defianantly buy this game over the other shooters currently out like Call of Duty 
 2...
  
  I hope you found this helpful... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastab9891
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a great beginning game to start off the Xbox 360. One of the best things about 
 it is its playability. For example, you can start of playing the solo mission, which is cool. But 
 with the xbox live co-op, it even adds more value to the game. Its co-op mode is tight, next to 
 all the multi-player games. Rare did a great job designing the game. Its also cool how you can 
 listen to your music, and chat with the co-op player all the time. Helps add more suspense if you 
 listen to eeriemusic, lol. The special effects, to the guns, all are prefectly masterpieced. This 
 game always keeps you on your toes with little minigames for just blowing up doors or hacking computers, 
 which adds more value. In all, it didn't take but maybe 20-30 minutes to figure out how to do things. 
 This game is one of those must have for xboxs. Only argument I have are about the humming sound 
 I hear, and for me, my Xbox 360 froze at the same spot a couple of times. But in all, this game 
 is really good and worth being in your collection, special the limited edition, which is what i 
 got and got all the skins and stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abclol
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  Before xbox 360 came out I heard about perfect dark zero. I then learned about perfect dark for 
 the n64. Gamespot gave it a 9.9 out of 10. It had a higher ratting tha halo and they are making 
 a prequel for xbox 360. When i actually got the game me and my sister played it The first thing 
 we noticed was the graphics were amazing. when we got to the first enemies it was so hard to it 
 them and they kept moving around. The aiming was just terrible. The AI was terrible they had goofy 
 stupid voices. The sound was decent though. Is she a agent or super woman? She takes like 50 shots 
 and still runs and i know she doesnt got no shield like master chief. The story missions suck. There 
 nothing to unlock after you beat the game .If you dont have xbox live dont bother getting this 
 game. Co op is pretty nice but gets boring after a while. Trust me i love first person shooters i 
 like half life, halo night fire, everything or nothing but this no. My sister, brother, cousins, 
 friends, all hate it only one of my friends like it but abnormal and suckes and i did all the work. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruceisright
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  I'll admit I was one of those people looking forward to this game since Rare went under the Microsoft 
 wing a few years back, since if anything they did fail to justify the money spent on them with 
 what they made for the Xbox.
  
  The game it's self looks great, and is a good way to show off the Xbox360's power, but since when 
 has Rare ever had a problem with making a good looking game?
  
  It's more it seems to have been a rushed port from an Xbox game rather than made for the Xbox360, 
 I can bet they would have had no problem releasing this on the Xbox with lower res visuals and 
 slightly slower gameplay and most people wouldn't have cared, it just lacks any real kick in the 
 single player game, as most FPS's do now. The Multiplayer mode is really it's saving feature, as 
 you would expect.
  
  This game though just shows people Rare are not what they used to be, they have turned into an 
 all flash no substance developer and the time they spend on making games just doesn't seem worth 
 it any more, what can they possibly be doing that takes them so long to make it?
  
  Sure this game looks good but as far as I understand it was converted from and Xbox game in a few 
 months, no wonder Nintendo got rid of them.
  
  I have not set out to bash Rare here, but for the length of time it takes them to make games you 
 would think it would have more to it than this, a good game but still it should have been so much 
 better.
  
  You know I am right because I am Bruce. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 15, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This is not as fun as expected. That just about says everything. You know, I trust Gamespot. I 
 trust them a lot. Pretty much any review they write, I am usually pretty close in my scoring of 
 the game as well. Until now.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is a visually stunning game. That is true. It looks absolutely great. Sometimes 
 I would just let Joanna sit there and I would look around. That does not make a great game. There 
 must be other elements to make it great.
  
  Sound was excellent. I have digital optical sound, so this was awesome. 
  
  Here is where the 
 problems start and end. Gameplay was not good. A character in an FPS should be able to move quite 
 easily. In fact, they have been able to do this for years. For some reason, Joanna Dark cannot 
 run fast, move fast or anything fast. I realize that some of the weapons are heavier than others 
 and they seem to take that into account. However, when there are no weapons equipped, she should 
 be able to haul a#@! That girl is in amazing shape, just look at her. If not, then maybe some grown 
 ups should be called in as pinch hitters to play grown up games.
  
  The story was good but frankly nothing really new there.
  
  Rent this game. It is not worth 
 9 out of 10. Check my score.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkRemembered
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 9, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  Well, here it is. It's not a bad game, but it's... well... let me explain. Let me start by saying 
 this: IF YOU DO NOT HAVE XBOX LIVE GOLD, DO NOT BY THIS GAME! I cannot make this clear enough. 
 The single player campaign of PDZ is freakin' awful. For example, in the first real mission, you 
 start out on a dock. You're told to be stealthy (wtf? This is an FPS, not "Splinter Cell") ; however, 
 you're not told what the hell you're supposed to be doing. Sure, we're informed that first we must 
 ID some villain, but did the developers realize that there are a ton of bad guys? Who should you 
 ID, and how can you do it without killing them?! When you move, it feels like your crawling. I 
 mean, can Ms. Dark move faster than 3 MPH? What the hell? The co-op is... bearable (at least you 
 have someone to share the misery with) and online. Thank God for that. Now, the part of the game 
 that brings my gameplay score, which would've been, like, a 5, all the way up to an 8: the real 
 perfection of PDZ; the online play. There are so many modes, so many people, so much fun to be 
 had. That's all there is to say. I don't need to explain. It's online or into the real imperfect 
 dark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silver_Fire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was hyped as the "killer app" for the 360. Did it live up to the hype? no. But 
 it's still a game worth checking out.
  The big problem is the single-player campaign. The AI is stupid, the story is sub-par and the level 
 design flip-flops a lot, from being amazing to dull. The weapons are the coolest thing though. 
 A wide array of pistols, SMG's, and others with secondary functions make for a fun time killing.
 
  The multiplayer saves this game. Up to 32 people with little (if any) lag is extremely fun.
  The graphics are pretty good, or at least the textures are, the character models don't look real 
 and animate strangely, with weird death animations (I had a guy who kept floating and bouncing off 
 walls)
  Overall, this isn't a superb game, but it's amazing multiplayer should make it a addition (don't 
 the the collecter's edition, the bonus disc is pathetic)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scstephens
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  PDZ was one of those games that you were not sure what to think about it looking at all of the 
 reviews out there. Some reviews were saying how crappy the entire game was, where others were making 
 reference to some of the best games out there and how PDZ is right there with them. For a $50 purchase 
 I am usually very cautious, so I sat on PDZ for a good month before I made a decision to buy it.
 
  
  If you are a person who loves single-player, then do not buy this game. The level designs are horrible 
 and tend to be very confusing. Secondly, the AI in the single-player mode is pretty bad and becomes 
 very predictable very quickly.
  
  If you are a multi-player (xbox-live) fan, then this is easily one of the best launch titles for 
 XBOX live out there. It is easy to pick up and with all the weapon combinations, it offers a lot 
 of variety. Not to mention that most of the achievements are based on XBOX Live play.
  
  Bottom-line, if you love online games then buy this game. The price is dropping often and you can 
 find a used version at any EB Games or online for even cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-0ne
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the most anticipated 360 launch titles out of the lot, and iit's fairly easy 
 to see why.
  
  Firstly, the graphics make some high end PC games look like garbage, and the shadowing and textures 
 all look incredible! The weapons look realistic, and they sound amazing.
  
  Online play is PDZ's best asset by far, featuring up to 32 players, some great vehicles and 25 
 weapons (each with secondary and tertiary modes) . It easily outstrips many other online games on 
 the market today! There is a massive variety of game modes including: Killcount (deathmatch) , Team 
 Killcount (Team Deathmatch) , CTF, Territories. Then you also have Darkops games, which are more 
 tactical and require teamwork, thinking, and knowledge of your surroundings and weapons.
  
  Unfortuanately its not all good, the single player campaign is fairly pathetic story-wise although 
 there are 4 difficulties (Agent, Secret Agent, Perfect Agent and Dark Agent) and you can play it 
 through in splitscreen with a friend on Xbox Live.
  
  Also the voice overs are at the best, laughable.
  
  But theyre minor moans, and grumbles. All 
 in all this is a fantastic game with great replayability olnine and off and truly is the Xbox 360's 
 greatest weapon at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Arbiter4444
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero once again puts you in the near future, and casts you as the role of Joanna Dark, a 
 sleek and some may say sexy female spy, to go save the world for another time.
  
  And with the price tag at $10 cheaper than a regular 360 game price, there's hardly a lot of excuses 
 of why you shouldn't pick this one up.
  
  The Gameplay
  Alright, while the gameplay may lack speed, it makes up for it with intense combat and sheer fun. It's 
 alright if you don't have Xbox Live, because you have an option to play with up to 15 other bots 
 in multi-player, or 11 if your playing with 3 other friends. If you do have Live however, you can 
 play in match with up to 31 other people (32 in all) which can make for some very wild battles.
 
  
  The Graphics
  Are pretty good, but just not that visually stunning as some other 360 titles out there. But other 
 then that, the graphics aren't really that bad at all, hey, it looks like next-gen to me.
  
  The Sound
  Is what you probably expected along with some good surprises, it gets kind of funny 
 though when your character is diving and rolling, it sometimes sounds like they're constipated....
 
  
  All in all, this game is pretty good addition to the PD franchise, and I'm sure most PD fans will 
 enjoy it... along with new ones too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Well today I was able to finally open up the game after I bought it 2 days ago. As I start the 
 game it's straight to the action. I don't know where I am what I have to do. First thing I see 
 is some robot spiders that I have to shoot at. They put me in a mission and I have no idea what 
 I'm doing most of the time I'm running around shooting everything I see. You have to keep in mind 
 I've never played Perfect Dark for the Nintendo 64. This is my first time actually playing the 
 series. So I have no idea who she is and what she's doing but it keeps up they show you what you 
 have to do and everything. The game looks great and colorful a lot of eye candy. The guns look 
 great and the shooting is pretty good. I'm comparing this game to Halo, Call of Duty 2 and Quake 
 4. From those game I don't think this game is better than Call of Duty or Halo but I think it kicks 
 Quake 4 in the butt. If it wasn't for the amazing looks of this game I won't be playing it much 
 to see what the other stages look like. But the game has been great to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody998
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero
  
  Perfect Dark Zero or PDZ for short is the Prequel the the amazing N64 original Perfect Dark which 
 was an amazing game and one of the best FPS out there which gave PDZ alot to live up to and that 
 being an understatment. PDZ in short was a dissapointment , sure it was a launch title and they 
 are not always going to show the consoles true potential but Rare had 5 years to work on the title 
 and many were expecting greater things from it.
  
  The Offline is dissapointing , great graphics even though getting too close to characters can sometimes 
 look ugly. Heavy framerate problems at times and the game feels somewhat awkward to controll sometimes 
 for anonymous reasons. The game has 14 missions the best in my opinion being the Jungle level late 
 in the game. The game has a dissapointing plot and storyline alike but most dont play Fps's to 
 get a good story so this is a forgivible point. The game features around 15 weapons in general 
 and lets you hold only a few at at a time , scrapping the originals gun swiching system which was 
 acclaimed for its originality. The guns in the game are fun to use and dont just fire , they have 
 many functions and abbilites such as nightvision to grenadelaunchers or even a hologram of yourself. 
 So the Graphics of the levels and guns are a small plus point but an ugly framerate all round mars 
 the game throughout.
  
  The games sound is not impressive. Mainly due to the voice actors which in my opinion even I could 
 do better! And the gun sounds are nothing special either but the game does hold an impresive sound 
 track ranging from Rock to Dance as heard in the Nightclub early in the game. But the Voices and 
 gun sounds brind the overall sound score down.
  
  So the Offline was a dissapointment maybe the Online will be better you are thinking. Well in a 
 nutshell yes it is a whole lot better on Live. It boasts various gametypes incuding Darkops which 
 is simmilar to Counter Strike where two teams battle it out or if it isnt your idea of fun you 
 get the Standard Deathmatch variant or Capture the Flag which is my faviourite gametype. It features 
 around 8 different levels which can be resized depending on the number of players in your game 
 which can reach as high as 32 players in total. The outdoor maps are dissapointing though and look 
 ugly which gives off a rushed effect which is offputing. You can play 'Ranked' or 'Unranked' matches. 
 Wheather you want to get your rank improved or just want to have fun. 
  
  In total some fun can be had playing this game but it will get old fast as it does have so many 
 major flaws which do unfortunetly outweigh the more impressive parts waiting for you in the game.
 
  
  7/10 OVERALL
  
  8/10 Graphics
  7/10 Sound
  7/10 Tilt
  7/10 Value
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe512
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  In Perfect Dark Zero, you play as Dark Agent Jo Dark and go through a single player campaign, or 
 play multiplayer on or offline.
  Perfect Dark is a hard game to review, because it has excellent multiplayer, yet boring single 
 player. So, if you have played Rainbow Six 3 for the original Xbox, that kind of experience is 
 what you can expect. The gameplay is good, good, bad. Good multiplayer, good co-op, not so good 
 single player. This game is definitely next-gen graphically, just look at the barrel explosions 
 and environment. I find the sound to be good, but not great, so it gets a seven, nothing more. 
 This game has excellent value because the multiplayer has enough to keep you interested for months, 
 not quite good enough to keep you as interested as Halo 2, but still a long time.
  Overall, Perfect Dark Zero is a good multiplayer experience, but I wouldn't recommend it if you 
 don't have Xbox Liver Gold or a few buddies to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videohead20
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2006 11:46 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. The story was was fair for a rare game. But, the fun factor is what makes 
 this game. It has a fast pace and smooth look. Also, the controls are great. The weapons are fun 
 and the mech was a good add on as well. Now we have the on line aspect. It is great fun to put 
 it lightly. I have spent many hours playing darkops over and over again. Very little lag and that 
 is also a plus. So, the only thing that I wish would be better is a little bit more story and a 
 jump button would be great. Over all a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgw798
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 13, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, i do not understand why so many people like this game. I also know that a lot of people 
 don't like it at all and I can definitely can see why. Of my XBox 360 collection of nine games, 
 I can easily say that Perfect Dark Zero is by far the worst, and I also can not see how any single 
 other 360 game can be worse either. The good part of this game is the graphics which are good, 
 but fairly average compared to its competing XBox 360 games. The sound is decent, but very simple 
 and repetitive, not life-like at all. The worst play about this game is the gameplay. It is by 
 far the worst gameplay I have ever experienced. It is so hard to control and so unsmooth. There 
 is something really fake seeming about the gameplay too. Considering the value, this game is completely 
 not worth it... DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY ON PERFECT DARK ZERO. I would rather play "Cabbage Patch 
 Kids: Where's My Pony?" for two days straight then play Perfect Dark Zero with some friends for 
 an hour. All my friends agree, this is not a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDX2
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 13, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  PDZ does not live up to its potential. It is a horribly broken game that is just not fun. First 
 off is the campaign mode. It is terrible. Even with the directions being pointed out on the ground 
 it is still easy to get lost. It is very frusterating when you cant figure out what to do. The 
 only good part is the multiplayer, but when i say good, i mean the best part of this mediocre game. 
 all the gameplay modes are the same as any other game, and they even tried to include a counter-strike 
 esque buying weapons system, but it seems like all you can buy are cheap SMGs, unless the money 
 is cranked up. and with the abundance of female characters and the preference to use melee attacks, 
 PDZ multiplayer games degenerate into cat-fights. the only stand out multiplayer mode is infection, 
 where one player tries to turn the others into zombies like him. but if you have played Timesplitters 
 3 (which is a MUCH better game) then you know that infection was ripped right out of this game 
 (and even more interesting is the fact that the makers of timesplitters are ex-rare employees) . 
 PDZ is a bad game, if you want a 360 shooter get Quake 4 (best shooter) or Call of Duty 2 (Not 
 as good as quake 4, but still really good) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soliquid_Snake
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Since becoming Microsoft's puppet , Rare have remained relatively inactive. Of course they delivered 
 XBOX owners great titles such as Grabbed By The Ghoulies and Conker: Live And Reloaded but failed 
 to develop a game that would at least rival their classics like Goldeneye and Perfect Dark, until 
 now. With the release of Microsoft's next generation console, Rare has wasted no time in fulfilling 
 it's purpose to create classic games. One of the two released on the XBOX 360 developed by Rare 
 is Perfect Dark Zero, the sequel to the Nintendo 64 hit and I would personally like to welcome 
 back Rare to list of developer legends.
  
  The single player campaign is a success in itself as the story flows easily to remain fresh. However, 
 this also means that the story is shallow and pretty weak compared to the strong gameplay that 
 deserves a more intriguing story. 
  The graphics in the game are also superb with the environments looking beautiful and polished despite 
 glitches that only appear every so often. The weapons in particular are designed superbly to enhance 
 the realism of the weapons. 
  
  The only criticism that ought to be mentioned is the frustrating concept of replaying a whole level 
 if you are killed. Apart from this the game is a belated example of the genius that is Rare 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -InsrtNameHere-
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  + The single player in this game, i think, is really good and well done. It has a good storyline, 
 Co-op, and it stays to the roots of the games like Golden Eye, and Perfect Dark for the 64. And 
 if you dont like how its easy, just turn it to sercet or perfect agent, which is verry challenging.
 
  + The multiplayer is Great. As many people say, it isnt a Halo. Theyre right. It isnt. It is a 
 different type of multiplayer. The deathmatch is simmalar to halo, but it isnt better than Halo. 
 But the Dark Ops is what it does REALY well in. It combines Counter-Strike with Halo. You buy weapons, 
 and use them. You get more money depending if you revive someone, or kill a teamate. They also 
 have Infection (Zombies to all Halo Fans) which is also great. And you can get 2 vehicles too.
 
  + The controls are great. You have one of the best options, called leaning. It is verry useful. 
 It is also stlyed abit like halos controls. 
  + The graphics are great, even after the transition from GC to Xbob, and finaly to the 360. the 
 Sound is great too.
  - Theres a couple graphical errors in it, like walking though scenery and bodies.
  - Also, I 
 just wished that there was a bit more vehicles in the game. But that is replaced by over 30 weapons (correct 
 me if im wrong) .
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  This game is getting mixed reviews. And this is my oppinion based on how much I enjoyed this game. 
 And I hope you guys will enjoy it as much as I have. 
  -InsrtNameHere- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: random_joe6657
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 13, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  i got this game for christmas and i have play the s*** out of it. its a really fun game the missions 
 are good the only problem is that there no story at all
  ,at least it feels like there isnt any. you pretty much just go around shootin guys which is really 
 fun in this game. then when your done with the single you have co-op or deathmatch/darkops to play. 
 the one thing i like about the multiplayer is the bots. the bots are don well they know how to 
 shoot and hit you and thats all that really matters. over all the gameplay is good. the sound for 
 this game is good like the shooting sounds and all the other sounds are good. but the music in 
 this is horrable so you better have you own tracks. the grapics in this game are an embarssment 
 to the 360 the people look really bad and the ragdolls are worse. the levls in the game look fairly 
 good but the textures look like some one spilled hot butter on everything. if you can get past the 
 bad music and the greacy grapics then your good to go. oh and if you rent this game to get gamerscore 
 done count on alot of points come your way, you need time to get the acheavments 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebjunior
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that this is one of the few games I really disagree with other peoples reviews so 
 much... It is kind of surprising that so much people like this game cuz it sux... well not totally 
 but it is a TOTAL LETDOWN... and doesnt have good multiplayer at all... let me give u an example 
 of XBOX LIVE which it is hardly that... ok here u go:
  
  First u log on and get ur gamer tag ready but then when u join a game (ANY GAME) they all have 
 bots there are usually about 2 or 3 active players so... ur PALYING AGAINST bots... whats the pint 
 of XBOX LIVE if u play against a bots... also the graphics and movements are really slow and play-dough 
 like.... this game is just A BIG BUST... im really pissed off i bought the Special Edition too.... 
 GOD dammit
  
  ups and downs:::::
  + overall a OK game but i have to admit my score does go up cuz i do miss the old PD game for the 
 64
  
  -multiplayer is bad
  -graphics are bad
  -i disagree with a lot of these reviews
  -BIGGEST DISSAPOINTMENT OF THE YEAR or well at least 
 the first one of 2006 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jelleriii
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Theres alot of great stukk about this game this is the only game and I mean the only game to rush 
 out and buy now . I have the LTD edition there's not that much difference accept the extras but 
 at walmart they are both the same price so pick up the LTD version the case alone is worth it .Back 
 to the game though this games multiplayer is excellent I and my opinion hate to say it is better 
 than halo in terms of fun and objectives it has more meat basically The jetpacks are fantastic 
 but I wish there were more vehicles. The story mode has some excellent levels and some well it 
 cant be all good even halo 2 suffered in that case .replay value for this game is very high and 
 most people who bought a 360 have this game and i have yet to not be able to find someone to play 
 either coop mode or deathmatch so you will find players from everywhere around the globe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vic_Vega1994
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 12, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  This is a well rounded game. I love the multiplayer and the single player is good also. The graphics 
 are awesome but ugly in some spots and the weapons are really nice. I like the new zip line feature 
 and the hologram on one of the scientist guns. The game is short but i haven't finished it yet. 
 The story line is good but the things these people say are sometimes stupid. The multiplayer is 
 awesome its the best part of the game. The Dark Ops gameplay on multiplayer is awesome. It reminds 
 me of Counter-Strike way too much. I think Rare stole the idea from Valve but its still awesome. 
 The way the armor falls off when you shoot some one is cool. The graphics can get a little shiny 
 at times. The sound is great when it is connected to a Home Theater system with 5.1-7.1 surround 
 sound. The control of the game is good. The gameplay is awesome too. It looks better if you play 
 it on a HDTV. So this is a all round great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cecx
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 12, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game for many hours both in single and multiplayer, I can say that this game 
 is simply unimpresive. The controls are basic, the graphics are pretty in some places but character 
 models could use some work, and the online play is not nearly as good as I had heard.
  
  First off the controls aren't as good as I was hoping for. Zooming with the sniper is a pain as 
 you must aim and zoom with the left trigger which is pressure sensitive which can lead to over 
 or under zooming. Also aiming isn't very good even when you're not sniping so this game can get 
 quite frustrating at times.
  
  The graphics on the other hand are quite good. The environments are beautiful and the textures 
 are good looking. However, when it comes to the character models, things are pretty ugly which 
 can take away from the experience quite a bit.
  
  Online play which is supposedly great in this game seemed dull and repetitive. I really didn't 
 enjoy myself and I found the levels to be pretty poorly designed. There was little to no lag but 
 as I said, it is very repetitive.
  
  The sound in this game is both bad and good. The guns sound very good in my opinion, but the club 
 music can get pretty annoying after listening to it for hours straight. Also Joanna grunting everytime 
 she rolls or gets shot is extremely annoying, at times it made me want to drown her but I couldn't 
 reach the water because of the invisible walls.
  
  The story takes place in the future, that's basically all you need to know and all I'm going to 
 tell you. Overall I didn't enjoy this game, but I know some of you will and that's why it received 
 the score it did. So I recommend a rent on this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coviechieif62
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Seriously, I have been anticipating this for about 5 years when the N64 game originally came out 
 and that game stunned me as well. It had amazing graphics a descent storie and pretty good controls 
 for an N64 game. Despite all of The positives i have just stated, I must admit that it really wasn't 
 to inventive and was pretty linear. Also, i hated that you cant really shoot or kill your own guys. 
 Overall, hear are the positives: Awesome graphics, good music, solid multiplayer, good story, some 
 interesting environments, and descent voice acting and soun effects. The negatives: I would much 
 rather play a port thatn a sequel, The gameplay gets a little stale after paying for more than 
 2 hours at a time, very linear in most levels, you cant kill your own guys, and I just didn't actually 
 end up enjoying it as much as the original (I still play the N64 version today) . Overall, I say 
 rent it first, then if you like it ,buy it when the price drops a bit unless of course, you're 
 rich. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manchildshafes
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 12, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  This game has a very average single player mode but i enjoyed the co-op and multiplayer quite a 
 bit. It grows on you quite a bit and the rolling system is unique but seems like it could have 
 used a little more fine tuning. The lack of a jump button is hard to get used to at first but makes 
 it more unique. If you are looking for a game that is exactly like Halo youy will be dissappointed, 
 it is not Halo but it is fun anyways. I recomend this to people who enjoy good multiplayer games. 
 The single player is not as fun as Call of Duty 2 but the multiplayer far surpasses that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_of_Fear
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 11, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  The single player play seems to be lacking a little something. That little something turns out 
 to be a friend to go around killing with. The really cool thing about this game is that you can 
 play co-op mode with xbox live if you dont have a friend closer to your TV. Also the other multiplayer 
 modes are much more fun then playing the story mode by yourself. What really makes this game great 
 is that even after you beat the game there is plenty more to do online or with friends there is 
 a lot of cool multiplayer ways to play that should keep the average gamers attention for many, 
 many, hours. The other thing that i really like about this game is that there are so many ways 
 to complete each level in the story mode. If you want to get to one place or another there is always 
 two or more ways to go. This is a must buy game if you have xbox live or a friend that will come 
 over and play with you a lot. Overall this is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huskers08
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything you could want in a first-person shooter. The single player is really 
 fun. You can definetely tell a difference in the difficulties. I beat the game in like seven hours 
 on agent (easy) and in about three hours have only beaten four levels on the second hardest difficulty. 
 It also has Co-op on and off line. Also I think this is the best xbox live game out. I loved halo 
 2 online, but when i played this then went back to play halo 2 I thought it was terrible. The online 
 play has many different game (killcount, team killcount, capture the flag, eradication, a territory 
 type game and two others i can't remember) . There are also many different types of weapons you 
 can choose from. So if you have a 360 go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattherman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 11, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  ok perfect dark zero, this has to be the worst storyline ive seen in a fps, and why the hell is 
 there a sword? maybe the developpers thought: well bungie pulled it off, lets put a sword in with 
 no lungeing!
  ok there are a lot of pointless wepons in the game (sword, shockwave, fac-16, etc) and there are 
 2 vehicles, the hovercraft is gay, the jetpack is pretty gay too, and in story mode when ur on 
 agent and then try secret agent ud expect not that much of a difference but jeez the a. i. got smart! 
 and whats up with that freaky scottsman that anoys u all the time, and y is the last mission the 
 easyest? the multiplayer is good with the acception of dark ops infection (stupid form of zombie 
 off halo2) u cant turn off friendly fire in infection wich is stupid because people kill u for 
 no reason, and for some reason whenever i go on xbox live it will sign me out (once everytime my 
 xbox is turned on) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: o_sausage
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  alot of people have played perfect dark on the N64 with very nice graphics for the time and being 
 made by people who made goldeneye it was a good game 
  this prequal does have good graphics when it comes to textures and landscapes but some ofthe worst 
 character models i have ever seen
  gameplay is good but there is usually only one checkpoint per level and after playing ten minutes 
 you don't wont to have to start back from one it's odd though that rare's other game on 360 doesn't 
 share this feat but insted has countless savepoints and checkpoints sound and value are good and 
 multiplayer will keep you coming back but it may take awhile to get used to odd aiming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candykiss83
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 11, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I really wasnt' as impressed with this game as most are it seems . Don't get me wrong I have put 
 in a good 6-7 hours of both single and multi player games and had a good time with it. I just don't 
 feel it deserves the 10.
  
  I found the AI to be garbage it felt like I was back in my NES days. With people shooting at me 
 from another room (downstairs right UNDER me actually) , but when I hide behind a box outside it 
 was like I had dissapeared, never to be seen again. I found the levels to be fairly short as well 
 but it does keep the game moving so in a way it is good.
  
  I was impressed with the graphics, not realistic but fun and sharp. I am a fan of the music durring 
 the game, me like. 
  
  This game is good, give it a try I just don't think it deserves a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ASUPfunk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 11, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is one of the best out for the 360 now but there are way too few titles to make that 
 a huge compliment. First off the controles are very smooth and responsive. But the one bad thing 
 is the story line. I is pretty short but the major beef i have with it is it is COMPLETELY RANDOM. 
 The story is very strange and leaves me scratching my head. But of course very few people buy this 
 type of game for the story mode, because its all about the online. The online is pretty great but 
 there is one thing that is strange. The game has no jump button but im not sure if that is so bad. 
 It makes it a non-halo clone. So with no jump it makes online sort of new and refreshing. All in 
 all a great game but does the original 64 game very little justice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: demiree
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  talah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... 
 beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama 
 .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... 
 beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama 
 .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... 
 beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama 
 .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... 
 beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama 
 .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... 
 beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama 
 .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... 
 beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama 
 .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... 
 beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama 
 .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... 
 beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama 
 .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... 
 beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama 
 .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice gametalah.... beslama .. nice game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abrussa
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 11, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, I mean is not a halo style game a real first shooter with a tactical mode, 
 is amazing the way you can cover and shot, however I dont think this game is perfect, it will be 
 more perfect if the enemy were more smart. But overall this is a fun game specially in the online 
 mode, if you like online you will love this game, the difficulty in the game awesome , you beat 
 the game in perfect agent and another option will open that will be dark agent. If you a re score 
 fan game you will play this game to unluck all the achivements. This is a most have game for xbox 
 360. Great shooter and great value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icy-X
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  This is a fun game for the most part really when playing it online ofcourse. So will a FPS fan 
 be bored with this game? I wouldn't think so. 
  
  I'll try to keep this some what short....
  
  The gameplay is solid overall, but a little bit 
 dissapointing. First off only 13 missions in the single player and there is really no reason to 
 go through it again except to improve your gamerscore. It isn't some thing like Call of Duty that 
 the single player is so awsome you just gotta go through that again. It is the multiplayer that 
 really makes the game any good. Plenty of weapons and enough game types to satisfy in my opinion. 
 Although nothing really original so it is kinda like been there, done that. Also there is only 
 6 maps. That just is not a lot so you will end up playing at the same places over and over too 
 often. Also only two vehicles in the game wich one of them, the Hover Craft, just sucks for the 
 most part and can only be used in one of the six maps. The Jet Pack only can be used in two of 
 the six maps. Overall online has some let downs, but is still pretty solid and I enjoy it.
  
  Graphics..... Oh the graphics are really nice. Best single part of this game is probably the 
 graphics. Trying to keep it short so I'll just say only bad thing about the graphics in my opinion 
 is that the character models could of been better. 
  
  The Audio... In my opinion could of had some better voice overs and perhaps better music. Pretty 
 solid though.
  
  Overall 7.8/10 so yeah it is a good game. Dissapointing? Yes for whom expected way too much. Is 
 it worth buying? Well best FPS to play online on the Xbox 360 at the moment since Call of Duty 
 2 lags too much. I'd say try it out before buying if you're not positive you want this game. Perhaps 
 just waiting for Halo 3 would be better for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 10, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Hello my name is Cole. i think that this game is good for graphics. actualy the graphics are amazing. 
 but the gameplay is not so great. went you start the level you are givin some goals. you run around 
 fihgt a couple guys and thats all. the fighting is not so good because its just "walk in, shoot 
 at a couple guys, walk out." thats all i tried it on hard but its the same thing. call of duty 
 2 is a fantastic game because its tactical. went you run into a level you must duck and cover or 
 you will get your brains blown out the back of your head. wou have to flush guys out of they're 
 hiding spotes by throwing g-nades. i simply dont like perfect dark zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudKoF
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 10, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  While playing this is enjoyed a new FPS and was impressed by the gameplay and the great levels, 
 for the most part. I started play the multiplayer, but it just didn't do it for me. I just wish 
 in the matchmaking that all would go to the H@lo 2 way of doing it. It seems just so much simplier 
 than not really knowing what you're going to be playing and hopefully getting enough people. I 
 like the gameplay for the singleplayer mode, but in multiplayer there just doesn't seem to have 
 a sensitivity that i like in both zoomed and regular mode. Other than my little gripes it's worth 
 buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acdc125
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 10, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  You may know Rare as the Developer that made a little game called Goldeneye for the N64. And by 
 Goldeneye, I mean the game that set the golden standard for multiplayer games. Perfect Dark Zero 
 was a sequel to Perfect dark for the N64. There were high standards to live up to, enough to make 
 any game look like crap. But Rare pulled it off. Its not the game fans expected it to be, the amazing 
 Halo killer that would surpass anyother game at launch. But PDZ has it own qualities that make 
 it well done FPS.
  Lets get one thing out of the way first, don't buy this game for single player. the first few levels 
 are abysmal, suffering from poor design and even worse goals. Though the game is Amazingly pretty, 
 most people quit playing solo player after the 3rd level and claim its horrible. But once you pass 
 those levels, the game becomes what it was mean't to be, a smart, fun, arcadey spy shooter. 
  The weapons are fantastic. The models look great, and the weapons have a wide variety of secondary, 
 and in some cases tertiary functions. From X-ray vision to disposable turrets, this game gives 
 Ratchet and Clank a run for its money, weapon wise.
  The graphics are the best i've ever seen. From those realistic textures (no more just flat wall 
 with bricks painted on, now there are spaces between bricks) to the sweet lighting affects. I've 
 been distracted a few times by looking at the visuals while in battle. 
  The sweet techno and rock tracks give the game a real feel of adrenaline, and the weapons sound 
 great. But it is brought don by repitive gun chatter. I've heard guards say "She's packing lead" 
 maybe 50 times. But still, the game's sound is good an suits its style perfectly.
  The controls are tight and responsive, which you would expect from Rare. The new moves the've made 
 for the game ( the combat roll, which you it the left bumper and you starting rolling-which is extremely 
 helpful, and in other fps's, like Call Of Duty2, I accidentally hit it when in intense fire fights, 
 because its that helpful) and the cover move (when you go up to a wall or railing, you can press 
 A to hie under the rail, while your aimer is infront, you can aim it around, target someone, press 
 fire, and your person will come out of cover, fire, then hide again) . 
  Rare is truly the master of multiplayer. No other game have I had more fun on multiplayer. None. 
 Its that good. With a multitude of features and vehicles, you can tell this is where more of the 
 developing went. If you have friends or xbox live, then get this game. If not, hopefully the bots 
 can tie you over untill you get xbox live or friends. Oh, and the Co-op is fantastic. Co-op makes 
 the single player not olny fun, but memorable.
  This just comes to show that Rare truly is the king of multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightmare-JD
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  This was the launch title I was most excited about. I loved the original Perefct Dark on the N64 
 two generations ago, to find that Rare release a file of cow dung.
  
  Story Line
  
  Not really a game to go with the story, but a story for the game. A good game is based around a 
 story pre-written, not a story added to make a game. Nothing compelling, I got bored after two 
 levels but continued only because I was waiting for a cool twist or something, but no.
  
  Sound
  
  No complaints, but nothing to praise about. 5.1 could have been channeled a bit better 
 with more impact.. but still not bad.
  
  Graphics
  
  Ok graphics, Halo2 on the Xbox had better graphics than this. Too shiny, even things that should 
 not be shiny are shiny. Choppy frame rate every now and again in single player, very bad in multiplayer. 
 Even in HD does nothing special.
  
  Multi-player
  
  Best part of the game, but ruined by not enough characters and options, plus the BAD frame rate.
 
  
  Overall nothing special about this game at all. I expected more from Rare, especially for a game 
 that they have spent many years making. I have played better FPS that have been made in less than 
 a year. 
  
  This game is like an ugly woman apply lots of make up. Looks good in apperance, but bad underneath. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gulstaff
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 10, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  When I received that knock on the door from the UPS man, holding my glorious XBOX 360 in his hands. the 
 only thing I could think of was playing Perfect Dark Zero. The amount of time I had logged into 
 the previous installment is actually kind of embarrassing, but I looked forward to repeating it. 
 Though this was a great game, I am somewhat disappointed that they got rid of a lot of what made 
 the original shine.
  
  Gameplay:
  The first night I got this game, I logged a solid 12 hours of straight playtime. The second day 
 I added another 14 hours under my belt. The game plays brilliantly. I have heard a lot of complaint 
 about the lack of a jump feature, but I really dont see how not having a jump feature would actually 
 make or break a game. The original didnt have itwhy should this be a requirement for the new 
 one.
  The overall feel of the game is amazing, though the controls do seems a little more awkward than 
 other FPS games.
  
  Graphics:
  The overall Graphics are great, there are some noticeable bugs in the gamebut overall I was pleasantly 
 impressed with the feel and look of the scenery and characters.
  
  Sound:
  I enjoyed the music and the sounds of combatbut the character voices were quite annoying. This 
 is one of the reasons why I cannot give the Sound a perfect score.
  
  Value:
  With the games online capability and multi-player (with Bots) options, you will definitely get 
 a lot of life out of this game. Unfortunately the single player campaign was a little lacking in 
 the length department (beat it in about 10 hours) , and the voice acting is making me shy away from 
 beating it a second time.
  
  Overall:
  Though I really enjoy this game, it is in by no ways comparable to the original. It is graphically 
 superior and the levels are enjoyable, but it is just missing that feel that the original brought 
 to the consol FPS games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kewz
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 10, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  ok so when i bought my xbox 360 i desperatly needed a FPS it was between this and call of duty. 
 But from complaints i heard about the online for COD i purchased PDZ. Ok as far as the story in 
 this game its lame and boring not a killer story like Halo. Honestly you wont even care about the 
 story just the shooting. The game on normal meaning AGENT mode is easy you can beat it in 1 night. 
 At first takes some time to get used to the game first of no jump button? come on this isnt splinter 
 cell their is no jump button but instead a roll on the floor button really lame. The guns are what 
 make this game shine. Guns like super dragon, laptop and a few others make this game great. That 
 and the multiplayer are the only 2 reasons to own this game so if you dont play on live this game 
 isnt for you honestly just rent it beat it and return it. The aiming is shaky when u play multiplayer 
 games you will usually see people rolling on the floor trying to duck your bullets. As far as unrank 
 n ranked games they really need to fix this. for example and i dont know if its me or everyone 
 who plays games like halo or ghost recon but you cant make your own room or have a dedicated server 
 unless you play an unranked match. For example if you play a ranked match once the match is over 
 you have to start from scrach and hope you find a room to play in. The game has a tendency to freeze 
 and have slow frame rate somtimes. Honestly i was dissapointed with this game due to the fact that 
 it got such high rating yes the graphics are great but the character models are the worst ive seen 
 in yrs. Guns are goregous but honestly this game is a rental. When ghost recon advance warfighter 
 or gears of war come out this game is sold in my eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike28647
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Let's see, i could pretty much write a novel on what this game is lacking. The graphics are great, 
 but that is where the great ends. I play on and off for about 3 hours, get bored of the uninteresting 
 storyline and try out the multiplayer, big big disappointment, especially after playing Halo 2. 
 In multiplayer, players are limited to a sorry 6 people to choose from with no customization at 
 all. The models in multiplayer move like someone who just got out of the proctologist office, they 
 have but a couple of animations when killed and only a handful of neat weapons to carry, ammo is 
 scarce on the battlefield, and the AI bots are way to smart, for example, I was hiding near a bush 
 at least 100 yards away from an AI bot and he spotted me like screen peak-er who's... well, looking 
 at your screen. It is moments like this that make me want to shut off the game and never play it 
 again, which is pretty much what i have done. Big warning to all who expect a great game!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leroysavage
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  When I read the GAMESTOP reviews, I thought they were kidding about the CUT SCENES having really 
 nothing to do with the game. Sadly, they weren't. I really wanted to love this game, I really did. 
 Some of the visuals (i. e. the laser light shows in the nightclub, the water falls in the mountains) 
 are jaw dropping stunning. The MUSIC is a great touch, perfect setting the overall mood.
  
  But seeing the same face on every bad guy or girl, and hearing the same person voice EVERY SINGLE 
 NPC is pretty lazy. I feel like I'm playing TIME SPLITTERS 2, not PDZ. The biggest blow (so far) 
 is seeing the exact TRAINING LEVEL, back in full force in level 8. I kept thinking...."why does 
 this all look so familiar?" ... and then it hit me: All those years in development, and we still 
 couldn't put together the obligatory "Warehouse of Training and Shooting" 
  
  Thankfully GAMESTOP told me to check out the action ON-LINE, or in CO-OP Mode and those really 
 work pretty well, with some fun vehicles, HUGE weapons and lots of body-part mayhem. 
  
  So Far, KING KONG blows PDZ off of skull island for that overall XBOX 360 audio and visual and 
 story experience...... and Joanna Dark is more like Jessica Lange than Naomi Watts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stl2006faulk
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing... Rare did an amazing job! The single player and multiplayer are so 
 much fun! If you are an Xbox 360 owner and don't have a clue what game to get, this is the jaw 
 dropping game that you will get your moneys worth. Perfect Dark Zero has very good graphics, not 
 next gen, but the game play makes up for it. The weapons are so fun to play with! My favorite is 
 the laptop gun just like the old perfect dark for N64. The bottom line is this is the best game 
 out for 360 until Halo 3. Get the limited edition one also.. It's very pimp. Get this game. NOW! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps10n1cX
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Joanna Dark once again comes back as a spy and ready to shoot the sh*t out of anyone who crosses 
 her path. I thought the Campaign was awesome loved it story line was great defiantly better then 
 the first. I played this game till the end and it was defiantly worth it and worth playing it again. 
 
  
  The multi-player is fun and all but the removed the create a character like there was in the first 
 game. The multi-player still fun but not as good as the first game.
  
  Other then that the game was great and worth playing I recommended it to all first person shooter 
 lovers!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertyuiop65656
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 9, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  When I first popped in perfect dark zero I was ssoooooooo excited. I played the first three levels 
 and thought this game was so fun The graphics were incredible!
  
  then it hit me.
  
  this game is nothing like the original perfect dark. the single player is enjoyable for a little 
 bit but last time I checked Joanna Dark is ENGLISH... not some punky spy girl. I wasn't even sure 
 this was the right game. Last I remember but in the N64 perfect dark ( sequel) jo and jonathan 
 didn't seem to be interested in eachother at all but now they are lovers. Maybe you did or did 
 not like the feature of walking around carrington but i did because it added some realism to it 
 but now its a menu have fun. Not only was the single player bad but multiplayer is nothing like 
 the the old multiplayer. First if you liked all the fun and crazy weapons in the good perfect dark 
 then you might just want to dust off the old N64 and pop it in because you will get guns that belong 
 in ghost recon rather than perfect dark. you cant even customize a character.. nope you can pick 
 random henchmen from the carrington and others... wow fun 
  
  thanks to this game the series is DEAD I am never going to play a sequel or prequel to this game 
 again stick with COD2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ducklord3000
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Most everything about this game frustrates me. I find myself always wanting to finish the current 
 level not to progress the story, but in the hopes that the next level won't suck so hard. First 
 off, the feel of the controls themselves ruin everything: It's difficult to aim, because there 
 is not enough auto-aim. Yeah, I said it. Auto-aim can be a good thing, because it makes the scenario 
 more fun because you are actually killing more people. Also, when you zoom-in with any gun, on 
 even the highest sensitivity, it is still too slow to accurately track targets. One memorable thing 
 which really set me against this game was the jungle level. I'm not sure what Rare was thinking 
 when they made this level, but it is damn near impossible to see anything. The foliage gets in 
 the way all too often, and it's just generally frustrating. Also, when you go to switch between 
 the weapons you currently have, you better not be standing around a gun on the ground, because 
 you don't need to hold Y in order to pick up new weapons, you just need to press it once. Exchanging 
 and switching weapons is done by pressing Y, and it's just stupid and frustrating. I have never 
 returned a video game in my life, but this may just be bad enough to warrant such a thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilight2562
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  The storyline for the single player game was one of the worst I have seen in several years. Somehow 
 this horrible story actually even gets worse if you play co-op. There was nothing new or inventive. 
 All of the gadgets and weapons have been done before in other games and usually with better implementation.
 
  
  Graphically this game is good compared to its competition, but pretty poor for a 360 game. Playing 
 solo it is fair, but it does not handle split screen as well as other games that I have played. 
 This was made even worse when you have to use a Camspy. Playing on a 36" TV neither of us could 
 really tell what was going on at all with this distorted view (turns out to not be very important 
 thought I guess since the Camspy was only used one other time in the storyline.)
  
  The controls were not as responsive as I would have hoped for with the less then impressive graphics. 
 Although I would not call it jumpy, as visually and functionally you do not see any real jumps, 
 it felt rather clunky to me. I also did not like the pressure sensitive zoom function and wish 
 that they had included a more traditional option in the control setup.
  
  I can't judge the multiplayer aspects of the game as I never could get myself to want to try it. 
 I could not see any reason to play it over some older games that have as good graphics, the same 
 weapon choices, better controls, and better options for addition content (I can't imagine the gadgets 
 comparing to the gadgets or vehicle options from other games.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axe84
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  December 2nd I got my xbox 360. december 2nd I also got Perfect Dark Zero. Got home played it. 
 My reaction mixed....
  This is truly one of the best launch titles to the 360, but Peter Moore saying this is the next-gens 
 Halo? No, this is a truly great game, but not a Halo predecessor. Rare gave us Perfect Dark and 
 Goldeneye to the Nintendo 64. Where Goldeneye was (maybe still is in my eyes) the best they gave 
 us gamers. It sent the FPS world to a new level, but could PDZ bring the exellence further?
  Gameplay: 
  Great gameplay on this game. For every mission you fulfill you get the weapons you 
 finished the level with in your arsenal. This makes it possible to finish the first level with 
 the super dragon or the RCP 90. There are arrows that lead you to your way point, but these seem 
 to show up when you dont need them instead of when yuo need them.
  Online this game is terrific. Letting you play online with up to 31 other players in one game is 
 to the say it with one word, awesome. Play onslaught, infection, eradication, team deathmatch and 
 deathmatch being the most played. You can also play co-op on the missions with your pal from Nepal. 
 And there are many achievements to unlock
  Graphics:
  The graphics are great, but sometimes the graphics are a bit shiny and the characters might look 
 a bit doolish like. The surrounding are mind bobbling, but if you have a HD TV play it on this. 
 You can see that this game was actually meant for the GC.
  Sound:
  The sound might be the thing that is the worst in this game, bad voice acting with really terrible 
 humor. 
  Value:
  But all-in-all this is a quite addicting game. Where you have to play, and play, and play, and 
 play etc. This game is truly a great multiplayer game and the missions are great so I would advice 
 you to get it, and get online now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  After years of waiting, a sequel, err, prequel to Perfect Dark has arrived. The fact that it has 
 arrived on all-new hardware makes Perfect Dark Zero both a feast for the eyes and ears. Oh lets 
 face it, its a treat for all of your senses  even taste. The presentation is sleek, the single 
 player game is lengthy and enjoyable, and the multiplayer is just the icing on the cake. All these 
 elements make Perfect Dark Zero one of the top choices when it comes to the X360 launch titles. 
 Sure, the game may not win you over in terms of story, but it more than makes up for it with presentation 
 and gameplay. For those who have been saying that Rare has lost their touch, fetch yourself a bib 
 because youve got some crow to eat. 
  
  Perfect Dark Zero follows Joanna Dark, a mercenary who, along with her father, is trying to put 
 a stop to the evil Datadyne Corporation and their search for an ancient artifact. That pretty much 
 sums up the story in a nutshell without any sort of spoilers. The hub of the game lies in the mission 
 select screen where you can choose which mission youd like to play along with equipping yourself 
 with any weapons youve collected and managed to hold onto up until that point along with some 
 pre-selected gadgets that will come in handy. Missions can be individually adjusted for difficulty 
 so if a mission is frustrating you to no end, you can fall back on the easier agent difficulty 
 instead. 
  
  The single player campaign wont break any of the standard FPS conventions but it executes the 
 standards really well and offers a good number of memorable moments. The enemies you encounter 
 arent too smart by any means, but they at least have sense enough to duck behind cover once in 
 a while. On the other hand, soldiers armed with shields tend to forget that they can be shot in 
 the shins  a strategy that works all the time. Aside from the spotty AI, missions in Perfect Dark 
 flow nicely. Youll frequently find yourself fighting alongside people on your side and they do 
 a really good job of picking off enemy soldiers. In between missions youll get some spoken dialog 
 from your mission coordinator which acts as a means to set the stage for the next mission and offers 
 little in the way of advancing the thinly stretched story. Missions will take you through a variety 
 of objectives like seek and destroy missions, protecting your teammates, and stealth. While stealth 
 is encouraged in certain portions of the game, its rarely a requirement. This proves to be a good 
 thing since going stealth would cause you to miss out on the wide variety of great and destructive 
 weapons the game has to offer. All of the standard categories of weapons are covered here with 
 a large variety of pistols, assault weapons, machine guns, grenades, and close combat weapons. 
 While every weapon is great on its own accord, each one features its own alternate use. Some weapons 
 will add silencers while others offer more outlandish modes like projecting a number of holograms 
 to confuse anyone shooting at you or can deploy automated turrets that can spray fire at anything 
 that gets near it. Youll quickly find your favorite weapons based on how you like to play the 
 game, which in turn makes the game more flexible towards how you want to play it. Do you want to 
 keep things quiet or run in with guns blazing? The choice is yours! Youll be limited as to how 
 many weapons you can carry thanks to an inventory system governed by weapon size which allows you 
 to carry about four pistols or a couple of pistols and an assault weapon. At the end of each mission 
 youll be given a score and graded on areas like stealth, combat, and safety. Youll then be compared 
 to the worlds best just to see how much you suck compared to them. 
  
  A handful of vehicle-based missions help to add variety and break up the standard FPS levels. While 
 these missions are pretty enjoyable, theyre nothing too exciting and may even let some people 
 down. One instance has Joanna and her father trying to commandeer a hovercraft and hearing dear 
 old dad yell you drive, Ill shoot only lead to disappointment on my part. I was even more disappointed 
 when dad didnt shoot really well and I found myself having to park the hovercraft in a spot where 
 dad wont die and hoofing on foot in order to finally complete an objective. 
  
  While the single player campaign is enjoyable in its own right the virtual icing on the cake comes 
 in the games multiplayer modes. Co-op is possibly the best of the multiplayer modes where you and 
 a friend can blast your way though the games single player game by means of split screen or over 
 Xbox Live. The game doesnt skip a beat and doesnt cut any corners on the visuals when playing 
 split screen co-op and Xbox Live is pretty much lag free. Each mission offers a different scenario 
 where the second player will assume the likenesses of different characters to help fit into the 
 overall storyline. Some missions will start both players in different areas causing them both to 
 hold their own until they can get together and fight at each others side. Aside from the co-op 
 modes, there are plenty of competitive multiplayer modes available. Youve got team deathmatch 
 (known here as killcount) , capture the flag, and the dark ops multiplayer modes that bear a striking 
 resemblance to those seen in Counter-Strike. 
  
  The dark ops games feature an onslaught mode where one team attempts to infiltrate an area that 
 the other team is defending. While the invading team can respawn as many times as they need to, 
 members of the defending team are forced into a last man standing type of scenario where if a member 
 gets killed, theyre out for good and the rest of the team has to last until the timer runs down. 
 In between rounds players can purchase weapons and armor to help give them an edge in the next 
 round. Getting a good number of kills or performing certain actions will reward a player with some 
 much needed bonus credits to help get an edge. Unlike other launch titles, earning achievements 
 is a fairly difficult task and mostly focuses on the multiplayer portions of the game. Youll get 
 achievements for things such as playing a set number of matches, getting a set number of headshots, 
 or surviving any given match for ten minutes which in my case is almost impossible. Dont expect 
 a quick increase to your gamer score with this one. 
  
  Youll do battle in a good variety of locales during the single and multiplayer portions of the 
 game. Youll go everywhere from high tech buildings to lush jungles and pretty much everywhere 
 in between. The level designs are very well done and do a great job of moving you along to the 
 next objective. The amount of detail and effects on the levels youll go through only help to add 
 to the overall enjoyment. Everywhere you look youll have shiny, reflective floors, great use of 
 shadows, leaves that give off realistic sheens when light hits them, and the effect of breaking 
 wooden crates just has to been seen to be, err, believed. 
  
  Aside from the great level design, the in game characters also look great. While the enemy soldiers 
 are carbon copies of their type, they all look good and well animated. This is most evident when 
 theyre shot as theyll react differently and realistically depending on where theyre hit. Weapons 
 all look great and fit in with the near future look by looking sleek and futuristic, yet remaining 
 anchored in the modern day. 
  
  As far as sound goes, Perfect Dark Zero does a great job of capturing the intense firefights youll 
 get into. The soundtrack retains the old secret spy feel that the older N64 Rare games are known 
 for as well as adding some nice techno tracks here and there. The voice acting is solid, especially 
 from the main characters and enemies tend to repeat themselves from time to time. It is cool, however, 
 to hear them try to devise strategies by yelling at each other. 
  
  For anyone who managed to get an Xbox 360 during its first holiday season, Perfect Dark Zero makes 
 a great addition to the library. Not only is it fun as hell to play, but youll be sure to spend 
 tons of time playing the numerous multiplayer modes as well. After lying dormant for what seemed 
 like years, Rare has proven to us again that they can still make a solid game, and I for one couldnt 
 be happier. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATrueRounder
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 23, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  -Good campaign length
  -Decent multiplayer
  
  Graphics: 
  
  -Slightly higher quality than your standard Xbox game.
  
  Sound : 
  
 
  -Good sound effects, and decent music to go along with them.
  
  Value: Factors that contribute to the level 8 Value rating are the following:
  
  -3 Difficulty 
 Settings for Campaign mode
  -Cooperative Campaign Mode
  -Split Screen, (also allows for computer controlled bots to play against you, a feature not seen 
 in Halo II or other popular shooters)
  -Online Multiplayer
  
  The Bad
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  -In my opinion, combat is highly unrealistic in this game. I understand it takes 
 place in the future, and the vamped technology definitely doesnt bother me. But I personally like 
 to see a man go dead after putting a full clip of bullets into his chest. I found that, especially 
 while in the higher difficulty levels, head shots become exceedingly important, to the point that 
 their importance almost kills the gameplay itself. Even after fireing a bullet straight into a 
 mans eye, 2 out of 3 times it will take another few to take him down completely. 
  -Another bad thing I found concerning gameplay was the overall speed of the game itself. Players 
 seem to move around especially slow, and enemies seem to move in almost slow motion, making the 
 game a little dull, and at times even flat-out boring.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  -Absolutely not up to par with the other Next Generation games Ive experienced so far. I dont 
 know if Rare intended to go for an Japanese Animation approach, but the game sure seemed to look 
 very similar to some of the crappy anime cartoons Ive avoided watching on television.
  -On another note, I believe there were maybe 3 facial models for the grunts in this game. Honestly, 
 it was quite tiring having to kill the same man 800 times throughout the campaign of the game.
 
  -Many graphical errors, with some terrible overlap effects.
  -A few crappy animation jobs.
  
  Sound: n/a
  
  Value: 
  
  -Online multiplayer seems 
 to be a bit disorganized for my taste.
  
  Tilt
  
  -I gave Perfect Dark Zero a 9 on Tilt because, despite the apparently endless list of bad traits 
 and qualities, it is still not a complete failure, and worth owning (but perhaps not at the price 
 of $60) .
  
  Overall
  
  Worth buying if you enjoy first person shooters (if you dont, then dont bother) , but definitely 
 far from Perfect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: epaur123
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Ok this is the first Xbox 360 game I rented, and I already own Kameo and Condemned: Criminal Origens, 
 so dont get mad if I compare PDZ to Condemned! Ok to start off the review I'm just going to say 
 that the single player mode just does not stack up to the multiplayer, even when it is split screen, 
 the multiplayer is the thing that really brings this game to life. The main issue I had with SP 
 is that it just felt to linear and dull to be a next gen game, and the AI just doesnt come close 
 to Condemned. And graphics, they are just a sight upgrade to the original xbox and the character 
 models look like action figures from the 80's, again, this does not come anywhere near the graphical 
 beauty of Condemned. My overall impression of Perfect Dark Zero is that it very well could be an 
 Xbox 1 game if the graphics were downgraded a tad. I dont usually review games like this, I think 
 I am going to do one for Kameo and thats it until something really catches my fancy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoda9210
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is the best game for the 360. The graphics rule and all the amazing guns are 
 well amazing. The storyline does get a little confusing at times but it still rocks. And combat 
 arena is awesome to. But i do wish you could be people other than Jo. I love how all the guns have 
 2 different attacks and how there are gadgets that can be used to open locks and stuff like that 
 . This game is so flippin sweet that every single person who has a 360 should buy it. I dont really 
 like how you are in the same area for like 3 missions at a time but still its pretty sweet how 
 you can basically just run around and shoot the crap out of peope. THE BEST GAME FOR THE 360!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicEdge
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 8, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the games that was suppose to be a fore runner for the 360 but it just can't 
 live up to that hype. Now don't get me wrong it's still a pretty good fps but, wear it fails is 
 in the single player campaign which is very short and extremely linear. When you make a fps now 
 everyone compares them to the greats such as Halo 2 and Half life 2 so it is hard to make a fps 
 in these times that people are going to put down these games and pick up a new game. Now where 
 this game hits the mark is in the multiplayer which has good online and offline capabilities. One 
 thing that they didn't put in but should have is a jump function which i have when they don't cus 
 then you have to find a ramp to go up the smallest ledges in the world. Overall a pretty good game 
 could be longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Okay. I got PDZ for Christmas, sorta. I was debating on either this or NBA 2k6 with the money I 
 got for returning some S-Video cables I didn't need after I got HD. It rocks. I'm glad I got it. 
 I still want NBA 2k6 but that doesn't mean I don't love PDZ.
  
  The gameplay in PDZ is tight. My only complaint is that the combat roll makes hitting people in 
 Multi-player. But otherwise it's great. It's kinda cool that you have to save weapons through missions 
 to have them in the next. Single-player is actually quite fun to me. It's at times akward and oddly 
 paced, but overall is very enjoyable. PDZ has almost influenced me to go buy an N64 just to play 
 the original (I had a PS, then a horribly glitchy PS2 that broke. So I got an Xbox, and whaddaya 
 know, an Xbox 360. The only Nintendo's I've had were an NES, SNES, GBA and DS) . Istch-man dook 
 doo. Dude, I'm talking jibberish. I'm mad at my beloved Bengals for currently losing to the Steelers.
 
  
  Anyhoo, PDZ is great looking. At least the guns. Environments are inconsistent (mostly good) and 
 characters models are OK. But the guns are a pleasure to observe. I have HD, and it looks great. 
 I've heard it doesn't look as good on SDTV but this one should still be worth getting. 
  
  The soundtrack and SFX are great. The story is hard to take seriously, as the cutscenes are uglier 
 than what my Bengals are doing right now. The voice work is inconsistent, but doesn't detract from 
 the immersion.
  
  Multi-player in PDZ rocks. It's fast, fun, and has more modes than a teenager with mood swings. 
 Co-op, split-screen DM, and Xbox Live are great for when you have competitive friends, friendly 
 friends or no friends and are playing live.
  
  It's fun, immersive, and $10 less than most of the other 360 launchers, so why not? Notice there 
 weren't any Halo 2 comparisons? Get over it Halo lovers! Halo 2 is great, just not anywhere near 
 the best FPS ever. I'm extremely hyped for Halo 3 and it will sell many 360's, but PDZ is PDZ, 
 not Halo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermario2653
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I think a lot of gamers expect a HALO out of Perfect Dark. Making a game as good as Halo is very 
 hard to do. Perfect Dark has a lot to offer but is a hard game. Getting the controls down may take 
 awhile and beating levels on anything but the easiest level can be pretty hard. This game has the 
 best weapon line up i have ever seen. Each weapon has a secondary mode which makes each of the 
 weapons effective in its own way. I didnt like the main character being a girl at first but she 
 grew on me and she is hot. I didnt get to play this game online yet buy i hear that is where it 
 is at. This is a great first person shooter and a must have for this console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer_Of_SeeD
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Of all the launch titles that shipped with the 360, the one I was waiting for was Perfect Dark 
 Zero. Yes I was victim of the hype machine, and yes I was a victim of OtherSteves incessant ramblings 
 about what he saw at E305. I was anxious myself because I never had a N64 so I never played the 
 original game. Knowing that a new version of the game was coming to my most favorite console. So 
 I slowly counted down the days till I got my hands on PDZ, and I am here to report back on my findings.
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  PDZ plays about the same as most FPS, but I found the controls to be pretty sluggish. No matter 
 how I adjusted the sensitivity I just could not find the setting that felt natural. Other than 
 that, I felt the game was very impressive with the different locations you had to fight through. 
 The levels were laid out so they were just the right legenth. I didnt get bored on them, nor did 
 I feel that they were too short. It was a very nice mix between urban and outdoor levels. I really 
 enjoyed the Rooftop Escape levels where you have to use your surroundings as cover, and to lay 
 down cover for your partner beneath you. The one beef I did have was at times it did feel very 
 easy to get lost on a level. I enjoyed the ability to explore, but you can get really turned around. 
 After a little bit of wandering a path will start flashing on the ground to lead you to your next 
 objective. You can deactivate this if you like, but trust me it is very handy. I felt the enemy 
 AI was very challenging even on the normal and easy settings. They get pretty tough as u choose 
 the harder settings, so bare that in mind. 
  
  
  
  
  
  The weaponry you get to pick from is quite tasty as well. Dual pistols, assault rifles, SMGs, 
 and some heavier weaponry give you a very nice arsenal. You can swap on the fly if you find yourself 
 running out of ammo. Be careful though, I did find myself accidentally picking up weapons I didnt 
 like. That cause some very tough battles, so watch out for that. All the weapons have secondary 
 and even some tertiary functions that add some very cool extras. Night vision, zoomed scopes, IFF, 
 and silenced weapons help you choose your style of combat. 
  
  Graphics
  
  This game is really beautiful. The lighting effects, use of shadows, and textures really help to 
 show off the power of the 360 at launch. For those of you with High-Def TVs you are really going 
 to enjoy this game. It is not without a problem though. I have been trying to explain this to people, 
 and this is the best way I can put it. Imagine walking around with blinders and having no peripheral 
 vision. That is what I feel like when I play this game. It is almost like digital tunnel vision. 
 A lot of hype surrounded this release as the Halo Killer, but I really dont see it. While you 
 are playing you do not get a very good sense of the games expansiveness. I felt this really took 
 away from gameplay.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Audio
  
  This game really shines in the audio department. Great music and the voice over work is clear and 
 crisp. You know I judge a FPS audio quality by the sound of gunfire in a game. This game has some 
 great gunfire in it, and has even better silenced gunfire. You can tell they went for as much as 
 realism as possible. Like all the 360 titles, I enjoyed pulling up my own soundtrack during deathmatch 
 games. It made it so much more fun and intense. Overall PDZ has a solid audio outing.
  
  Depth and Fun Factor
  
  This game has depth like the Marinas Trench in the Pacific Ocean. You 
 can go back and replay levels to increase your leader board stats and unlock achievements. You 
 have so many options for online combat that I really do not know where to begin. Your expected 
 deathmatch, team deathmatch, CTF, and a domination type game mode are all available. The best though 
 is they included on-line co-op play. Ohh praise be to game designers that include this option. 
 You cannot have a good FPS and not have this on-line mode. My buddy with the online name of jrzyjoe 
 had this game for about a week before I did, so he was the best tutor for how to play this game. 
 Two things I want to mention about this in addition. If your online buddy has gotten farther than 
 you and unlocked some weapons that you havent, they will be available when you go back into single 
 player mode. This is a great edge, trust me. Depending on who is hosting the game, it can let you 
 play levels you have not gotten to yet, again this is a great ay to preview what is coming up.
 
  
  But is the game fun you ask? Overall I say yes, but it does have some flaws that take away from 
 it. I really liked being able to host local games against bots for practice before going online. 
 It is one of the top five launch titles that are must have, but it is not the be all end all game.
 
  
  Overall Comment
  
  After much waiting, Perfect Dark Zero is here and it makes a heck of an impact. Microsoft was smart 
 to grab rare a while back, and help them develop this for the 360. I was sad to see that it is 
 not the Halo Killer that everyone said it was, but life is full of those small disappointments 
 I know. The online aspect is where this title really shines to help backup a decent single player 
 experience. But enough of me talking about it go get it and find out for yourself. Perfect Dark 
 Zero for the Xbox 360 is out now at fine establishments everywhere.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bismal21
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  PDZ, from a first look, is obviously out to be a fun game. From everything from its story, to character 
 visuals, nothing is too "real", but all in the same, thats nto even what they were trying to give. 
 Still though, the graphics are smooth and shiny, and the enviroments are lovly to look at. 
  Gameplay can become quite repetative. I dont feel there is enough of a difference put in the weapon 
 power and accuracy to make you really pleased to have on over the other.
  Multiplyaer seems decent, but then again, looses its flare after so long... a continuing problem 
 with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defpoet715
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  Overall I think this game is so for the best for the 360 . No question......
  Very challenging, the A. I. is remarkable. Half Life ain't got nothing on this . Besides would you 
 rather play a gun slinging honey or a dork with a crowbar. A nice assortment of gunnery, and gadgets 
 to help you along. I personally don't buy stupid games that don't work to my standards. The on-line 
 game play is decent, it's not Halo 2, but it's bad not at all. The maps should have been a little 
 better with more breakable doors to attack the enemy from behind. Other then that, it was good 
 money spent.
  
  
  "NY StikupKid"
  aka
  defpoet715/Sire161/conart161 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmanndriver
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  I found this to be one of the most stunning games for the 360. The way the invironment looks dazzled 
 me. They kept the old co op and dual wield from the original game on the N64. The only downfalls 
 i saw was the mobility. You move like a worm, and the lack of multiplayer levels. But in the end 
 the graphics will amaze you so much you will forget the cons of the game and immerse yourself whole 
 heartedly into the game. The number of multiplayer modes stunnf ed me for a game that ws lacking 
 in Multiplaer maps. 
  If i were you i wouldn't buy it, i would rent it or borrow it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nefhead411
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  This game to looked like a very good game to get me over until halo 3 comes out.. but i found that 
 this game was extremely overhyped and poorly made... who would thing that you wouldn't be able to 
 jump in a 360 game.. this storyline is another let down.. i didn't evn finish the game its just way 
 to borin.. im a pro game that was just in shock when u played this game.. the makers really messed 
 this up.. the only good things this game brings to table is the punchline to why people should of 
 bought this next-gen console (360) . To all ps3 fanboys we kno ps3 is goin to have better quality 
 of hd.. but no1 cares.. overall this game along with madden 2006, fifa , nhl... ea and microsoft you 
 really give sony some breathing room in the world... and ps bill.. real smart business tech. buy 
 not havin enough of your product in time for christmas.. people all over the would resold them and 
 made alot me money than you.. we all i got to say is that im happy with my call of duty 2... and 
 if u wanna get schooled by a pro gamer.. hit up IndoKran377 on xbox live to see how real gamers 
 play.... pizaeace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revelation09
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I like most all shooting games CS, Halo, Battlefield (2) , Call of Duty, and others. And do to all 
 the hype of this game I was very excited to get this game for christmas. I played and beat the 
 campain in about 7 hours.... kinda short but not too bad. I go to the multiplayer mod and try out 
 againts some bots and was very disappointed. I just felt that i was having to force my self to 
 play, not going along for fun. So then i thought maybe its just the bots, latter that week a friend 
 came over and we played for maybe 15-20 minutes and he said the same sort of thing. 
  
  The graphics are ok... but not compared to COD2 or NFS: MW Ive seen Xbox games that look better and 
 it just doesnt flow like some many other games do. You might like it better so im not saying dont 
 buy it but i would suggest renting it first.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OdinDragoonX
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is nothing that in the current gen, would be enough to grab one of the elite 
 titles, but for Next gen, from now until i dunno, 3 months, there are less then 100 games. So as 
 far as I can really see, PDZ is going to be the FPS that gets the rest started. It was the next 
 gen breakthrough, so of course its not going to be perfect (even though it says so in the name) . 
 So how is the game?
  
  The game is fun, solo mode isn't where this game shines, this is a multiplayer game from front 
 to back. Even co op has shining qualities. The waypoint system to tell you where to go is very 
 helpful and saves wasteful time wondering around. The graphics arn't too great, but of course, 
 they are better then any previous gen graphics. The biggest quality of this game is online. Online 
 is simpily fun, aside from the bad ranking system and more loosely organized then expected, this 
 game is still just fun to play.
  
  So if you have an X360 and are a big FPS fan, this is going to be your best bet for a while, and 
 in no stretch is this a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  The sequel to the once-nintendo property, perfect dark zero was supposed to be developed for the 
 Gamecube then the original Xbox, but finally found a home on the Xbox 360, and to good results, 
 the game offers intense action, THE BEST multiplayer live I have ever experienced, and an alternative 
 to ty you over until the much-aticipated halo 3 comes out, as the prequel to perfect dark for the 
 Nintendo 64 you play as joanna dark and... ahhh who cares the story sucks, and thats about it for 
 faults of the game, if you have an xbox 360 this should probably be the first game that you buy, 
 but just be sure to get the 60 dollar edition for all of the good bonus content 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjakybob
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 10, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  It wasn't as good as I thought it would be offline but I loved the fact that it had co-op mode 
 its pretty funny playing with a friend, the only problem I had with it was it had some frame rate 
 problems but you still could play through it. Online was where is sinned you had a lot to pick 
 from and you could make it so specific what you wanted to do and thats what i thought was cool 
 about online. PDZ has over 50 Achievements, yes it sounds like a lot but most of them are worth 
 10G but thats still ok.
  
  Gameplay: As i said before this game isn't that great offline but the gameplay is one of the things 
 holding its score up, there is only 13 LvLs but some of them are pretty long so I guess that kind 
 of makes up for it.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are incredible for PDZ almost real but not quit, but when i saw some of 
 those backgrounds my jaw dropped, this game shows a lot of the power in the 360 with the graphics 
 one of the best looking games out right now.
  
  Sound: The sound is just as good as the graphics you could hear everything, maybe not a pin drop 
 because of all the guns shooting and the bombs going off and it actually sounded like it should, 
 but the only problem was when you walked in the snow you could here her foot sets but they werent 
 insink with they way she moved if you stopped you would here the foot sets for like 2 seconds letter, 
 but that wasn't a factor to me.
  
  Value: Its great it will keep you playing because of the achievements you had to do but i kind 
 of gets repetitive with doing single player like 4 or 5 times to just get all the achievements 
 dont but I kept me playing so thats what I like the most.
  
  If you are looking for a good shooter that came out at launch and you already have CoD2 get this 
 the online is one of the high points to this game and I think most people that own this game think 
 the same was, if you do not have online this game is still good, if you get this game you should 
 play co-op with your buddies its just plan fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermonky74
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  As I said this was is the first 360 game I got. I know some have been dissapointed with this games 
 story and I do agree that's it's missing something which is probably why I haven't played it very 
 much. But I LOVE the online play, as I do with most FPSs. It's so fun and there's quite a lot of 
 things to do. 
  
  In multiplayer there's 2 categories that the games go into: Deathmatch and Dark Ops. Deathmatch 
 is your basic stuff such as Killcount and Team Killcount, CTF, and Territorial Gains, I think all 
 those are pretty much self-. Dark Ops is where some new stuff appears. It has a money system that 
 is pretty cool. I'm not sure but I think something like this was in Counter-Strike but since I 
 haven't played it I have no idea it works in counterstrike. Anyways back to PDZ. In Dark Ops there's 
 Infection, Eradication, Onslaught, and Sabotage. Infection is kind of similiar to zombies in Halo 
 2, a team of skeletons has to kill all the humans on the other team. There is also Eradication 
 which is a team-based game where the last team alive wins. in Onslaught one teams guards a base 
 and the other tries to kill all the ones in the base, the ones gaurding a base have one life but 
 can buy a shield and wepons, the ones storming the base have unlimited lives but can't but anything 
 and start with a basic weapon. And last but not least Sabotage. Sabotage is pretty cool to me. 
 In this gametype one team has to go around the map finding things that they need to sabotage, it's 
 random things that don't serve any purpose but to be destroyed. The team that causes the most overall 
 destruction to the other team's property wins. I like all the gametypes, not equally but there's 
 none I hate. One thing about gameplay that some people might not like that there is no auto or 
 sticky aim whatsoever. This can be a turn off to some people. This is the main reason I have put 
 the learning curve so high. No sticky aim can a hard thing to get used to and it will take some 
 time to get used to.
  
  What is there to say about the graphics? They are much better then Xbox's in my opinon. In this 
 game for some reason the arm of your person looks just plain ugly. That's really the only problem 
 with graphics, though. The environment is great and the people themselves look really good ,too.
 
  
  The sound is incrdedible I like the music in what I've played in single-player. But when you're 
 playing a woman in multiplayer they do make some "suggestive" sounds when they're rolling jumping 
 of ledges, etc. lol That was just a little joke. Everything else in the game sound awesome and I 
 have nothing to compain about in the sound departmnent.
  
  To me this game seems like It will keep me hooked for many months to come. Online play not only 
 has the things I talked about above, it has Co-Op also which adds even more replayability to it. 
 
  
  Overall I think this game is great and I'm not dissapointed that it was my choice when choosing 
 a game to get along with my 360. If you love great online multiplayer, and even offline, and are 
 okay with a decent, not great, singleplayer this is a must buy. If not you might want to just rent 
 it and see if this is right for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirk1264
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  Ok first let me say halo is a great game but that was the original xbox. For right now on the Xbox 
 360 Perfect Dark Zero is the best shooter on the console and let me tell you why. First, there 
 are some amazing graphics on this game. Second, the AI is pretty clever in the single player campaign 
 and there is a good mix of run and gun and strategy to the campaign. Thirdly, the online mode is 
 the best to date. The gameplay for PD0 is great and innovative. You can carry a limited number 
 of weapons but you can customize what your carrying for each mission. Each weapon has a secondary 
 function that can be utilized for a persons advantage like some weapons can be used as mines and 
 others can be used for something like infrared or used to see through walls. So the secondary functions 
 are handy. Online mode for PD0 is great. You can play up to 32 players on one game but the level 
 size has to be big with bases open. Or you can play small levels with up to 16 players on one game. 
 There is killcount (deathmatch) or team killcount (team deathmatch) and there are other games like 
 capture the flag etc. Also there is the darkops mode where you can play games like sabotage, infection, 
 etc. There is very ilttle lag if any in the online part of the game. Also the vehicles are a good 
 edition to the game. This is a good game and one of the best shooters of all time. I recommend 
 this to anyone that has a 360. You are missing out on all the fun if you don't have this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  I waited a long time to write this review because I really wanted to take my time with the game 
 and experience as much as I could to give the best review possible. After probably 20+ hours, I 
 feel like I can do that. I have to start by saying that I was very skeptical about how this game 
 was gonna turn out and I've been pleasantly surprised by how much fun it is. The singleplayer campaign 
 is kinda tame, but at least it's fun... But the multiplayer is where the game really shines.
  (Note: I have the Collector's Edition, which comes with a DVD with a theme, some gamer pictures 
 and some other goodies... but I recommend getting the regular version if you're on a budget)
  
  Gameplay:
  The enemies in Perfect Dark Zero range from total drones to master blasters. There 
 is really a lot of slack in how they act. Sometimes they are worse than Storm Troopers in Star 
 Wars, and other times they are sniper elites. I can't even count how many times I was shot at before 
 I even saw enemies on my screen. This also goes for the bots in multiplayer. Sometimes I get my 
 ass totally handed to me and other times the bots just run around like idiots. The inconsistency 
 of their actions is my main gripe with the gameplay. There are tons of weapons to choose from, 
 each with a distinct 'personality'... But it will really all come down to personal preferences.
 
  While some may rag on the game for the lack of a jump feature, and I will admit it is kinda silly, 
 once you get used to the controls you probably won't even notice. The dodge button isn't quite 
 the same, but it shares the same purpose. Controls are fairly straightforward and simple. One of 
 my favorite features is the variable zoom by how hard you squeeze the left trigger. Aside from 
 that addition, not much else is new.
  Multiplayer is a whole different beast. With tons of fun modes to play, some familiar, some not, 
 there is a ton to enjoy here. DarkOps modes are different from most standard modes found in FPSes 
 and several of them (Infection, mainly) are quite fun. I wasn't a huge fan of Halo 2 online, but 
 I cannot get enough of PDZ.
  
  Graphics:
  Though everything has an odd shine to it, most of the graphics look quite good. Most noticable 
 are the bricks/tiles that all have a distinct look to them. There is a lot of variety to the places 
 you'll play, and they all look pretty damn great. The character models, on the other hand... yeah, 
 not so much. Some weird hybrid of anime and realism, the characters all look pretty damn horrible. 
 It's quite odd considering how realistic the environments and weapons are. They don't look bad, 
 the clothes they wear look great... it's mostly their faces just look strange.
  
  Sound:
  The guns all sound top-notch and the in-game music is pretty sweet, as well. In multiplayer I usually 
 had a custom playlist going just to add something new, though. I got kinda tired of the techno 
 tracks that are prominent. The sounds in the environments, and most of the sound effects are quite 
 good. The voice acting ranges from over-the-top to pretty lame. It's hard to tell which is funnier, 
 the dialogue or the acting in a lot of cases.
  
  Value:
  Singleplayer campaign is longer than I expected. It took me around 7 hours on the easiest difficulty 
 to go though. For the achievements, you may want to go through on some of the tougher ones, though. 
 Co-Op mode really stands out as sheer brilliance, though. Rare really nailed it with that one. 
 It is seamless to play with another player and in most cases, works even better than playing by 
 yourself. One player is always Joanna, while the other player will play one of several characters. 
 
  Multiplayer adds a damn near infinite replayability to this game. Simple deathmatch (or Killcount, 
 as it's called) is fun in itself, but the other modes found in the game are also great. The achievement 
 system is mainly for online play, which adds to how much you want to play, as well.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  While I approached this game with cautious optimism, I walked away greatly 
 surprised and greatly satisfied. There are flaws, to be sure, but the overall package is solid. 
 If you have Xbox Live, this is, in my opinion, a must-have game. If you don't have XBL, you might 
 feel a little shorthanded, since the game doesn't excel in the singleplayer mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  The XBOX 360 had a semi decent list of launch titles. NOt many of them were that good. 3 of these 
 titles are first person shooters. 2 of them are on the PC, and they play better on the PC (provided 
 you've got the goods) . The 3rd is Perfect Dark Zero.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is the only FPS I picked up for my 360. I have the other 2 on PC. Lets get to 
 the review.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is a solid game. It plays well, has a high replay value, looks great, and sounds 
 great. The game attempts to tell a story, but that isn't the reason why you're going to play it.
 
  
  The game is a prequel to the N64 hit Perfect Dark, and I can't remember the story becusae the gameplay 
 just overshadowed it, just as it does here. PDZ doesn't add anything new to the FPS genre, however 
 it does do better where a lot of other games tend to fail.
  
  You can dual wield pistols and small SMGs, which is realy fun. The game has a large variety of 
 weapons and gadgets with multiple functions. You can silence a pistol or a sub machine gun, You 
 can fire grenades from Assault rifles, or you can toss a grenade and pistol whip someone at the 
 same time.
  
  The game's AI isn't all too bright. They do take cover, and they do aim well... However it just 
 doesn't compare to the AI of FEAR and COD2... 
  
  The games sound quality is fairly decent. Each gun sounds different from one another, the voices 
 are well done, and you're just immersed into the game when your dual wielding Magnums and just 
 hearing bang from the left, and bang from the right.
  
  Now my beef with this game is the graphics. The graphics look great. However I didn't expect this 
 style of graphics from a next gen launch titles. While the weapons are acuratly detailed, the visual 
 concept is more like an animated cartoon. It looks nice, but I preffer more realism in my graphics.
 
  
  The online play works realy well. With XBL improvements this is definatly the title you want if 
 you're tired of fragging cheaters, modders, and boobies on Halo 2. The variety of weapons and stealth 
 modes add new strategies to online play. In the few matches I've played online, their was no lag 
 with anyone. 
  
  If you're having trouble deciding on a shooter for your XBOX 360, PDZ is certainly the way to go. 
 You can approach each mission with stealth and sophistacation, or you can just run and gun your 
 way through each of them. The gameplay is so well done you won't even realise that the game has 
 a story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madskillz999
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 6, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is one of my favorite release titles for the XBox 360. The graphics are gorgeous, 
 the main character has personality, and it's a good combo of shooting, stealth and puzzle solving. 
 
  
  I've been testing all of the release titles, but I keep coming back to Perfect Dark Zero just for 
 sheer fun of gameplay. 
  
  First, the basic mission tree. You are Joanna Dark, daughter of a bounty hunter who follows in 
 her father's footsteps. You're athletic, nimble, smart, and maybe a bit fool-hardy. The game is 
 set in the future (Joanna was born in the year 2000) and you get an interesting mix of locales 
 to explore as you take on your assignments. 
  
  The graphics in this game are simply GORGEOUS, as you might expect from the Xbox 360. I highly 
 recommend you play this on a HD TV - I've done screenshots comparing HD to low-def and the difference 
 is rather impressive. The water ripples, the light plays off the rippling water, the rippling water 
 reflects on the textured brick wall, you name it. You get red and blue lights shining down from 
 the ceiling and the lights color their surroundings and even combine where they cross. 
  
  There are of course some amusing issues - this still isn't photo-realism of course. There are times 
 that a red laser beam has slight "ripples" in it, for example. Still, the quality is far better 
 than anything else on the market. 
  
  I suppose you could complain that Joanna goes running around in high-heeled boots and low-cut pants, 
 but heck, I was impressed that her chest size was reasonably normal. Compared to most other video 
 games out there, with their mostly-naked women with inflato-boobs, Joanna is quite demure! 
  
  The sound is aiming for a James Bond feel here. I think that is pretty clear from the intro 
 credits. You get a boppy rock soundtrack through much of the game. The dialogue is reasonably well 
 done, and you can't really say much about how gunshots sound. They sound like gunshots. 
  
  Gameplay is a mix between Splinter Cell and a FPS. There are times that being stealthy and quiet 
 really pay off. There are other times that just running fast and blasting away will work. There 
 are cool lockpick puzzles, too. I do get frustrated that you can't "jump" though. I'll see a nice, 
 inviting open window at less than waist high, and I have to walk right by. 
  
  I have mixed feelings about co-op mode. On one hand it's fun to have two females working side by 
 side and taking out the enemy. On the other hand, if one person decides to quit, it shuts down 
 the whole mission. I really like it on other games where a person can pop in and out as necessary. 
 This especially is helpful if a less experienced gamer is stuck and needs help just for a short 
 while. 
  
  There's also deathmatch style gaming available, both on local gameplay and Xbox Live. This lets 
 you sneak around and head-shot your enemies.
  
  I've played this for many hours and haven't noticed any problems with lag or crashing. There are 
 certain moves that don't happen instantly - for example, when you shoot from cover, you have to 
 wait for Joanna to "rise from a crouch" before she fires. This is quite realistic. The game also 
 has cinematic sequences when things go into a Matrix-like slo-mo which seems to be in many current 
 movies. 
  
  If you play this game on easy mode, you can probably zip through all the missions in a single very 
 long gaming session (say 14-16 hours) . The harder levels of difficulty are of course more challenging. 
 Really, though, all single-player gameplay is is just a training mode to help you prepare for live 
 gameplay. Once you've gotten your skills sharpened on the computer players, prepare to take on 
 the real challenge, with real live opponents! 
  
  Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: southvike22
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  First let me address my issues with this game its like it has split personalities. The first person 
 shooter single player game is almost a carbon copy of any 007 game you have played before,
  I really didnt mind that however i did mind the crappy leval design that this game upheld for such 
 a hyped game this is horrible.
  Since this has non-linear gameplay in most of the levels i was screaming what the fu$# am i supposed 
 to be doing rigtht now it was horrible.
  I did however have my fun with single player but it wasnt much and far out in between.
  Now lets 
 talk multiplayer wow did someone give this game steroids my lord this game is totally different 
 when you play online it is so competetive and its got a whole lot of modes and a lot of sick guns 
 this game is almost worth buying just for the online mode and co op man that was something else 
 to as bad as single player game lacks in style it makes up in multiplayer.
  Any one that already has bought call of duty 2 for the 360 should check this one out if you want 
 live goodness !!!!!!
  But as far as single player is concerned been there done that !!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muzzster_14
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  The game is set in the future, 2020 to be specific. Ruthless corporations compete in savage unseen 
 wars for global domination. And the fate of the world rests on the barrel of Joanna Darks gun.
 
  
  Like myself you do not have to play the other Perfect Drak games to get into the story. And the 
 stroy last for 13 large missions. Although the 13 missions are all mostly unique, some of them 
 tend to be a bit frustrating. Also there is the multyplayer option. This is a big plus point and 
 there are again many different options to choose from. For exmple there are games such as killcount, 
 team killcount and capture the flag. The online play can support up to 32 players and they can 
 be either humans or bots.
  
  Another thing that strikes you is the attention to detail which microsoft have put into this game, 
 and this is what seperates this game from other first person shooters out there. Not only are most 
 of the graphics striking, there is also a range of weopons to choose from. Including a basic pistol 
 such as the FAL to the more assault weopon such as the S-Dragon. 
  
  Also the music in this game is good. Each mission has its own music and it every track seems to 
 fit the level. And lastly the soundtrack to this game is one of the best I have heard.
  
  Although this game is very good, there are also some minor points which let this game down. The 
 first of these is that when you decide to pull out a sniper and zoom in on a characters face they 
 appear to not have as much attention been put into them. They appear ugly and this is a let down. 
 Another dissappointment is you cannot save mid-mission and in the later stages of the game when 
 the missions become harder not being able to save can become very frustrating. The last bad point 
 which I am going to make is the AI can sometimes be to easy to conquer. It sometimes feels like 
 you can walk past enemies and also your so-called teammates dont seem to do much just get themselves 
 killed.
  
  Taken as a whole Perfect Dark Zero is great. It offers hours of fun on and offline. The range of 
 weopons and missions offer good depth to the game. And lets face it, who doesnt want to play as 
 a sexy, red-headed spy?
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RocKtheCasbaH
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 6, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  Where as with COD2 & PGR3 I found them really addictive, going back to them night after night PDZ 
 just doesn't have that magic. It's a even an effort to open the disc tray and put the disc in.
 
  
  There's nothing special here to keep me playing - nothing innovative or engaging - there's just 
 no hook to draw me in. It's not a bad game by any means, just rather dull - God knows how GS scored 
 it so high. Having heard this was one of the 'must have' titles for the 360 I had to have it but 
 now I wish I'd been able to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woodmeister2003
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  Truth be told, Perfect Dark Zero is a fun game, if you are bored out of your mind. The multiplayer 
 can be fun but a lack of matchmaking and organized stats system leaves players wanting more. The 
 single player campaign is a mess. The story is terrible and constant quotes from enemies such as 
 "shoot the b***h", and "she's shooting at me!" get cheesy after a while. I think that Rare was 
 rushed to finish this game and should have had a lot more time to make this a classic like the 
 original Perfect Dark. This game would have had a higher score if it were more like popular futuristic 
 shooters such as Halo and Starwars: Battlefront II 
::::::

::::::
UserName: das_beck
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  Ah, I love the J-Pop theme song! Everytime I hear it I know the ownage is coming via XB Live. I 
 have a few confessions to make before I begin the review. First, I don't like the Halo games and 
 FPSs in general really. Second, I'm horrible at them. The ownage I was speaking of is my own, the 
 players on XB Live own me... and I love it!
  
  The offline game is a solid adventure with good level design, an ok story and decent graphics. 
 The enemies seem pretty dumb but I only finished the game on the default difficulty setting so 
 the AI could very well be better than what I experienced.
  
  The real fun begins when you log onto Live. I haven't been this addicted to a game in a long time. 
 I'm not sure why I never "connected" with Halo but I think it has something to do with the nameless, 
 faceless characters that have absolutely no personality. Granted, the cast of PD0 aren't exactly 
 master thespians but they're much more interesting than "Spartan-321" or whoever.
  
  The online games are very rewarding for a noob like me in that I can find ways to contribute to 
 my team's efforts even if I'm not going "kill-tastic".
  
  The biggest problem with the game is the graphics, you can tell the game started development on 
 the Gamecube, probably even the N64 (as it seems sometimes) What's most annoying to me is that 
 the developers seemed to have just slapped better textures on the old polygons in many cases. As 
 if they were too lazy to rebuild all the areas, you find yourself in rooms built with an N64 amount 
 of polygons and then some really slick bump-mapped textures applied ten minutes before the game 
 shipped out.
  
  Ironically, the style lends itself to being clear and rock-solid for online play which isn't pretty 
 to look at but enhances the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tubmoila
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  i just bought this game, and to be honest: it sucks! When i starter to play i was stunned, it seemed 
 so good but i was so bad, how could this happen? normally i can stand games, even bad ones. but 
 not this. it feel old and... braindead. just shoot, shoot nothing more. im disappointed. The map 
 design is really poor as well, so poor in fact that rare has been forced to place big shining arrows 
 so that youl understand where youre supposed to go. The visuals in the game arent that great 
 either, sure it uses all the mapping techniques and all of that but, everything seems blurry and 
 uninspired, condemned is a better looking game. So in my opinion: dont waste your money on this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowmoses20
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark is easily the most hyped launch title for the XBOX 360 and for many critics it would 
 be Microsoft's saving grace, however pretty faces and scenery can't overcome it's gameplay flaws. 
 
  
  In Rare's title you are Joanna Dark a young rouge agent who works for her father Jack Dark and 
 his computer geek sidekick Chandra, as you travel the world to unlock the secrets of the Datadyne 
 Corporation. The story starts of mediocre and pretty much stays that way. In addition the dialogue 
 has a couple strong parts but overall is just laughable. Another strange bit in the story is that 
 between levels Rare tries to unravel the story by gving you a top secret looking visual screen 
 and characters talking in the background. This could have been made so much better with the use 
 of actual cinematics longer than 10 seconds. 
  
  Graphically the game looks just amazing. Characters facial visuals are stunning along with just 
 a beautiful background that at times you just gaze at in amazement. One bad part of the graphic 
 presentation in this game is that everything has been shined and polished to perfection making 
 everthing in the game give off reflections of light which is strange since you go to places like 
 China and Egypt where you wouldn't expect old wooden or clay pieces to give off a shine like that 
 but if you can get by this you won't find much flawed with the graphics.
  
  Gameplay is a completely different story. You would think that with Rare having spent a good 4 
 years on this project that the gameplay could improve since the last perfect dark but it really 
 doesn't. The game's aiming system is very hard to get under control. Many times in fire fights 
 you be trying to hit your enemy from far away yet you spend too much time try to get a perfect 
 shot that alot of the suspense and drama in the game looses its grip and you'll find yourself more 
 discusted and frustrated than that feel of suspense if your used to the aiming system of halo 2 
 or FEAR. 
  
  Another laugh at this game is it's AI, it seems that rare just used the same AI from their original 
 and just put it right back into the game. A resonable stratagy most of the time is to pick of one 
 guy with your pistol or long range rifle and hid behind a corner and wait for all of your enemies 
 to come running right to you and pull out a trusty automatic to finish them off, it works time 
 and time again and after a while gets rather boring. It feels like the game at times takes a step 
 backward.
  
  To sum Perfect Dark Zero into a phrase it is this: Perfect dark 1 source, that's what it is. It 
 just seems that Perfect Dark Zero is nothing more than the original perfect dark with a nice face 
 lift 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickeyg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I will say with a straight face this game looks and plays almost as good as half life 2. The looks 
 of the invirment and the AI in the game look bautiful. The guns are very well detailed and the 
 lighting on the guns are some of the best i seen. The light on everthing was very well done in 
 fact. I am also very happy to say that this game was very very hard neer the end of the game at 
 the hard settings. I am not happy to say that the game was very very short so the only thing it 
 has going for it is everything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirreltakos
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I am very happy about this game. So far the best and most fun shooter for the 360 yet. The graphics 
 are great looking and the movement and physics are smooth. Co-op= awesome game in my mind and the 
 co-op on here is a lot of fun. I haven't been a fan of this series until now because this game 
 is a lot of fun. It's not the longest game ever though. Also the story is pretty weak but what 
 do you expect a shooter to have as a story.
  
  Overall if you like shooters get this game. For $50 and not $60 too at least. I give it a 9.5 out 
 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burchanold
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  I recently got my pleasurable plethura of a box with a rotation, and this game was the first on 
 my list of shoot em up glories that should make my eyes bleed from sheer lack of sleep.... which 
 it did.
  First off, when i finally popped this disc into my white haven from this world of rules from anti-mayhem, 
 i noticed that the lighting, textures, shadows, movement... blah blahs and what-nots, are all the 
 best that i have ever laid my eyes on. The smoothness was just astounding, concidering all the 
 things that are going on during the bullets flying and body armor blowing away.. yes... you have 
 armor... and it doesnt last long.... youll see when you leave a trail of metal and shrapnel behind 
 you while youre running away from the occasional rocket or grenade. But back to the smoothness. 
 Its beautiful, and very powerful, trust me.. i tested it. I played with 16 players, 2 of which werent 
 npc, in small levels, with lots of explosives, and the game with all of its glory didnt once wince 
 its eyes from the tedious hell i put it through. 
  Weapons... weapons weapons weapons.... out the ass. This game has a great arsenal, multiple sniper 
 rifles, machine guns, uzis, grenades, and then a few things that ill leave to you when you rent 
 and or buy it.. (becuase you know you should) . The aiming and everything is a little touchy at first, 
 but you get used to it very quick, and the battles seem seemless from the regular fast paced FPS 
 games that you may play. But the pretty little silver lining about this game is, you can play the 
 run and gun, or the tactical take your time shooter. There are 2 different types of ways to play 
 multiplayer. One where you choose the levels, and the items. And one where you choose the levels, 
 and then you have to buy your items, and just a few shots will take you out. Along with those 2 
 ways of playing, they added a feature where you can take cover around a corner, behind a box, etc.., 
 which then it takes you to a 3rd person view, and lets you pop around the corner to shoot enemies, 
 very nice add on. Oh, and they let you add bots to the matches, up to 15.... need i say more???
 
  Rare did great with this game, but there were still a few that didnt quite make me feel the happiness 
 in the pans as much as others. The ragdolls needed a lot of work. Youd notice that you kill someone, 
 then their body would be stiff, then move a bit, and somehow stay standed up, and sometimes even 
 go through some walls or boxes. I was happy when i saw that they added vehicles, but sad when i 
 saw the vehicles that were added. I only saw 2 vehicles, and that was a jet pack (not as good as 
 hoped) and a hover craft (totally unneeded) . Neither felt very good driving or shooting from, and 
 they were destroyed very easily, i wouldve just kept with the feet on ground technique. The story.... was 
 bleak. It really didnt stay steady, or have much of anything really... but they made the worlds 
 and everything look very good, so i try to look past that, and stick with multiplayer.
  God... a good game, giving great times and dried eyes to the lovers of FPS's. If you dont have xbox 
 live, id say rent it, if you do have xbox live, GET THIS GAME AND PLAY ONLINE.... thats all i have 
 to say.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXor512
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is an incredible game and arguably the best 1st person shooter ever. This game 
 has great graphics and most importantly great gameplay.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero features some things that Halo 2 promised but didnt deliver on. For example, 
 the ability to look and see whats on the other side of a wall before actually going over there, 
 and the ability to lower your weapon to run faster. PDZ also has some cool things like being able 
 to drop one of the weapons your holding so a teammate can pick it up. Another good feature in Perfect 
 Dark Zero is the ability to roll in any direction to avoid getting shot.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero also has some good weapons which feature some from the original Perfect Dark. 
 Every weapon in the game has some sort of alternate fire. Some of the things you can do with the 
 guns is place them down and let them shoot on their own, look in buildings to see where enemies 
 are and fooling the opposition by having the gun put you as a teammate on their radar.
  
  The story in the game is pretty good but just when it starts to pick up the game ends. That isnt 
 really a big problem because the game is a prequel and most of the stuff about the aliens happens 
 in the original Perfect Dark. There is also a jetpack to use while online which is fun and adds 
 to the great online portion of the game. To sum it up, PDZ is a fun and fast paced game that anyone 
 who likes 1st person shooters should own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRaven_basic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is great in many different ways. Rare has mixed some great gameplay experiences from 
 many great games that we have played over the years. There is a lockpick in the game that you use 
 like the one in Splinter Cell, there is also a cover system that a couple of games have tried out, 
 you can roll like in Star Wars Battlefront, you can only carry a certain amount of weapons and 
 can hit people with the butt of your gun like in Halo. This game as put all these great ideas from 
 other games into one to make a masterpiece. The games campaign is pretty lengthy and keeps you 
 coming back for more all the way through. This game makes a great addition to the FPS serious, 
 and I hope there will be more to come in the xbox 360 future... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos_theory_09
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game since launch day and it is by far the game that I spend the most time playing. 
 The single player is way better than most people give it credit for. It is not amazing, but it 
 still fun to play though. But obviously, the reason for buying this game is the multiplayer. I 
 started out just playing the tradional killcount and teamkillcount, but then discovered the great 
 fun of playing darkops games such as erradication and infection. A great variety of online games 
 will keep you playing this game for a long time to come. Trying to achieve thoes difficut achievement 
 points will also keep you playing for a long time. This game is a must buy for the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a good game, don't get me wrong, but its just not AS good as I was hoping 
 it was going to be. The single player isn't good, the story is stupid and the "retard" AI makes 
 worse. This game is an Xbox Live game, no doubt about that and it holds up nicely online, but its 
 not going to hold my intrest for THAT long. 
  
  The gameplay is pretty standard for a FPS, Except its a tad slow. When I say slow, I mean the character 
 itself is slow, not to do with lag or framerate since both of those are not a problem at all. The 
 online lag is non existant, and the framerate always keeps up, even in high end shooting parts. 
 Personally I think they should have gotten rid of a few guns and added a few more, such as the 
 pistal which is slow and it just is pointless. 
  
  One thing I hated about this game (Online) , is the fact that there is only about 5 maps you can 
 play on. With a limited number of "good" modes to play, it leaves you playing "Urban" 30 times 
 in a night, which can get very annoying. Now that the bad is out of the way, let me talk about 
 the good, the gun models are amazing, simply great. Playing on a normal TV the graphics overall 
 arn't that good for a next gen title, but far greater then any Xbox game. I use PDZ on a HDTV with 
 1080i res, and it takes away the jagged edges and the fragments and leaves crisp wonderful graphics 
 that ARE next gen.
  
  The modes online are pretty standard, they are broken up into two groups, Deathmatch and Dark Ops. 
 Deathmatches are your normal, deathmatch (Called killcount) and team deathmatch, aswell as territories. 
 In dark ops, you have to buy your weapon (like CS) and you only have one life, you can play games 
 like elimination and Infection which are both fun but can get old after a wile. 
  
  Overall, its a great online game, for the time being its the best one. If you like FPSes then I 
 suggest you buy this if you have a 360, if you want a 360 just for this game, I would rethink that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_mercury05
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I didn't really get a chance to play the original Perfect Dark much but I was a huge fan of Goldeneye 
 for N64 therefore I took a chance in this game and to say the least i was more than impressed. 
 The games visuals are such a treat to the eyes with so much detail going into even the smallest 
 things such as the bricks in the walls. 
  
  The sound in the game is also very impressive to say the least especially through a Dolby Digital 
 5.1 system. It gives the game the right atmosphere. The computer A. i have fantastic communication 
 which each other a real sence of realism giving the impression that they actually understand each 
 other. 
  
  This game is everything I expected plus more and is well worth 40. If you're a fan of the original 
 Perfect Dark then I would highly recommend this game to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killa-k
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I love the game i haven't played it much cuz i'm playin' NBA 2K6, which is another sweet game, 
 but when i do play PD0 i love it espeically the graphics which r amazin', i just like the whole 
 floatin' effect when u play co-op, hopefully when they make another 1 like it or any other co-op 
 game like PD0 they fix that otherwise a must have. I would like to play iy online but don't have 
 xbox live as but when i do get live i will b on there as much as i can, so for any1 who doesn't 
 have PD0 go out and get a copy u wouldn't b sorry, when i come online trust me i'll b wypin' all 
 u other users off :p lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spindler01
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is THE single reason to own a 360. The gameplay is original, the graphics are 
 groundbreaking, and so this will be most people's launch title.
  
  The gameplay is quit similar to that of Halo, with an almost identical control scheme, and a similar 
 health system. However the game mixes 1st person with 3rd person with the option to take cover 
 in gunfights, and the option to perform dives to escape enemies. This make for a fun game, and 
 also makes stealth an option should you choose that.
  The storyline is pretty bland, but the game isn; t really about the storyline, it's more action 
 orientated.
  
  The graphics are outstanding. It's not possibl to describe how good the landscapes and textures 
 look. The use of lighting is incredible, far superior to any Xbox title. The soundtrack is a classic 
 special agent mix, with jazzy guitar lines, just like in the 007 movies.
  
  This game feels ahead of the competition so much, it's just a must have for anyone with a 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspownertheone
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  This game to some may suck, but to others it's the greatest game ever. I prefer the perfect dark 
 on N64, but the online mode on this is just plain addictive, it can hold massive amounts of people 
 which makes it a very good reason to get a 360, the single player mode is nothing special, about 
 what quake 4 single player mode is ranked to me, but if your an online fanatic then go pick this 
 one up it's flawless online, and one of the best experiences i ever had on xbox live, if your not 
 an online person then skip this one and pick up call of duty2 which has a very good single player 
 campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MPH1990
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jan 4, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  sad aswd wef qwerfd qwefd qerfd EWF WEF EWF EF H54H FG A FBFSAS GAEG QG AR GTHA RGA RGA TAHG RS 
 RGERGARGFAREGF RG GRG DW FDE F E FF EF EF F EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF 
 EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF R3 EF 
 EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF EF E F EF EF EF E E E E 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keanuwwu
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 4, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This game has a really good feel in the single player campaign. The Missions are very well thought 
 out and the enviornments are pretty different. You don't go though levels and say this looks exactly 
 like the last level. It's definitly worth checking out if you have a 360.
  
  However where the game lacks a little is in the Multiplayer. I haven't played it on LIVE yet, but 
 from what I have played with friends and with bots, the multiplayer seems very ridgid and with 
 the complex movements of human controlled players it's hard to find your mark a lot of the time. 
 Kills feel more like luck than actual skill.
  
  But it's just my opinion, if you were a fan of the first Perfect Dark, then I would say definitly 
 check this one out because there are some very fimilar thingsin PDZ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OtisTheBunny
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is the highly anticipated game from all-star devoper Rare. The original Perfect 
 Dark is considered one of the greatest shooters ever to be released, so PDZ has some very high 
 expectations to fill and in most ways it really does. The single player mode of PDZ plays almost 
 exactly like the original, which in some ways is good and other ways not so good. The control is 
 still very smoothe but a bit slow, especailly compared to Call of Duty and Halo 2. And while the 
 weapons, which look AWESOME and each feature secondary stuff, are extremely fun to use, just fighting 
 goons over and over again can get very boring at times. This wouldnt be a problem if the A. I. were 
 a bit better, and you would think when games like COD2 have extremely sophisticated A. I.. The story 
 also suffers a lot. Its the simple spy movie bad guy wants to take over the world ploy that we've 
 all seen a bjillion times already. So for the most part the missions wont give you too much fun, 
 cept when your playing it on co-op, which is very advanced because you will end up going through 
 totally different paths then your friend. The cream butter of PDZ lies in its fantastic multi-player. 
 There are 2 main modes-Deathmatch, which contains the basic Killcount, Team killcount, CTF, etc, 
 but theres also a new Dark Ops modes which is a CS ripp off that is extremely fun. You can also 
 use some pretty good bots in regular deathmatch but for Dark Ops you must only have human players. 
 The multiplayer is great fun and will make PDZ worth your money if you can get into it. Technically 
 PDZ is one of the showcases for the 360. The environments look absolutely jawdropping and the effects 
 are quite good as well. This is definately a next-gen looking game, the only problem is that the 
 charecter models compared to the environment dont look nearly as good, i also think that they would 
 have fared much better if they had gone for a more realistic look than this cartoony one. As for 
 audio, if you like techno than this is your nirvana, but otherwise it can bug a bit. The voice 
 acting is also just atrocious. Overall PDZ is an impressive game that plays very well. The multi-player 
 sure is awesome and you will definately have a lot of fun with it. This is just another very good 
 entry in the 360 launch. While its not great enough to make you want to buy the system, if you've 
 already bought it (and your a shooter fan) then you cant go wrong checking out Perfect Dark Zero. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazboy598
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It has the best co op I've ever seen. I was playing with my friend several 
 miles away doing single player co op together. It's very fun and also a challenge. The storyline 
 is a little short but multiplayer makes up for that. There's a wide variety of guns with all different 
 special abilities. It's one of the best FPS's I've played in a while, I can't believe it's a launch 
 game. Buy it if you have an xbox 360, it's an owners must buy. It was the first game I bought and 
 I didn't know if I would like it or not, but I definitely did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thespyhunter
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark ranks as one of my top 10 gaming experiences ever. Way surpassing GoldenEye, it was 
 an amazing experience that was incredibly deep to be a first person shooter. The inclusion of bots 
 and the secondary weapon functions alone made the game a great buy. But throw in an excellent single 
 player campaign and fantastic multiplayer, and you're talking legendary.
  
  So, here's the sequel (or, rather, prequel) proper. This is the first game I bought with my 360, 
 and at first, I was not disappointed. The game is beautiful -- extra attention and detail has been 
 paid to the textures on the in-game objects to make them look more lifelike. I like the weapon 
 system, with the four inventory blocks for weapon storage instead of just holding them (GoldenEye) 
 or holding two (Halo) . The soundtrack rocks -- the music is well scored and adapts very well to whatever's 
 happening in the game.
  
  But that's where it ends. The single player mode is way too short, and the plot is GOD-AWFUL. It's 
 not just enough for a game today to be fun to play, especially an FPS in the wake of Halo. If it 
 has a plot, it has to be good, and this one isn't just bad -- it's laughable. In addition, the gameplay 
 feels too sluggish for me. Some of the character animations, especially the death animations, look 
 forced and slow. It's way too hard to aim your gun, and coupled with the realism given to weapon 
 spray, it makes it very hard to hit something. The gameplay problem does not translate well into 
 the game's multiplayer mode, which was supposed to be the saving grace of the game. However, as 
 it is, multiplayer feels broken. It's just too slow and hard to play to be fun at all. Perhaps 
 the best way to sum it up is that, even after playing umpteen thousand hours of Halo 2 online, 
 i'm still playing it while PDZ is on my shelf collecting dust. 
  
  So much potential, squandered. To say that I was disappointed is an understatement. For a game 
 in development for such a long period of time, I expected a lot more. Oh well... Gears of War is 
 coming soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynamitehero
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  this game is ssssssstuning i love it. in my opinion this is the best 360 game so far. most of the 
 time i write the good and bad about a game but there is no bad with this game. it is the perfect 
 first person shooter. there is no better. this is a game that will compete with halo. right now 
 my computer is not working so thats y it is staying at 7.0 but i give it a ten oudda ten. this 
 game has amazing multiplayer levels too. not to mention the hover crat and jet pack. this is the 
 best best best best best game ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simon360
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  We have all played first person shooters, and beaten the game to a pulp and have not played the 
 game again because the gameplay is not a high enough standard. Perfect Dark Zero does the opposite.
 
  
  What do we look for when we buy a new game? We look for a game that won't get boring quickly, which 
 we want to play months later still experiencing the fun which we had the first time we unwrapped 
 the case and played the game. We look for great details on characters, and nice shading. Perfect 
 dark zero does this amazingly well, with a story thats fun to play with the huge data base of weapons, 
 and the whole movement of your character. 
  
  However, but said there are a few flaws with the game. Up close, the characters look ugly and it 
 kinda makes you think about how they have not used the whole of the 360's potential. The storyline 
 is very cheesy, and the voice acting is just plain awful. But do you really need them? Isn't it 
 just about the gameplay?
  
  The Co-op mode is extremely fun on Xbox live, and will make you play it over and over again. They 
 have a few interesting game modes, like 'Infection' thats highly fun to play. For those who have 
 no friends, there is a multiplayer which can have up to 30 bots, and is always a nice thing to 
 play on that lonely raining day.
  
  Is this a game worth buying? Yes, if your a first person shooter fan then I assure you, you will 
 not be upset. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt_zer0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is a ok game it look amazing and everything it's just way to short. I mean i played it 
 for about 2 hours the first day and then quit. I then played the next day for about 1 hour and 
 it was over so it's way to short. It was good online there were new guns not in the game and abunch 
 of things to do but overall this game is made for online play not single-player. I played and liked 
 the single player mode but it just didn't last wich is really sucky. I brought the game hoping 
 it would take me a while but turns out it only had 13 misions and they were very short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXg4m3rXx
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  I personaly own this game and i play it sometimes and i just beat the campaign and i thought that 
 it was a little shallow and pedantic (herrrrrrrrrrrrr family guy) and fun at the same time cause 
 the weapons are kool but the gameplay just gets repetitive but the graphics are good and the face 
 models are pretty bad at the same time its not a match to halo online but its not bad they could 
 have done a better job with it. The sound is good in this game it surround thats one of the good 
 parts. there was so much hype on this game but it just turned out to be an O. K game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disbadaszfool
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  Well the game is great, the single player is rubbish though, it makes me want to go to sleep. The 
 gameplay is great, but the graphics and the slow moving pace will make you want to just go to bed.
 
  The online on the other hand is awesome! Lot's of people, lot's of friends, lots of language, 
 I LOVE IT! If you want a game just for XBOX LIVE! then pick this up, but if you want a game for 
 Single Player then don't even think about touching this game.
  Although, you may think my opinion is different, and you don't have to agree with me... yeah i 
 dont care lol....
  
  Hope you agree with me =\
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbeauvais1
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is sluggish, the graphics are off and on, and it is very hard to play a mediocre (at 
 best) game when you have cod2. This game was a huge let down. The game should not be bought. Please 
 for your wallets sake, borrow it or something first. The game is not worth it. Fifa 2006 is better 
 than this game, and fifa kinda sucks too. I have king kong, fifa, nhl, nba 2k6, madden, pgr, cod2, 
 pdz, and this is the least playable game. way to go guys, get everyone excited and put out a piece 
 of crap. The one thing I do like is you can change from being a female to being a male. (thats 
 sad because thats the only really good thing) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berrry
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero, high expectations off course, this is a game in one of the best fps franchise. 
 Nothing had beaten Golden Eye so far, is PDZ the new king? Not quite. The single player has a horrible 
 weak story which doesnt appeal to play a second time. All is said with that. Now for the multiplayer. 
 This is really cool. With all sorts of gamemodes which will please about anyone. And not at all 
 laggy which is really important for a shooter. Then why no perfect score? The gameplay. Other online 
 player can most so fast, and the controls suck. Dont tell me I havent put enough effort to it. 
 If played ages willing to give this game a change. No luck. Therefore the lousy grade. The rest 
 is good if not prefect. But the gameplay just really gets up my nerves. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfsrre
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  PDZ is a teribble game, its like did tehy even try? Yea it looks good for a min but then when u 
 really pay attention its like wtf, and then the animations looks retarded... RETARDED!!! the guy 
 jack runs like his gay. and then the story is weak as freak. but the game does have a very good 
 co-op and when u finally get to the good missions its fun as hell. the game could have been a hit 
 if only they did not rush it, so i blame it on ms. but i do think the 360 will be good just needs 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumpydonut
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  The single player game is interesting but it comes no where near how fun multi player is! Some 
 of the game types are really just normal old things that you would expect. Then there are the weird 
 ones. Like infection, its fun and works out really well. If you play Halo ,its Zombies, but better. 
 Onslaught is pretty fun once you figure out what to do. The controls are not too hard to figure 
 out and the only down side is dual wielding. It is confusing at first then you get used to it, 
 but it takes a while. Overall its a real surprise that this good of a game be made by Rare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JCSinper
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  When I first got Perfect Dark, i must admit i wasn't keen. You couldn't jump, guards were hard 
 to kill and it seemed almost a bit dull.
  
  However once the game gets going it really gets going. The graphics are lovely; especially on the 
 jugle level, even though the guards look stupid. Soon you get used to the game and it takes you 
 back to the days of the N64. The third person part of the game works really well, with the covering 
 part being indespensible. 
  
  The multi player is very good also, even though it is nearly the saem as timesplitters. however 
 the multiplayer is not as fun as halo.
  
  The game is some where between Timesplitters and Perfect Dark 1, and is a worthy sequal (or prequal) 
 to the 1st, with loads to do it will keep to gaming for ages. Look forward to the next one in the 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bond007dude
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 28, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Story: Played it my cousins house. Wasn't dissapointing at all. I just had to get used to the controls, 
 by that time, better than the original and better than Halo 2.
  
  Gameplay: Sort of like a cross between HALO, Nightfire, and Perfect Dark. 
  The single player 
 is just awesome, its like being in a movie-only a little bit better. The Coop is a little more 
 awesome, because Jack is controlled by you, and does not do anything dumb (except if your friend 
 is dumb) lol. The Multiplayer is solid but a little bit less fun than the Coop.
  Single Player-
  Pros: I didn't think I'd like it that much, but the wall cover turns out to be 
 really great.
  There is much blood, the AI is good on the most part, (please do NOT listen to those idiots who 
 work for SONY) , the enemies react well, there some stragtegy (I was afraid of this but this actually 
 turned out to be a good thing) !
  The level design is good, and not that hard. There were some places to explore and the enemies 
 did not always do the same thing, so it gave the impression of real life.
  The damage system is really cool, once you get good. There is shock damage, and normal damage. 
 You can wear helmets but otherwise headshots kill. Shock damage can kill you, but if you avoid 
 damage for a little while, it regenerates. It is pure genius. Its like what HALO tried to do only 
 much better.
  You can fine tune all of your control settings.
  
  Cons: The aiming can be hard if you don't practice enough. 
  In multiplayer, I'm not sure if 
 its possible to change the global amount of health everyone gets. 
  Sometimes during multiplayer and single/coop player it can become hectic when you can't figure 
 out where someone's shooting you from.
  When you're getting shot it is hard to steady your aim.
  
  Graphics-First off, Joanna Dark 
 is even sexier than the original Perfect Dark! Secondly, you SONY agents can complain about the 
 plasticy textures, but I think it goes quite well with the atmosphere. Also you can complain about 
 how the enemies look ugly, frankly, just like real life, some of them do, some of them don't. Frankly 
 they don't look exactly the same as real life, but as I said before it matches the atmosphere. 
 And ALL of the girls are very hot. The bullet tracers are very sweet and the guns look nice (but 
 a little over-hyped) and the gun flash is good, along with the armor shards bursting into peices. 
 Of course the blood and enemy reaction animations are quite good. In single player, you can change 
 the always sweet death animation, and even change theyre dead bodies reactions, and some times 
 they'll even twitch! (I'll bet they did that on purpose!) And its the first time I've seen in a 
 videogame you can push/shoot some guy off a building when he was half-off and have him fall down! 
 
  I cannot say this of the multiplayer, however. The death animations are good until they get near 
 the ground, then it seems as though they are underpaid actors who couldn't get a job creating home 
 videos. But this doesn't take away from the funness, it just adds to the masterpeice of this game. 
 What's dumber than that is they explode with fireworks after they die, and it makes no sense, but 
 it is cute because Joanna Dark is cute to begin with. 
  The graphics are similar to HALO and Unreal, except like how all modern games SHOULD be, like how 
 they are on the box, except when you play the game they're not as good. In this game there as good, 
 if not better, than the box. The text is good, but my only complaint is sometimes theres a bunch 
 of action so its sometimes hard to find out where to shoot then shoot.
  
  Sound-DO NOT LISTEN TO THOSE SONY AGENTS TRYING TO TELL YOU THAT THE VOICE ACTING IS HORRIBLE! 
 It is classic and awesome! "Shutup, or I'll drop you like a bad conversation." ONE OF MY ALL TIME 
 FAVORITE LINES EVER!!! The pain sounds are good, the dialogue is good. Overall, very good. The 
 music is a good mix of rock, techno, rap, classical, dance, and epic. The gun sounds are good, 
 some the same as the originals, which by the way has really good weapons sounds. I'd hate to say 
 this but this has even better weapon sounds as the original!!! All the other noises are very good 
 too. The only complaint is multiplayer has no background music. (But of course you can play your 
 own music with the new XBOX 360 (if you have a hard drive (not included) ) .) The only reason you 
 would dislike th sound is if you had really bad speakers.
  
  Value-The multiplayer only has 5 or 6 maps (I was somewhat dissapointed by the CTF subway one, 
 and the jungle one, but it was still decent) and then you can change the map some it looks completely 
 different. I mean COMPLETELY DIFFERENT! The single player has 14 levels and I wish it had more 
 weapons, because there's only 25 (Goldeneye had 24 and Perfect Dark had 35) and I like most of 
 them, but basically they own HALO's (meager 12) , although there are a few that are very similar 
 to HALO 2's. I wouldn't recommend staying all night and playing it (because you will suck at it 
 and get a headache once you get sleepy) , but this is like HALO but with a different (and much sexier) 
 taste! The storyline is good (yes I'm not a stupid 2 year old who couldn't find a good game if 
 it ran over his face with a 20,000 lbs. semi-truck) , but everything seems more high-tech than the 
 original (strange because it is a prequel) !
  
  Tilt-Of course youv'e got the Joanna Dark mystery. In the game she resembles the cover of the original, 
 in the original she resembles sexyness (sometimes) , and in this cover she resembles the girl in 
 RARE's development team. Make any sense? And of course you got your Dr. Carroll, Mr. Carrington 
 and the imfamously cool Mr. Blonde. And a plethora of bosses and interesting new characters. The 
 in-game movies are very good, unlike those SONY agents want you to believe. The guns are some inspired 
 by HALO (Shockwave gun) , but still got some old favourites, like the Laptop Gun, Dragons and some 
 modern weapons, AK-74Xs, M-16s, M60s, MP5s. And they have some very interesting alternate fire modes 
 (like the CMP150) . You'll have to buy it to find out!
  
  Anyone who rated this game anything less than an 8 should be arrested, because they are giving 
 misleading info (a crime) and on top of that agents of SONY (super crime) ! They more you suck at 
 this game, the less your rating will be, but even if you're as bad a 3 year old the game still 
 does not deserve a 2.0! If you have some money, then this game is a better choice than HALO, can't 
 wait for Perfect Dark 2, because this game is holding HALO by its ankles over a 100 ft. cliff (not 
 really) , Perfect Dark 2 will take an M60 and shoot it 500 times then let it fall off the cliff. 
 (i hope) .
  
  THE FINAL LINE: Liking this game depends on your genetics.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arkangelsa
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  gameplay:
  ok the games gameplay is good, but i dont know if its just to much halo but the aiming system this 
 game uses just does not feel right i mean i most fps i can get a head shot 8/10 but in this game 
 i aim for the body more coz the aiming is just so loss.
  the map and missions are well veried and it keeps you enjoying it.
  but the aiming lets me down 
 alot.
  
  graphics:
  ok the games maps are stunning mostly the forest maps and the guns are amazing and have sum great 
 detail.
  close ups show sum flaws and for a next gen game with this hype it does not sit well..
  
  sound:
 
  ok... nothing more then average to me. compared to cod2 and condemed it does not hold a candle.
 
  
  value:
  shot fun, and ok has online play witch i just cant get to gripe with as the aiming sucks so much. 
 the maps are graet and sum of the game types are good.
  
  tilt:
  this is a good game dont get me wrong but its far off of next gen.
  short game, online play is 
 ok, theres just better out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lianx360
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  This is such a great game! Even though that it has bad voice acting and bad storyline, PDZ is great 
 because of the gameplay itself . The extreme replayability is so unreal that you will never get 
 tired of it at all. In fact, here are some reasons why you'll never stop playing PDZ:
  
  1. Weaponry - Weapons in PDZ are so cool. You only get that kind of weapon when you finish the 
 level with that same weapon. The moment you got the weapons you need, you can play the same level 
 with your favorite weapons.
  
  2. Xbox Live - With Xbox Live, PDZ is limitless (in possibilities, of course) . Now, PDZ can hold 
 up to 32 players in one room. And you have 2 modes to choose from.
  
  It's just that the gameplay is absolutely phenomenal that I can't wait to play more of it. Will 
 this be worth challenging when Halo 3 arrives? We will find out later in the year. Overall, PDZ 
 is such a unique, phenomenal game that is extremely replayable and good to play with friends (who 
 are not babies...) . After all, this will last for the years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malowqb16
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 20, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  Great online, but campaign aint all that good. Its Good but nothing special, CO-OP is very cool 
 tho. Id recomend this game, especially if u have online. VERY GOOD! Campaign ahs good levels but 
 some of them r somewhat annoying. Storyline isnt good at all. Darkops and anything online is just 
 amazing. All i know is this is one of the MUST HAVES, to me at least. umm, the guns in this game 
 r very cool, a wide variety. I like the Health system, smoething new. ANd all the multiplayer matches 
 all have a cool idea behind them. I love this game, and any1 new to a 360 should buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oztiger
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was the worst game i played. Everyone told me to get that it would be the halo 
 2 of the 360 so i bought beat and havent touched it since. The online play was slow paced and laggy. 
 I hate games that you cant jump in. The graphics were alright but nothing to brag about, and the 
 stroy mode was way to short. The only good thing about online play is the co-op mode. I want to 
 know how quake got a worse score than this game because it was a lot better it had a longer story 
 and online is fast paced. To me this game was a waste of money and shouldnt be bought by anybody 
 who dosent like slowpaced shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSpnkr
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a great combination of a tactical shooter and brilliant and lively multiplayer. 
 Visuals are a bit on the weak side but the gameplay is still as great as ever. It still doesnt 
 match up to its N64 predecessor but still is great fun. The story of the game is a bit dull but 
 youll wont notice due to the amount of action it packs. Multiplayer is a brand new story.. I have 
 only one word. AWESOME. There are a variety of games to play and it never gets old. Buy this game! 
 Its great and absolutley fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Silly
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  I played and beat this game in around 6 hours but I keep coming back.
  It's one of the best FPS's I've ever played.
  
  Gameplay: PDZ can seem slow at first but once 
 you get into it it's a fast paced game with tense action filled moments all through. The ragdoll 
 physics are great and a bit of blood doesn't hurt either.
  
  Graphics: PDZ's graphics topped any original X-Box games but it definitely had the worst graphics 
 out of the launch titles.
  
  Sound: I found the sound as good as any other FPS's. It was clear and sharp though the voice acting 
 was horrible.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltstitchie
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark 0 is a frankengame. While the box says that pd0 was developed by rare and published 
 by microsoft, my feeling is that the game really has three distinct creators. 
  1. Peter J. Allard-Moore
  Microsoft meanies who make their development **** inject as much halo 
 into as many friggin games as possible.
  2. Hype
  Hyping the sequel to an old game that hasn't stood the test of time is like looking foward to the 
 maturation of a fat, yet once hot mom's child. Wait, no it's nothing like that but regardless hype 
 kills games whose prequels arent grounded in the current generation. 
  3. Rare
  Cus they made it. Sort of.
  The Good:
  Online mutiplayer is a blast. I dare say its worth the 
 price tag in and of itself. Although colorful and uniformily shiny, the visuals are top notch. 
 Many nice looking effects add to the game's next gen factor including motion blur, xray, etc. Some 
 of the campaign is worth playing through. Large weapon roster.
  The Bad:
  Most of the campaign is not worth playing through. The ai is almost as smart as a kidney stone. 
 The story is less coherent than scientology. As a tribute to shooters of yesteryear, pd0's multiplayer 
 maps have a little trouble 
  dealing with vertical scale. Based on the game, I hope the rare guys never find themselves shot 
 in the stomach as they would most likely just shrug it off. I mean only shots to the head kill 
 people right?
  I wish everyone had just left rare alone and let them work on the game without timetables, requirments, 
 etc. 
  As a final note, I really can't stress enough how the game's mutiplayer modes make up for all Perfect 
 Dark's shortcoming's in spaids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConMan09
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero for the Xbox 360 is one of the best shooting games I have ever played. Perfect 
 Dark for the N64 was the first and was also amazing, and this one showed how great Perfect Dark 
 can get. In this game you are Joanna Dark an agent. The year is 2020 and there is a war going on 
 between corporations to lead to global domination. But now to playing the game. The gameplay is 
 great. It is easy to use and get used to. The graphics are the best ever, and the best for the 
 Xbox 360. The single player is great. The missions aren't to hard and are full of action. Multiplayer 
 is the best since Golden Eye for the N64. Xbox live is fun but it could be better. The sound of 
 the guns are so real it makes you think your in the game. But overall this is one of my favorite 
 games of all time. So if you have the Xbox 360 go out and buy this game and I know you will like 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBOX_360_PLAYER
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I rented it and when I first played it it felt wierd to me. I've been playing it alot and it is 
 pretty good. But still doesn't compare to Call of Duty 2. If you're thinking about buying this game 
 I would rent it first. But Ithink it lis a good game don't get me wrong. But it is still an awesome 
 game. That's all I have to say. I rented it and when I first played it it felt wierd to me. I've been 
 playing it alot and it is pretty good. But still doesn't compare to Call of Duty 2. If you're thinking 
 about buying this game I would rent it first. But Ithink it lis a good game don't get me wrong. But 
 it is still an awesome game. That's all I have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGwalt77
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero was possibly the most hyped game for the launch of the Xbox 360. Depending on 
 who you ask, it either exceeded expectations or made them cry and want to kill everyone who works 
 at Rare. The thing I realized when playing PDZ is that it is definitely slower paced than other 
 shooters, namely the Halo series. I tried the first mission (not the training) from both perspectives, 
 and it definitely seems that your success and enjoyment of this game both depend on you playing 
 it as a tactical shooter. 
  
  The single player aspect of the game is rather mediocre until you get to about the third or fourth 
 mission. That's when my theory about play style really came into effect. If you just take it slow 
 and take enemies down one by one, you should begin liking it more and more. The missions are not 
 particularly long, nor are they extremely short. It also seems like many of the levels require 
 a ton of trial and error, which is a real pain considering the relative lack of checkpoints. You're 
 lucky to stumble across one checkpoint per mission. Luckily for the less experienced players, there 
 is a waypoint system which guides you to your next objective should you become too lost. Another 
 slightly frustrating part of the single player is the difficulty of the early bosses. One particular 
 fight took me around five times to complete, and this was in the third mission. You may hear many 
 people saying that the story is terrible, but in all actuality it really isn't that bad.
  
  Multiplayer is this game's saving grace. The single player is good, but the multiplayer really 
 makes this game the total package. With game types like Infection, Eradication, and Onslaught, 
 you could literally become addicted to this game completely. All of your basic deathmatch and capture 
 the flag modes are here, but DarkOps is where the multiplayer really shines. The aforementioned 
 Infection gametype seems to be the most popular, with one group playing the "infected" and the 
 other group being "normal." If you imagine "Zombies" from Halo 2, then you've hit the nail on the 
 head. The only catch here is that the "infected" can only use pistols or weapons they acquire (either 
 by finding them on the ground or jacking them from other players) , whereas the "normal" people 
 can purchase weapons a la Counter Strike at the beginning of the match. PDZ really delivers a very 
 comprehensive multiplayer experience.
  
  In closing, I would just like to say that Perfect Dark Zero can be a very fun game if you play 
 it like it is meant to be played. If you play it like Rambo and charge headlong into every firefight, 
 you'll end up hating it. Overall, I would recommend this game to anyone seeking a solid FPS on 
 their Xbox 360 (assuming WW2 games aren't your thing, but if they are pick up Call of Duty 2 first) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MobySSX
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Let's get down to the point, this game has a flashy exterior. But, when you start to play it awhile, 
 you'll realize that it was put together just a little lazily. The "Ragdoll" physics on death are 
 something i would refer to as Barbie Doll physics. Half of the time the characters don't even make 
 it onto the ground before they dicapate, as if their lifeless leg is somehow holding them up. I 
 realize that this fact will probably cause mixed reactions, so I'll just leave that there as a 
 generic note. 
  
  Some of the maps are horrible! I remember playing in the temple. The plants were so in the way 
 that you couldn't find a proper wall to get cover behind. Most are fairly decent, with many empty 
 space for traps, lots of open spaces for rockets, and lots of narrow streets for... well, rockets.
 
  
  A good note, all of the weapons have special functions. The launchers have manual homing devices 
 (rocket vision) , and the uzis (or UGLs) can be used as explosives. The AI is pretty average, nothing 
 special. There is also a cool effect where all the objects leave a tiny trail of color as if to 
 show motion. I've never seen this before in a game and it's quite gorgeous, because that's what 
 happens in real life when you see a moving object. Geneous!
  
  All in all, it's a good shooter. I don't know if I can recommend it over Call of Duty 2, but it's 
 plenty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onesint
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  For the same amount of money, buy Halo 2 (because it works on 360) and use the $10 you have left 
 over and take your mom out to dinner (because she earned it for putting up with your crap) . PDZ 
 plays very similar to Halo, but you can't jump. So instead of multi-player opponents jumping everywhere, 
 they are rolling everywhere. Weaponry is weak and off-balanced. Multi-player is the worst of all. 
 Can you say base camping? Everyone starts in a neutral spawn room where you can choose your weapons, 
 but after you spawn into the game, don't be surprised if you spawn directly in front of an enemy 
 in a tank waiting to massacre you. Once again, save your money! Your first mistake was buying a 
 360. Wait a few months until a better selection of games are released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilrush
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  PDZ, one of the most anticipated launch titles, is fun and innovative. With an interesting array 
 of weapons (all with equally fun secondary features) , this game is simply amazing. While the singleplayer 
 campaign is shortlived (only 13 levels long) , this game has outstanding replay value on multiplayer. 
 Whether you are duking it out with friends and family on splitscreen or blowing opponents up on 
 xbox live, this game is incredible. I am currently trying to beat the game on secret agent, which 
 is slightly longer than agent because of the added objectives, and I can imagine that the hardest 
 mode will be even harder and longer, increasing replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blountish
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 1, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  I dont know how anyone in the right mind can give this game 9 it doesnt deserve that maybe a 7 
 maximum. The gameplay is dull and didnt get me interested at all, its nothing like how halo 2 played 
 and no Im not a halo fanboy. This game was over hyped and was a complete let down to me. 
  
  I have to admit the graphics are no way as good as Call of Duty 2 and that also mean the gameplay. 
 
  
  If you want a decentish first person shooter I would suggest avoiding this unless you rent it first. 
 Call of Duty 2 is the way to go.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GT_Drag
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  it's an okay game. multiplayer is the best part really.
  
  the game play is pretty fun. plenty of different weapons to go through. controls are easy to learn 
 and remember. the AI isn't too smart though... there are tons of different gadgets to use.
  
  the graphics are more on the cartoonish side, but are overall, very nice indeed. everything 
 flows together very nicley in the end.
  
  it; s always great to be able to have your own soundtrack on the game. the sound fx are very nice. 
 the gun shots sound good for the certain guns.
  
  overall, it's a good shooter. if you like multiplayer games, you should DEFINITELY get this. the 
 story mode though... ehhh... it's okay. i just finished it, but didn't enjoy it. the multiplayer 
 is the thing to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IamTehN00bness
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:31 pm PT
Review:  The original Perfect Dark is my all-time favorite game. PD0 is not a bad game, it is just not as 
 good as the original PD. The single player is all-right. It is fun expecially co-op over Xbox Live 
 but is nothing like the experience of Call of Duty 2. Where this game shines is Xbox Live. 32 player 
 over Live is incredibly fun and addicting. There are many game modes to play and also quite a bit 
 of weapons. If you have Xbox Live and are looking for a game to get this would probably be it. 
 If you don't have XBL gold than get Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarrettJayjohn
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a game with great graphics and great sound. The gameplay is not bad, but when 
 you're playing it, you just aren't having fun.
  
  The single player is bad past the first level. The multiplayer has many different game modes, but 
 when you complete things or kill someone, it's just not satisfying.
  
  I do not recommend buying Perfect Dark Zero, it's been all hyped up just because the N64 version 
 was great. But quite frankly, it's not half the game.
  If you are looking to purchase a Xbox 360 game, i'd suggest Call of Duty 2, Project Gotham Racing 
 3, or Dead or Alive 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dognateh
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I love perfect dark zero. The campain is fun and so is multiplayer. Also jetpacks are very fun. 
 Scoping is fantastic pressure zoom but is useless in most situations. Also it is cool that all 
 gunS have secondary features from flash lights to x-ray vision and the laptop gun is back. Also 
 multiplayer is done well and taking cover is amazingly fun in multiplayer. But for me it gets old 
 with very few maps to pick from and most people use the urban map. Also its a downer that you cant 
 jump. The visuals are great but to me they seem just a little cartoony. Not windwaker cartoony 
 but very sutle. I would recommend perfect dark zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 8:05 pm PT
Review:  After finnaly getting my 360 the first game i put in was this one and i must say wow. Rare is known 
 for good games back in the day but has proved mutch with this generation well PDZ is a great example 
 of how good Rare is. The prequel to the excellent Perfect Dark, Perfect Dark Zero puts you in the 
 role of Joanna Dark as she proves that video game chacters can look great *wink*. Ok down to the 
 Graphics they are fantastic its hard to describe they are soo good somtimes i feel it looks a bit 
 cartoonish but then it drops back into looking incredebly real. The sound is great as well with 
 and interesting soundtrack that is pleasing to the ear and sound effects are solid and sound like 
 they should. Gameplay is the greatest thing about this game the missions are kinda long and some 
 arnt as diverse as others but the game does a good job of throwing a bit of diversity in there 
 with stealth missions and mini-gameish styled gadgets that require you to do thing sutch as connect 
 a line from one end to the other using fixed pieces. Xbox Live as we know is the major thing about 
 the 360 and PDZ brings the best to the table with 3 different game styles online those being: Co-op 
 (also splitscreen offline) , Deathmatch (your basic shoot everything that moves) , and Darkops (the 
 best of them it kinda plays like Counter Strike but with many different game types) . These different 
 styles (as i call them) have different game types and make the game accessible to all crowds. The 
 game has this nice feature where you can roll or take cover behind something the game goes into 
 3rd person whenever you do these which is very usefull. Some problems i had with the game is that 
 there is no jump button which sometimes can get annoying but you rarely will need to jump. The game 
 can sometimes throw a little bit to many enemies at you which means lots of deaths or lots of sitting 
 there taking cover shooting. Overall if you have a 360 and you like shooters you must have this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g0dsd3vil
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is one of the launch titles to hit the Xbox 360. This game, offers single player 
 campaign mode, playable on Agent, Secret Agent, Perfect Agent and Dark Agent, and allows you to 
 play multiplayer locally, system linked, or online. Perfect Dark Zero combines some great graphics, 
 some great game-play into making an overall great game. But after all this, it still wasn't the 
 game that was the killer app.
  
  Firstly game-play. Game-play consists of offline single player/multiplayer as well as online co-op 
 and multiplayer head-to-head. The single player campaign, is a bit disappointing with a lackluster 
 story and uninteresting cut-scenes. The action, however is still the best part of the single player 
 campaign. Story-addicts out there will definitely be disappointed as it comes nowhere close to 
 the highly entertaining story of the original. Single player offers harder modes to play in, with 
 extra missions to be done solo or with a friend. However, the single player gets tiresome and rather 
 boring the first or second time through the game. Game-play also consists of multiplayer, which 
 has a variety of modes. The two main type of modes are "Deathmatch" and "Darkops". Deathmatch consists 
 of sub-modes which include team-deathmatch and plain deathmatch. Darkops, on the other hand, consists 
 of a variety of modes, including capture the flag etc. The online is the main savior for the game, 
 and thus if you do not have Xbox live, dont bother buying this game.
  
  Graphics, are some of the best the Xbox 360 has to offer, but it is still not really "next-generation" 
 graphics. The textures up close look bad, and the graphics are not all that great without a good 
 HDTV to go with it. However, that being said, with an HDTV, the graphics are great with great gun 
 effects, shooting and player models, as long as they are seen from far away. The cut scenes look 
 good, and solid. Still, there can be a huge improvement regarding graphics. The reason the graphics 
 score is high, is because comparing to the rest of the games out for this console, these are some 
 of the best
  
  Sound, again is great. The sound effects of weapons and footsteps etc are some of the best I have 
 heard. The voiceovers are decent, but can still be improved. Unfortunately, the biggest hit in 
 the sound system are the annoying death sounds the characters make when they are hit. They can 
 get extremely annoying and painful to the ears
  
  In conclusion, this game is worth the price if you have Xbox live. If you are lacking that important 
 feature, buy Call of Duty 2 or wait for another FPS to hit the market. Perfect Dark Zero is a great 
 game on its own, but a disappointing sequel to a classic as well as a disappointing game to the 
 "hype".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rowbear
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2005 5:51 pm PT
Review:  so, i was excited about this game. it was so supposed to look and feel "NEXT GEN". eh, nothing 
 much to look at. actually, the one i bought, was a used copy and didnt look that good. now, to 
 be fair, im on the 3 or 4 mission. so i will give it some time. just initial impressions are, eh. 
 online is were its at, if you can connect. have yet to connect, but ive read else where that online 
 is waaaay better than cod 2. thats lags.... hope im at 100 words allready... i guess not, well 
 i want to go and play some more, so if this isnt enough words then tough stuff. of course the fact 
 that i want to go and play some more says something also.... see ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 2:51 pm PT
Review:  I got perfect dark thinking it would be amazing since everybody said it was. So I play the first 
 level and i already disliked it due to the fact that I couldnt see anything, and you dont even 
 have a flashlight/nightvision. Second, I love a good online game, and this is very fun online but 
 you dont know if the game is ranked or not! I've played this online for hours thinking my gamerscore 
 would go up but, wrong again. This game is way to much like goldeneye its rediculous. YOU CANT EVEN 
 JUMP! All the levels I've played in this game were to dark to even see enemies. I had to rely on 
 the cursor turning red. Oh well, big waste of money there im gonna trade it in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha666
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:35 am PT
Review:  What I mean with my title is, this game looks good, but is hardly different from any unique fps 
 games. I completed the co-op campaign with my friend just last night, we went straight through 
 starting at 8:30 p. m., and we finished around 4:30 a. m. It's the whole shooting system, it becomes 
 way too real, you move really slowly, you have a dumb weapon holding system, and the weapons all 
 look cool when you pick them up, but when you fire them, what the heck was that? I remember on 
 the very first level, we picked up these guns that had a purple bar on top of them, "Hey this looks 
 good!" then we fire it, and it fires purple? Uh, that is just not something cool, that is something 
 weirdos would be fond of. Later on I pick up a big shining shotgun, and I fire it..... click..... 
 it makes a really quiet noise and a bunch of bullets come out, what happened there? WAIT THERE'S 
 MORE. What's the point of this cover thing? Yes, there is a feature in the game, where you could 
 hide behind something for cover, but the game is so easy, why should you? You could simply mow 
 everyone down with a pistol. Taking cover is a waste of time. Now the hacking device, that was 
 pretty cool, well it looked cool, up until it told me to play simon says with it to open the door. 
 "When the blue marks match up, press X!" That's how you hack? Fine I'm going to go buy a simon 
 says machine, plug it into my computer, and hack into the pentagon so I can fire a missile at Iraq 
 (JUST KIDDING) . Now the graphics in this game, they are very very nice, with the exception of the 
 main character, who looks like a cartoonish comic book character, and really stands out like a 
 sore thumb. Everything else looks smooth, shiny, and beautiful. The sound in the game is very dissapointing. 
 The quality is great! But the music is extremely cheesy and seems like something that would be 
 in a Tribes game, yes that's it folks, that really annoying techno rock music, but this one has 
 a secret agent twist in it. The voice acting is terrible. Everyone is always perky, and when they 
 aren't, they say some really un-catchy/ very corny things. "YOU SHUTUP, OR I'LL....... I'LL... DROP 
 YOU LIKE A BAD CONVERSATION!!!!" ???? Excuse me? Do you know who you're talking to? Don't ever 
 diss me with lame insults when I've got a gun to your head, again man. The main enemy in the game 
 is a little midget with a big head, wow, were they being serious at this point? I know rare likes 
 to joke a lot (conker, banjo kazooie) but this is an M-rated fps, and the final boss is a genious 
 midget? Good god. I think the most dissapointing factor of the game, was very early on, I remember 
 we got into a club, and just before we got into the dance room, I was hoping to see thousands of 
 people getting drunk and dancing like crazy, instead, I got like 6 people just dancing, and then 
 a tard with a gun comes down and just starts firing at me, and everyone is still dancing, but the 
 objective is pull the fire alarm so everyone leaves. But wait? Shouldn't the constant gunshots 
 and blood gushes make them leave? Apparentally it doesn't, now that right there, I just think that's 
 plain laziness, because it could be a lot better. Now the online play was a lot better, but it 
 was really just a run and gun thing, and doesn't even exceed older xbox live titles such as far 
 cry instincts, or halo 2. (I hate halo 2, but the online is massive) . So ya know, Perfect Dark 
 Zero is a good looking game, but it gets very boring, produces sounds that run down your spine 
 making you feel the need to vomit, and shows various signs of laziness. That's about it.... perfect 
 dark zero........ bomb..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedish-marine
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 5:02 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is one of the titles of the Xbox360 launch lineup that keeps you up at nights 
 becuase of the Multiplayer but the single-player is rather disapointing. 
  
  When you first pick up Perfect Dark Zero and get it on the Xbox 360 is that the invoiments has 
 those really nice light effects you've seen in Half Life 2 and other first person shooters, but 
 what's really amazing is the lightnings on the weapons. 
  
  And the sounds in the game is also pretty good except for the really awful sound acting for the 
 civilians and enemies in the game which just adds a cartoony feeling of the game, but in the cinematics 
 there's nothing noticeable, then everything is realised to be in order. 
  
  Well, I also want to say that I haven't played much of the single-player game becuase it was really 
 crappy in most possible ways except for everything to look really good with excellent effects but 
 in terms of storyline and all the standard objectives and there's no real twists or anything. 
 
  So, if you doesn't like the Single-player due to it's pretty slow story but you like the game 
 itself you'll find yourself with a pretty strong Multiplayer support, and it's actually mostly 
 Team Based multiplayer which works fine to this game becuase it's not that very quick like other 
 multiplayer games such as Quake 4 and Call of Duty 2. 
  
  In the multiplayer you can choose between the standard Deathcount which is obviously just a Free-For-All 
 Deathmatch which is very standard and we have a team version, but when it goes to the more advanced 
 settings like Sabotage, Ediucation and other team based gametypes it's getting really interesting. 
 In all the more advanced multiplayer modes you can buy your gear from the amount of money you start 
 with and gain more the more enemies you kill so you're team wins. And you can choose from the standard 
 pistols, revolvers to M60 Heavy Machineguns and Guided Rocket Launchers, and something ou'll have 
 to think through is not only what weapon you want to get it's also what it has for secondary fire, 
 such a the Falcon light pistol which in seondary makes you throw a full clip magazine and it will 
 spin around and shoot at the enemy, and the M60 Machine Gun has a secondary attack which damages 
 personell and slow them down but it's more effective for slowing down vechicles greatly. So you'll 
 have to think through what weapons that's best for the map you're playing on.
  
  So this game makes a hell of a great multiplayer game but for those who doesn't like the way the 
 game plays becuase it's a little slower than other console games and it's also having some effects 
 that will maybe amaze some people and just annoy some other so I guess you'll have to try it out 
 before buying but if you like it, then you do well buying it, ofcourse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanleyHandyman
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  First I would like to say that I feel disappointed by this game. Don't get me wrong this is a good 
 game it just doesn't feel like Perfect Dark. The game-play seems a lot slower paced than in the 
 original. I really would have liked to see them keep it like the original, but its still a great 
 game.
  
  Game-play:
  Fun, but a bit frustrating at times. For example, in multiplayer enemies take a long while to kill 
 unless you get a headshot. You have to load a clip and a half into a guy with a pistol until you 
 finally kill him. Cover button is a nice new feature that help in the heat of gunfights, except 
 it isn't always their when you need it. No jump. : ( Gamerpoints are undervalued but there are a 
 lot of possible achevements.
  
  Graphics:
  Brilliant graphics. Beautiful detailed worlds, guns, and charecters (except their faces) . Everything 
 is a bit too shiny though. The motion blur effect is really cool and makes it feel like you are 
 really their. Going up ladders is a pain because when you get to the top your head swings around 
 fast and you loose where you are. ( at least I did)
  
  Sound:
  Great FX, with some of the same gun FX from the original. ( Magsec4, Superdragon) . Explosions are 
 loud and sound real. The theme music is the same except with some tweaks. In game music matches 
 the enviroments. People voices can be annoying ( Carrington, Jonathan, JoAnna when she gets shot) .
 
  
  Value:
  With a moderately long story line, and multiplayer you could get used to this game has good replay 
 value. New DarkOps matches are sure to delight Counter-Strike fans who play this game. The bad 
 thing about these is the cannot be played with bots.
  
  Tilt:
  I liked this game overall even though it didnt feel like a perfect dark game.
  I would recommend 
 for you to rent it first if you are interested in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danold
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:20 pm PT
Review:  This games contains great multi player replay value, but the single play lacks a certain pizazz. 
 I personally do not want to play any of the single player levels again, but the multi player has 
 endless possibilities. The live Internet play is really fun, and the bots also give out a good 
 time to those who do not have live. Rare has done a fairly good job this year, but I expect better 
 the next time Rare puts out a games. Overall the game is pretty fun, could have done better, but 
 if you are looking for a first time game for the Xbox 360 Perfect Dark Zero is definitely a good 
 find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detailedghost
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I believe that as a owner of a 360, its definitely a keeper, but a few flaws I like to discuss. 
 1st of all, the background music sounds like 70s porn-funk that people quickly dispose of if heard. 
 A 2nd thing is that the gun sounds sound like their straight from Golden-eye on the original N-4. 
 The default pistol with the scope, sounds like a bullet fired through a tornado. And 3rd, the feel 
 of the game is slow, but it will grow on u. U have to be patient. But if u ignore the porn-funk 
 music, and get use to the slow game play, its a game that is golden. A differnt game that deserves 
 the respect of a differnt game from that of it's fellow counterparts, such as Halo and Half Life. 
 A game to be played on the 360, and should be the 2nd game u get 4 the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDubb86
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:25 pm PT
Review:  A couple years ago, I picked up a game for the 64 that had been called the next 'Goldeneye.' I 
 wasn't let down in the least; in fact, I only picked up Goldeneye when friends would come over 
 and we tired of playing Perfect Dark. It was engaging, challenging, and despite the somewhat odd 
 storyline, I loved it.
  
  Of course, those were the days of Rare, not Free Radical. The team that was behind the original 
 was miles away from Perfect Dark Zero. This isn't to say that Rare didn't do a good job putting 
 it all back together the best they could, but they missed the mark on this one. I've been waiting 
 for this since it was announced it may come out for Gamecube, and when I decided to ditch Nintendo 
 this generation, I was ecstatic that it was coming out for the 360.
  
  Now don't get me wrong, it's a great game. Especially to those who remember going after Challenge 
 30, shooting Elvis with a crossbow, and camping the Farsight spawn in multiplayer. I love it, and 
 it's a great prequel that explains a lot of the unanswered questions from the first. Multiplayer 
 is back in force and this is what truly sells the game. The story is just as cheesy, but you can't 
 beat using a fly-by-wire rocket to take out a group of guys rushing your base. 
  
  No plasma swords or sticky plasma grenades here; it's great fun that takes strategy and skill. 
 Just don't expect any one-liners to rival those of James Bond. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GotRaceGames
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 6:14 pm PT
Review:  perfect dark zero is a typical first person shooter. nuf said about that. for the most part this 
 game is decent with good gameplay kind of a weird plot and odd controlls but all in all still good. 
 
  
  the only problem i have with the game in itself is what the hell is up with the graphics. i mean 
 pardon me but it looks like someone WAXED the environment and forgot to wipe it off. i mean that 
 just gives the whole game a kind of unrealistic feel to a game that is played on a game consol 
 that has the potention to make it look real. just messes everything up with you can see your reflection 
 in a brick wall in my opion. 
  
  Nice try "rare" but please for the love of god put less gloss in the game it doesnt help you only 
 hinders you.
  
  P. S HEAD SHOT NO SCOPE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markscpu
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Okay, the graphics are great. It looks fantastic. But we're are shelling out 50-60 bucks on a game 
 here. \
  
  The computer a. i. characters slide back and forth when they shoot at you - and they constantly 
 hit you. Last time I checked, you have to stay still to get off a decent shot. Is it just me, or 
 is it harder than HELL to hit them with the super TINY aim dot, ESPECIALLY WHEN THEY ARE SLIDDING 
 BACK AND FORTH! 
  
  The character modeling actually looks like crappy sprites from N64, the animation is okay, but 
 they DO NOT LOOK REAL, AT ALLLL.
  
  The missions have no real goals, just shoot and kill your way through. And the story line is absolutely 
 Non-Existent. 
  
  The music gets really on my nerves too, I eventually turned the crap off.
  
  RARE really screwed 
 up on this one, but . . .it will still be a commercial success because - I'm told I don't need 
 to look past the awesome graphics
  
  What ever happened to making a game where your health wasn't so high, the enemy had a harder time 
 to hit you, and you could actually kill them with one shot to the head instead of 3 to 5!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  I think this is THE MOST BORING FPS I've EVER PLAYED - IT PLAIN SUCKS. Whatever happened to the 
 intellegent shooter like
  DEUS EX on Xbox 360!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  now that is an idea, if people would take their thumbs out of their uttb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kain_320
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! I like it even more than Halo 2.
  
  -Gameplay: I gameplay is really fun, the only problem I see is that it takes awhile to get into 
 "Cover", but its not THAT big of a problem.
  Another is that sometimes the combat seems a bit slow, but when theres lots of people around, its 
 super fun and crazy.
  
  -Graphics: Amazing grapics, the only problem i'd say would be... characters mouths not moving good 
 with the talking in single player, but who cares about that!
  
  -Sound: The sound quility is great, though some of the screams and moans of the characters are 
 kinda weird.
  
  -Multiplayer: The mulityplayer in this game is the best thing about the game, just like Halo 2. 
 Theres lots of gametypes, the most unique one would be, I think, "Infection". Its like Zombies 
 from Halo 2, only the humans get to buy their weapons and stuff at the start, and the Infected 
 People (Skeletons) start out with only a pistol. Very fun, and fair, as long as the Host doesen't 
 put on Rocket Lunchers.
  
  So in closing, if you got a 360, BUY THIS GAME.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  When I loaded this game into my 360 the opening cut scene was beautiful! There is no doubt in my 
 mind that this is one of the most beautiful games today! Even when you're playing the game it looks 
 great, and moves smoothly.
  If you ask me, I think the soundtrack on this game is pretty corny. The sounds of the weapons are 
 so good you would think there's a war going on outside of your house!
  I havn't played the campaign myself yet, but I havn't heard anything bad about it. The multiplayer 
 is great. Even when you are off line you can fight bots. So it is entertaining on and offline. The 
 only thing I could ask for is more levels.
  Any one who has the 360 needs to at least try this shooter. I would definetly reccomend this game 
 for everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSP360Gamr83
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 12:52 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game with my 360 i was hearing how bad this game was going to be but when 
 i opened it up and played it... well you should have been there. This game finally breaks the addictinve 
 spell that Halo 2 puts on you. Unfortunatly the game puts you on a similar but way better drug, 
 Perfect Dark Zero. The Game is amazing and the sound is more realistic than anything Bungie can 
 put out. The multiplayer keeps you wanting more and this disc will spin in your powerful XBOX 360 
 for days, weeks, maybe even months. There is something truly satisfying when you blow off your 
 oppenents helmet then get a headshot with a Magnum. Or some of the other truly satisfying weapons 
 and vehicles, like the hover craft, or jetpack (whice is more like a Mech) , or simply just sneaking 
 up behind an enemy and punching them in the back of their head with your well manicured fists. 
 The game has great graphics, realistic effects, sound and physics. And the music is great. And 
 big battles cna get truly amazing in single player because the bodies wont ever dissapear they 
 will always be where you left them, same with bullet holes or any other mark you leave. And the 
 AI will make you think that your playing with the kid next door insted of a bot, let me just say 
 they are extremely smart and realistic too. i say that this game is a must have for people who 
 want the best game for 360 to tide themselves over till Halo 3. I give this game a Perfect Dark 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rancid_toejam
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:27 am PT
Review:  Okay, this is going to be short and sweet:
  
  You like FPS? You like great graphics? You like solid game play?!!! 
  
  BUY THIS GAME THEN!!!!
 
  
  Gameplay (10) : Its a great FPS. Dual Wield in awesome (Halo 2 style) . Great feature is the "Cover" 
 feature, something that you will always want to do. Enemy AI can be little better. Gets better 
 through difficulties. All in all, great gameplay.
  
  Graphics (10) : Right now, best looking game. Great lighting. Shadows, glares and reflections are 
 beautiful! Character models are outstounding! Great physics (RAG DOLLS!!)
  
  Sound (10) : Hey, if i gave it a 10.... you dont need explanations
  
  Value (8) : Pretty good 
 multiplayer... could be something to replay
  
  Overall: 9.7
  
  If you have the 360 with out this game, your retarded 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioRPGer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:06 am PT
Review:  Gameplay-This game plays like most first person shooters, you use the two analog sticks to move 
 and aim your gun. But a neat little thing they threw in is cool little gadget minigames. The weapon 
 inventory system works very well becuase it is very realistic. The number of guns you can carry 
 depends on the size of the weapons you pick up. For example, you can carry two pistols and an automatic, 
 or you could carry two automatics, and there are certain guns that take up the whole inventory, 
 and believe me, ther are plenty of awesome guns. The game has you going from mission to mission 
 like most shooters and that about wraps up the stellar gameplay
  
  Graphics-The graphics run very smoothly and are excellent, but I did find they chug up a bit in 
 some situations. Other than that, this is the best looking X-BOX 360 game yet with awesome level 
 design and even cooler looking guns. Awesome graphics.
  
  Sound-The gun sounds are all here and they sound great. But the greatest thing about the sound is 
 the awesome original soundtrack which put you in almost a moody mood. The music is just dang good, 
 I think they should put the soundtrack on a CD if they already havent.
  
  Value-If youve played the first get it, if you havent played the first this is a pretty good place 
 to start considering this is the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaosDemon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:13 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome game that takes place in the future times
  Likes and dislikes... I like the fact that it is a hard game, the fact that you can dual wield some 
 weapons, the whole sci fi theme, sound track is neat, It has tons of multiplayer options and of course 
 the whole xbox live thing, the fact that the AI is pretty good My dislikes would have to be the 
 graphics they could've done a bit more better for it, doesnt like the fact that you cant drive no 
 vehicles, and dont like the fact that you cant save in the middle of the mission, but atleast they 
 have check points in the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthDravvid
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 4:51 am PT
Review:  Overall, I was very impressed with PDZ. The graphics were basically jaw-dropping and the gameplay 
 was pretty easy to pick up. That said, the gameplay did get a little repetitive with the old "follow 
 the little blue arrows" scenario. There are different modes, including co-op and online co-op, 
 which allow friends to join in. I had a blast with these features. For some reason, however, the 
 game did get boring quick because even though my gamertag is in the recreation zone, I always wound 
 up in servers filled with trash talkers using foul language, which was a little distracting, to 
 say the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LONFR
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 3:07 am PT
Review:  You don't need to be familiar with Perfect Dark for the Nintendo 64 to easily get into Perfect 
 Dark Zero, starring the spunky red-haired hired gun, Joanna Dark. Though she and her dad are technically 
 bounty hunters, the game has got more of a high-tech superspy feel to it, from the futuristic weapons 
 to the fancy gadgets you'll get to use. Perfect Dark Zero's story spans more than a dozen big missions, 
 and may be optionally played through cooperatively with a friend. The campaign is longer than average 
 at about 12 hours, and its multiple difficulty settings, unlockable weapons, and the outstanding 
 co-op mode should keep you coming back to it after you reach the conclusion the first time. Perfect 
 Dark Zero also features a "combat arena" mode that contains most of its multiplayer options, some 
 of which may be played with and against computer-controlled bots in addition to (or instead of) 
 other human players. There's a wide assortment of different modes supporting up to 32 players online, 
 including conventional free-for-all and capture-the-flag modes, as well as some great Counter-Strike-inspired 
 team-based match types. In short, this is big game with a lot to it. 
  
  However, it's not just all the different modes of play, but rather the sheer attention to detail 
 that separates Perfect Dark Zero from other first-person shooters out there. It's a gorgeous-looking 
 game, especially if you play it on a high-definition display, and the beauty's more than skin deep. 
 Most every weapon in the large arsenal of available pistols, submachine guns, assault rifles, and 
 heavy weapons looks extremely authentic, right on down to their steely sheen and white-hot muzzle 
 flashes. You've never seen a better-looking assortment of guns, and the near-future setting gave 
 the designers license to include lots of familiar hardware, with some surprising special abilities. 
 What's more, some excellent character animation helps make the guns feel as powerful as they look. 
 Enemies recoil realistically depending on where they're hit, no matter if you hit them in the hand, 
 the foot, square in the chest, in the back, or wherever else. And the vast levels are as varied 
 as they are beautiful to behold, setting you loose in jungles, city streets, high-tech industrial 
 compounds, and more. Bullet holes shred the scenery, armor pieces fly every which way under a hail 
 of gunfire, blinding explosions rock the screen, and your enemies' bodies litter the corridors 
 once you're through. Gorgeous lighting and an impressive motion-blur effect that kicks in whenever 
 you make a sharp turn further enhance the quality of Perfect Dark Zero's visuals, resulting in 
 a game that at times could easily be mistaken for a big-budget action movie. Credit is also due 
 to the outstanding audio, which features some heavy-hitting weapon effects, as well as a fantastic, 
 moody soundtrack that gives each mission its own pulsing rhythms. It's a diverse array of electronic 
 and rock beats, and it's all very catchy. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcgirl5549
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is an awesome game for the 360 but it wasn't worth beating the game with a short 
 ending to it. The gameplay was easy, the graphix were good as well as the online gameplay. The 
 levels are good near the end of the game , and of coarse the easier ones soon get harder in the 
 middle of the misson which is good to me. The one thing I wish they could do to improve the game 
 is that maybe adding 2 more extra levels after beating the game because it is too short, and that 
 it would've had an even greater review by adding a wwwwaaaaaaaaayyyyyyyyyyy longer ending instead 
 of a 1 minute ending after all that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: night-wolf145
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Well, Now, This Game Is Great. I Love It, I Love It More Then The First One, The Story Is Pretty 
 Easy, But It Is Hard, Once You Start Trying It On Harder Difficultys, The Achevments In This Game 
 For Xbox Live, Are Good, Not Hard To Do, Just Takes Time, Story Is Good, Co-Op Online Is Alright, 
 Just The Whole Point Of Playing With Someone You Don't Know, Its Good When Playing With A Friend 
 Tho, Now Onto Online, Its Awsome, Its Fun, And Addicting, The Sad Thing About The Game Is, There 
 Is Only Two Vechicles, Next Onto Weapons, Some Are Good, The Plasma Rifle Is A Very Cheap Gun To 
 Use Online, And It Has The Shape Of A FAMAS... Weird, All The Pistols Are Good, Another Weird Thing, 
 They Have The Superdragon, Yet No Dragon?, Shouldent They Have Made The Dragon, Then Came Up With 
 Superdragon.. Anyways I Recommend Buying This Game If You Like FPS, I Think Its Better Then Halo 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zarfus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is pretty much the only game worth owning due to the fact that its online mode 
 is very fun. The singleplayer can get very boring and at times, frusterating. There's one mission 
 with a hovercaaft, where your bot-partner uses the gun, and just can't kill the guys fast enough. 
 It's horrible. The story basically has no plot, but is good for any PD fan for the N64. 
  
  Online is very fun, with the large online community and multiple game settings. The vehicles, in 
 my opinion, take a lot of the fun out of it, but you can turn them off when yous earch for a game. 
 I play this game everyday with my friends online and is a must have to play this online experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowser64
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark 0 is your typical first person shooter. The facts that it's the prequel to N64's excellent 
 Perfect Dark as well as an Xbox 360 game only hurt it. Graphicwise, it's not impressive, it looks 
 like a polished Xbox 1 game. Sound is good, and gameplay is standard. 
  
  This is a decent FPS, but it has nothing in it that makes it stand out as a next generation game. 
 The game has been praised for it's enemy reactions; yes, shoot an enemy in the hand and he'll yelp 
 and hold it, but he's back to normal using his shattered hand 2 seconds later. Shoot out both an 
 enemies kneecaps and sure enough, he'll be running after you when he recovers. Granted, that's 
 normal in most shooters, but I expected a little more in a NEXT GENERATION SYSTEM. There isn't 
 even a bullethole or bloodstain left after shooting someone, even the N64 version did that! 
  
  I compare this game to the first Perfect Dark, because I was expecting it to be like that and 
 more. Trivial details that were all over in the first game are omitted here. Something as simple 
 as showing a picture of your weapons in your inventory is left out. Also, there's only about half 
 the arsenal of the first game. Even the gadgets, which are cool-looking, are a **** to use. You 
 have to play a puzzle themed minigame to activate each one. It's 15 years in the future and you 
 need to play a slide-square puzzle to set a bomb? Come on.
  
  Perfect Dark 0 isn't a bad game, it's almost good. But if you're looking for a revolutionary next 
 generation game, this isn't it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionreplay
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Perfect Dark Zero after completing Call of Duty 2. I was amazed that it scored slightly 
 higher than COD2, so I just HAD to check it out. Unfortunately I'm not entirely sure why it ranked 
 so high.
  
  The game itself is fairly straight forward for a shooter. Get a mission, shoot umpteen bad guys 
 to get to the goal, hit a switch, and move on to the next mission... oh and shoot umpteen more bad 
 guys. The graphics look awesome on a big screen HDTV and the 5.1 sound is just as noteworthy, though 
 admittedly I had to kill the music. in audio options. I found the music to be too grating after 
 my 99th try at a level.
  
  The lack of saving in the middle of levels is terrible. Even Quake 4 allows for saves before entering 
 someplace dark and spooky and COD2 had a plethora of checkpoints. PDZ allows for the saving of 
 a "location" via options, but I have yet to figure out what I am saving. It seems every single 
 failure results in a level do-over.
  
  My biggest gripe with PDZ is the enemy AI. No matter how dark the shadows are, they always see 
 me, and even better, from distances too far for me to shoot back. Their accuracy at such a distance 
 is incredible as well. So I line up my shots, but repeatedly fail to get the shot off before the 
 bad guy gets the jump on me... alarms sound, more bad guys arrive, death, destruction, cursing, 
 swearing, level do-over. 
  
  With that all said, though, am I still trying and still having fun? Yes. I just don't feel it deserves 
 the kudos it is getting over something like COD2.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvonAllStar15
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best out as of right now for the XBOX 360. Perfect Dark Zero has averything and 
 anything an action gamer would love. This first person shooter gives you a great storyline and 
 the gameplay is great. The graphics are smooth and the scenery is very realistic. This game gives 
 you the ability to choose from a large choice of weapons and gadgets. What more can you ask for..... not 
 much.
  
  The live play is tremendous. You can play co-op or against in a deathmatch or many other games 
 such as capture the flag. This game will keep you hooked ours on end. Playing Perfect Dark Zero 
 on the 360 will make you want to never ever play another console again.
  
  I give this game a 9.0 out of 10. This game has amazing graphics and has very good game play qualities, 
 such as the easy controls and very easy to play. I would recommend this game to anyone and everyone 
 who owns a 360. If you dont have this game, you should get it, and if you already have it you know 
 what I am talking about. This game is an instant classic and people will be playing this game for 
 a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanglu
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Single player has a bad story line much like doom so instead of caring about the story you will 
 appreciate the weapons you get instead more. There is co op play which is fun and doesnt just throw 
 a carbon copy intoof joana dark into the game, but lets you take over Jack. Dark ops on xbox live 
 is very fun and easy to get into and the in my opion the best part of the game. Modes like eradication 
 play a lot like zombies on halo and is uber fun. There is also basic team killcount and capture 
 the flag game types but i feel those are already overused and would rather play dark ops.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonc204
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let's face it, Perfect Dark Zero is a great game, but it was not worth all the hype it recieved.
 
  
  When Rare released Goldeneye on the Nintendo 64, Rare changed the definition of a first person 
 shooter. Goldeneye's addictive gameplay, easy to learn controls, and intricate missions left gamers 
 pleading for more. Rare answered that plead by producing the first Perfect Dark game. Like Goldeneye, 
 Perfect Dark offered addictive, intricate gameplay. So, when Rare anounced Perfect Dark Zero would 
 launch with the Xbox 360, gamers began to cry tears of joy and anticipation.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero's gameplay reminisces of James Bond. There are lots of gadgets, guns, and objectives. 
 Stealth, like in Bond games, is usually optional. The gameplay is fun, but it is nothing new. If 
 you like Bond games, you will probably like Perfect Dark Zero. If you like Halo you will, however, 
 quickly realize Perfect Dark Zero takes more brains than your average Halo mission. The game has 
 good replay value, and offers a good oportunity to kill your friends, online or off.
  
  The graphics are pretty darn good until you get extremely up close and personal. Solo missions 
 are polished enough to show their "next-generation" sparkle, but not enough so you sit back and 
 think DANG! this is awesome. Cutscenes are absolutely beautiful, portraying Ms. Dark in a way that 
 will leave all male gamers wishing they had a girl on their arm just like her. In multiplayer, 
 however, the graphics, at times, look downright archaic. I almost wondered if they ported the multiplayer 
 characters straight from the Nintendo 64. Graphics are a mixed bag.
  
  The sound is good. It shifts dramatically and appropriately with the situations. I, never once, 
 found myself becoming annoyed with the sound. The sound does its purpose, it fills in the background.
 
  
  Good replay value for multiplayer and harder solo mission difficulties.
  
  I totally reccomend this game, just don't believe all the hype. The game is a little difficult, 
 even for first person shooter veterans. (Unless you play on the easiest setting.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tom_t_0202
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This is the follow-up that everybody wanted it to be to the first Perfect Dark game. it has everything 
 a FPS fan could ask for, and the graphics are simply stunning to look at. Only Halo 3 could possibly 
 best this game for what it is, and that is a good game. It plays a lot like the first one but thats 
 ok considering the first Perfect Dark is one of the best FPS's ever created. I had doubts about 
 this game as I had heard mixed things about it, but this game really does deliver the goods so 
 much so that when my dad walked in when I was blazing through the third level he said "Wow that 
 looks ace, can I have a go". If your on the fence about getting a 360, then play this game and 
 it WILL change your mind! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFfReAk320
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:53 am PT
Review:  After endless begging, pleading, groveling, and half-baked schemes, I finally got my hands on a 
 360 a month after it came out. Perfect Dark Zero was the first game I played on it, and after seeing 
 what can be done in a launch title on the 360, I can't wait for the future. This review is being 
 written after beating the single-player game on Secret Agent difficulty, and after spending a couple 
 hours on Xbox Live. 
  
  First of all, the weapons and gameplay in general are unbelievable in PDZero. There are so many 
 weapons in the single-player campaign that you would have to play every mission several times over 
 just to try each of them out. The interface was also very intuitive and gave me no real problems. 
 The jetpack was a lot of fun, so I was very disappointed that I only got about 30 seconds to use 
 it. Since games like this are constantly compared to Halo, I'll say that the vehicle combat could 
 easily have been as good as Halo's, if it had been included more in the game. 
  
  Graphically, PDZero was very good, but not excellent. The professional critics are mostly right 
 in this department - the environments and weapons look spectacular, and the character models are 
 so-so. Of particular note is one level in the mountains in China. The doors to the building you're 
 infiltrating have some of the most intricate and detailed design I've seen in a long time. The 
 water effect is also very nice. If you can, try knocking an enemy or an object into the water when 
 you get a chance. I was slightly put off by the lack of proper cutscenes, but after seeing some 
 of the character models, I decided it might have been for the best. Seriously, these characters 
 look like they're from a nice-looking Xbox 1 game, and I was very disappointed by them. However, 
 this was a launch title, and you can't get everything right the first time, which is why I didn't 
 score the graphics lower.
  
  Both the soundtrack and sound effects were a huge part of what made this game awesome for me. This 
 was the first game I played on my new home theater system, so I was naturally blown away by all 
 the sounds coming from behind and to the sides. PDZero also had one of the best original soundtracks 
 I've heard in a long time. I particularly liked the rock song playing in the second to last mission, 
 when you're on the way to tackle the final boss.
  
  This game's value really comes from its multiplayer modes. Xbox Live was fun, but nothing terribly 
 different from Halo 2. Comparing the two, PDZero's guns are more fun, and it is of course the graphically 
 superior game. However, PDZero is definitely missing the Ghost, Warthog, Banshee, and all the other 
 vehicles that made Halo 2's multiplayer fun (for me) . The single-player is way too short (I beat 
 it in about 10 hours) , and I was actually laughing at how ridiculous the final boss fight was. 
 If you're wondering what I mean, the final boss was an interesting character and all, but he received 
 very little development during the game and was just so easy to kill. I beat him on my second try 
 on medium difficulty with no outside help at all. I'm not kidding, my 14-year old sister who's 
 never played an Xbox game in her life could kill this guy. So, in case I haven't made it clear 
 enough, there isn't much value in the single-player, but if you're an FPS fan, you should enjoy 
 the multiplayer.
  
  Overall, PDZero was a fun experience. The single-player wasn't bad, but the story could have been 
 great had it been developed and explained a bit better. The multiplayer was comparable to Halo 
 2, although the lack of vehicles definitely sticks out. If you own a 360 and are physically capable 
 of getting to a game store, get off the computer and buy Perfect Dark Zero right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:47 am PT
Review:  This is the first game in this series Ive played, and for the most part its a fun and exciting 
 game to play, but I think its more hype then an excellent game to play. 
  The graphics in the 360 version is amazing and maybe worth buying the game for all by itself. The 
 cities and locations in the game, including water and sky details are very well done, with little 
 touches like airliners taking off over head, are awesome! The animations are tight and believable, 
 and the voiceovers are pretty well done, if not a little to overdone.
  The well problem with the game is 2 fold, first the missions are very weak, and really dont make 
 much sense at all. They throw Joanna (Dark Zero) out in suicide missions that are shallow but intense. 
 The game just wanted to action to begin, and used a pretty weak storyline to get it done. Second, 
 though the action is intense, the missions are silly, impossible, and pretty badly done. For example, 
 you have to sneak into a facility to blowup power station, the problem is, that there are so many 
 enemies, there is no way you would try to sneak into this place, and if you did, you would bring 
 about 50 of your fellow buddies to help out, but in this game its just pretty much you.
  For Gamespot to give this game a 9.0 but The Call of Duty 2 only 8.8 is a travesty. The weak missions 
 alone pall to the awesome missions in Call of Duty 2, this is a good game but no way is it a great 
 game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjlee420
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:22 am PT
Review:  The multiplayer is awsome. But the single player falls way short. I tried through most of the game 
 to enjoy playing the single player. But in the end I gave up around stage 10, and went back to the 
 multiplayer. The single player failed to pull me into pdz's world (unlike halo's amazing single 
 player experiance) I just didnt get why I was doing half of the stuff they were telling me to do. 
 It got boring fast. You cant have A great single player FPS without A good story. (except for maybe 
 FEAR for the pc) . Multiplayer on the other hand is awsome. I had to get used to not jumping but 
 rolling instead, but in the end i think it is better. now you dont have a bunch of morons jumping 
 around the whole time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:48 am PT
Review:  It's tempting to try to put Perfect Dark Zero in perspective by spending a lot of time on topics 
 other than what makes it such a terrific action game. One of the highest-profile Xbox 360 launch 
 titles, this near-future first-person shooter is the long-awaited sequel to a highly acclaimed 
 Nintendo 64 hit, and it happens to be one of the biggest games to be released by veteran developer 
 Rare since its well-publicized acquisition by Microsoft several years ago. Perfect Dark Zero's 
 sci-fi theme, together with the circumstances surrounding its release, also means it's destined 
 to be compared to Halo: Combat Evolved, the game that defined the Xbox (so yeah, no pressure) . 
 But let's stick to the point: Perfect Dark Zero's stunning presentation, excellent assortment of 
 believable weapons, exciting tactical firefights, and fully featured single- and multiplayer components 
 combine to make it easily one of the best first-person shooters this year and one of your best 
 options in the Xbox 360's starting lineup. Despite some minor shortcomings, the game is still a 
 tour de force for the Xbox 360, and it's just a thrilling experience that pushes the already-extremely 
 competitive first-person shooter category still further forward. 
  
  You don't need to be familiar with Perfect Dark for the Nintendo 64 to easily get into Perfect 
 Dark Zero, starring the spunky red-haired hired gun, Joanna Dark. Though she and her dad are technically 
 bounty hunters, the game has got more of a high-tech superspy feel to it, from the futuristic weapons 
 to the fancy gadgets you'll get to use. Perfect Dark Zero's story spans more than a dozen big missions, 
 and may be optionally played through cooperatively with a friend. The campaign is longer than average 
 at about 12 hours, and its multiple difficulty settings, unlockable weapons, and the outstanding 
 co-op mode should keep you coming back to it after you reach the conclusion the first time. Perfect 
 Dark Zero also features a "combat arena" mode that contains most of its multiplayer options, some 
 of which may be played with and against computer-controlled bots in addition to (or instead of) 
 other human players. There's a wide assortment of different modes supporting up to 32 players online, 
 including conventional free-for-all and capture-the-flag modes, as well as some great Counter-Strike-inspired 
 team-based match types. In short, this is big game with a lot to it. 
  
  However, it's not just all the different modes of play, but rather the sheer attention to detail 
 that separates Perfect Dark Zero from other first-person shooters out there. It's a gorgeous-looking 
 game, especially if you play it on a high-definition display, and the beauty's more than skin deep. 
 Most every weapon in the large arsenal of available pistols, submachine guns, assault rifles, and 
 heavy weapons looks extremely authentic, right on down to their steely sheen and white-hot muzzle 
 flashes. You've never seen a better-looking assortment of guns, and the near-future setting gave 
 the designers license to include lots of familiar hardware, with some surprising special abilities. 
 What's more, some excellent character animation helps make the guns feel as powerful as they look. 
 Enemies recoil realistically depending on where they're hit, no matter if you hit them in the hand, 
 the foot, square in the chest, in the back, or wherever else. And the vast levels are as varied 
 as they are beautiful to behold, setting you loose in jungles, city streets, high-tech industrial 
 compounds, and more. Bullet holes shred the scenery, armor pieces fly every which way under a hail 
 of gunfire, blinding explosions rock the screen, and your enemies' bodies litter the corridors 
 once you're through. Gorgeous lighting and an impressive motion-blur effect that kicks in whenever 
 you make a sharp turn further enhance the quality of Perfect Dark Zero's visuals, resulting in 
 a game that at times could easily be mistaken for a big-budget action movie. Credit is also due 
 to the outstanding audio, which features some heavy-hitting weapon effects, as well as a fantastic, 
 moody soundtrack that gives each mission its own pulsing rhythms. It's a diverse array of electronic 
 and rock beats, and it's all very catchy. 
  
  
  From a gameplay standpoint, Perfect Dark Zero is highly refined. It doesn't stray too far from 
 convention, but it features some interesting twists in weapon and enemy design, making for a much 
 more entertaining experience than the average shooter. You can carry up to four different weapons, 
 but larger guns take up more inventory space, which means you could pack several pistols but only 
 one machine gun at a time. It's a good system that makes sense, though it's tough having to choose 
 from all the great options that are available. Even the pistol you start with boasts an optional 
 silencer, a scope, and a flashlight attachment, making it extremely versatile and plenty deadly. 
 But chances are you'll want to replace it soon enough. One of the assault rifles you find later 
 on may be converted into an automated defense turret, helping you tear into the enemies' ranks. 
 There's a pistol that fires madness-inducing projectiles that turn foe against foe (in multiplayer, 
 this causes the victim's teammates to appear as enemies) . One submachine gun even projects a diversionary 
 holographic image of you. Many of the guns are scoped, and smaller weapons can be wielded in pairs, 
 doubling your stopping power. A couple of the rifles have grenade-launcher attachments, letting 
 you seriously damage groups of foes both in story missions and multiplayer, and making these particular 
 firearms seem especially dangerous. But in the end, your choice of guns may well come down to personal 
 preference. There's a lot of cool, lethal firepower to choose from. 
  
  The type of weapon you're carrying influences your running speed, which is something to consider. 
 There's no jump button, but you are given some tactical options, like taking cover behind obstacles 
 and executing quick rolls at the touch of a button. The cover system is implemented quite well, 
 letting you take position behind any barrier or at any corner at the touch of a button, while seamlessly 
 switching your perspective to a third-person viewpoint, which gives you more situational awareness. 
 You automatically peek out from behind cover when you fire, and it's a deliberate-enough process 
 that doesn't feel overpowered. As for the evasive rolls, they're great for quickly ducking out 
 of harm's way, but you'll take extra damage if you're shot while rolling, so you'll have to think 
 twice about tumbling around too much. And if an enemy gets in your face, you can always bash him 
 with whichever gun you've got equipped. These are all great-looking moves, made all the better 
 since they're powerful. What's more, you can even disarm opponents by ripping their guns right 
 out of their hands, provided you've got room to carry another. It's hard to imagine a more satisfying 
 way to take out some dude on Xbox Live than by using his own weapon against him (preferably the 
 butt of the weapon, for that matter) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jstraman
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 12:49 am PT
Review:  Hyped by all the good reviews I bought this game immediately with my xbox360. 
  
  First of all, I must admit that I'm a single player gamer. I do not care much for Multiplayer, 
 so that part I won't discuss.
  
  I've always gamed on the PC with great videocards, so the graphics did not impress me that much, 
 but they were nice, nothing more.
  
  The first few levels were quite entertaining, including the demolevel. Further in the game it got 
 more and more difficult, as I wanted to play in secret agent. I really hated the fact that there 
 is only 1 checkpint in the middle of difficult levels, that made me have to replay again and again 
 until it got boring.
  
  Often I did not have a clue where to go, I think that this has to di with the level design that 
 simply was bad. For example the part where you have to protect your father from anove the buildings. 
 It took me a lot of time to realize where to go and which ziplines to use to protect him, utterly 
 irritating stuff, not fun at all, especially with the annoying "iiihhs and ahhhs' of the main character 
 screaming with every bullet planted in her from bad guys able to see me without scopes whilst I 
 could barely see them in the distance.
  
  And then the story, not amusing, not compelling and the ridiculous "end boss".
  
  No, I switched 
 to the easiest mode just to get to the end and be done with it. I was really disappointed with 
 this game. Left me with a frustrating feeling. I'm trading this one for Ninja Gaiden Black 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmoredAshes
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 9:42 pm PT
Review:  An over all great game, ranging from a good single player storyline to having co-op and bots in 
 multiplayer. Graphics get a bit sketchy in some of the cinematics but a majority of the time they 
 are beautiful. The button setup is easy to get the hang of. The physics work nicely, falling actually 
 causes damage and when you "blow someone away with a shotgun" they fly like they have been actually 
 shot with a shotgun. The bots added to the multiplayer means more possibilities of replaying and 
 not having the same game twice. And to further the enjoyment for Rare fans the bots have the names 
 of previous rare characters such as the conker, banjo and kazooie series etc. The only audio problems 
 i have are that in the campaign sometimes the music plays over the characters dialogue, and i have 
 trouble hearing my music i have downloaded on my 360. All in all this is a great game with hours 
 of replay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragN1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero's story isn't all too great, the graphics are great for a launch title, the gameplay 
 is pretty good too. The cover option works well in some situations and the blurr effect is nice 
 too. The strong-point of Perfect Dark Zero is the multi-player. The maps for multi-player are well 
 laid out and there are plenty of weapons to choose from, and everything is balanced out well. Team 
 deathmatch imo is my favorite mode. If you have Xbox Live then Perfect Dark Zero is definitely 
 a game to get, but if you don't have xbox live there is bot mode which is pretty fun. In the end 
 Perfect Dark Zero is a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hayngeek
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Playing Perfect Dark Zero brought back memories of the original Perfect Dark on the N64. Its hard 
 not to forget about the original. The original was such an awesome and epic game with great fps 
 action and tons of value. Now Joana's debut to the HD era with Perfect Dark Zero on the new Xbox 
 360 is nothing short of disappointing.
  
  PDZ is awesome in all aspects of game play. It introduces new features never seen in an fps before 
 such as taking cover and the rolling maneuver, while still brushing up on the elements seen before 
 in other games that make such a great fps. Put the two different groups together and you get PDZ, 
 a visually stunning and exciting action thriller set in a beautifully detailed sci-fi world.
  
  The graphics are amazing and jaw dropping in every sense. The game shows off the 360's capabilities 
 with sass. The lighting effects make the game look so real. But taking it even further is the detail 
 in the environments and the characters. Although I have only played it on a standard tv I could 
 just imagine how it would look like on a HD. PDZ brings high hopes for the future of the HD era.
 
  
  The game play is nothing fps fans have never seen before. The two features in PDZ never done before 
 is the cover and rolling maneuvers. You can walk up to a wall and press A to take cover while shooting 
 around a corner or above a few boxes taking out enemies while not completely revealing yourself. 
 The downside to this is that the camera does not show your front side making you vulnerable to 
 enemies facing you. It works great in the campaign but not so much in multiplayer. The rolling 
 maneuver is done by pressing the LB button. By rolling you can dodge enemy fire or swiftly pass 
 laser wires. Unlike taking cover the rolling works good in the campaign as well as in multiplayer. 
 It really helps when you need to reload and get out of enemy fire.
  
  The multiplayer in PDZ is great offering both co-op and multiplayer matches using split screen, 
 system link, or Xbox Live. The co-op is great where you and another operative take on all the campaign 
 missions together. What makes the co-op in PDZ unique is that the two operatives won't always start 
 off the level together and might not even see each other till somewhere in the middle of the mission. 
 It makes for more interesting game play and involves more tactics.
  
  The online multiplayer matches are split into two categories, deathmatch and dark ops, each containing 
 several variants. In the deatmatch category, theres the regular killcount and team killcount which 
 is the regular deathmatch games. Players will also find CTF and a territory type games in this 
 category. The second category is dark ops which is different from deathmatch. In dark ops instead 
 of picking up weapons, you need to buy them before the match. The buying system is similar to counter 
 strike where you start the round with so many credits and then accumulate more for kills and accomplishments. 
 The variant I liked the most was Onslaught. Its nothing like the Onslaught in Unreal Tournament. 
 One team has to hold an estate or an area while the opposing team needs to infiltrate that area 
 and kill off all the defenders. The attackers usually start off with weak weapons like pistols 
 or fist (depending on the admin) while the defenders buy their weapons using the buy menu. The 
 catch on the defenders side is that if they leave the estate, they begin to loose health and there 
 is always a back door into the base. The Xbox live is great holding up to 16 players to a room. 
 Every game I played was lag free but I did have some connection issues.
  
  The 360 should be proud of PDZ since its an amazing and fun game for noobs and pros alike. Its 
 the best game on the 360 (yes I think its better than COD2) yet and probably will be for some time. 
 No matter if you like female characters taking lead roles or not your selling yourself short if 
 you don't pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedX46
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:04 pm PT
Review:  A secret war has begun between shadowy corporations bent on world domination. Joanna Dark and her 
 father Jack are brought up in the fight for the future of the planet. A routine bounty hunting 
 mission rips open a global conspiracy that will change Joanna's destiny -- forever. Players must 
 guide Joanna Dark on her journey to become the perfect agent. Featuring a compelling and captivating 
 story, Perfect Dark: Zero plunges players into a world of corporate espionage and conspiracy. The 
 title merges the excitement and intrigue of its predecessor with revolutionary game design, cutting-edge 
 online play, and amazing graphics to deliver an experience that defines next-generation gaming 
 and entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spooner007
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:31 pm PT
Review:  WOWOWOWOW Hot women with guns, can you get any better. Graphics are great, game play factor is 
 superb, game length not so good. Replay value, only online. Then you come to the cheesy co-op play. 
 Kind poor when Chandra completes some of the missions and the cinematics reveal Joe completing 
 the mission. Kinds poor. Shouldn't have rushed the title so fast out of the gate. They needed to 
 spend a little more time on making the game a little longer. 13 missions is not quite long enough 
 to keep me interested in playing it for to much longer. My wife and I beat the game in under 10 
 hours. Kinda to fast for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clay10david
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The same ol' FPS gameplay but I ain't getting tired of it. Multiplayer is hecka fun especially 
 with 32 players online
  
  Graphics: Great, nothing special, can get a little too shiny here and there. Character models are 
 dead ugly, but that doesn't take away any of the fun of the game. They aren't quite next generation 
 but close.
  
  Sound: Awesome soundtrack in the single player, guns sound great, but realy iffy voice overs
 
  
  Value: Replayable Singleplayer with a online multiplayer you will keep coming back to for several 
 months
  
  Tilt: I have had lots of fun with this game especially online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryhion
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting a better game.
  
  -Gameplay: The gameplay is good, but it coul be much better, I't is kinda dificult to aim, and 
 to change between weapons and gadgets.
  -Graphics: The graphics are great, very fluid and colourful, thay have very good details, such 
 as Joanna's nails, or, the weapon reloading.
  -Sound: The sound is the best in the game, the soundtrack is very good, the shot's sound, the melee 
 sound etc.. are all great
  -Value: It is a good game for you to buy and play, but it's not a "must have" game.
  -Multiplayer: 
 Just great, awsome maps, and briliant game types
  
  Conclusion: It has some good graphics good sound an awsome multiplayer, but it loses in gameplay.
 
  
  Good
  -Sound
  -Multiplayer
  
  Bad
  -Gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mothergoose8619
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Ok Perfect Dark Zero is a Great game with great looking Guns Special effects and Whats this, the 
 Worst Next gen game Character Models in the History of games and the Worst Voice acting of all 
 time ok seriously though Perfect Dark Zero is a whole lot of fun but to repeat myself The Character 
 Models are Atrocious and the voice acting is terrible but look aside it it has a great multiplayer 
 and campaign, the co-op is good, Great Weapons and it is the best Xbox 360 launch game! its a whole 
 lot of fun and you should go buy it, I mean the only games that compete are the horrendous Quake 
 4 and the Good but short call of duty 2 however, condemned rocks anyway 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cromonic
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 28, 2005 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I read a lot of good reviews on this game before I bought it, I usually do before I buy a game 
 since I'm not made of money. Most of the time you can count on what you read... but I wish I had 
 skipped this one. This game is very hyped. The story brings nothing new and the whole game feels 
 very slow. The single player mode is absolutely boring. However, the online mode is ok, well... 
 quite fun actually. If it weren't for the online mode I would never spend more than 10 minutes 
 on this game. In the end, it's not worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hatchetman696
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 1:10 pm PT
Review:  People have been complaining about this game for a while, saying that it's crappy and what not. 
 I have fallen in love with the game, though there are draw backs. Some would be the aiming and 
 it can be difficult, but overall it is a good game. I am absolutly amazed by the frame rate and 
 graphics that follow. The best part is the multi-player or better yet the ability to play a "Deathmatch" 
 with the computer, which makes great practice when your about to jump on to Xbox Live! When you 
 first play, don't think "Oh this is just another Halo rip off" because the uniquness of this game 
 is under appreciated by some, but this game just needs patience to play, the hardest part is of 
 course aiming but you wil adapt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kruegmeister
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:53 pm PT
Review:  If you are into Co-Op like me and my son.
  This is the 360 game you will need.
  The Co-Op is very good. You will find yourselves together on some levels, and spread out across 
 the level on others.
  The Graphics are not that next gen. They are good, but not next generation in my opinion.
  The 
 Next Gen Part comes to play in the Scope of the Levels.
  In games like halo if you and your co-op partner got to far apart you would "warp" up to your partner, 
 mostly a limitation of the hardware.
  This game you and your co-op partner can spread out across the huge levels.
  
  The Weapons 
 are pretty good.
  The Controls are typical.
  The sound is good.
  
  The Bad;
  No Saving, I was in one particular mission where I had to Proceed from checkpoint and you start 
 of without the Gun which is Critical to finishing the mission.
  
  Overall you can't go wrong with this game, especially if you are into co-op. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief0292
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 11:08 am PT
Review:  The long awaited sequel to perfect dark on the n64 but it is really a prequel storyline wise. This 
 game is expected to put rareware back on the map. where should i start oh yeh the gfx's omfg are 
 they amazing the lighting the attention to detail, they are very cartoony but that great, stays 
 at a steady fps rate, and has some nice blurring effects. The controls are a joy! all of it feel 
 right. the sound is where i think they dropped the ball everythind doesnt seem be loud or radical 
 enough but it still okay. the gameplay is great! there are so many guns the revolver is my favorite! 
 But @ only 13 missions it might be concitered short but the replay value is great. Definatly pick 
 this up if u own a 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: planetsimpson
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This is game is very easy to get into. The guns all feel very different from one another 
 and although the AI is somewhat weak, there are plenty of exicting firefights.
  
  Graphics: This game looks like a next gen game even on a standard TV. The guns look amazing as 
 do many of the environments. The NPC's actions look very realilistic. However, the cut scenes don't 
 look like anything that hasn't already been done.
  
  Sound: The music to this game is some of the best I've ever heard, mixing in elements of techno 
 and rock. Explosions and guns sound awesome as do the environments, esipically if you have surrond 
 sound. Unfortunatley the voice acting is very cheezy and boring.
  
  Value: you'll breeze through PDZ quite quickly at the easiest diffuciulty setting but it become 
 more challenging with higher difficulty. The multiplay has much to offer including: Xbox live, 
 cooperative play, and plenty of splitscreens and bot battles.
  
  Conclusion: one of the best xbox360 launch titles to start your next gen console gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldschool12790
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:27 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the ad for this game before the Xbox 360 came out I was excited and remember the 1st 
 one, long ago for N64, being so great and the first game to show the reactions of the enemy when 
 the got shot. When I played this one I was very dissapointed. PDZ has a lacking story mode, which 
 unless played on hard is incredibly easy to beat. You don't even have to follow the objective to 
 complete the mission. The only thing that kind of makes up for a poor story and lacking graphics, 
 along with controls being akward, is the multiplayer. Multiplayer PDZ is okay but with few character 
 models and even fewer maps the enjoyment doesn't last too long. I believe that this game had great 
 potential but the designers may have rushed it and the game came out lacking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtfulnick
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 8:21 pm PT
Review:  When i first played this game i was a little dissapointed but the more i played the more i liked 
 it as i played through. The campaign mode is pretty much what you would expect from an FPS shooter 
 game, its pretty much the same weapons from Goldeneye and the Perfect Dark. 
  
  But the main attraction to this game is the multiplayer it is so much fun to use the Plasma gun 
 and just rack up on kills in seconds. I dont have live yet for the 360 but when i do im sure that 
 i will be playing this game a whole lot more.
  
  Many people may say that the aiming system is a little weird in this game but i think its fine 
 the way it is. And what i say to those people that dont like some elements of this game, is that 
 not every game will be a Halo game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 2, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Back when the Nintendo 64 was still a relatively new system, it saw the release of two phenomenal 
 shooters. The first was Goldeneye 007 which was followed by Perfect Dark from Rare three years 
 afterward. Both games offered state-of-the-art technology for their time and combined stellar single-player 
 experiences with everlasting multiplayer. A few years ago, Rare announced that theyd be releasing 
 a prequel to Perfect Dark, which was dubbed Perfect Dark Zero and was to be released on the Xbox. 
 However, the game was delayed while in production and never did make it to Microsofts first home 
 console. It wasnt until after E3 2005 that the game was first revealed to the public. While the 
 first screenshots didnt exactly have gamers jumping out of their seats, the game was still followed 
 with eager eyes. And now, Perfect Dark Zero has out on store shelves and while its a good game, 
 its not one that youll want to rush out and purchase ASAP. 
  
  In Perfect Dark Zero you assume the role of Joanna Dark aka Jo. The games storyline has you, along 
 with your dad and close friend Chandra, trying to find a researcher by the name of Zheigler. However, 
 you find out that Zheigler is being traded by a dangerous dealer called Killian and wind up having 
 to stop him. But as youd expect, things get stickier than just trying to get Killian and you wind 
 up dealing with even more dangerous missions. The games plot in a nutshell is a big mess because 
 it creates plot twist after plot twist like crazy and it really starts to get hard to follow whats 
 going on. On top of that, the story isnt that interesting and youll find yourself more concerned 
 about getting through the missions and killing enemies rather than worrying about the games convoluted 
 plot. Another problem with the games story is that the characters really arent that memorable 
 or likeable. Reason being is because there isnt anything special or interesting about any of the 
 characters. In fact, some characters seem like they were thrown in just to keep the games mediocre 
 story going. There just isnt anything good about Perfect Dark Zeros story itself and youd be 
 better off just being concerned with the missions rather than the plot.
  
  This may make Perfect Dark Zero sound like an abomination as far as single-player goes, but the 
 missions do help make the campaign more tolerable. The missions are broken up into action and stealth-oriented 
 missions. For the action-oriented missions, youll mostly be attempting to help your allies by 
 taking out any resistance and getting from one point to another. As far as the stealth missions 
 go, youll be trying to stay out of sight and do what you can to avoid contact with any opposition. 
 The action missions are executed a lot better than the stealth missions because not only is the 
 action where the game shines, but the stealth missions just arent that fun. While the idea of 
 a first-person shooter with stealth themes may sound interesting on paper, the game doesnt tell 
 you how exposed you are and how much noise youre making. As a result, youll often find yourself 
 accidentally getting caught by enemies in these missions due to a lack of being aware of how exposed 
 you are, which gets really frustrating. 
  
  As I said earlier, the action in Perfect Dark Zero is what really shines. Part of this is thanks 
 to the settings for the action missions. These settings include taking out enemies on rooftops 
 and taking out snipers in the African desert which is surrounded by huge temples. In addition to 
 a few other locations, these areas are quite large in scale and because theyre so huge and are 
 literally filled with enemies, it helps make for some great, long-lasting action scenes. Right 
 when entering a firefight with your enemies youll find yourself getting addicted to the shooting 
 in the game. You do get a dodge maneuver to help you avoid enemy fire, but truth is, this mechanic 
 isnt too useful and youll likely forget you even have access to it once the bullets start flying. 
 Theres also a cover mechanic in the game, which is a lot more reliable than trying to dodge enemy 
 fire since you can peek and see whats going on before you go out guns blazing. The only problem 
 with this mechanic is that you have to wait for the game to tell you that you can take cover and 
 usually can only be used around corners. Despite these two touches, the game plays like any other 
 shooting game when it comes down to the core action, the gun battles in Perfect Dark Zero are some 
 of the best around. While its not anywhere near the quality of say Halo or Call of Duty 2, its 
 better than what youll get out of most other shooters. 
  
  Another big part of what makes the action in Perfect Dark Zero so fun is the weapons youll get 
 to use. There are well over twenty firearms to be found in the game, which include standard pistols, 
 revolvers, machineguns, sniper rifles and much more. The weapons in the game are divided into categories. 
 Theres pistols, SMGs, assault, close-combat, throw-able weapons and heavy weaponry. Each firearm 
 in Perfect Dark Zero has a secondary function such as an extra grenade launcher, add silencer, 
 and so forth. Also, some of the weapons have tertiary functions which include adding a flashlight 
 and activating night vision. The problem with the tertiary functions is that they usually arent 
 too useful since most of them are to help you out in dark areas. However, there arent any maps 
 in the game that are too dark for you to see, so these functions are pretty much useless. Another 
 thing about the weapons in the game is that the amount you can carry is variable. This is because 
 the weapons take up a certain amount of weapon slots and you only have four weapon slots available. 
 Pistols and throw-able weapons take up one weapon slot, SMGs and assault rifles take up two and 
 heavy weapons like the M60, rocket launcher and sniper rifles take up three slots. With that in 
 mind, it does add some strategy to the game since youre limited to what weapons you can carry. 
 Another thing about each weapon in the game is that youll walk either faster or slower depending 
 on how heavy that weapon is. 
  
  Unfortunately, even all the neat weapons in the world cant improve what is otherwise a lackluster 
 campaign significantly. While the missions in single-player are much more tolerable than the games 
 poor story, even they arent that great on their own merits. Its true that the action-oriented 
 missions do help the single-player, but they only make up half of the missions whereas the other 
 half is dedicated to the flawed stealth missions. There are a total of thirteen missions in the 
 games campaign, although only a couple of them really stand out. Depending on how skilled you 
 are at shooters and what difficulty you choose, it should take you anywhere from ten to fifteen 
 hours to complete the game. As far as replay value for the games single-player, about the only 
 thing that will probably bring you back is the games co-op. Unlike most games, Perfect Dark Zeros 
 co-op has you and your partner play as two different characters, both an important part of the 
 storyline for that mission. Also, there are missions that you might start far away from each other 
 such as the rooftop mission; one of you will be Jo on the rooftops while guiding your partner who 
 is on the ground. These missions do require some teamwork and definitely disencourage playing sloppily, 
 but it isnt enough to make you really want to go through the games mediocre single-player experience.
 
  
  But to bring a game like Perfect Dark Zero to life, it has to have good graphics, especially for 
 it being an Xbox 360 game, right? Well, visuals are where Perfect Dark Zero shines the most and 
 is probably the games single strongest attribute. The environments will be the first thing youll 
 notice with the games graphics since they really stand out and look quite sharp. Almost every 
 single level in the game is rendered with incredible detail and lighting effects. As if great-looking 
 environments werent enough, Perfect Dark Zeros weapon models look even more impressive. This 
 is because the weapons not only look very accurate, but the lighting and shadow effects are put 
 to excellent use. The weapon models look so sharp and realistic that when in the middle of a firefight 
 youll literally feel like you can pull that gun right out of the game. With that said, the character 
 models look rather muddy and dull, especially up-close. There are also a few framerate issues where 
 the camera might slow-down while youre in the middle of some of the games more intense battles. 
 Another noticeable problem is that the games rag-doll physics are very overdramatic. For instance, 
 after you melee an opponent with your weapon theyll usually just bobble around as if they were 
 a feather in the wind. So, while Perfect Dark Zero does look like a next-gen game graphically, 
 there are some issues with the games engine that hold it back from looking better and running 
 smoother.
  
  Another attribute of Perfect Dark Zero that yields mixed results is its sound and audio. On one 
 hand, the weapons sound fantastic; each weapon makes its own firing noise and sound like they should. 
 There are also some good sound effects such as explosions and the sound of bullets hitting and 
 ricocheting off and around walls. However, all this great audio and sound effects are easy to overlook 
 with the games music and voiceovers. The music in the game is a mix of 70s techno and cheesy 
 pop music tunes, which dont fit that game that well and will have you hustling for your custom 
 soundtracks. What are even cheesier than the games music are the voiceovers. Each and every voice 
 in the game, both main characters and enemies say corny line after corny line and even tell some 
 incredibly dumb jokes. Not only that, but the dialogue is just as awful and painful to hear, and 
 when combined with the cheesy voiceovers youll rushing for the mute button for your TV. Just to 
 give you an idea, youll hear lines and dialogue along the lines of That was my hommie, Shut 
 up before I drop you like a bad case, and You and I really make a good team. 
  
  Rather than wasting your time playing through the games campaign again, the real place to get 
 replay value out of the game is in its multiplayer component. Perfect Dark Zero offers both split-screen 
 and online multiplayer modes, but the offline multiplayer actually works better than the online 
 portion. This is because with the online play, youll usually be joining a match thats already 
 begun, rather than wait at a pre-game lobby. As a result, youll often find yourself at a disadvantage 
 online when joining a match thats already in progress. This is because everyone else will have 
 a head-start on the amount of people theyve killed whereas youll have to start at zero. Also, 
 for some matches youll respawn in a lobby where you can select what weapons you want to use before 
 getting into the action. So in that sense, the game does play a lot like Counter-Strike, particularly 
 online. But as I stated, the offline multiplayer fares better than the online component. This is 
 because when playing offline, you dont have to join while a game is in progress, you just wait 
 for everyone to be ready and youll all start with the same amount of kills-zero. 
  
  Another part of what makes the offline portion better is that the game has AI bots, so even if 
 you dont have Xbox Live, you really arent missing anything since you have access to these bots. 
 Although, the bots dont always make the smartest choices; sometimes theyll shoot at someone and 
 when you come around theyll automatically turn to fire at you. Ergo, theyre basically asking 
 you two to double-team them when that happens. Another thing that improves the games multiplayer 
 is that it has support for up to sixteen people via Xbox Live or system link, so the matches can 
 get pretty big and chaotic. You can also make up to five of your own weapon sets. So you can choose 
 what weapon youll start with and what weapons will appear on the map, which is pretty cool. However, 
 as good and fun as Perfect Dark Zero may be as far as multiplayer is concerned, it doesnt fare 
 quite as good as say Call of Duty 2 and Halo 2 since both of those games have pre-game lobbies, 
 allow you to join a game thats already started when you want to and are just more fun to play 
 because they can get much more intense and entertaining. 
  
  Perfect Dark Zero isnt much more than a typical first-person shooter that simply couldnt live 
 up the hype. While the game makes use of the Xbox 360s power, has great sound effects, good action 
 and a couple of memorable missions, it just isnt enough to propel the game to being a must-have 
 title. Not only that, but you can get a much better experience in-general out of other shooters 
 on the Xbox 360 like Call of Duty 2, Far Cry Predator and Prey. In the end, Perfect Dark Zero is 
 just another shooter that while good, couldve been much better and despite the tremendous hype, 
 it just doesnt live up to it and you can definitely do much better than this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Please you must buy this game. First off its insanly amazing. The graphics are something I've never 
 seen before on a console. The multiplayer is a huge success, almost compared to the greatness of 
 Halo 2's multiplayer. The single game is very compelling and captivating. I would recommend this 
 game next to call of duty 2. MUST BUY! If you own a 360 you should own Perfect Dark. Its a great 
 multiplayer with a good single player to follow. The perfect next gen title. GameWired. tripod. com. 
 Must purchase right away! Perfect dark zero's levels are well drawn and have loads of interactive 
 features. You are able to drive 1 vehicle and 1 flying vehicle in multiplayer games. For more gaming 
 information be sure to check out http://GameWired. tripod. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: npili
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Single-player seemed to be missing something. I played through the entire game without caring much 
 for the characters or the story. However, I shortly discovered that the multi-player game (s) has 
 so much going for it, it did not even need the single-player campaign. There are so many options, 
 configurations, and modes that you change to customize how you want to play. In my opinion, every 
 great FPS needs a multi-player format that is in PDZero. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The large stages and levels have great detail. The different weapons also look nice. However, the 
 character models were lacking in detail. They also don't have much 'realism' with their animations. 
 They react to being shot in certain spots on the body, but it just isn't as good an effect that 
 is present in COD2.
  
  Sound:
  
  This game had a great, original soundtrack that fit perfectly. Also, the voice acting and sound 
 effects are exactly on par.
  
  Value:
  
  The multi-player is where it's at with this one. I can play deathmatch all day and never get bored 
 of it since there is so many variations to it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirlotto
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 7:42 am PT
Review:  Well I haven't really played the game all the much but so far, it is very good. The graphics are 
 amazing. I really like how the boards are interactive and there is much detail even on the smallest 
 of things. The lighting and colors are well designed. 
  
  I do not like how in multiplayer, when you or another dies, the body just disappears. That should 
 have borrowed from Halo in that point of view.
  
  The aiming is a little weird as well as the time it takes the change weapons. There is no jump 
 button either which I feel is a necessity. 
  
  Co-op is very fun as well as single player. This game is really good, but I thought it could have 
 been a little better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HopeInRuins
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2005 3:41 am PT
Review:  Hello people im hear to tell you this game is amazing i mean the graphics are top notch the gameplay 
 is awesome and man the online i cant even think of a world to tell you how great that is the controls 
 are a little weird at first but like any other game you get used to it quickly the story mode it 
 just wraps you up this game is unbelieveable one of the best ever for sure basically this game 
 has everything you could ask for in a game i mean we havent seen a game from rare in a while i 
 mean perfect dark on 64 was good but this is great buy it now!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nymphetamine15
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 1:50 am PT
Review:  Overall the game is pretty decent the few concerns i had about it is that the combat was rather 
 unrealistic, in perfect dark on the N64 it made sure that head shots counted. in this game it takes 
 about 20 shots to the face to kill some one. and it doesnt make killing any easier wen the aiming 
 sucks. the crosshairs move to slow and then pick up pace so its not very easy to kill and all the 
 bots seem to run way faster than you so thats why i didnt overrate it like many other reviewers 
 so dont join the hype until youve actually played the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_andreas
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:59 am PT
Review:  All jokes aside, this game rocks. Ireally enjoyed it because mostly it is just so fun to play. 
 The single player mode is engaging, with many difficulty settings and co op. The multiplayer is 
 just so intense and just makes your heart beat when ever your hiding behind cover and some guy 
 is blasting the **** out of the bricks your hiding behind, then you manage to get up and blast 
 him in the face with a head shot with your magnum. It just gets me excited talking about it. 
 
  One of the main attractions are the graphics. The guns look really good but everything else seems 
 o. k. What really sucks though are the cut scenes. These cut scenes look like they were takin out 
 of a ps2 game at launch. But for the most part, they are pretty engaging. 
  Sound in this game is good, but nothin that crazy. The gun noises rock, but you can barly hear 
 joanna talk when she does. But i really liked when you get to the night club and the music that 
 is blasting while you blow the **** out of someone with a shotgun. (by the way when you reload the 
 shotgun, it looks so F***in real.
  Gameplay is near perfection, you got yur halo stuff, basically all the same. But what they should 
 have done was follow the FAr Cry Insticts weapon pickup thing. It would have worked a lot better. 
 
  I think people can have a good long time with this game even though the campaign is a little on 
 the short side. And the multiplayer is where its really at. But if you dont have Xbox Live, its 
 not worth buying because its like haveing Halo 2 with no multiplayer.
  Overall, this game is awesome and lives up to its hype. I mean just playing a fps on xbox 360 made 
 my year, and this is the perfect game to get if you have an xbox 360 or if your considering buying 
 one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkorn360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2005 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero one of the Xbox 360's first launch titles as well is the much anticipated prequel 
 to Rare's beloved Perfect Dark for the N64 ages ago. This is hands down, a great game in all respects 
 that it is a launch title and it will quickly become obsolete to future 360 FPS's. But for now, let's 
 take a fresh look at Rare's new jewel. 
  
  Set in the year 2020, Joanna Dark set's off on a mission to infiltrate Datadyne corp. You play as 
 Joanna herself, while a friend can play another story involved character in co-op story mode. The 
 levels are vivid and colorful and the HD addition does a great job at polishing up textures. There 
 is a noticeable blur effect that adds a nice touch to the game play as well. Although graphics 
 are stunning, character run speeds are slow and quickly become tedious when running in large open 
 environments. The guns selection is well developed and each gun has a unique individual effects 
 and quirk that provides great strategy in close and distanced combat.
  
  However, the story line in PDZ is fairly weak and gets old fast. As well as the extremely short 
 campagne-which is very disappointing. But these faults are almost redempt by the exceptional multiplayer 
 modes and Dark Ops Xbox Live games. These features alone, are well enough just to buy the game for.
 
  
  Not absolutely perfect, but a fairly solid launch title for the Xbox 360. I'm talking about Perfect 
 Dark Zero, and any 360 owner should pick this one up, I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterHaloChic
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  If you like the Halo 2 multiplayer, then this is for you, but don't buy it if you just play the 
 story modes in games, the storyboard is all messed up and the last level is confusing and boring, 
 everyone dies and its so hard to follow, the fun and gunfighting only lasts about 10-15 minnutes, 
 and the maps are way too big and confusing, all the dark lighing made me want to vomit, and only 
 a few levels are out side. The AI is terrible and repettitive for an Xbox 360. Alright lets stop 
 critisizing the storyline. The multiplayer is alot of fun, and Xbox Live almost never lags, its 
 easy to set out plans via the headset and you can crush the enemy with a good plan, the AI in multiplayer 
 is astonoshing, they will act almost like a real player, and they fight really hard too. System 
 link i've heard is good, but havent tried it yet. This game is a little over rated, but OK none-the-less. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erickzelaya
Rating: 4.4
Date: Dec 26, 2005 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I recently piked up my copy ofPerfect Dark Zerodue to all of the great reviews ive heard 
 , i couldnt of been more exited , as soon as i got home i rushed into my room and fired my 360 
 , at first i was amazed by the amazing graphics , the best that i had ever seen in a FPS , but 
 then i started getting deeper and deeper into the ridiculous story , i mean realy who thought this 
 up , in one stage your objective is to sneak into a base to find your long lost father , you easily 
 cut through the guards in the surounding area and then simply walce in through the gate with no 
 consiquence , then a cutscene starts in wich the mainBad Guysimply starts talking to you 
 as if you DIDNT kill all of his henchmen , then his daughter walks in and challenges you to some 
 sort virtual reality game , so you sit down in a chair and you easily beat his aprently unbeaten 
 daughter .............. their really is no need to go on it gets weirder and weirder . Lets move 
 on , i have to say the weapons are top notch , they all have secondary actions like scopes , flashlights 
 , grenade launchers ETC , the animations are just as great , realoding has never looked this good 
 . Youd think that the enemy A. I would be prety good on a next gen game , quite simply its embaressing 
 , the henchmen ran is if their walking , they do not react to your presence as quickly as youd 
 think they would , they just suck. Finaly the multiplayer pales in comparisson to the original 
 Perfect Dark , the bots are to dumb , none of the maps are interesting , its just not fun.
  
  So to wrap up my review ill end with a word of advice , DONT BUY THIS GAME its a waste of your 
 hard earned money , at most this game deserves a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nittanylions
Rating: 2.2
Date: May 20, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This game makes me want to vomit it's a disgrace to the Xbox 360 the graphics look horrible the 
 characters look like crap. The shooting is horrible Call Of Duty 2 has much better shooting and 
 has much better graphics. It takes an hour to load and the hit rate is broken. It has no story 
 to it and the voices are horrible it sounds like a dead cat dying and being skinned . This doesn't 
 deserve to be an xbox 360 game it doesn't even deserve to be an xbox game which is a disgrace! 
 DONT BUY THIS GAME IT IS A RIP OFF! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beast-boy4455
Rating: 2.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  this game is absolutly horrible. i was extremely dissapointed in every aspect of this game. i can 
 not see why the reviewers of this site would give such a piece of garbage a 9.0 . it is completely 
 lacking in the gameplay department, making it almost unplay able. the aiming is to demanding. if 
 you want to run a fire off a pistol forget about it. single player makes me want to cry. the a. i. 
 is so bad it makes the guy who invented kicking yourself in the nuts look like a freakin genius. 
 ok so this game kinda leans toward a stealthy sneaky gameplay setting right but that is down right 
 impossible. in mission 1 ( theres actually a mission zero what the hell) they say lay low dont get 
 spotted get an id on these guys who look exactly the same without being spotted. ok the first guy 
 you see has his back to you and i actually tried to sneak past the jerk for like an hour. you cant 
 do it. eventually i get pissed and shoot the guy in the back of the head and the game actually 
 scolds you for taking that action. now i dont know about most gamers but when i play a game i dont 
 want to get pissed. i think the worst thing is about the game is the health system and the enemy 
 a. i. . the thing is the health makes no sense. theres suposed to be regualar damage and stunn damage. 
 now it like puches and strikes of sorts did the stunning damage that would work just fine but it 
 doesnt. someone can empty a full clip into you and youll just heal yourself miraculously. how do 
 you do it. honestly i have no idea. in conclusion suck is the name of the game and if you like 
 to suck the perfect suck zero is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Footballteen58
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2005 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This is my best and favorite Xbox 360 game I have. Its so good because of how much fun it is. The 
 visuals (even without HD) are fantastic. One really good thing is that you save $10 unlike the other 
 Xbox 360 games. I can already tell this will be one of the few Xbox 360 games I wont trade in. 
 It is in fact the first killer app title on the 360 so go BUY IT NOW!! The levels are nice and 
 long too. It will keep you playing for hours. This game will be like Halo before the actual Halo 
 3 on the Xbox 360. If you played Goldeneye 64 before and liked it you should definitely pick this 
 one up. Fantastic Job by Rare. By the way this my first review so if it sucks and its cheesy Ill 
 change in the next review I make. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fft_ramza
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is really good, It must be in your Xbox360 collection, It is one of the games that are 
 tracing the line between current generation (xbox, gamecube and ps2) and next generation (x360, 
 revolution and ps3) so it needs to make gamers be amazed, which I don't think it manages, It is 
 indeed a pretty good game, but it should have been better, to achieve the perfect score, and make 
 the next gen become current gen...
  
  graphics are good, sound is fine.
  
  It becomes very difficult, and somehow you might get anoyed by some enemies.
  
  It is a very 
 good game, it is the best X360 game so far, so it deserves to be in your collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco12334
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2005 7:32 am PT
Review:  Stunning, Absolutley Stunning. It has taken a long time in the making, but it is finally here and 
 standing out in front of most other release titles. This game has a mixture of Action and Stealth. 
 The stealth elements are very satisfying, hiding behind cover while an enemy walks past then knocking 
 him senseless. Graphics also are Amazing. Crouch down or get a close up of the concrete wall and 
 see loads of unique texture and detail. PDZ could of had a bit more depth though. Small things 
 for example, pressing the action button while looking a PC and having text come up on the screen, 
 would of been nice. This does not really matter though as this is very close to "Perfect". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pookers47
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 12:10 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is the long awaited prequel to the N64 masterpiece, Perfect Dark. Unfortunately 
 this game was disappointing for a company like rare to bear. Honestly i feel that microsoft should 
 never have bought them over because they rushed it for xbox 360's launch. The story disappointing, 
 inconsistent, stupid, tacky and honestly.... just **** The graphics for cutscenes are cartoonish 
 and ugly, especially up close but the levels look beautiful and very detailed, definitely showing 
 off 360's capabilities. The gameplay is great with your standard shooting controls, like halo, 
 you can hold up to 4 slots of weapons. Pistols take up one, smg and rifles take 2 and heavy weapons 
 like a rocket launcher or M60 take up 3. This works well as the cover mode and roll move. The weapons 
 sound nice and the soundtrack is beautiful. However, there something about the shooting, that cannot 
 be described easily but it doesn't have that solid feel. It is similar to timesplitter and james 
 bond games. The online play is pretty good, probably the best aspect of this game because it offers 
 many game modes and nice weapons to use. All in all, my biggest gripe with this game is the shitty 
 story and single player which is way too short. The levels look nice but sometimes you will find 
 your self lost or cannot see the enemy who is shooting at you. Aside from the graphics obviously, 
 i honestly enjoyed the cutscenes and story of the original experience, this game will ruin your 
 impressions of the perfect dark genre but like i said, it is still a solid and fun shooter, especially 
 with the limited 360 launch games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonLizard
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Wow! What a nice shooter! One word for this game.... Guns. The weapons in this game are awesome 
 and the multiplayer is the greatest thus far on xbox live. The vareity throughout the game is top 
 notch and well.... crap the multiplayer is sweet!! Online has awesome modes and the levels always 
 seem new. The only drawback to this game are the character mods which compared to other games such 
 as call of duty can look quite ugly. This game is all about the action and it captures that amazingly 
 well. You owe it to yourself to play this game and if you don't have live this is a reason to get 
 it. Straight up You MUST OWN THIS game!! That's it if you don't have this go get it right now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadGeorge987
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is the hyped-up 360 sequel to the once revolutionary N64 Perfect Dark. This game 
 provides some good, but it lacks in many areas. 
  My main concern with a game like this is that it simply does not live up to the original. The original 
 was revolutionary -- and they didn't even have half the technology they do now! 
  Although many may argue that it looks bad simply because it was over-hyped, one still cannot deny 
 the facts. 
  The game-play is best described as lack-lustre, which in my opinion is being a tad generous. The 
 controls are not very satisfying. Strafing is not nearly as fast as going forward or backwards, 
 which really doesn't work for an FPS. Not only does it make campaign annoying to play through, 
 but it makes multiplayer a joke. If you've played any good FPS, you'll notice this almost immediately. 
 
  The gameplay does have some good points. All of those new toys keep you somewhat intrested. The 
 cover feature is a strong point as well. Still, considering everything, the gameplay is not very 
 good.
  The campaign has a decent story, but suffers from repetetive level scenary, as well as bad AI. 
 The AI does not do anything special or out of the ordinary. Also the gameplay doesn't vary much 
 either. Shoot, shoot, and shoot some more. Not much in the way of vehicles. Compounded with the 
 not-so-good game-play, this campaign isn't all that good, and certainly isn't worth replaying. 
 
  On the technical side, PDZ looks beautiful just like every other 360 game so far. The sound effects 
 are great, and the voice-overs aren't bad either. 
  
  All in all, you wont be replaying the campaign, and you wont be playing much multiplayer once you 
 realize its faults. If you've been following the Perfect Dark series, then you might as well rent 
 this game just for the heck of it. 
  Don't make the mistake of hyping this game up -- you'll ruin and already damaged game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Formula_50
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:03 pm PT
Review:  This game was definitely rushed. The missions are broken up like Splinter Cell for no reason. There 
 are load screens and debriefing in the middle of an area. The AI goes from dumb to psychic after 
 one gunshot. Ridiculous. Trial and error doesn't feel good when you are forced to start a level 
 from the beginning. I didn't expect too much from the launch line up and I certainly didn't get 
 much with this title. The multiplayer is excellent, but if you don't feel like playing with other 
 people, there's nothing else here. I do like the fact that Co-op has different tasks for the second 
 player. The voice acting is horrible. The character models don't match the environments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bremsy
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  I give an 8 for gameplay for a couple reasons. First, there aren't as many missions as there were 
 in the first Perfect Dark game, but what makes up for it is the difficulty. the second reason is 
 the multi-player. the bots are a pain. I really don't see why it should take more than 2 shots 
 to the head to kill a bot. it should only take 1 shot to crack the headgear then 1 more headshot 
 to kill the bot. and the number of games available on multi-player are fun, but the pulti-player 
 maps available right now feel very limited.
  
  graphics are more of a 9.5 then 10. you can tell the difference between previous generation games 
 and this one. from an artistic standpoint, the graphics were done very well.
  
  the sound in this game has to be the worst thing about it. there was nothing that really establishes 
 this game in terms of sound.
  
  value- i don't think i will be playing this game a whole lot with Call of Duty 2 being the better 
 choice.
  
  and last but not last. there really is not a whole lot to the story when you play the missions. 
 it all seemed too predictable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingmojoe
Rating: 2.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 6:04 pm PT
Review:  First off, I don't care if you like my review or not. I'm just as credible as any other FPS gamer 
 that's out there considering I grew up playing ever system from the NES on, so don't doubt my judgement. 
 If you have a problem with my opinion... pick the closest cliff and jump right off. I don't care.
 
  
  This game is awful. The plot is awful. The characters are boring, dumb, ugly, and .... of course, 
 awful. The only thing that makes these awful things seem any better is the fact that the voice 
 acting is the MOST awful.
  
  Now don't go barking and acting like a little child protecting your $60 waste of money by saying 
 that I am wrong. I'll give it some good marks, the graphics are clean and look like the "next gen" 
 FPS graphics. I was also impressed in the physics of the rag doll deaths of those stupid looking 
 enemies. (oh yeah, and what's with the stupid glowing eyes?) The last thing I liked were some of 
 the guns secondary functions.
  
  Now I'll list the bad, in no order, because they were all equally crappy in every aspect. The story 
 fell apart from the second it started, there was no character development, the accent of the girl 
 that helps you on the radio is so bad you can barely understand what she is saying. The pacing 
 of the action made me want to punch my cat in the face, Joanna Dark constantly looks like her face 
 changes. The cut scenes look rushed and unscripted, Her father dies, and it does not matter to 
 anyone because it comes out of nowhere... or I already said poor character development. You get 
 thrown into missions where you have no clue what to do or where to go... oh but then they throw 
 in the "amazing" blue arrows to help guide you through the vomit that is the rest of this game... did 
 I mention that half the time you even see the blue arrows they blend into the background... oh and 
 enemies you can't even see on screen are shooting you angrily in the face, and your face is pointed 
 at the ground trying to find the dang arrows.... They must have casted the bronze medalist from 
 the special Olympics to do the voice talent. (and I'm sorry if that offends anyone, but sadly it 
 isn't a joke) when you are playing co-op have the person playing that dumb Barbie and Ken looking 
 guy at the end of the game use his melee attack.... totally special..... well I don't want to go 
 on because it's making me mad thinking that I bought it and then only got 30 trade for it..... 
 it's enough to make me want to blow up Conker... ok not that mad... but close
  
  P. S...... RARE, if you insist on waiting forever to make second installments of great games..... try 
 and make them good next time.... and to you reviewers who gave this game high marks, please make 
 sure you haven't been subject to wet paint fumes, or glue.... nobody in their right mind would like 
 this game... and I'm not saying your dumb.... just check for leaks in the gas lines.... honestly 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskillz101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 25, 2005 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game, and I loved it. It has amazing weapons (like the first) and very clever, 
 thought out plot. I must point out, though, that the lady narrating the whole thing is extremely 
 irritating, and doesnt help. Every time you try to hack something it says "I cant get this one, 
 you'll need to hack it" when its obvious that she's not gonna do it.. lazy hoe. I gave this game 
 a 10 in gameplay because you have SO MUCH control on how your charecter acts and kills. 9.4 :) . 
 This game is a lesson to anime **** on ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeronautical
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 2, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Garphics and Sound
  
  Perfect Dark Zero takes great advantage of the Xbox 360's power with greatly detailed textures 
 and weapons. When reloading or just walking around you will notice that the weapons are extremely 
 detailed. You can see the stamped serial numbers and steel refelcting off of different light spectrums. 
 Something so deadly didn't look so good. Also, in many parts of the game you will notice rust and 
 wet textures that look wonderfully detailed even up close. It's no-longer a picture on the enviroments, 
 even the smallest piece of rusted steel gives off shadow and depth. As you can tell, I am very 
 impressed with the graphics. But with that complexity comes glitches. The character models are 
 freaky sometimes, mainly when they try to express extreme emotions. Nothing that can't be fixed 
 later with a patch from Xbox-Live.
  PDZ's sound works very well to make the situation more intense. You can hear the sound affected 
 when echoing around halls. All the weapons also pack a punch when fired, every weapon has their 
 unique sound that can be identified from around the corner. This may be saving the sound aspect 
 of the game from the horrible voice-acting. Making the cut-scenes somthing that many will just 
 skip.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Halo-veterans will notice that many of the controls are very similar to Perfect Dark Zero. There 
 are a few modifications. The left bumper allows you to roll, making it hard for enemies to take 
 a shot at you, a nice touch. The right bumber was logically given the task of allowing you to use 
 the secondary fire of your weapon. Basically the controls are easy to use and understand, it's 
 just a bit difficult to pick-up or switch weapons.
  What you may notice is that the larger the weapon, the more space it will take, a good way to balance 
 what weapons you can carry. If the weapon is larger then the slower you walk and turn, making you 
 logistically think of the best approach for what weapon to carry in multiplayer.
  
  Overall
  
  Perfect Dark Zero isn't the next Halo, but it is a good leader for a strong launch 
 line-up for the Xbox 360. Just like I noted above, many fixes can be applied in the future to fix 
 the problems. If you are a fan of first-person shooters, this will be a good game to pick-up. You 
 may not like the story, but the multiplayer is Halo worthy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_popwwe
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2005 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Its almost a shame that certain games, no matter how different they may be, end up being compared 
 with one another. Thats exactly the case when it comes to Perfect Dark Zero and Halo, mainly because 
 they are both first-person shooters and secondly, due to the fact they are launch titles for their 
 respective consoles. News flash: Perfect Dark Zero IS NOT Halo, nor does it try to be. Once you 
 get that notion into your head, then youll be better suited to actually enjoy everything that 
 PDZ has to offer. so far i have enjoyed the gameplay and the shooting. I cant wait to carry one 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadHippo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:43 am PT
Review:  As soon as I started playing this game, I couldn't put it down. The online multiplayer and the 
 amazing missions allow for hours of gaming and gaining achievements add to the uberness. There 
 is a wide variety of guns and the secondary and sometimes tertiary functions add to the experience. 
 Online play is good and so far I have not experienced any lag whatsoever. Though the music does 
 get repetitive sometimes, you could always play your own music over it, and the voiceovers are 
 done enthusiastically (KILLCOUNT!) This game is a definite must-buy and shows off the full awesomeness 
 of the Xbox 360. It is the shnazz. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indalamar
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  The game is teriffic in all aspects, almost... the only complaints I have are that story mode is 
 a little short (8-10 hours) and only 2 vehicles (jetpack and hovercraft) While the jetpack is simply 
 amazing, the hovercraft is something to be desired... can only have 2 people aboard and the only 
 good thing about it is that you can take the weapon off the turret on it and replace it with the 
 choice of a rocket launcher, a plasma rifle and a machine gun. Oh, and one more bad thing, Dark 
 Ops mode (Counter Strike-ish) has no bots.
  
  On the other hand the graphics are pretty amazing and Joanna looks pretty sexy and the ability 
 to roll and take cover are pretty cool. It sticks woth some of the old game's features like fly-by 
 with a rocket launcher and co-op story mode and probably some more features that I forget. There 
 is multiple characters in multiplayer mode but some characters that it chooses for you, you can't 
 select them for your main character. One last bad thing (promise) is that there is a frikkin' Samsung 
 logo on the main menu that bugs the crap outta me. Overall if I good give this game my OWN overall 
 rating I'd give a 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indy00
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 24, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark quite frankly is a game that no Xbox 360 owner should be without. The title is action 
 right from the beginning to the exciting end. However, the most impressive part of Perfect Dark 
 is undeniably the graphics. Simply put, the graphics in Perfect Dark are the best that have been 
 seen in any game to date and stand testament to the power that is contained within the 360. At 
 times it is hard not to just stop and look at the sheer majesty of the incredibly detailed world. 
 Metal shines, clothes and hair moves and the whole world just shines with a vibrance that is truly 
 hard to grasp when first encountered.
  
  However, great graphics would be nothing without great gameplay and thankfully Perfect Dark delivers 
 on that front aswell. Though seemingly sluggish at the beginning a quick tweaking of sensitivity 
 will allow you to really appreciate the game and play it the way you want. Perfect Dark also adds 
 some new things rarely seen in shooters these days. Cover being one of them. Cover allows you to 
 conceal yourself in a way reminicent of Metal Gear Solid and make jump out shots similar to Time 
 Crisis. Its a unique addition that comes in very handy in a variety of circumstances. The other 
 cool feature is the dive which is just what it sounds like and can allow you to startle your enemies 
 before you take them down.
  
  Perfect Dark isn't perfect however. There are some minor flaws that don't really impact the experience 
 in any major way but are still noticable. Most noteworthy is the enemy AI. Having played games 
 like Fear gamers now know what good enemy AI is and with Perfect Dark being a next generation title 
 it is subject to higher scrutiny in this category. The enemy AI in Perfect Dark, while not stupid, 
 certainly leaves alot to be desired. Enemies will generally be accurate and do a decent job with 
 detecting you, however, they don't exhibit alot of battle sense or familiarity with their own settings. 
 However, thats not to say that they're not challenging. The game still remains tough but not anything 
 that you can't conquer.
  
  Weapon variety in Perfect Dark is second to none. Every gun has a secondary function, be it a grenade 
 launcher, silencer or some other cool function. Either way the guns are not your run of the mill 
 point and shoot kind of weapons and the game will make you use the various guns to their full potential. 
 Rare has also done an excellent job in making the guns feel like they pack a punch and this can 
 be attributed to the excellent animations that can be seen on the enemies. Enemies will move in 
 the direction that they've been shot in realistically and, however, comical it may be; there armour 
 will break off of them in some amazing explosions. These subtle touches all make the guns you're 
 firing feel powerful.
  
  In terms of audio, what can be said about Perfect Dark? This game has a soundtrack that is truly 
 amazing. The general theme throughout most of the game is a James Bond esque soundtrack with a 
 few orchestrated scores but these are few and far between. The music is perfectly suited for the 
 nature of the game and does a great job of transitioning between action and sneak tracks. Sound 
 effect wise, Perfect Dark is good enough but no where near the quality of Call of Duty 2. The guns 
 sound good but it would be cool if they were alot louder. However, most gamers won't notice this 
 as they will be engaged in one of the many firefights that occur throughout the game. The voice 
 acting is done well enough but this game is about the actoin so you won't be bothered if the Voice 
 Acting isn't up to the quality of a Metal Gear game.
  
  Overall Perfect Dark is a great game that every Xbox 360 owner should atleast experience. This 
 could very well become the next Halo with an excellent multiplayer mode that is addicting and generally 
 offers a lag free experience. The campaign will keep you occupied for a good 10-15 hours depending 
 on your skill level and you'll be enthralled throughout the whole thing. The best part about Perfect 
 Dark, however, is that it never gets old. You'll enjoy hours upon hours of fun, be it in the single 
 player campaign, or just on a fragfest online, you'll be having a blast. This game is definately 
 worth the $60 price tag and is arguably one of the best games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitesoxfan8907
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 24, 2005 1:52 pm PT
Review:  this game is awesome. Everything about it, graphics, multiplayer, solo missions and the ending (it 
 almost connects with the N64 version) . The col thing about this multiplayer that halo lacks is 
 the bot creation. You can put bots in and practice shooting them if you don't feel like going online 
 or playing against friends. The weapons are cool too. Another cool addition is that if you find 
 a weapon in a level it goes in your arsenal and you can use these powerful weapons when you play 
 on a more difficult level setting. PDZ can easily be classified as one of the best new released 
 games for Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdeath31
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2005 1:09 am PT
Review:  This is the prequal to the acclaimed original Perfect Dark and is a very good game too. In the 
 single player you will go through beautiful looking urban, desert, jungle, and snowy environments. 
 Right from the get go the first thing you will notice is the absoluly amazing visuals. The textures 
 and bumb mapping are used extensivly on almost every thing wich really serves to immerse the player 
 in the game. This game would actually be quite immersive except for the substandard story. I mean 
 there is a bald chinese guy with a cane and f***ing wires all over his head as the antagontist 
 ............. come on Rare WTF! I have nothing against chinese people but I think it can be said 
 that the story was way worse than I expected. The character models are pretty good except for the 
 odd ones that looks like plastic toys wich is pretty lame but the gun models are the best I've 
 seen. The ending of the game is the worst I've seen in awile (I won't give it away) . So overall 
 the single player is pretty good except for a few dud levels. There is alot of cool game play additions 
 such as the "cover" system wich alows the player to enter a 3rd person view a shoot from behind 
 cover (sorta like Killswitch) . I originally thought the cover system would be tedious but it adds 
 alot to the gameplay and keeps the game from feeling like any other fps just with better graphics. 
 The muli-player is the true reason to buy this game; with 32 player games with nearly no lag (there 
 is frame rate problems occasionally) the game has alot going for it online. There is standard Deathmatches 
 and CTF fair but the inclusion of mech like jet packs mix things up. The dark-ops mode has other 
 game types in wich the player can purchase guns and items. The team can also split the cost of 
 a jet pack or hover craft wich adds lots of strategy to the game. Infection mode is my favorite; 
 it is basically a spin off of "Zombies". There is the infected players (one or two to start) and 
 when the Infected players kill a non-infected player they become infected. The reason it's so good 
 here is that each level has many places for the Uninfected to hole up and to defend you're self 
 you will need the aid of your team becaus eif every one goes their own way you'll find the games 
 don't last long. It's simply exhilerating trying to survive while running out of ammo with your 
 last 3 team mates. Lastly the game has co-op mode offline and online wich adds even more value 
 the already stellar shooter. So while this game has its short comings such as periodic slowdowns, 
 lame story, and some retarded missions, the game comes out a winner because of the incredible lasting 
 value on the multi-player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StArKaStiK
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Now its not the GREATEST game ever, nor will it be game of the year, but its still a very good 
 game. This was my first Xbox360 title, and i fell in love with it from the get-go, but like always, 
 each game has its flaws. The single player Campaign isn't that bad, but the story isn't good, its 
 just a sorry excuse to go around and kill people. If you play this on Dark Agent (the difficulty 
 you get after beating the game on perfect agent) , it gets ridiculousy hard and you can barely pass 
 a mission. Online is where this game shines. The co-op is very fun and i spent hours on it with 
 my friends, and the online deathmatches are just excellent. It's worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JetStreak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 8:59 pm PT
Review:  When I first turned on PDZ - the intro, music, and everything kind of put me into a 007 moment. 
 Which was sort of; misleading. PDZ is a one of a kind shooter. You can't really compare it to anything. 
 Sometimes youll be walking around with your plasma rifle - then get sniped out of no where. You'll 
 feel like you are playing Halo. The on the other hand; you may be flying around in your JetPack 
 dueling it out in the air. Which may be a little more Mechassaultish.
  
  Anyhow; thats not my point. There are just so many things that you can do with this game; so many 
 gametypes. The multiplayer maps are extrodinarily huge. You can play with tons of people online 
 and it seems so laggless (unlike Call of Duty or some other 360 games) .
  
  The offline kind of well - disappointed me. The beggining really gets you excited because you fight 
 all these creatures up a building then after you make it to the roof it goes to a cutscene, and 
 its like "simulation over". After getting you all excited it sort of lets you down after the first 
 2 levels. 
  
  The gameplay is fantastic - I couldn't have asked for anything more. 
  
  The graphics are astonishing as well, I really don't think that they are as great as some other 
 360 games however they are amazing. You will get over them over time anyhow.
  
  Some of the songs on the soundtrack are so catchy. Like "Glitter Girl" (the one in the intro. The 
 soundtrack to PDZ is completely original and it's going to be even sold in stores.
  
  The sound effects can be extremely repetitive.. For example while your playing PDZ will you find 
 yourself rolling/ducking out of the way 60-70 times per game. If you are doing this in water; it 
 will make a spashing sound.. Which sounds exactly the same everytime you do it. 
  
  Overall, PDZ is no Halo.. However it is an extremely fun game - and is probably one of the best 
 that the 360 has to offer right now.. I'd def. check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pappasfurs
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 23, 2005 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Perfect dark zero, the most overrated Xbox 360 game ever made. When I first heard of this game 
 I thought this was going to be another James Bond type game, with cool gadgets, awesome weapons, 
 and some cool vehicles. It did have cool weapons and gadgets but it is too short, and extremely 
 overrated. This game is so easy and the bad thing is you only get 10 gamer points for beating it, 
 what the hell is that. If you are thinking of buying this game do not , go and rent it you will 
 beat it within a day, and then you can play online for a bit. But after beating it there is really 
 nothing else to do because the online play is so bad. Overall this is the most overrated game I 
 have ever heard of so do not go and buy it go and rent it and trust me you will not regret it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolfgang66
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Let me star of this by saying that PDZ is the best FPS of the year (gameplay wise) . It is about 
 10 to 11 hours to beat but the multiplayer keeps you coming back to offer endless hours of gameplay, 
 even without X-box Live. I have yet to hook up my system to XBL but I still dont feel the need 
 to because the multiplayer has bots.
  
  The backgroung music was also brilliant. Some say it sounds like "a bad 70's porno" but what kind 
 of porn has a violin in it? The sound effects are superd and each gun has a different sound. 
 
  
  The overall value of the game is great for 50 bucks. The first party games are 60 bucks so this 
 is cheap in comparison. The special edition was not really worth the money. The extra disc includes 
 a theme, avatars for your gamercard and some trailers. PDZ, is by far, the best execlusive launch 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lannyboy334
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 23, 2005 11:16 am PT
Review:  This is the story of a beautiful let down. PDZ is by no means the worst FPS shooter ever, with 
 practically non-stop action in the singleplayer, good weapons, and a multiplayer that works somewhat. 
 But that is not what this review is all about, because what I stated above, that is where the good 
 things stop. In PDZ you start out the game as an upbeat hip-hop chicky poo (who's voice oh by the 
 way is nothing close to the PD64's cool one) who is treated a little to well by her agent father. 
 A story that is a little to predictable and common, later on of course the father dies, you already 
 know all the characters so their are no twists there, you join a secret group of males, and you 
 blow the **** out of worthless AI. Yes, worthless AI, the AI system is one that sometimes works 
 well but other times, actually most of the times, it sucks. I wanna scream when I am in the lab 
 level rescuing my father, running around with a shotgun feeling like the hottest crap in town, 
 and then of course I get seen, I kill a few guys, and I run through the door and progress. After 
 having a good time, enjoying the only radar in the game on my shotgun, enjoying the fast-paced 
 action, I go through the level a bit more and kill a lot of guys and start wondering "Where is 
 everyone else?". My thoughts are completed as I walk through the same door that I walked through 
 at the beginning of the level and there are a bunch of armored crap heads standing behind that 
 door... YES! JUST STANDING THERE! GAAAHHHH! SOME OF THEM ARE LOOKING THROUGH WALLS, COMPLETELY 
 IGNORING ME UNTIL I BASH THEM ON THE BACK OF THE HEAD WITH MY SHOTGUN, AND OTHERS ARE ACTUALLY 
 TRYING TO SHOOT ME, BUT THEY ARE SO CLUMPED TOGETHER THAT TWO SHOTS WITH MY SHOTGUN, A SPRAY OF 
 BULLETS, OR A GREANADE SHOT AND 10 GUYS ARE DEAD! Okay you've got it right there, cruddy predictable 
 story, horrible voiceovers, and butt-ugly AI screwed that experience. Now onto the multiplayer. 
 It is all-in-all pretty good, with a system thats really based on skill and headshots, that turns 
 out pretty good. But there is one huge stain that won't let me play it seriously, all of the grenade 
 launching weapons, especially when the most accessible SMG has this super-over-powered 2nd ability, 
 especially when it is launched, giving it less skill then Halo 2's mastered grenade system. Now 
 for the overall. Simply put, forget PDZ and get CoD2, because PDZ is the one of the most forgettable 
 experiences and most dissapointing titles that I have ever played, and I have no idea how in the 
 world that GameSpot could give this game such a good rating, completely missing all the facts that 
 make it so flawed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben61
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 23, 2005 11:02 am PT
Review:  Yes this game has good graphics, just like every other 360 game but it lacks unique stuff. This 
 game is just a take off of all the James Bond games. It just dosnt have that newness to it. Its 
 more close to golden eye than rouge agent is. In my opinion all the launch titles suck except call 
 of duty 2 and Madden. This is all i have to say but this thing is making me say 100 words so hfl 
 fldkh dlkhf hldjhfl hdlfhl hldfkhlk dhlkfhl hgldhf lkfdk dhglkdsjf hlkdsahgl hfldh ldgkfkj djksfhk 
 jdahfkjdhkjf dskfj hfkjdf fkh kjdshf fkjdh fhf f hfh kfkh hf hkd hfk hf kfkh kdjhfk kd hkf hhfk 
 hkhkfhk hfkjdh dfklh jk fdjfhkjdhiyruehf, dhfiehd kfh dkhfdkhfkdhfiufhdkfd khfkd hfkdhfidfhekkhfk 
 difhkdhnkf ehf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEARowns
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 23, 2005 10:52 am PT
Review:  Ok, so this is what ive been waiting for? This is the one? Well, sorry folks, this game is highly 
 dissapointing. The game that was supposed to be the 360's baby (oh, I mean Halo) , turned out to 
 be the consumer's teenager with a British accent. The game itself looks promising from the cover, 
 and the screens. I mean, come on, its the follow up (well, kinda, its a prequel) to arguably the 
 best N64 game ever. Rare had some time to make this game really good, previously making it a Gamecube 
 title then pushed it back for so long into the next-gen for Xbox 360. Well, lets get down to the 
 nitty gritty.
  
  So, from the start of the game you kinda are expecting this cool, Halo-ish intro with really cool 
 visuals and some nice music because this game is supposed to be just like Halo right? Wrong. The 
 intro takes a James Bond-like intro with a girl singing to the beat of some rockish/techno song 
 and shows Joanna looking good. You dont know whats going on. So then, on to the menu. "Samsung" 
 is read at the top right. I dont remember owning a Samsung tv, thats pisses me off. Now it looks 
 stupid playing on my Sony tv and having that stupid Samsung logo on the top right. The menu is 
 OK, sporting some techy things and cool blues. But, whatever, the menu is decent, but lets see 
 how the game plays.
  
  "Why is this lady talking to me? I can figure things out on my own! Ugh, so annoying to listen 
 to this Brit talk in my ear." There is a woman who speaks to you in a very over-annoying British 
 accent and warns you about things and its quite annoying. The guns are nice, the visuals are OK, 
 the AI is incredibly retarted, and you can't jump! You cannot jump. You can roll, but you cant 
 jump. This is so stupid. Everyone who plays video games (or just FPS) knows that jumping is crucial 
 in gameplay. Take Halo 2 for intance, you can jump like a mile in the air. This along with crappy 
 AI, and OK graphics really dissapointed me. The storyline is pretty dumb, and did i mention the 
 AI was too? Yeah, so if you are looking for a true Halo type game, go with Quake 4. Otherwise, 
 this game is not worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zenmuron666
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 3:54 am PT
Review:  What the  !
  This must be the biggest hyped crap game I ever played.
  What a disappointment, so much I'm sorry I ever spend money on it! At first I thought it might 
 be me, but no. This game isnt a great review worth. The graphics arent that good, but more important 
 the game-play is so bad. I really dont understand why people like this game.
  Usually I find something positive when I dont like a game, but this one is so hyped that my expectation 
 dropped faster then a speeding bullet once I started playing.
  
  This is my opinion, that doesnt mean that others cant enjoy playing the game. Opinions are subjective 
 and can differ with a other opinions.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtifulguitar
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 12:12 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Perfect Dark Zero offers great gameplay just as the original did. It's got all the crazy weapons 
 and gadgets you know and love (SuperDragon, Laptop Gun, etc.) and all the crazy secondary fire 
 types! The levels are well designed and the game is just right in difficulty on each setting. Multiplayer 
 is even better. Loads of maps and modes to choose from.
  
  Graphics:
  Top-notch. The textures are amazing. Everything is highly detailed. One thing though: everything 
 does either look like leather or plastic, but what the heck, it still looks unlike anything I have 
 ever seen before.
  
  Sound:
  Plus - the music, the gun sounds
  Minus - the voice acting...
  
  Replay:
  Very High
  
  Overall:
  A must own for any 360 
 owner. If you loved the orginal, you'll definately enjoy Zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty0123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 22, 2005 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Yeah this game is pretty awsome and it also keeps you on your toes because through out the game 
 its not stop shoot this and blow stuff up for about the 8 hours of gameplay. me and my 2 mates 
 have already completed it on single agent.
  The graphics for the game are supurb and the gameplay is even better. I still cant believe that 
 nearly everyones for game was perfect dark i didnt realise it would have such a big impact.
  The value of the game on the other isnt so good because it only features about 8 hours of gameplay... but 
 on xbox live it is non stop choas which is mostly what people want.
  The sound in the game is good because they sound like real weapons ( even though some of them are) .
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3idolon
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 22, 2005 12:05 pm PT
Review:  After weeks of playing Perfect Dark Zero I have noticed some problems or pet peeves I have with 
 it. For one, I don't like the animations, and when you shoot someone point blank with a shotgun 
 the results are good but it still doesn't feel like there is massive impact, rather the character 
 seems to float away. A huge problem I have even though it greatly increases the difficulty is that 
 on either Perfect Agent or Dark Agent you don't get checkpoints in most levels which makes playing 
 through the levels extremely tedious, and for someone like me, I just hate having to do the whole 
 level over again because you make a stupid mistake near the end. The Soundtrack for this game is 
 possibly one of the best I have heard yet. But Xbox Live is where this game is truly amazing. I've 
 played all the modes and have found myself enjoying most of them. For anyone looking for a good 
 online experience, I would definitely recommend this game. Also, the split screen co-op as well 
 as live co-op is an excellent addition which more game developers should take note of. For me this 
 is where most of the replay value comes in. In the end, Perfect Dark Zero is worth the money and 
 will be enjoyed for many months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackadder89
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  The game follows a trainee Mercenary (Joanna Dark) training with her father who would appear to 
 be an expert. To be honest, that is all that is material to the story; as the story itself is not 
 very complex or interesting, but a great reason to send you to all the corners of the earth and 
 interesting locales.
  
  This is one of the game's strongest factors. The locales and the levels. All of them are immensely 
 varied and offer something totally different: Sniping advantages, close combat, rifles etc. All 
 the different types of play come into the game and are seamlessly woven into the levels, you can 
 play it pretty much the way that you want to play, many of the levels barely restrict you. There 
 are 12 of them, and whilst they do get shorter, they amount to about 12 hours of gameplay. Entirely 
 adequate for this type of game.
  
  Another fantastic aspect of the game is its selection of weapons. There are scores of them. Scores 
 and scores of them. The way in which they fit into your inventory is also well crafted, each being 
 allowed a certain number of slots out of the four you have. It means that what you can carry and 
 use is perfectly balanced. You can't go round with an M60 and a sniper rifle, for example. There 
 are all different types of strange and wonderful mechanisms on the weapons in the form of secondary 
 and tertiary fire, some very useful, others pretty crazy, but still fun.
  
  When it comes to an FPS you are really thinking one thing, the most important thing: How's the 
 action?
  Good thing that PDZ fulfills this in every way possible. Be it stealth or flat out blowing people 
 away, you will be entirely engrossed in the amount of action that this game has to offer.
  Run in witha combat sheild and an Uzi, or simply mow them down with twin SMGs? Either way, you're 
 going to be having the time of your life.
  
  Being one of the first Next Gen games, people are of course going to want to see graphics, graphics, 
 graphics!!! PDZ delivers big time. 
  Some of the textures are just utterly mystifyingly beautiful. Fantastic stuff that shows just a 
 taste of what the 360 is capable of. What really impressed me though was frame rate. Regardless 
 of the crazy amount of action going on on-screen there is no slowdown (absolutely NONE) . This seriously 
 surprised me, especially on one of the later missions.
  
  The multiplayer is also to say the least, magnificent. The variety of game modes is quite vast, 
 and with the cleverly adapted Counter Strike esqu Dark Ops mode, you'll doubtfully ever grow tired 
 of this online. There is also never any lag, no matter how hectic or big things get. Truly an online 
 marvel.
  
  There are very few negatives with Perfect Dark. The story is one, but a very minor one as you wont 
 really be caring about it when you're capping Datadyne guards in the face. The only other qualms 
 I have with the game is the fact that you can't save as you please, which, in some tougher missions, 
 can lead to a bit of frustration. Although, to be honest, I don't think you're going to mind playing 
 through parts of the map again.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero is without doubt an amazing game. Everything about it says 'Next Gen', and everything 
 about it says 'Play me!'. PDZ is fantastic, truly a gem in the world of gaming; and definitely 
 a reason to buy the Xbox 360 and plunge into the Next Gen gaming world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrymac
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 21, 2005 7:15 pm PT
Review:  5 Years after its original iteration on the Nintendo 64, which many argue, that with Goldeneye 
 it invented the modern template for console first person shooters, Perfect Dark Zero arrives. The 
 good news is that this game pretty much lives up to the expectations that many have set for it.
 
  
  As the name implies the game is a prequel to the original Perfect Dark on the Nintendo 64. The 
 story in PDZ is really nothing special and is just a big excuse to send Joanna Dark and her father 
 to locations all around the world, all of which look fantastic.
  
  The Graphics in Perfect Dark Zero are another highlight of the game, the vibrant colours and detail 
 of the all the levels all add up to make this one of best looking games that you can lay your hands 
 on, 360 or Otherwise. Although it may not be what some people expected from a next generation standpoint, 
 technically. The fantastic artistic stylings of the game make up for this and then some.
  
  Pefect Dark Zero aslo has some fantastic and immersive gameplay. Although many people are comparing 
 it to Halo, the gameplat echoes Goldeneye and the original Perfect Dark and strangely enough the 
 2 first person James Bond offerings of the last generation, Agent Under Fire and Nightfire.
  
  The Sound in Perfect Dark Zero has a real "oomph" to it, especially when you, yourself are 
 firing many of the immersive and realistic weapons that the game has to offer, you really feel 
 like you could just reach out and pull these weapons straight off the screen.
  
  Although Perfect Dark Zero contains a mediocore single player story the Multiplayer portion of 
 the game over-compensates for this flaw. You can play both Split-screen and online over Xbox Live, 
 and this is where the game really shines, there are 6 modes that you can play online, Regular Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, Infection (in which you must kill players to "Infect" them or avoid being killed 
 yourself, whichever way your spun at the start of the game) , Capture the Flag, Territorial Gain 
 (in which you must hack enemy kiosks to triumph) and Dark Ops, a Counter-Strike like mode in which 
 you only have one life per-round and are able to buy your equipment at the beggining of the round. 
 
  
  It is also possible to play Co-Operatively through either Split-Screen or over Xbox Live, but whats 
 really fantastic and in some cases revolutionary about this component is that its not just another 
 version of Joanna Dark that your friend will be playing as, the game throws in a character that 
 corresponds to the mission that you are playing, and varys from mission to mission.
  
  One Point in Perfect Dark Zero that some people may find overly frustrating is the fact that there 
 is only one checkpoint in each level, this makes the single player game extremely frustrating at 
 times, it dosent help either that even at the average setting the enemy A. I is really quite tough 
 and you will find yourself dying quite a bit. There is also a big learning curve involved in this 
 game, especially if you do not have previous exprerience with Goldeneye or the original Perfect 
 Dark.
  
  All in all Perfect Dark Zero is a Fantastic Game that has a highly frustrating, yet satisfing single 
 player campaign and a highly enjoyable multiplayer component that will keep you coming back many 
 times after your done with the single player portion.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CommanderCool89
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 21, 2005 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Rare had a lot of pressure making this game from Microsoft and fans of the original. With over 
 5 years in development starting on the Gamecube, being moved to the Xbox, now on the 360, does 
 this game accomplish all the hype built up around it and is it a worthy prequel to its N64 counterpart? 
 Well it depends on who you ask.
  
  The single player starts out with Jonna and her Dad searching for blah blah blah. The story is 
 the least important thing about this game and quite frankly its bad. But the FPS genre isn't known 
 for its stories. The campaign spands around 10 hours which is a good length for an FPS, plus the 
 added co-op makes the replay value even better.
  
  The multiplayer is the decisive factor in every FPS hand is certain in this one as well. I personally 
 think it is amazing. With plenty of game modes, 32 players, and almost no lag this is surely a 
 game you will be playing for months.
  
  I enjoyed this game immensely. Although there are quite a lot of short comings to it as well: 50 
 players online was bumped down to 32, the single player isnt that driving and most likely you wont 
 bother to finish it if you have Live. There are a lot of little things that stand out as well such 
 as awful, awful voice acting that is just aggravating. And one thing I cant get over is how in 
 the single player the dead bodies never disappear but in the multiplayer they explode into tiny 
 peices.
  
  The graphics are also very disappointing in my opinion. The character models look very plasticy 
 and some cutsceens look downright awful. Add this to the strange character motions, you get one 
 very ugly game, at least the guns look amazing. I know the 360 can do better.
  
  Many people wont like this game, and many will. Its mostly a matter of personal tastes. If you're 
 trying to decide whether or not to spend your money on this game, I recommend renting it first 
 because the multiplayer will keep you wanting for more if it's your style of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostNC360
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot better than i thought it was going to be. I used to not likeit very much but 
 now I can't get enough of it. The amounts of gametypes are amazing and they're fun to play. It's 
 ok that it's a little slow because the game makes up for that. The story mode isn't as fun as the 
 multi-player but it is still fun. Plus, the new update that adds more maps and hopefully bot personalities 
 and clans will defiantly help it out. It is shaping up to be one of the best xbox 360 games out 
 there right now. I can play this game for hours and not get bored plus theere are always people 
 on so you are never just sitting in a lobby. Definaly worth $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xnexus3372x
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 9:33 am PT
Review:  I just played this game 17 hrs straight -- no breaks with a friend. This game is incredible graphically. 
 There is a huge array of weapons and millions of people people to decimate them with. Personally, 
 I love the aspect of endlessly bashing someone unconcious (though it takes only 1) . The tactical 
 shield -- yea it stops bullets, in my case its just a huge baseball bat, just run around slamming 
 it into someone's face.// There are techniques to moving as well (rolling and cover) both are VERY 
 well worked by the designers. Rolling causes rofl online against good people.// As for the missions 
 you get out of them what you put into them -- this game is multiplayer, but definately doesn't neglect 
 the single player. Co-op is slightly annoying.// The audio is kinda just there to b heard -- im in 
 an intense gun fight, but i hear christmas music from my speakers -- no it wasnt my mom. The audio 
 you dont pay much attention to but it kinda alters the mood.// I would highly recommend this game, 
 it is the halo of my life cause i hate the real halo's (its for tards) . This sniper rifle actually 
 takes skill. If you have the money -- get it, do not miss out on this great opportunity! It will 
 be a classic forever! This is my perspective -- look at others as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flandrien
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 21, 2005 6:34 am PT
Review:  The main problem with this game seems to be that people like to compare PDZ with its forerunner 
 Perfect Dark on N64. And just like what happened with Soul Calibur II, another game that can be 
 compared with a near-perfect forerunner, this way they fail to see what makes PDZ stand out in 
 its own right.
  
  By no means am I going to call PDZ easy to get to grips with. It can be a very confusing and frustrating 
 experience at first. The story mode is a perfect example of this. Some of the maps can leave you 
 clueless as to what to do next. Wander around for too long though, and blue markers will appear, 
 indicating where you should go. Maybe Rare should have made the level design more obvious then? 
 It's not as if the levels are that big, they're just confusing. This will often lead to a mistake 
 from your part, synonymous to a massive amount of foes rushing towards you, and ultimately your 
 demise. In that aspect, it doesn't help that savepoints are few and far between (I didn't fully 
 complete story mode yet, but so far there is only one savepoint half way through each level) . 
 
  
  Then the whole idea caught on to me: you are meant to make errors and learn from them. Eventually 
 you will find a way through, finish a scenario and receive a highly detailed score. Then you will 
 be able to compare your performance with the other PDZ players, which should incite you to get 
 an even better score by raising the stakes. That's what PDZ story mode is all about! Especially 
 the magnificent looking rooftop level can be used as an example here. During the first half of 
 this level you're on top of the roofs, and have to provide cover for your buddy/father Jack. If 
 Jack dies, your mission fails, and at first this can be quite a frustrating experience as Jack 
 isn't really handy at taking cover. Even with you scoring one headshot after the other, he can 
 still bite the dust. In other words: it's not just important that you take out the targets, but 
 the order in which you do is crucial to Jack's survival too.
  
  Visually, the game certainly shows next-gen potential, but it can't hide that it was designed for 
 the Xbox (and before that, the Gamecube) first. The graphics have been spruced up considerably 
 with the release on the Xbox 360 in mind, but some of the textures just appear too shiny and rubbery. 
 I have never seen ice look so artificial before. Some of the foes look substandard too. Luckily 
 Joanna is looking great, as are the weapons that she is wielding. And believe me when I tell you 
 that there is a plethora of weapons to discover, some of them even having a tertiary function.
 
  
  On the gameplay front I wish there was an auto reload mode, as you have to trigger the reload yourself 
 once your clip is empty. Rare included a roll and cover move in the game, which leads to a temporary 
 third person view of Joanna, and for the most part this works well. I especially like the fluid 
 transition between this third and first person view. I still miss the ability to jump though. You 
 can crawl over certain obstacles, but it's not the same. 
  
  Enemy a. i. is a bit of a mixed bag. We certainly don't have F. E. A. R. circumstances here, with PDZ 
 foes mainly going for cover, going through an annoying circular movement pattern, or just blindly 
 rushing towards you when they've got you outnumbered. Your foes aren't always aware of what's going 
 on around them: at one point I sniped one guard in a watchtower, and the other guard in that tower 
 just stood around as if nothing had happened.
  
  Plenty of fun is to be had online, with a rather nice co-op mode (it's so much more fun to play 
 the rooftop level this way) , and the obligatory deathmatch maps. Apart from various deathmatch 
 types (killcount, team deathmatch, capture the flag...) , there also is the option to play darkops. 
 Playing darkops will give you the opportunity to experience some more original game modes. Infection 
 is one of these: a mode where a group of uninfected has to make a stand against infected players. 
 This mode can be particularly interesting at times, with the remaining uninfected players trying 
 to make a stand at a specific location.
  
  The various deathmatch and darkops types, combined with the big amount of weapons and the ability 
 to have 32 players at once duking it out in a map, makes for some highly enjoyable gameplay experiences. 
 Also, because of the armor everyone is wearing and the health system (a bit like Halo in that it 
 recovers after not being hit for awhile) , online play requires a certain amount of skill. In other 
 words: the best players will really shine during online play.
  
  In conclusion I would have to say that PDZ falls a tad short of being the killer launch game everyone 
 was expecting it to be, but it is a highly enjoyable fps, provided you know what you're getting 
 into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbence12286
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 21, 2005 1:47 am PT
Review:  I think this game sucks, not a great game for feature title for the 360. Not worth the money, the 
 gameplay i think is the only thing it had going for it, as for the graphics, not so next gen, unless 
 ur at a cinematic. Co-0p mode was fun. Yeah, that is about it. Blah. Definately going back to EB, 
 hopefully they will give me a good price for it. I don't think that it can compare with even Halo 
 2, should not have been released on the 360, would be great for xbox. The graphics were not that 
 good. This game did have a great array of weapons, bringing some of the great ones from the n64 
 version of goldeneye liek the rc-90. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssbman1991
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 20, 2005 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero Review: 
  
  Its been 5 years since the 1st Perfect Dark game came out. Perfect Dark for the N64 was once of 
 the greatest games made available at that time, like its prequel Goldeneye. Now that the 5 years 
 has passed, in 2005, the prequel to Perfect Dark has been launched and is called Perfect Dark Zero. 
 Its been a long time since Rare has made a large and focused game. Most fans from previous Rare 
 games have been waiting for this moment. Their wish will be granted, but it wont beat the predecessor. 
 
  
  Gameplay: 
  Game Information:
  You will be playing as Joanna Dark in the year 2020, fighting against enemies just like James Bond 
 villains, trying to get power for instance. The game has more of a Sci-Fi feel to it; because it 
 is set in the future, and there are plenty of futuristic things we havent seen (Jet Packs) . PDZ 
 includes a 14 mission single player mode, and a offline and online multiplayer mode. PDZ is somewhat 
 like the Halo series, it almost has the same controls, dual wield, co-operative gameplay, and when 
 you get hurt, you recover the amount of damage you lost. 
  Single Player:
  The single player is quite short, Id say 7-8 hours on Agent, and 10-11 hours on Secret Agent. It 
 isnt really much to go wowzers all over it. Its just killing enemies, all in one straight path. 
 There are no secret passageways, no other paths you would like to take to kill your enemies silently. 
 Its basically a gun and run game, kill and go, kill and go. Now Im not saying that theres only 
 one hallway you can walk through, there are many doors/paths you can go to, but it wont lead you 
 anywhere, just a dead end. There are support objectives though, which are optional objectives if 
 you choose to do. That opens one more pathway for you to follow, and support objectives dont give 
 you anything. You will get to use weapons and gadgets, they are important for your game (duh!) . 
 Some of the weapons are the same as the weapons we have today, such as the M16 and the AK-47, while 
 others are completely different, such as the laptop gun. All guns come with a secondary option 
 which is unique and doesnt make the weapon as boring (ex. Grenade Launcher) . The gadgets I found 
 were a bit weird, I hate having the fact to solve puzzles to plant a satchel, or trying to match 
 colors with the hacker. But all in all, gadgets arent the major problem of the game. I also have 
 some good news, and some bad news. In my opinion, I think the worst part about the gameplay is 
 not being able to JUMP. Now not being able to jump in 3rd person shooters I will let go, but for 
 1st person shooters? Thats just plain madness! I dont know why we dont have the ability to jump, 
 but I think that is unexplainable. Now on to the good news, the ability to take cover and shoot 
 without getting harmed and dual wield. Covering in this game isnt an important aspect if your 
 doing Agent mode (easy) , but it is if your are doing harder game modes. You enter 3rd person view, 
 and aim from there while taking cover from a wall or object. The dual wield is quite useful, when 
 your in close-combat, it helps. You can hold 2 small weapons (like Halo) , ex. Pistols, grenades. 
 The aiming system for this game, I felt was poorly done. I dont know how to completely explain 
 it, but I know from experience, its much sloppier compared to games like Halo 2. The aiming system 
 is like Goldeneye: Rogue Agent. Dont forget about the A. I, they are very stupid. It reminds me 
 of playing Goldeneye: Rogue Agent, they move side to side a lot, and never take cover for some 
 reason. If they dont move side to side, theyll stand still at that spot until they die or kill 
 you. What I expect from good A. I is: the ability to rush and camp, cover, and do the things a HUMAN 
 would do. PDZs A. I does not have those abilities. 
  Multiplayer: 
  As for multiplayer, take your single player game play and put it in a large map with at the max 
 15 bots or 3 friends. Its crazy, and youll never get bored of multiplayer. Who doesnt like shooting 
 bots when you dont have friends or Live? This is probably the best feature about PDZ is the multiplayer, 
 offline and online. There are 2 modes for multiplayer gaming, Deathmatch which is just a free-for-all 
 or team based shoot em up type play, and Dark Ops, this takes the idea of Counter Strike, and gameplay 
 of PDZ put into one. If you dont know what the idea of Counter Strike is, basically you buy weapons 
 at the beginning of the round, and go find your enemies. Once you get killed, you stay out until 
 the round is over. This mode requires more strategic thinking, such as camping (staying) in one 
 spot or rushing. Once your done the Single Player, its off to sharpen your skills in Multiplayer. 
 
  
  Graphics: 
  Graphics in this game are spectacular for the time it is made. Compared to future games for the 
 Xbox 360 such as Elders Scrolls: Oblivion and Gears of War, its almost like comparing the graphics 
 of Perfect Dark and PDZ again. Anyway, the graphics are good, and you wont be disappointed. Things 
 that need to be shiny are shiny, little details are shown such as numbers and words that are on 
 the weapons, lighting is good in certain areas, and shadowing is also included. Now for the bad 
 things about the graphics, sometimes, things are TOO bright and TOO shiny. For the first level, 
 my eyes were blinded by the lights on the ground. Maybe its because of my TV, but it was a problem 
 for me. Weapons are always too shiny, I mean, its almost like the owners have polished their 
 weapon every day. Another problem of the graphics is also the color in the characters and background. 
 The objects start to become to colorful, it doesnt follow what the colors are supposed to be, 
 because its too colorful, the texture starts to break, and so does the lighting. For example, 
 there is a mission where you have to fight in the jungle, I could barely make out where the enemies 
 were without my thermal vision from my SMG. The grass and trees distort everything. I guess you 
 can say these problems are little ones, since graphics dont make a good game, and PDZs graphics 
 still own xbox/ps2/GC games. If you are only interested in buying a game that has the best graphics 
 possible for the 360, then go for Call of Duty 2 
  Sound
  Probably the worst thing for PDZ would be the music. Depends what type of person you are for the 
 first part, you may like depressing, old disco music. But I dont! The music is by far horrible, 
 and a lot of people all around forums have agreed with me. Good thing, the Xbox lets me put on 
 my own music. Thank you! Another little rabbit problem would have to be the announcer for Multiplayer. 
 He may sound hilarious the first moment you listen to him, but he will get annoying. For you to 
 get an idea of what he sounds like, try imagining the opposite of Halo 2s announcer. Or you could 
 always watch video clips from gamespot or Ign. Now for the sound effects, its alright. They dont 
 compare to the weapon firing like COD 2, but you dont really know what they sound like because 
 its set 15 years in the future. But they are decent. Usually, most people ignore the sound effects 
 because they concentrate on the gameplay more.
  
  Replay Value
  This game by far has the best replay value of all the launch games for Xbox 360. Here is a list 
 of things you can complete and enjoy while youre at it. 
  -Single player (agent, secret, perfect) 
  -Single player co-op (agent, secret, perfect)
  -Multiplayer 
 with bots and friends (try all the modes)
  -Multiplayer Live 
  Following that, it will keep you going on forever and ever. And plus, itll be likely you wont 
 be bored of multiplayer fast. So its worth it to buy. 
  
  Final Words and Recommendations
  I got this game because I had no choice; it came with my bundle, 
 other wise I would have picked COD 2. Going home thinking this game would suck, I had a feeling 
 that I was going to give up with PDZ in after a few hours. I guess I was wrong, because the game 
 was not crap, nor was it the amazing COD 2. It was in between, and that made me a bit relieved 
 that I didnt lose 60 bucks for no reason. Games are made for people, and people are unique. So 
 I will tell you the recommendations if this type of game suits you. 
  You must get if you are a fan of Rare games and maybe the James Bond series. For some reason, I 
 loved the James Bond series, but I wasnt hooked on this game like I did with the James Bond games. 
 If you dont like any of the above, rent it since youll probably beat the game in a few days, 
 or dont buy/rent it at all. Rare has done a good job of making PDZ, like I said you wont be disappointed. 
 It will keep you going for hours, even if you get bored of it, then go on to multiplayer, thats 
 where the fun really begins. Have fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vash17
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 8:21 pm PT
Review:  This game has been a long time coming. Set before the awesome Perfect Dark that was on the N64. 
 PDZ is a all-around good game.
  
  PDZ has you play as Joanna Dark. Along with her father Jack Dark, you are trying to take down Datadyne, 
 a huge corparation that is developing a mysterious new tech.
  
  The PDZ story is not very good. The single-player is best played in co-op. The AI in PDZ is substandard. 
 However the action makes up for it.
  
  The controls in PDZ feel clunky and slow. Aiming can be a pain at times. However, PDZ has some 
 good elements to it. Covering and de-arming your oppenents is very cool. You can take weapons from 
 your enemy if you find your self low on firepower.
  
  The guns in the game are all great. There are tons of weapons some have a very cool futuristic 
 feel.
  
  The sound in the game is ok. I myself, like the music in PDZ, it fits the game just fine. The voice 
 acting is awful, and will get on your nerves ( wait until you hear the multiplayer annoucer) .
  
  The graphics are hit and miss. Some places look good, some look just plain ugly. The player 
 models are not impressive. The framerate also takes a hit in some places.
  
  The big selling point for PDZ is the mulitplayer over XBL, which is the best part of the game. 
 You can customize almost everything, you can even scale the maps to fit the number of players. 
 You can also play with computer controled bots. The only gripe with multiplayer is the sheer amount 
 of damage it takes to kill someone, but you can lessen it if you wish.
  
  Gamemodes consists of DM, TDM, CTF, eradication, Infection, Sabotage, and Territory Gains.
  
 
  If you liked the 1st PD, you will love PDZ. It might take some getting used to. This is not like 
 Halo, which might throw some off, but it's soild none the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryowolf
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 23, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  So here it is, five years and two generations later. Perfect Dark Zero finally makes its debut, 
 and while half of it seems truly next generation, the other half could easily have been surpassed 
 using older hardware and shows clear laziness or uncoordination of the developers.
  
  So your thrust head first into this plot where your aim is to stop an evil corporation from releasing 
 an ancient power. And while that might sound all good on paper. The execution is absolutely unforgiveably 
 bad. You'll encounter random characters throughout the game which is in no way explained to you 
 what their motives are, and then they will just completely dissapear from the story. Even characters 
 you've been with through most of the game will just dissapear. The story highly resembles an episode 
 of late night saturday TV, along the lines of She Spies, or Angel. 
  
  But then you have the gorgeous graphics to make up for that fact. Yes they are indeed some of the 
 best graphics on Xbox 360, and could not even be imitated on a high end PC. Every little detail 
 of every character sticks and stands out. Cloth flows naturally, shadows gloom over everything, 
 guns looks so real you could just eat them. Then there are tons of locales in the game all very 
 well executed showing glimpses of a future cyber punk universe. However there is a matter of characters 
 sometimes looking like plastic action figures. It didn't bother me that much, and I doubt it will 
 bother you either. And also some characters appear to have a low polygon count, or bad textures 
 up close. It doesn't ruin the experience thankully.
  
  My god, the AI makes me feel like im playing Goldeneye way back in 1997. And no, that it not a 
 good thing. It might have been great then, but times have changed. As soon as they see you enemies 
 will still barrell straight after you with an undenying thirst for blood. They hardly know what 
 cover is or how to use it. Not to mention on the higher difficulty levels their AI doesn't improve, 
 just their aim and damage. It really is the big dissapintemnet seeing as how its been two generation 
 later, and the AI acts almost EXACTLY the same as Goldeneye counterparts. Sometimes its really 
 frustrating to try and shoot them because your crosshairs will usually pass them up or miss completely. 
 It is in dire need of more magnetism, and is terribly less than Halo's.
  
  But how can I stay mad? The sound almost nails perfection. The voice acting can sometimes be spotty 
 but is usually solid, despite some forced lines and jokes. What REALLY makes the sound shine is 
 the soundtrack. It plays alot louder than most shooters, and is perfectly exectued. Every level 
 in the game has a completely different sound to it, and represents the location your are currently 
 in. You may even find yourself humming them as I did.
  
  And just to top it of their is a very well executed online component. I think Rare spent more time 
 working on the online portion rather than tweaking the AI, or fixing the broken story. But none 
 the less its incredibly well done. I have yet to see any lag in game, not even a slight skip, even 
 when playing eight on eight. The cover system is very helpful online, but you have to wait for 
 a context sensitive button to appear before you take cover. And by that time you can be full of 
 holes. Statistics are also tracked to a dime, everything from accuracy to favorite weapons. Too 
 bad there isn't any clan support either, but it really isn't a detriment and will provide months 
 worth of friend fighting competition.
  
  Presentation: It is honestly one of the worst stories i've ever seen in a big budget video game 
 like this. And can really take out the meaning in all of the fighting you do.
  
  Graphics: Drop dead gorgeous, everything is nicely bump mapped and just pops right out of the scenery. 
 Tons of locales to view also which are equally pretty. Character models sometimes looks ugly or 
 blurry up close.
  
  Sound: Despite some spotty voice acting, the soundtrack shines as one of the best parts about the 
 game. Only hearing it does it justice.
  
  Gameplay: Slippery aim, coupled with AI that could only pass in the year 1997. Saved by the fact 
 their are alot of guns to toy around with.
  
  Value: The extremely well executed online play will kep you busy for a long, long time.
  
  
 Closing Comments: The game really could have been up their with the greats if the AI, and story 
 were to take under some drastic overhauling. It seems as they were the most neglected part of the 
 game, and feels undercooked in the end. Their really is no excuse for this since its been two console 
 generations later. But in the end, it's hard not to love the awesome weapons, detailed graphics, 
 and an online component that will entertain you for months.
  
  
  
  Ryan Franzak
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spitshine1144
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 20, 2005 4:36 pm PT
Review:  ... There has been a lot of hype surrounding Perfect Dark Zero for one reason, Perfect Dark on the 
 N64. Did it really satisfy Rare fans? Well yes, and no. People expected more of the original Perfect 
 Dark elements to be included in the prequel, but sadly there just wan't enough of it. From the 
 compelling story even down to the fun extras after you beat the game Perfect Dark Zero (PDZ) just 
 didn't have it. One thing you will notice obviously is the major graphical enhancements. The character 
 models look more cartoony than expected, but all in all it looks good. Explosions and gun models 
 are right on point. 
  
  The sounds too are crisp, accurate, and clear. Each gun sounds as it's suppose to, but one thing 
 became a big turn off, the voice acting. Joanna herself has lost her British accent which was disappointing 
 and overall the voice acting was - well - cheesy. Midway through the story-line you kind of forget 
 what your actually doing besides killing guards. It just wasn't enough to compel you in the way 
 the first Perfect Dark did. A major gameplay issue which sets it apart from other first person 
 shooters is the roll function. It transitions smoothly from a first person view to a third and 
 back. You can also lean against a corner in a third person view, aim your shot, and fire away. 
 This is also a very useful function in both single and multiplayer.
  
  One of the major selling points of the game is the multiplayer. There is a possible of 32 players 
 online. At first you may think it's too hard to kill enemies what with the armor and no auto aim, 
 but it grows on you. With a little practice and a little teamwork some games can get very intense. 
 There are two gametypes: deathmatch which consists of killcount, and team killcount, and darkops 
 which consists of sabotage, eradication, infection, and onslaught. There are 5 maps which doesn't 
 seem like much, but the size can be adjusted depending on the amount of players. One of the greatest 
 online features is the bots. Bots can be added when there are too few players in a match. You can 
 add up to 16 bots in any deathmatch gametype and adjust their difficulty setting from agent, secret 
 agent, perfect agent, and dark agent with agent being the easiest. All in all Perfect Dark Zero 
 is a great launch title with tons of replay value. It is definately a game that all FPS fans should 
 pick up this holiday season. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: burningtorch
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2005 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I recently picked up my Xbox 360 and I have been playing this game at every chance I get. The single 
 player campaign altough relatively short has tons of replayablity because of the multiple difficulties. 
 I felt that the online play was the best console online I have ever experienced. I had fast connections 
 to games and no lag. The Combat Arena Mode delivers various modes of which my favourite is Infection. 
 The Combat Arena mode is split up into two categories DeathMatch and Dark Ops. DeathMatch is the 
 standard Killcount, Capture Flag etc but Dark Ops contains modes such as, Infection, Onslaught 
 and Sabotage. These match styles have a Counter Strike-esque buying system. Other Online play includes 
 Co-Op which i have played and is quite fun and I did experience a small big of lag such as when 
 i killed a person the effect of their body falling down stuttered abit. This did not affect my 
 game play one bit though. It is my opinion that Perfect Dark Zero is the best Xbox 360 game out 
 right now. The Single Player is fun and the multiplayer is outstanding. If you like FPS than this 
 is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo_zeke
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 20, 2005 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome. Its a prequal to the 64s perfect dark which is awsome and thats also why it 
 says Zero Duh. The two edtions regular and limtied arent that diffrent. But the regulars only $50 
 and the others $60. The graphics rock! But the games story seems like the averge spy plot. I cant 
 say more but I need some more text ignore this next part. fds afgklsdfa glkds afjljdsa lkgjsdlkjfjsd 
 jfjkd jfjkfd fjkdjf kdfjk dfjkd fjkdfj kdfjk dfjkd jfiks djaig aio; fr ioergfds kjgiresajl ;f iowe 
 raftg ;sd ajgfukiw fjsadijgfio werjfoisd hgfi; wera fjiedhsgilea fjilsghoiwajfikghso lfweiajfdpdfgajvoaw 
 jciopfredsu c9vjwea rifvj fncvm x, rgtrev 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevutd12
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 2:17 pm PT
Review:  The game is ok, considering they raped it of the multi player levels, stats, and holding weapons. 
 The gameplay is great and I never once had poor frame rate. But what happened to the unique bots? 
 (Turlte, vengeful, ect ect) and the Multi levels they had were awesome. What makes a mad is the 
 absence of stats. I love to see how long Ive played or kill to death ratio. Lack of chars to play 
 is lame. 
  The game does make some old weapons fun to see again. And the reloading is great I think. People 
 can shut it because they cant cancel a reload by firing like in most FPS games. You want realism 
 there ya go. Co-op missions is pretty cool, I also love being able to throw down weapons to commrads.
 
  
  Overall its nothing more than a 7. Hopefully Rare will learn from their mistakes and maybe mix 
 PD64 and zero and come out with a FPS to trounce all compition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SproketLoop
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2005 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Ahh Perfect Dark... it was like Goldeneye but twice as good. And as excpected, a sequal eventually 
 surfaced: Perfect Dark: Zero. Recently, I went to my freind's house to try the 360 and esspecially 
 PDZ. Not to sound wierd or anything, but I was pumped up. I was almost as excited as when I saw 
 the G-man's eye peering at me for the first time in Half-life 2 and just like with Half-life 2, 
 I excpected my wildest dreams and excpecations to come true. My experiences were quite different. 
 Half-life 2 was different from the original, but in a new and exciting way. It added the incredibly 
 cool gravity gun, and was a very interesting fune experience overall. Playing Perfect Dark: Zero 
 was like getting a million dollars, and then having it all taken away... The game is just boring 
 and unoriginal. I was excpecting Perfect Dark, with a better or as good story line, much better 
 multi-player, and incredible graphics... well one out of three is not bad... the graphics are quite 
 good. However, the story and the presentation of the game is odd, annoying, and not like Perfect 
 Dark at all. The multiplayer was very akward and slow (like massive FPS drops and lags at some 
 points that should not happen) , plus, the incredibly slow joysticks added to my discompfort. However, 
 if you step back, you will find a game different from Perfect Dark but not in the best way. The 
 game is definately playable and fun at some points, but overall, a huge disapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robeyre1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 7:35 am PT
Review:  I have been played FPS since the days of doom and castle wolfenstein and I have watched them grow 
 and progress over time. PDZ is one of those games that you will remember years down the road.
 
  The single player missions are fun and creative. You can choose to run and gun or use stealth, 
 either way you are in for an enjoyable experience. You can take alot of damage before dieing. Each 
 weapon has primary fire a secondary function and on some a 3rd function. Lots of varity that is 
 for sure. 
  The longevity of a great FPS is the multiplayer there is no question about it. PDZ has an extremely 
 expansive multiplayer that will keep you comming back long after you have completed the 12-15 hr 
 solo missions. The loading screens between each match gives you a brief explaination of how to 
 use each weapon and its functions, a nice feature for people for don't really read the instuction 
 manual.
  The vehicles are a really nice change of pace in single player, just wish there was more chances 
 to use them. There is a hovercraft and a jetpack. The vehicles in mutliplayer are either hated 
 or loved in multiplayer. They can be used and abused to crush the opposing team. I am guilty of 
 using the jetpack almost 100% of the time. The vehicles are not so stong that you will feel overwelmed 
 finghting them. Snipers, rockets and gernades will put the jet-packer in his/her place.
  All and all an incredable value.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gun-runner
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 20, 2005 7:13 am PT
Review:  The new guns and gadgets are very good, campaign is fun but not very long. All new features like 
 hack, unlock etc. make this a very fun game to start off with at launch. Another positive aspect 
 is the option for Cooperative campaign. Deathmatch is very fun if you have 2 controllers or more. 
 Online is the B-E-S-T. So if you are going to buy this I reccomend having Xbox live and 2 or more 
 controllers. This also looks pretty good on a standard TV. I guarantee you are getting your moneys 
 worth, you will have a lot of fun on Multiplayer and Co op. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mythoras
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 20, 2005 5:35 am PT
Review:  I first saw this game when i was watching the gamespot review and i really liked the footage. So 
 i went down to my local game store and i bought it. Once i got home i started playing it, the game 
 felt really great and played very smooth but before i even knew it i was true the whole game, i 
 went like "WTF" is this perfect dark zero? But ok, the game has a short single player experience 
 but the multiplayer and online coop mode really boost the lifetime of the game.
  
  So, if your searching for a great single player installment on your 360, then you are better of 
 with an other game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danphan03
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2005 2:49 am PT
Review:  Anybody who gives this game under 8.0 are simply comparing PDZ to thier favorite shooter. Of course 
 your going to give your favorite game more of the benefits, but if you don't try to compare, then 
 you can appreciate what rare has created, which is a solid shooter. Low scorers are complaining 
 about the weak storyline, even though counter strike doesnt even have a storyline, or even a campaign 
 mode, and yet its still is the top rated shooter. Maybe if rare didn't put the effort of single 
 player then these ppl wont be **** as much, I'd say give them credit that they made a campaign. 
 Not only that, they even went out and made a multi player campaign. So just ignore the weak storyline, 
 because if I remember right, there really isn't a shooter out thier with a great storyline. PDZ 
 offers offers a dozens of online and multiplayer games. Which gureentees you alot of replay vaule. 
 PDZ choices of guns is amazing, each gun has its own functions, which makes PDZ more then a run 
 out and shoot, your going to have to use strategy. If you don't have xbox live, PDZ offers bots, 
 you can set the difficulty rating. But if you want to enjoy PDZ to the fullest, you will need to 
 get xbox live. The graphics is the most gorgeous I've seen for a first person shooter; the guns 
 and enviroments are beautifully detailed. But I would like more detail for the charecters. And 
 those who are **** bout the aiming being bad, sorry to be truthful, but thats only because your 
 aimings bad. In PDZ you can clearly tell between the noobs and pros, and the nobbs are the bitchers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclipse849
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 19, 2005 6:12 pm PT
Review:  PDZ was all and all a good game, but absolutely nothing spectacular and does not deserve a 9.0. 
 The graphics in the game were great. The storyline in the game was way to kiddish and short. Beside 
 the annoying theme song and loading song the sound effects were pretty cool. The gameplay was almost 
 if I was brought back to 5th grade playing N64 Goldeneye with my sister. The weapons were very 
 cool, especially the fact that every weapon has a alternate fire. No one weapon was over powerfull 
 and the pretty much equal each other out according to what class of weapons you choose. The multiplayer 
 was fun only because the practically ripped it off of Counter Strike and Halo. It has almost no 
 replay value only if you want gamerpoints which are retarded. Like I said PDZ nothing to good but 
 Rare needs to live in the now and get off Perfect Dark because the original game still was not 
 to great itself... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdangel
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  5 years ago Rare brought Perfect Dark to relm of console shooters, after holding the thrown for 
 a couple years it was knocked off by the Halo Series, although it dosen't defeat the Halo Series 
 for it's spot, it is right up there close in second. Don't play this expecting Halo, because it's 
 not, no jumping, no over-powered melee attacks. This game has a very unique flavor of it's own, 
 in a good way. No other shooters are like it, this game blends Splinter Cell styyed stealth with 
 the action of Halo. 13 missions take you too many exotic enviornments, Jungles of South America, 
 to the Hymelayas, to Hong Kong, each enviornment is almost distracting because of the beautiful 
 graphics, and textures that completely immerse you in the expirenece. As far as story it dosn't 
 have the greatest, but then again this game was like Halo 2, not a great story, but some kick-ass 
 multiplayer and online features. Many familiar faces will return as well as a slew of new ones. 
 Now the best thing about this whole game is the guns. There are a lot of guns, each very well engineered 
 and rerndered beatuifuly, no game on the market has guns that look near as good as these, every 
 weapon has double features so to say, like the ability to throw a gun down so it's a mine, or it 
 may have a built in cloaking device.
  
  The game has one of the greatest soundtracks since the Halo games, each track is a sort of remixed 
 rock, some tunes are new some you will recognize from the orginal. Mutiplayer is the games main 
 seller though, this game will usher in the next era of Xbox Live, tons of unique gametypes, maps, 
 and just a ton of things todo. 
  
  Perfect Dark is great but it's a love or hate type of game, if you like you may find it was worth 
 the $400 you payed for the system, if not you'll be furious and want to return it, I loved it and 
 would have payed $500 for a 360 just to play it. My suggestion try it first if it ain't your cup 
 of tea and you still want a 360 theres plenty of other launch games comming out. But of the launch 
 games this one is the best I reccommend this to any console shooter fan. It is a must play and 
 great start to a new generation of games. 
  
  9.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatam
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 19, 2005 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I was going into playing Perfect Dark Zero, with very high hopes, maybe just a little way to high. 
 First I will start with the good times and things in the game..
  
  The good!
  The graphics are very well done, some of the best I have ever seen, the controls are good, but 
 I hate the facted that you can't jump, and well the case is cool.
  
  The bad!
  Oh my god where do I start, the story line is udder crap, the multiplayer is not good at all, the 
 game is way to slow, the voice acting is crap, the AI is so stupid I almost killed myself. And 
 last but not least this is no way the Killer App for the 360 by far.
  
  Basically I think the game was rushed and could have been something great but fell under the pressure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frickinkid
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 19, 2005 2:55 pm PT
Review:  this is so stupid. the old one was awesome this one is gay and the graphics are pretty good i guess 
 but i mean comeon..... she almost animated like japanes anima. i dont like the game play and how 
 it leads the story on to something dumb.... a big wast of time! id save my money for a good game 
 instead of this hunk of junk ok... but this is my oppinon so dont judge me on howi diss-like this 
 game ok i could learn to like it......... NOT!!!!! YEAH RIGHT THIS IS CRAPPY i hate it HATE IT!!!!!! 
 but always remmember 
  
  
  ------------------------God Loves You ---------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TWiTCH1212
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 19, 2005 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Upon coming home from four hours of shoveling snow to get the game, I popped it in the disc tray 
 and continued to be amazed by the opening movie. Although only CG, it looks amazing when you're 
 tired and out of it.
  Anyway after the 2 and some minute video ended I was treated to a very easy to use main menu. As 
 I navigated my way into the options menu to change my controller settings, I remembered the preset 
 option for FPS's I had already set on my Gamer Profile, and backed out."Hmmm" I said in my mind, 
 trying to decide between the multiplayer and single player aspect of the game. Finally deciding 
 on Multiplayer I headed on into a deathmatch game of CTF, in a matter of thirty seconds may I add. Immediately 
 feeling lost and out of place, I followed my fellow teammates around corners and in and out of 
 buildings, only to get shot in the head a couple minutes later.
  Determined not to suck at the only game for my 360 I decided to stick it out, and finally scored 
 a headshot two or three rounds later. After doing this, it brought back a nostaglic feeling, I could 
 see myself sitting in my basement for hours upon hours playing the original Perfect Dark. After 
 the game was over I decided to try out the single player game. It was four o'clock when the first 
 level loaded and I begun playing, by eight o'clock I was so wrapped up in the game, my dinner grew 
 to a luke warm. After playing through single player once, and about 30 hours on the multiplayer 
 side of things. I can definetly say that this is a game that any FPS lover should pick up. Matter 
 of fact, any 360 owner. You won't regret the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Prince
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 19, 2005 11:31 am PT
Review:  Inspected by number 38. For those of you reading this review, you got this game or are going to 
 get this game for one of these two reasons. Perfect Dark on the Nintendo 64 rocked your socks, 
 and you want to give it another go. Or you just spent big bucks on an Xbox and you decided to pick 
 this shooter up out of the billions of shooters out for Xbox and soon to be out. Well just to let 
 you know, I will review this game with heavy bias, which will be deemed on a few things. My prior 
 experience with Perfect Dark and Rare, the company who made it. The Xbox 360, and what it says 
 it can do and what this game can do. And then of course, other shooting games.
  
  Story 8
  I am not going to say anything about the story in this review because it would spoil 
 things, but I will tell you this, you will shoot people. Most shooting games now a days just give 
 you a gun and a reason for vengeance, this game however has a deep and confusing storyline, is 
 it as confusing as the old version, yes I would say so. But you will love it. Anyway, the main 
 character in this game is a young girl, since this is the follow up to Perfect Dark, the story 
 takes place before Perfect Dark happened. So for those of you who played the Nintendo 64 version, 
 you will be saying, yeah this makes sense a lot. And for those who have not, you will scratch your 
 head. The hero is also younger and as you can see, the things she wears and says reflects that. 
 Good job Rare. But the major gripe is after Grand Theft Auto, so many games have wide open areas 
 to explore. So you will often get lost, but thankfully someone talks to you via radio to tell you 
 where to head to on your map. And to tell you the truth, this story could very well happen in real 
 life. It takes place in the year 2020 where corporations run everything, that is kind of scary 
 but true.
  
  Graphics 7 Sound 8
  You must hate me now for giving graphics such a low score, the reason is, I am not impressed, and 
 you should not be either. If you know Rare, you know they take forever and a week to make their 
 games, and they always look good. If you have played the old Perfect Dark, you know its graphics 
 were amoung the best for the system. This game, sadly falls short. I am not going to bore you, 
 but the sounds and voicing is good, but there was a lack of going above and beyond that Rare is 
 known for. The music is odd, in a real good way. Rap and techno and rock and well blended in this 
 game. Joanna herself looks and talks like a sassy punk kid who did not get beat as a child enough, 
 I kind of like that.
  
  Controls 10
  Something that Perfect Dark is well known for, are its great controls. They say you only notice 
 something like control when someone goes wrong, and thats the case here. The camera stays with 
 you almost as good as The Legend of Zelda, and controls and quick and easy to execute. Te most 
 important control option that really sets this game apart from others, is the secondary gun mode. 
 Basically, every gun can shoot normal bullets, but, when you press the secondary and even third 
 function of the weapon, it does more than just shoot. Some of the modes are used as distractions, 
 an alternate attack, or just something to give you more time to think. Other video games need to 
 start copying off of this game, quick.
  
  Multiplayer 9
  I love how this game has co-op, playing with a friend is always a blast. But playing against the 
 bots and playing in deathmatch mode, and other multiplayer modes is where the meat and potatoes 
 of this game lie. Make sure your friends will play with you, and since Xbox is very expensive, 
 tell them to buy their own controller. The levels are well made, and since guns can do more than 
 simply one function, you always have a trump card in your deck which always leads to pure excitement.
 
  
  Overall this is a great game, but I know Rare can do more with the 360 and I wish they would have, 
 but do not buy this game for 50 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ll_jun10r_ll
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2005 1:35 am PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 is here. As well as a variety of incredible games. Of course, the one that everyone 
 needs to get is Perfect Dark Zero, the prequel to Perfect Dark, one of the most exceptiona; games 
 ever made.
  
  In the late 90's we were all playing one of 2 games, Perfect Dark, and Goldeneye. Of course, we 
 owe Rare much thanks for making both of these titles. Thank You Rare. Now Get chopping on Perfect 
 Dark 2.
  
  The game takes through the events before Perfect Dark, explaining what happened to Joanna Dark's 
 father Jack, and how she got started with Carrington's organization. You play the game as Joanna, 
 with her father, as a set of hired help, and by help, i mean you two go in and kill for money, 
 oh and get information too i guess.
  
  Your first mission working with your father, is to find out where a scientist named Zeigler is, 
 and to gain knowledge of his data. As you go through the mission. You manage to rescue Zeigler 
 and retrieve his data. However, he'll do something to your father and the die. soon afterwards, 
 soldiers are coming after you two, trying get the information, Zeigler put in your fathers head.
 
  
  If you loved the story from the last one, then don't get very excited. This one is nothing compared 
 to the first one. I say this because, some levels are not as in depth as others, one level may take 
 you half an hour, another may take you 5 minutes. And there is only 14 levels to play, and the 
 last doesn't really count. However, whether you played the first or not, you'll definately enjoy 
 this one.
  
  The multiplayer is what really sets this game apart from the rest. Its online, up to 32 people 
 can play, and there is plenty of variety in it to keep you interested. If you recall from the first 
 game, you were able to add bots to the gaem to make it more interesting, well dont fret, the bots 
 are back. and more customiziable and intelligent than ever. And when i say intelligent, i mean that 
 can end up being so difficult, you kill yourself just to have kill someone.
  
  The weapons are all incredible. You have a variety, some assualt weapons and smgs, to close combat 
 and pistols, of course there are more to choose from. But what makes them so incredible is that 
 each weapon has a unique secondary (some even have a third) function that add many more possibilities 
 to the game. Some functions are basic such as adding a silencer, or a different form of vision (such 
 as night, or even x-ray) . However, some areincredible, one gun made you invisible, another made 
 a holographic clone of you, one gun turned into a turret that attacked all your enemies.
  
  The graphics in this game aren't as nice i would like them to be, they look like new xbox game 
 graphics. And you'll definately notice some graphic problems. However, my biggest problem with 
 it was that the game had load times that made you question what they were for, when the game is 
 on such a powerful system and the graphics look the way they do.
  
  The sound was great. I enjoyed how they made some characters sound like the chinese food guy from 
 south park (we all know who he is and what he sounds like, and now we wonder why Rare isn't getting 
 sued for the stereotypical characters) . each weapon had a sound that I didn't hear often from another 
 gun. My favorite part of the sound though was the noise you heard from activating a new vision, 
 it reminded me of putting on night vision goggles in splinter cell.
  
  All in all, this is a must have if your looking for a great game that you want to play online, 
 however, if you want a game for the story, and that you wont really play online, the i gotta recommend 
 you get Call of Duty 2. But if you do get this game, you definatly have a stellar time playing 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lttlpinkpanther
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2005 6:55 pm PT
Review:  its a good game it make an old franchise rebone and u never no they are probley make a nother one 
 and if they do its going to be a whole lot better and will have awsome grafics. and what do u exspent 
 its a lauch title and how offten do u gett a great launch title  other then halo what i'm tring 
 to say is its a good games and ull have tons of fun and the multiplayer ooooooooooh the muiltplayer 
 i love it its like halo 2 all over again i love the game and it will be good for any halo or any 
 first person shooter fanns 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryjameboy
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 18, 2005 6:32 pm PT
Review:  if you really get down to it.. this game was not all it was hyped up to be... for one thing it is 
 not no halo killer... and two the way u kill people is horrible... they should of use rag doll.... wen 
 u kill someone they fall to the floor soo slow u still think they are alive.... this game is not 
 all that good and shouldn't have been hyped up and should not have been givin a 9.... if thats the 
 case call of duty should get a 10 cause that game was a lot more better then this one... the only 
 thing good about this game was online.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: project343
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  
  By far, the worst part of this game is the gunplay. Though the guns are all very well built and 
 there is much variety, they just all feel generally the same! The way the guns work in combat is 
 another disappointment, it just seems too basic and feels 'weird'. The missions and objectives 
 are all quite hard to follow and this causes quite an issue when playing in singleplayer.
  
  Graphics:
  
  What can I say? The game looks beyond beautiful, the details and textures 
 in the environment look stunning. The only negative aspect in the graphics section is the lack 
 of detail on the character models -- I mean, they look like plastic!
  
  Sound:
  
  I absolutely love the soundtrack as many do but the downside to the audio is the voice acting. 
 I mean, you'll find that everyone has that stereotype-based voice and over-the-top expressions.
 
  
  Value:
  
  Multiple difficulties in single player along with the online multiplayer and the revolutionary 
 gamerpoints system with the Xbox 360 leaves this game with a definite 10/10 in the value section. 
 This game will keep you playing for a heck of a time so it will pay back the 60$ and then some... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dautreguy88
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 8:36 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a hands down beautiful game and is fun to play. There are some things thatt 
 need to be fixed but overall it is superb. Some of the flaws that i found in Perfect Dark Zero, 
 first of all the game is way too short with only 13 missions i think for next genaration they should 
 have had at least 20 missions. The story is very lackluster and not very interesting, and they 
 could have done a better job in the munu system. Now to the plus side, Perfect Dark Zero has lots 
 of action, fun gameplay, some easy and some tough missions wich i liked the variety of diffiulty, 
 there are many cool weapons, gorgeous graphics, and fun multiplayer. Perfect Dark Zero is a great 
 acheivment for the XBOX 360 and im hoping for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake0401
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 18, 2005 12:27 am PT
Review:  Amazing, gorgeous, breath taking, next-gen, yes.... we have heard these words of bliss. many a 
 time, but where can we find them? The answer is encompassed in that silver gun metal game case 
 (if you got the collectors edition) right next to your 360: Perfect Dark Zero. If you happened 
 to get your hands on a piping hot 360 for the year then you probably have had a feast of next gen 
 goodness already. But where is your buck going and how are you enjoying it? Well after a 10 hour 
 5 F chill fest on launch day I got home, hooked the 360 into my HDTV, and played some madden. What 
 a mistake, after no sleep for a good 36 hours and just starting it I was dissapointed.... Then 
 I found the HD switch after I awoke from a nap session, which really changed the quality. Regardless, 
 the point is that I was ready to send the 360 to the scrap yard, all that cold suffering for what? 
 Then I discovered the little gem that I picked up as a sleeper hit, Perfect Dark Zero. I played 
 the N64 version and liked it and assumed this could be a good title. I was instantly blown away 
 by the visual flair that the game brings. The way the guns are rendered were so genuinely real 
 that they make you wince. The biggest bigger as far is graphics is concerned, is the relatively 
 odd shiny appearance of the characters. This is wierd but does not detract from the games appearance 
 or look. The guns steal the show and you are blessed with an arsenal of fully (and multi) functional 
 guns, from pistols, to shotguns, to machine guns with a grenade launcher and silencer option (yep 
 its great!) , this game brings forth a treasure chest of tactile toys. With an HDTV and Dolby 5.1 
 surround sound system this game will knock your socks right off. The greatest function is multiplayer, 
 and even multiplayer against the bots is suprisingly challenging. In fact, its downright impossible, 
 the bots are just way good! Anyways the game saved my 360s spot in the living room and became my 
 favorite title in a long time. If you liked Goldeneye (Rare developed it also) you may want to 
 check this out. I am not saying it is better than the legendary bond title, but it certainly brings 
 you an entertaining and visually pleasing experience, unparralled on any level. My only gripe is 
 there needs to be more levels, a character model selection, and well.... more levels! XBOX LIVE 
 IS WHERE THIS GAME IS AT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20851948239850117501608001012182-ecg28713
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  When I found out that Rare was going to make Perfect Dark for the 360, thats when I knew I wanted 
 a Xbox 360. I didn't want it solely for this game, but the game turned out to be a great game. 
 The thing that wasn't the best about the game is that the single-player campaign was short, I got 
 quite a few hours out of it, but short in the least. The redeeming factor here is the replay value 
 of the campaign is high, as you go up the difficulty scale new objectives are added like the original 
 Goldeneye for the N64. The graphics too me were top-notch, but most of the critics out there seem 
 the have their head up their A**ES. The multi-player here is one of the best of it's kind, again 
 resurrecting the Goldeneye gameplay. You have the ability to play with bots or up to four players 
 on the console. The soundtrack was a sound to hear as well, the music reminded me a lot of the 
 soundtrack of Goldeneye, as I have said many other times already. I just can't give this game enough 
 praise. I loved this game from start to finish and I have many many years of playing left to do 
 with this game. If you own an Xbox 360 you should own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katalist
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2005 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark is better then i expected, becaus ei loved the first one on teh n64 so much. But if 
 you have xbox live you are going to love this game, it has tons of options and gamemode online. 
 The guns are well designed and feel authentic, the action is fast and ferious and with a group 
 of your friends this game can be a real gem. Its sort of like Halo2 because the online gaming is 
 sooo much fun but the single player is a little dissapointing. Its a little better of a campaign 
 then Halo2 but that isnt saying much. The meat and dessert of this game is the online stuff, pure 
 addiction. So in the end if you are looking for the new addicting FPS for online then here it is! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iBoxCarBobi
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 17, 2005 10:06 pm PT
Review:  The beginning of the First Person Shooter came to us in games like Golden eye. Perfect Dark Zero 
 is presented to us as an Old School New Gen game. After games like Halo and Halo 2 the First Shooter 
 Fans are used to play outstanding games. Since Perfect Dark Zero is played the same way as it was 
 played on N64, in some places this game just doenst feel like a New Gen game. In most cases it 
 just feels that the speed of your character is too slow. The absence of jumping really takes a 
 way the fun from the game. In other games you can use to get away from the enemy or dodge the fire 
 that is coming at you. True that the over all graphics are up to date, but when other characters 
 are up close to the player, they end up looking really sloppy. The missions are way to easy on 
 the easy setting, the player is able to go thrue the whole game just guns blazing. Even though 
 it is New Gen technology, the feeling of the old school game just doesnt add to the effect in order 
 for it to make it a as popular or have the same value as the later games of the Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjr8898
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 17, 2005 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I tought that besides its few graphic glitchs it was a great game. The gameplay was amazing and 
 the sounds are crazy. The sound was good and the story line was fun and pretty great. I would probley 
 go out and rent it if you could other then that it wouldnt be worth it. So grab a beer (if your 
 old enough) grab your 360 controller and have a good run at it. You will enjoy it alot i think 
 and it will give you a great time.
  
  
  LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DimensionN
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 17, 2005 2:11 pm PT
Review:  The weapons in this game, with the exception of a few, are well balanced. The gameplay itself has 
 some slight similarities to games like Rainbow Six and Counterstrike - so don't buy this game expecting 
 to play something a game similar to Halo or Quake. Characters move extremely slow, there's no autoaim, 
 and optionally a small amount of aim assistance - it is definitely more of a tactical-type shooter. 
 The single player isn't that great at all either - this is more of a multiplayer game.
  
  As for graphics, the weapons and environments look impressively realistic. The characters, however, 
 could use a little work. They look really ugly and kind of cartoonish. Their facial expressions 
 are completely static at all times, with the exception of blinking. And the death animations and 
 ragdoll physics are absolutely horrible. If I shoot someone with a shotgun at point blank range, 
 they should be pushed backwards, not lunge forward to fall face first on the ground and then bounce 
 a good 10 feet in the air - and those ragdoll glitches aren't all that uncommon. They can happen 
 several times in a single game.
  
  They really nailed the sounds in this game. The guns and explosions sound great. As for the multiplayer 
 announcers, though - I really wish there was just an option to shut him up completely. This game 
 has, without a doubt, THE most annoying announcer ever.
  
  Overall, I think this is a fun multiplayer game if you like games like Rainbow Six and Counterstrike 
 - which I do. With the exception of a few minor graphic problems and an annoying announcer, the 
 graphics and sound quality in this game are great. It's a little lacking in single player, but 
 plays very well online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eskouster
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The production values of the game are great: Crisp visuals, strong audio, lots of modes and replayability. 
 It was clearly well made and designed. I just didn't find it very fun.
  
  First, the story is pretty weak. It may be because I never played the original Perfect Dark, but 
 I didn't really understand what was going on, who I was, or why I did anything. So I didn't have 
 a strong motivation to be doing a particular mission or assignment - I didn't feel anything was 
 at stake. Even by the end of the game, defeating the final enemy wasn't particularly satisfying. 
 I still don't know what dataDyne is, or if I managed to defeat them in any meaningful way.
  
  The level design also kinda sucks. I always felt like I was wandering around a bit aimlessly. 
 I'm not very good at FPS, but I found games like Half-Life 2 far more intuitive in where I needed 
 to go and what I needed to do. On the one hand, I think the use of the blue arrows to mark waypoints 
 suggests the level design could be clearer; but also, I think I should be able to call up the arrows 
 when I need to.
  
  Some levels, like the jungle and temple ones, are just a bit too claustrophobic with the plants 
 in the way everywhere.
  
  A lot of the game mechanics were also poorly explained. Again, not being an original PDer, I wasn't 
 used to stealth, disarming, disable security cameras, bluffing, etc. It took me a long while to 
 figure out what stealth kills were and how to do them, and how to look for and take out security 
 devices. The game could have done a lot better job explaining these pretty important concepts to 
 me, at least in an optional tutorial or something. Even the fact that I have to finish a level 
 with a particular weapon to get into my inventory wasn't explained, and somewhat frustrating.
 
  
  Multiplayer is very strong, a lot of cool modes (I like Onslaught the best) . I usually get FPS 
 for the single-player though. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteelLegend
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 1:15 pm PT
Review:  I agree with the official review with only two exceptions. I can't believe they gave Value and 
 Graphics a 9. The graphics are as good as any game on PC (the only exception being the occasional 
 noticable "shinyness".) Its also obvious that Rare did everything they could to get value from 
 the campaign. You'll find yourself playing levels multiple times over on each difficulty level. 
 Then add the replay value of multiplayer and this is definitely a 10 for value. 
  
  NOTE: The multiplayer is very fun (you can have up to 15 bots amd 32 players online!) , but it is 
 definitely NOT for Noobs. There is practically no aim assist or bullet magnetism in this game, 
 so if you miss someone by an inch then you miss them. Aiming in this game is absolutely nothing 
 like that of Halo 2, but if you found aiming in Halo 1 acceptable then you should enjoy this game 
 immensly. Also headshots rule this game.
  
  Great FPS. Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:11 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark zero is a great game and i have to say one of the best so far on xbox 360. The story 
 is before perfect dark (OF COURSE ZERO IN THE NAME) and it shows you how she becomes one of the 
 memebers and why she joined. 
  
  Some missions are hard and some are hard to see forcing you to bite your head off and yell at the 
 game or mission giver guy or girl or who ever updates you in the game lol. Neat things are you 
 can use anything for cover, and also use neat gadgets to complete each objective. Missions also 
 let you pick your gear before they start so what ever you finish with at the last mission will 
 be at your weapon pick out screen. Gadgets also can be picked but only 1 per mission so pick which 
 way you want to enter the mission... using a little spider to open doors quietly or use a bomb and 
 blow little cracks and alert the enemy to beat you down with their guns lol up you to.
  
  Music is nicely done and the start intro makes you feel like your james bond in a way lol. Missions 
 are nicely made but 2 missions are poorly made due to TOO MUCH STUFF IN YOUR FACE... you will see 
 when you get to those missions. Bodies also do not disappear so if there is a sniper you shot and 
 he has made you a very evil person because he took out your armor and half your health then why 
 not pay his body a visit and beat it up or push it off a ledge. Over all great game A MUST GET!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loganbdh2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:41 am PT
Review:  You may be at you local store at the day of the 360 release and wondered to yourself "hmm, Im a 
 used-to-be halo junkie looking for something refreshing than me modding to win to get a higher 
 level on team slayer." You see 3 FPS games that came out. Call Of Duty 2, that tired ass WW II 
 game your friend has on pc and is bad ass on, Quake 4 that great game that is on your desktop right 
 now but you cant play it because your video card cant support it , and Perfect Dark Zero. Now you 
 ponder to yourself that you remember this game series but from what because it has been so long. 
 Yes it has been a long time since Joanna Dark made her first apperance on the n64. Now she is back 
 with the long waited prequel that was supposed to be on the current gen xbox. Campaign mode is 
 fun but the bland story brings up nothing but cameos from the first games. The game play is really 
 original with the wall cover feature and the roll feature that allows you to dodge enemy fire . 
 No other FPS never attemped something like this before. Also shall i say the multiplayer is greater 
 than halos ? They also have a zombies match forreal no **** overall this game is great to play 
 for a long time. You now decide of the game you want to choose with a look of satisfaction on your 
 face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exalted
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 7:40 am PT
Review:  I have spent time playing this game for one reason... just to get it over with.. I feel that this 
 game is really lacking as far as controls, graphics and a storyline. Im a fan of FPS, and am used 
 to Halo smooth controls.. This jumping crosshair from left to right, up and down will get old real 
 quick. As far as graphics, there's a flaw with the charracter models.. Some things look great, 
 then some things don't.. The Storyline, i cant even tell you how much it jumps around, and found 
 it hard to get into it. If you are looking for a great game, this isn't it... If you have already 
 played all the launch titles for the 360 and want to check it out, rent this.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiitana
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 15, 2005 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I found Perfect Dark Zero to be a fine game for what it was. However, it really wasn't all that 
 appealing to me. Now, I know I'm going to get lots of messages screaming about how uninformed I 
 am, but I really don't care. If you played and enjoyed the original Perfect Dark, then I'm sure 
 you'll like this one, otherwise, I'd stick with Call of Duty 2 or some other shooter. Here's a 
 short list of some issues I have with this game.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game plays alright, though I had some issues trying to utilize the equipment that I had equipped. 
 It led to occasional frustration. Also, I found that aiming was also difficult at times, thus I 
 took a lot more damage than I should have.
  
  Graphics:
  The environments look great, but like the official review stated, the faces were horrible. There 
 were also a few clipping issues I found, but nothing to make the game unplayable.
  
  Sound:
  The sounds were pretty good with one major exception, the voice acting. I hate to say 
 it, but I just found the voices to be irritating. However, the other sounds were pretty good.
 
  
  Value:
  Here's where the game really goes down. Split-screen multiplayer is horrible. Admittedly, I haven't 
 played on Live, but when trying to play with some friends of mine in my house, there were so many 
 "things" onscreen that it was totally unplayable.
  
  Tilt:
  Alright, in the end, this is my personal view, and I think giving a 7.0 is rather nice. So to sum 
 things up, if you liked the original, you'll likely enjoy this one. Otherwise, stick to Call of 
 Duty 2, it's a much better shooter with far superior multiplayer action.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rawbwilsh
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 15, 2005 8:26 am PT
Review:  One word to sum up this game would be BUST. This game has some of the worst AI I have seen to date 
 in the single player campaign. The single player campaign has its moments of excitementt, but the 
 overall presentation of the game sucks. Online is fun, but not anything great. I dont see how everyone 
 likes this game. Dont buy into the media hype all these 12 year old kids are all brain washed. 
 By the commercials. A solid game I recomend is Call of Duty. Crappy online htough. The graphics 
 are solid still i think Far Cry had some great graphics for the normal xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th316
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 14, 2005 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for awhile now and I really have two opinions of it. Basically it's 
 along the lines of the two game play modes, storyline and multiplayer action.
  
  The storyline for this game is nothing really special. There are some interesting aspects, but 
 nothing that really grabs me. A big part of the action is to sneak around undetected and maneuver 
 or kill oppenents silently. The one thing that I feel that I am missing is a knife. This part of 
 the game could have used a quick kill option maybe along the lines of The Punisher is similar. 
 I don't find it very interesting to walk up two inches behind a guy sitting on a box and just shooting 
 him in the head with my silenced pistol. Granted it's fun the first couple of times, but after 
 that you kind of want some options. The rest of the storyline follows the same kind of path. You 
 feel like you should be sneaking around and everything just turns into a fire fight. The only other 
 thing about the storyline is the environment is always point A to point B. You can search around 
 a limited area, but you are confined to a relatively small space.
  Basically, I would give the storyline gameplay a 7.
  
  On the other hand you have the multiplayer 
 deathmatch mode. The game was probably intented for this use anyway and it really does make the 
 game. I can definitely see myself spending way too much time playing deathmatches. All of the different 
 option are fun in there own ways, however, if you are going to play against bots in the capture 
 the flag mode try each configuration out at a low level of captured flags to see how it's going 
 to go. I set it at ten in the desert and spent three hours playing. The average should be around 
 20 minutes. The bots on your team seem to have a quark especially if you pick up the flag and in 
 the process the other team grabs yours. Your bot just stand around you and don't go after your 
 flag which is required for you to drop the enemy flag. But overall this part of the game rocks 
 and I would say that it is a 9. Split them and you get the 8.
  
  The graphics and sound are awesome in this game. The only complaint I have is smoothness at which 
 the game scrolls especially when you are looking through a scope. It could be better, being a sniper 
 in this game is difficult.
  
  As far as value versus fun you shouldn't be disappointed with this game. You should be playing 
 this game hours upon hours and if you get on-line you'll be playing this game for a long time.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebm62980
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 14, 2005 12:38 pm PT
Review:  PDZ is good but the graphics are not all that great when you consider the amount of image tearing 
 and the inconsistent framerate. Also the controls are a little slow, it's like they ignored the 
 smooth controls that have made the console FPS popular in the past generation.
  
  The story is ok, standard fare really. It's interesting enough to keep you going. 
  
  Multiplayer 
 is pretty good as well though it still has the same control issues but the framerate is somewhat 
 better. Getting inot a match is pretty simple and all the games I have played in seemed lag free. 
 Though the controls really become to be a nuisance in multiplayer when you need to zoom in and 
 snipe. Moving your view while zoomed in moves at a snails pace and makes it very near impossible 
 to get a kill this way.
  
  All in all I would say get this game for the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoochh
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2005 12:29 pm PT
Review:  whoever said this game is terrible and say that it is much worse than halo 2 they obviously dont 
 know FPS. i played this game for 10 hours at my cousins house yesterday non stop playin and im 
 getting my xbox 360 for christmas with PDZ because its so awsome. the storyline kiks halo 2's ass 
 allover the universe ^^ and is slightly worse online but is still stunning. everyone that liked 
 halo 1 and games like Perfect dark i suggest you purchase this game. it is not as good as what 
 everyone thinks it is and maybe thats why people are sayin not gd at all so on but thats because 
 they expected the best FPS ever, personaly the best FPS ever is goldeneye on the N64 or metroid 
 prime on gamecbe but PDZ is not far off it beats halo2 maybe not 1 but definitley 2 and is my 6th 
 favourite game ever made. buy this game if your a fan of amazing FPS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gothan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 14, 2005 11:58 am PT
Review:  Ok, to start this game is nothing but sexual, as soon as you pick it up you fall in love with it. 
 You better be the kind to believe in love at first sight!
  The textures are amazing, the sound is top notch accompanied with an awesome soundtrack. I adore 
 the graphics for each weapons and just how devastaing each one can be XD. I really enjoy the fact 
 that the 2nd player on campaign mode holds some significance to the story, rather then halo (and 
 halo 2) 's 2nd player. The graphics look sleek and slender, with all the ingredients to make you 
 fall to ground slobbering. 
  My only issue with this game is that the character look crap up close, seems like the developers 
 decided to make Ms. Dark look more like an anime character :S
  Anyways, i think this game is more then enough a reason to get a 360, you will find yourself glued 
 to your television screen for many moons.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: touchofchaos
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 14, 2005 8:17 am PT
Review:  After playing the game, I was very pleased with the game play. Story was great and understanding. 
 Though it took awhile to grasp, I began to get more and more involved. This game is truly action 
 packed and offers a challenge to willing players. Multi player is excellent due to AI in the Bots 
 offered in multi player game play. Get the game and challenge yourself is all I have to say. And 
 if you have a friend, I defininitely suggest co-op mode. Go for the goal and let this Perfect Dark 
 game satisfy your need to be a strategy playing, hardcore, action spy. Go get it, play it, and 
 have fun with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666trash666
Rating: 5.1
Date: Dec 13, 2005 6:27 pm PT
Review:  If you've played XIII then you'll have already sampled the gameplay on offer. Although visually 
 stunning you'll realise that underneath it all is an average shooter. The whole game is riddled 
 with frustrating problems, where enemy fire comes at you but you have no clue where from, enemies 
 are bulletproof and uncannily accurate from the distant horizon, the mission briefings are as stupid 
 as they are confusing, the weapons don't reload when a clip runs out, the game controls are twitchy 
 and at the same time sluggish [ which is quite a feat but this could be down to the wireless controlller] ..... 
 This costs 50 That's right, FIFTY POUNDS. Save yourself 25 and buy a copy of Halflife 2 to see 
 how things should be done. This game should be ashamed to call itself a RARE game....... BOO! BOO! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 13, 2005 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark stands next to Goldeneye, Halo and Half-Life as the greatest First Person Shooter 
 ever. Rare has worked on the sequel for 6 years and it's finally released on the new Xbox360. But 
 much has happened since Perfect Dark ruled the market. 
  
  The Xbox360 can really show of some awesome graphics, and Perfect Dark Zero looks brilliant. The 
 game has got some fantastic visuals that really show what the 360 can do. The weapons look perfect. 
 This is maybe the biggest reason to buy PDZ (Perfect Dark Zero) ! Not only because they look perfect, 
 but they also play and feel perfect. Some things aren't that great about the graphics in PDZ though. 
 The animations aren't that great, which doesn't work well together with the old artificial intelligence. 
 The enemies are very simular to the ones we played against in the first Perfect Dark, which is 
 bad after playing games like F. E. A. R. and Far Cry which features superb A. I. The menus are even 
 worse. When you first start up the game you get shocked by how old and ugly they look. Why, oh 
 why didn't Rare design some better menus? 
  
  The sounds in Perfect Dark Zero are actually very good. The sound effects are nice, and the music 
 is superb. The music in the mission are really fitting, and reminds me of Rare's old classic. The 
 one thing about the sound I don't like though is the voice overs. They are pretty bad overall.
 
  
  Perfect Dark Zero may sound like an awful game, but it really isn't. There are many things that 
 work here, but there is one more negative thing I have to say about it, and that's how bad the 
 story is told. The story is horribly told here. The in game videos are short and only confusing, 
 and the briefing before the missions are just not interesting at all. But that's that! There are 
 also a lot of good things here. The single player contains mostly cool missions playing in high-tech 
 buildings, a snowy mountain, the desert, a jungle and inside a disco. This, together with the weapons, 
 music, graphics and a great multiplayer is what builds up Perfect Dark Zero. The multiplayer is 
 really great featuring many play modes, and a good co-op that can be played over Live! as well. 
 There are some new things in PDZ that I've never seen in a FPS before. One is the ability to seek 
 cover behind walls and crates, this sets the camera in 3rd person view, and it's surprising how 
 good it works. One other cool thing is guidelines that appear if you play on Agent or Special Agent. 
 These guidelines show you where to head next, which is very helping cause the levels aren't exactly 
 straight forward. And the last cool new feature is the ability to roll forwards, backwards or sideways 
 to dodge bullets. Perfect Dark Zero ends up with mixed reactions. Many things are awesome, but 
 the bad things are really bad too! So if you don't mind a bad story and an overall dated FPS gaming 
 experience, you should buy Perfect Dark Zero because of the awesome weapons, missions, music, and 
 multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weskers_report8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 13, 2005 12:55 pm PT
Review:  The 1st perfect dark for me was a sequel to golden eye, I played golden eye to death and did everything 
 possible and when perfect dark came out i viewed it as golden eye 2 rather then a new game. The 
 contols, graphics and details to the orginal perfect dark were the same as the legend that is golden 
 eye. I failed to see the orginal as its own game. The storyline, characters and detailed universe 
 that Rare cooked up meant nothing to me as i just wanted golden eye 2 lol, until 360.
  
  Im in the U. K and getting a 360 was a struggle i waited in a 24/7 asda (your wallmart) and when 
 i finally got my hands on one i had to be taken to my car by secruity because of reports of violence 
 and robberys came in from around the world concering the 360. So... when i finally got safley home 
 with my 360 with perfect dark special edition and call of duty 2 i could not wait. Golden eye 3 
 ? yes i was awaiting yet another golden exprience...... sorry
  
  Within hours of play, when i got my teeth into perfect dark 0 i was amazed. Its brilliant. The 
 graphics truley show off the 360 in all its glory. The lighting , character models and weapons 
 are all of such high quality. 
  
  The story is a bit flawed but lets face it no one likes prequels, but the gameplay, sound and slick 
 presentation far make up for this tiny flaw. Replay value is true to the orginal, you will unlock 
 various different difficultly settings that will test your gaming skills but the method of taking 
 unlocked weapons into any mission helps, you do this by completing a level with that certain gun 
 in your inventory, then they appear on the weapon selection window before each mission.
  
  The multiplayer as in other rare FPS games is solid and it worth the price of the game itself with 
 the promise of new downloadable content such as new levels coming soon to the marketpalce.
  
  Another thing about the 360 is the gamer score system, if your a hard-core gamer like me then 
 being provided with tasks to increase your gamer score , such as complete the game on dark agent 
 will drive you made because you want that satisfaction of increasing your gamer score. I was really 
 mad with Rare, leaving nintendo to go to MR. Gates to produce crap games such as grabbed by the 
 ghoulies and conker, but now we know why, they where working on this master piece, halo beater? 
 O HELL YEA. 
  
  If your still with me thank you for your time and i hope my words help you out. Forgetting the 
 story and that stupid jack dark this is the modern day classic, go and get it. O and the special 
 edition is deffinetley worth that little bit more cash , enjoy.
  
  P. S the only thing i found truley horrible about this game is that on higher difficulty settings 
 on levels where you have to make a choice (such as the mansion infiltration level where you need 
 to talk to guard over a radio) and you make the wrong choice , game over , extra guards storm you 
 and kill or take loads of life. Its a bit harsh to get so far just to be stopped and maybe even 
 restart the whole mission based on 1 question. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denbot
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 13, 2005 12:54 pm PT
Review:  i find my slef playing this for around 30min off loadind round after round into players and not 
 killing them bits of armor flying all over the place, as if they av 500000000000 health and my 
 rounds only take out 1 health with each shot. but yet only 1 head shot is enough to kill them but 
 3 nades from a nade launcher isnt. 
  
  sorry but this game is not as gud as people say and if i was going to get a new game i would stay 
 well away from this its boring. best part about it is probly the online and single player stats 
 system 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acummuta
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2005 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Okay, let me try to explain my intro. The gameplay is fun. Animations are good. The guns are great. 
 The graphics are next gen (better stuff coming yes, but this is still better then what XBOX 1 can 
 do) . Audio is great.
  
  Joanna Dark is sent on a campaign mission with some twists and turns. Only problem is, I felt like 
 there were holes in the story. Sure you could follow it, but it felt like it lacked depth at times. 
 This lead to one of my two biggest complaints with the single player experience. I still find myself 
 scratching my head when I see the PDZ commericals, or go the website. They make it seem like it 
 will be so much more immersive, and yet its not. Its really dissapointing. Its like expecting meat 
 and getting mash potatoes. Mash potatoes are good... but its not the same, unless you're a vegetarian, 
 then you're happy ;)
  
  ANYWAYS...
  
  Problem two. One checkpoint per level. One. WTF? Who's brilliant idea was that? I had so much more 
 fun with games like COD2 where there were several checkpoints. I finished this game on Secret Agent, 
 but there were times I though of going to Agent because it was really frustrating to play for 30 
 minutes on a level to be sent back 15 minutes ago and die repeatedly at the end (where there was 
 a real challenge) and be kicked back 15 minutes ago. Okay, so there went 30 minutes of my valuable 
 time and here I am again. Now I'm scared to try again. Do I want to WASTE my time? This is not 
 a desired emotional response. COD2 did it right. Take a note RARE.
  
  Multiplayer: Longevity is here. Gameplay works great. Teaming up is great fun. XBOX LIVE is so 
 kicked up due to the XBOX 360 that it makes finding people who are playing this game easy to find. 
 Select "Join game in session" under their gamertag. Its that easy. Once there you'll find a large 
 variety of games to play. The weapons are the real star of this show. With many secondary functions 
 it seperates itself from other games. Pisols are worth something like in the Halo 1 days. Game 
 modes like the Dark Ops are unique and very fun. And to top it off you feel a need to keep playing 
 just to get those acheivement points.
  
  If you don't know about acheievement points, they're points you earn for reaching acheivements 
 the developers set out for you in the game. In the case of Perfect Dark a few examples would be 
 points for finishing the game on a certain difficutly. Points for 10, 100, and 1000 headshots, 
 first 10, 100, and 1000 kills in Killcount, Team Killcount. And so on.
  
  If you own an XBOX 360, this game and Halo 2 are the two best online experiences available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrankyGuy
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 13, 2005 4:38 am PT
Review:  I generally agree with the gamespot editors but in this case I think they need to clean their nerd 
 glasses. This game has been in development a long time and it shows. Graphically it's a throwback 
 to XBOX level quality with a few 360 F/X thrown in at the end of the development cycle to justify 
 its 360 launch game status.
  
  There is no innovation and the push "a" for cover feature is a joke. The plot is not 1970's campy 
 as intended but a humorless boring and confused concoction that just can't go right. I could go 
 on but I won't. This game would have been a showstopper four years ago.
  
  This is a been there done that, kind of game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan2929
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 12, 2005 9:44 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game, it was still a gamecube title, that was the first thing that thew 
 me off. Then I found out the game was from rare, that was the second thing that threw me off. Don't 
 get me wrong, Rare makes good games, there just not for me. I decided to pick this game up just 
 because I needed something to cure my FPS fix. This game blew me away. The environments were extremely 
 well done, sound design was excellent. Only major flaw, was the characters looked kind of weird 
 from close up. The game play was some of the best I have played in a long time. They took some 
 of the best elements of other great games, and did them better. I absolutely love the multiplayer. 
 There are varied game types, few flaws, and always easy to find a game.
  
  Pros
  Graphics amazing
  Sound well designed
  Single Player Story well written
  Missions varied
 
  Environments and enemy varried
  Multiplayer fun
  Joanna is hot (don't judge me)
  Smooth gameplay
  Co-op alot of fun
  Alot of weapons and gadgets to play with
  
  Cons
 
  Characters look choppy up close
  59.99 still an angry price
  Not alot of vehicles
  Missions get frustrating at times
  Have to replay entire mission if you fail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kasparov78
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2005 5:42 pm PT
Review:  The only thing I can say against Perfect Dark Zero is, having owned and worshipped the original 
 N64 Perfect Dark, Joanna and Jack's personalities seem very different between manifestations. Jack 
 especially seems out of place, since he was much more refined and civilised in Perfect Dark. Simply 
 saying this game is a prequel to Perfect Dark might pull it off for Joanna, since she's fairly 
 young, but Jack is supposed to go from tough bounty-hunter to cultured member of the Carrington 
 Institute in a couple of years. Maybe I've watched too much Dog on A&E... but face it, Dog isn't 
 joining any suit-wearing hunting lodge for rich weirdos any time soon.
  
  Something I thought was a problem turned out to actually be really cool, and might become one of 
 those accidentally-cool things that endears this game to players. When playing on Xbox Live, the 
 game has the option of allowing players to jump ship (switch sides) , and score a billion headshots 
 off you by ganging up.
  
  I hated this at first, because it was so treacherous. You fight, side by side with your "buddy" 
 through a few deathmatches, only to suddenly have a bunch of them turn on you in the middle of 
 a fight. Just for achievement points? How insecure can some people be about their rep?
  
  But life has taught me that it's a treacherous world, so actually, this "problem" gives the game 
 a real-to-life edge which may or may not have been unintentional. And, hey, even with six people 
 against me, the dodge button gives me the advantage if the viblade is available. Remember, Morrowind 
 fans, during sword melees you should attack, step forward, turn left, attack, and work your way 
 through the circle like that. Heh heh. Heh.
  
  The graphics are awesome. Light finally has a physical presence in a FPS, and colour is finally 
 pure thanks to the ATI graphics.
  
  The gameplay is awesome. Perfect Dark is more than gadgetry-to-go, and it's certainly not one of 
 those games with a thousand gadgets that you can finish without switching out your main weapon. 
 You actually have to (gods forbid) think about your game.
  
  The sound is amazing. plastic crunching, ricochets, grunts, "arghs", metal, gun metal, everything 
 is delivered in situ and crystal.
  
  The value is perfect, because even though certain players jump ship, repeatedly, and sometimes 
 make Xbox Live unfun at 2:00am, it won't really lose its essential quality of person-against-person 
 action. Real people, which can operate as real units using the Communicator and a little organised 
 skill, against other real people is always a total blast.
  
  The tilt is perfect.
  
  This game is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RavenElite
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 12, 2005 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Well. i will cut right to it. its an overall "alright" game. i was expecting much more then i got, 
 which could be my fault. I would rent this game first, and try it out. 
  
  The single player is challenging, but for me didnt really have enough story to it.. kinda pointless. 
 Hecka fun though, and multi-player was a blast, hard to get used to at first, but once you get 
 it.. its great! Graphics are amazing, and all the guns are a blast. Again, not for everyone, its 
 alot different then most FPS out there from the style of play, to the overall feel, its different. 
 
  
  I have had alot of fun on this games muti-player, the massive levels, you can choose the size for, 
 the array of guns, the characters and all the game-modes available as well as 32 player online, 
 make this game ALOT of fun online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewmickey14
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2005 9:44 am PT
Review:  Does anyone remember the company Rare? If I asked you this 5 years ago you would have probably 
 said something like "Yeah its that awsome game company that makes the best games out there". If 
 I asked you that a month ago you would have been like "Rare? Who? What?". Yeah its true over the 
 past years Rare has gone from one of the best game companies around to a forgotten one. But all 
 of that will noe change thanks to the release of their new Xbox 360 game : Perfect Dark Zero.
 
  This fps is a "prequel" to the Original N64 games which is credited to being a game that redefined 
 fps on consoles (then halo, and you know the rest of the story) . You are Joanna Dark, a bounty 
 hunter, with you father Jack Dark traveling the world killing people (where's Beatrix Kiddo when 
 you need her?) . Anyways, the story invloves a mad scientist creating a device that will destroy 
 the world, well, something like that. The story is hard to understand and happens to be the weakest 
 part of the whole game. The story doesn't make you CARE about anyone or anything but the campaign 
 is still fun to play online with a buddy or offline. 
  The gameplay will feel similiar to any classic shooter you've played before such as Goldeneye and 
 the original PD. The shooting aspects are very fun as each gun feels very different from each other. 
 What makes things cooler is that each one has an alternate firing mode which makes it more interesting. 
 You can't jump for some reason but you do have a "roll" technique that you can use to dodge enemy 
 fire. The problem is is that sometimes aiming can be hard and non precise at times which is very 
 evident of when you zoom in. Try fiddling with the control adjustments but try as you might, the 
 aiming isn't as smooth as say Halo's is (sorry had to make a refrence to that game) .
  With the power of the 360 behind it, PDZ is a visually stunning game for the most part. The textures 
 all look amazing thanks to the new "parallex mapping" technique that brings them to life. All the 
 weapon models look very good too. Overall it's a great looking game and a showpiece for microsoft's 
 new behoemeth. On the downside, many character models look bad up close and there are too many 
 jaggies for comfort (also the cutscenes are "jumpy" at times) .
  The sound is great for the most part too, although it can't be said for most of the voice acting. 
 Sure, some of it is OK but most of the characters sound like they just don't care. Take Jack Dark, 
 who has some of the lamest dialogue you'll ever hear ( exmaple: I'll drop you like a bad conversation. 
 WOW great times) . Other than that the weapon sound effects are very good and the soundtrack is 
 great electronic stuff.
  Overall, PDZ is an excellent game. It may not be the "killer" app it was hyped to be, but it is 
 a great game. The single player is fun and the multiplayer will having you coming for more. In 
 the end, if you like fps and have an xbox 360, THIS is the game you need in your starting line-up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MazzDude
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 12, 2005 6:45 am PT
Review:  Online the game is realy nice, i must admit. But a multiplayer must only be an extention of the 
 game and a valuable extra, not the main focus as it feels like in this game. Cause of the extreme 
 lacking storyline i can not believe how far Rare has lost the thouch they used to possess. When 
 you finish the game it does not even feel like the game has told its story yet. You keep on playing 
 just to get some sence of the matter but when you think you get to a point where the player gets 
 a foorholding, the story crumbles into a thousand possibilities. A real bad move Rare, they have 
 fallen a long way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ringworlder
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero. The "must-have" title for the XBox 360. The day that I reserved my 360, it was 
 without hesitation that I also reserved Perfect Dark Zero. On the 22nd of November, when I finally 
 picked up a controller and played the game, let's just say I was more than a little disappointed. 
 The movement felt clunky, the guns were underpowered, and the storyline was pointless and cliche. 
 As I continued through the game, I realized that the voice acting, while not terrible, was not 
 Rare quality. Whose idea was it to make Joanna American? Seriously, she's British, that's part 
 of her character. I also thought that Johnathan sounded like a twelve-year-old boy, and not a professional 
 commando. I liked the change in Joanna's appearance, though. I would say that Joanna Dark easily 
 replaces Lara Croft as the official Video Game Vixen. The cover mechanism is nearly useless, but 
 the dodge/roll ability is pretty cool. Once you get the hang of it, near the end of the game, it's 
 a whole new experience. As I progressed through the game, however, I found that it actually became 
 pretty fun. As soon as I picked up the Scorpion rifle I was in business. That weapon was powerful 
 enough to make the game fast and intense and didn't suffer the underpowered uselessness of many 
 of the games other weapons. The graphics are out of this world, truly demonstrating techniques 
 which I'm sure will become the defining characteristics of next-gen graphics. The parallax mapping 
 is evident everywhere, and manages to make the textures of Half-Life 2 (the PC version) almost 
 painful to look at. Also, the motion blur is disconcerting at first, but as soon as you get used 
 to it, it only adds to the immersion. Let's also not ignore the High Dynamic Range lighting (HDR) . 
 For the first time in an actual, full game, light looked bright and vivid, even blinding at times. 
 Prior to playing Perfect Dark Zero, I have never had to pause for a second to let my character's 
 eyes adjust to the dark. That's right boys and girls, don't stare at the sun too long in Perfect 
 Dark Zero, because the HDR lighting simulates pupil dilation. This is easily the most beautiful 
 game I have ever played. However, all of this graphical flair is not enough to save the horrible 
 multiplayer component (not cooperative, that part was excellently done) . Seriously, they should 
 have left the deathmatch part out of the game. There is no strategy or tactics to it, the weapons 
 seem horrendously underpowered and the maps are very confusing. This is actually a problem in single 
 player as well. The game even includes a system that displays a path of arrows pointing you to 
 your next objective. Maybe the maps are confusing because there is so much detail, but more likely 
 they are confusing because the levels are poorly designed. They look open-ended, but their not. 
 So you have to either guess what the designer intended, or just follow the arrows. Either way, 
 I expected more out of Rare. All in all though, this game is a fairly solid shooter. It's no system 
 seller, like Halo, but still a decent game. The real entertainment lies in playing through the 
 levels again, after you get better and acquire better guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladragon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark zero is an awesone shooter game in its own respect, obviously it still doesnt stack 
 up to halo, but with the xbox 360 graphics to boost this game is very fun and exciting to play, 
 anyone wanting a solid shooter should check out this game, demostrating top notch graphics and 
 gameplay for the xbox 360, as well as a fairly good story. the onlibe play is also pretty good, 
 not the best but can still be fun.
  
  As well people who haven't played the previous game for the series should still check this game 
 out, it doesn't ruin much at all, so have fun and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martbigz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 2:39 pm PT
Review:  When i inserted the game into my 360, I had no expectations whatsoever of what the game would look 
 like. I hadn't seen a single screen shot, no videos or in-game footage. All i knew, was that this 
 was Perfect Dark, and I wanted to play it.
  
  5 hours later, I knew that this was a buy worth it's while. I was seriously surprised that this 
 game had sucked me in so deep.
  
  First of all, i want to comment on the graphics, which were as astonishing and superb as I never 
 could have imagined. This was a fine work of art, no second-hand work. Everything, from the guns 
 to the big buildings, looks really awesome. So polished and sexy, if I may say so.
  Speaking of sexy, Rare really did something about Joanna too. She looks like something out of a 
 modelling contest this time.
  
  The sound part of PD: Z is also very well done. The feel that the music gives you is just brilliant. 
 And they have really played around with level ambiance this time. For example : you are headed 
 towards a night club. The music will get clearer the closer you get to the building. And, in combination 
 with a surround sound set, this will really blow your mind. Everything here is well done.
  
  Onto the game play : The gameplay owns. It's your regular FPS, with some small twists to keep 
 it entertaining and "fresh". Like being able to cover behind walls to get better protection, dual 
 wield a lot of weapons, second and even third fire on most of the guns, zip-lines on various locations 
 that'll help you move from point A to point B a lot faster than if you were walking, etcetera etcetera. 
 The list is long.
  
  And then there's the gadgets. Like before, you have the datathief and the camspy. New additions 
 are the Remote Explosives, some sort of Camera, and the Loctopus, which will enable you to pick 
 locks with ease. This also helps to improve the gameplay-experience.
  
  I must say though, the storyline is really thin. It's not the kind of story that'll keep you playing 
 for hours, more like the kind of storyline that's there to just kind of fill out a rather perfect 
 game. This is kind of a drawback, seeing as the original PD had a great story, but it should not 
 keep you from playing. Although it gives the game a bit of a drawback.
  
  And now, for the best part of Perfect Dark : Zero. Xbox Live!
  This is what will make us gamers 
 play this game for ages. You have, like any other FPS, the regular modes : Deathmatch, TDM, Capture 
 The Flag, Elimination etc. Nothing really new, but still it is very VERY addictive and, of course, 
 entertaining.
  
  But the added gameplay mode, Dark-ops, really opens for more entertaining action.
  I have only 
 been able to try out the game setting "Onslaught" so far. This is basically like Unreal Tournament's 
 "Assault" mode, where one team holds a base, and the other team will take it over. I found this 
 game mode extremely entertaining, seeing as there is a lot of open levels to play on, and a lot 
 of various ways to enter the base. For example, if you carry the Remote Explosives, you can blow 
 up a hole in a wall to get easier access to their base, if there is a place to blow up of course.
 
  
  Another thing I found cool about the game, or Xbox Live! generally, was that by doing a certain 
 thing, like getting a 100 kills in Deathmatch mode, or surviving for 10 minutes, you'll unlock 
 an Achievement. This basically improves your gamerscore at Xbox Live, gives you a trophy to put 
 in your Hall Of Fame, it's just cool.
  
  Well, this is my personal opinion of Perfect Dark: Zero. It's a really great game, that will keep 
 gamers addicted for a long, long time. If you own a Xbox 360, and this game is not in your collection 
 : Go buy it, for Christs sake. It is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abanks
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Like i said i never played the first game and after playing this one i wont buy the next.
  
  Im not a Perfect Dark Fanboy and cant get my head round the hype for this game. Graphically 
 its great but as for gameplay its stereo typical FPS all over. The floor constantly tells you where 
 to go and the levels are all boxed so you cant go the wrong way anyway.
  
  The weapons are realistic and great to use, but i just cant describe the game i just dont understand 
 the hype.
  
  Maybe after a lot more play i will be converted, i am starting to like it more now than i did day 
 1, but if you love games like Far-Cry dont expect this FPS to hold the same ground.
  
  Multiplayer is very good, even the AI when you play offline multiplayer using Bots is great. Rent 
 it first, then buy !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtDuty
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 11, 2005 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero. Wow finaly, 6 years since the orginal Perfect Dark. This game has some crazy 
 good graphic and some awsome multieplayer. Online, system link, and split screen. The game also 
 has Co-Op. Also Online, system link, and split screen. The online is nice Co-Op wise, because all 
 of the cutscenes are there and the secondary player isn't a nother Joana Dark. Sometimes you are 
 but mostly you are conlondral, and Jack Dark. The multie player is strong because of all the weapons 
 and gametypes. Note: don't forget to change the bottom from Player Game (like costom game from 
 Halo 2 online) to Ranked Game if you Want to play a Ranked Game. The game types are nice because 
 there are two types Deathmatch and Dark-Ops. Deathmatchs are more kill based games like: Deathmatch, Team 
 Deathmatch, Capture the Flag and a few others. The Dark-Ops games are more stratige based but mostly 
 are killing too. Overall the game is not what it should have been on the single player side. But 
 multieplayer is a hole different story. Co-Op even thoe the single player but with another person 
 it is alot better with another person. I would Say: Pick-Up This Game and Call of Duty 2 if your 
 and FPS Fan (First Person Shoter) .
  
  Note: This Review is the same review that i made for my website there for they look the same! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeke_Link
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Just before the last/current gen consoles launched (DC, PS2, Xbox, GC) Rare released a true gem 
 for the N64 - Perfect Dark. On Gamespot it scored a high 9.9 which means nearly perfect. After 
 a couple of years Rare only managed to release one game, Star Fox Adventures for the Gamecube, 
 which was a dissapointment to Rare and Star Fox fans alike. Rare's next project was 'Grabbed by 
 the Ghoulies'. Nintendo forsaw this beeing a bad game and sold Rare to Microsoft. Grabbed by the 
 Ghoulies was released on the Xbox and flopped. Then quite recently Conker Live and Reloaded was 
 released, some people didn't like it but I personally see it as an AAA game. Most people lost faith 
 in Rare. Then Rare announced Perfect Dark Zero will be released for the 360 at launch. Quite a 
 large number of people predicted it would flop, but it didn't, neither did their other game that 
 was released on the 360 launch - Kameo Elements of Power.
  
  The Singleplayer gets very boring after the first couple of levels, the only level that I found 
 to be a bit fun was the semi-final level. The game horribly mixes run and gun and stealth which 
 simply makes a horrible combination. In one level you might be waiting for the guard to turn his 
 back, whilst on another level you're running through a bridge randomly shooting with your Superdragon. 
 The whole game is very random and the EXTREMELY sloppy controls don't help matter either. The storyline 
 is meh too. Some people say Multiplayer is the strong point of this game, but I personally HATE 
 the Multiplayer MUCH more than the Singleplayer. The weapons are unbalanced even though bigger 
 weapons take more slots and reduce speed. For example there's a gun called the 'Superdragon' which 
 is a machine gun with a scope and a grenade launcher equipped, it's pretty much broken because 
 the machine gun is really powerful and the grenade launcher can fire in quick succession and is 
 VERY powerful. Then there's only two veichles, the Jetpack is overpowered, on a big stage with 
 lots of players they can be killing machines. On a brighter note there is no lag in the game whatsoever.
 
  
  I haven't got a HDTV but I still think the graphics are crap, the character faces have a mixed 
 cartoony look and realistic look which looks HORRIBLE! The voice acting is a little odd, the enemies 
 make funny comments all the time. If you repeatedly shoot someone in the hand sometimes they'll 
 say "He just shot my hand! How will I play my Xbox now!" and when you kill someone their ally may 
 say "He was my friend", that adds to the overall cheesiness and mixed cartooniness/realistic combo.
 
  
  Overall Perfect Dark Zero is an ok game which get more medicore as you move on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manji
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 4:11 am PT
Review:  While the game's graphics are certainly next-gen, the rest of the game definitively isn't: poor 
 enemy animation and AI, punishing difficulty ( AI can't properly look for cover but sometimes snipes 
 you from the other end of the level with a simple handgun, eg hovercraft boss fight. ) , mediocre 
 cut scenes, bad character design, bad implementation of the stealth gameplay element... I'm personnally 
 a big Rare fan and was greatly disappointed by this game, I much preferred playing Call of duty 
 2 than that one. The game feels rushed, thanks Microsoft and that stupidly rushed launch. This 
 game would have been so much better with an extra 6 month of development.
  
  this is the most overrated game of the year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shame-usBlackley
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Didn't Kermit the Frog say it isn't easy being green? Well, in the world of gaming, it isn't easy 
 being Rare either. They've got an entire legion of pissed off Nintendo fans who feel Rare abandoned 
 them for the sultry charms of Microsoft. Then you've got the Microsoft fans, who just aren't really 
 the type of gamers that respond positively to the games Rare became famous for in their Nintendo 
 days. Add to that the fact that Rare's recent games (Ghoulies, Conker, Star Fox Adventures) haven't 
 exactly set the world on fire, and you can see the type of pickle the company is in from a market 
 standpoint. Perfect Dark is both the perfect and worst franchise to launch Microsoft's mammoth 
 new console with. It's perfect in the sense that it's a shooter (a damn good one, in fact) but 
 it's also bad because the Microsoft fan base is going to make all kinds of ludicrous comparisons 
 to Halo. And those people will walk away disappointed. Perfect Dark isn't Halo, and it doesn't 
 try to be. Perfect Dark Zero dares to implement a few things to a genre that prides itself on not 
 straying too far from the beaten path, and in the process it becomes a terrific return to form 
 for a company that once seemed to have lost its way.
  
  The first thing everyone is going to scrutinize when they play Perfect Dark is the graphics. Perfect 
 Dark isn't a game that's going to blow your pants off and make you change religions when you first 
 see it. Like many of the 360 launch offerings, the graphical flourishes are subtle, almost to a 
 point where many folks will miss them. However, keen observers will notice the terrific use of 
 shadow and natural light. Or how the game has the most insanely detailed weapon models (and reloading 
 animations) in any console game ever. Some of the graphics are decidedly better looking than others, 
 especially in regard to the levels. The earlier levels are less impressive visually than the wonderfully 
 detailed levels that appear late in the game. Compare the first few levels to that of the jungle 
 or desert for proof, and then couple that with the fact that the game's framerates stay solid through 
 the whole experience, even with a ton of enemies (whose bodies stay on-screen once vanquished) 
 on-screen and environmental damage like shattering windows and explosions happening everywhere. 
 It's hard to say whether the less impressive looking levels were due to the game being ported (PD0 
 originally started as a Cube, then an Xbox game before being moved to the 360) or whether it was 
 just due to lack of polish or familiarity with the hardware. 
  
  PD0's design may also turn people off. Rather than going for absolute realism, like the Splinter 
 Cell or Rainbow Six franchises, Perfect Dark has a decidedly anime flavor to its visuals. The doe-eyed 
 protagonist would look plenty at home in an animated flick. If you absolutely have to have your 
 shooters striving to replicate real life, then this game isn't for you. 
  
  The sound is sterling, almost relegating the graphics to backseat status, in fact. The music is 
 catchy, ranging from moody to flatout techno. The use of voice in the game is another subtle touch 
 that many will miss. Only after dozens of hours of play do you start to hear just how much wonderful 
 dialogue Rare recorded for this game. You'll hear a woman accidentally setting up a tryst with 
 a married man over a loudspeaker and guards will utter hilarious phrases when they are unaware 
 of your presence. The weapons effects are also top-notch, from the pea-shooter sound of a silenced 
 rifle to the blowdart sound of a Magsec being fired.
  
  The gameplay is where Perfect Dark brings home the bacon. PD0 introduces the aspect of cover to 
 the genre, something that (to my knowledge) has never been done before in a first person shooter. 
 The environment is littered with boxes, corners and ledges that offer cover from enemies. What's 
 neat is how simply and elegantly PD0 pulls this off. All the player needs to do is tap the A button 
 when close to one of the aforementioned objects and Joanna will press up against it. The camera 
 will also shift away to third person so you can easily see (and target) enemies in the distance. 
 Once sighted in, a quick pull of trigger will make Joanna pop out like a switchblade and fire exactly 
 where the reticule was. Upon release of the trigger she'll drop back behind her source of cover. 
 Not only is this mechanic extremely fun to pull off, but it also gives the game a tactical feel 
 that's been missing from the genre, and no matter the game, it'll be hard to go back to the tired 
 old dart-out-in-the-open mechanic that most shooters offer after playing Perfect Dark. There's 
 also an abundant use of picture-in-picture that shows events happening in the the level that you 
 can't see on your own. These can cue you in to the location of guards, a scientist hitting an alarm, 
 and so on. You can also disarm enemies by approaching them unarmed and hitting the R button. This 
 comes in handy at times, but it would've been nice to see its required use more in the game. As 
 it stands though, it's just another great touch on top of a series of great touches that throws 
 the conventions of first person shooters on their ear.
  
  And it's really the tactical firefights that will keep you coming back. Even though the AI is nothing 
 to write home about (it has a tendency to rush into the waiting barrel of a shotgun instead of 
 taking cover) , the fights have an unscripted, dynamic feel to them, especially on the higher difficulties. 
 Also unique to Perfect Dark is the evasive roll. Tapping the L button while running will cause 
 Joanna to break into roll. What's great about this is twofold. First, it works. Careful use of 
 this feature will save your butt in many a gunfight. Second, it is pulled off in such a way that 
 it isn't distracting. The whole process involved with switching from first, to third and back to 
 first-person again is seamless. Not content to stop there, Rare decided to remove a jumping mechanic 
 from the game. Depending on your position snd how rigid you are regarding how you like your shooters, 
 this can be good or bad. My personal belief is that it's good. I'm getting sick of jumping in "realistic" 
 shooters, and if someone could pull me some war footage that actually shows a soldier jumping around 
 during a firefight, perhaps I'll change my mind. Rare's shooter keeps the action on the ground, 
 where it belongs. That's not to say that Joanna can't step over a curb, though. She can easily 
 scale waist-high objects simply by pushing against them, sort of in the way the scaling mechanic 
 that worked so well in recent titles Zelda was implemented. 
  
  The weapons (besides looking absolutely gorgeous as mentioned earlier) are perfectly balanced. 
 Each implement of death has a secondary firing mode. Some of the guns' second modes are more support 
 oriented, like adding a silencer or a flashlight, while others (usually the less powerful) can 
 be pretty powerfuly augmented when fired in alt-mode. Fans of the series will be glad to see the 
 return of the turret gun, a machine gun that doubles as an enemy killing sentry turret. There really 
 aren't any stinkers in PD0's weapon lineup, but they're also balanced to a point where one gun 
 isn't going to earn the "noob tube" designation either. Furthermore, each gun has a tertiary mode, 
 which basically serves as a third-firing mode, adding another interesting wrinkle to the weapons. 
 PD0 also lets the player choose what weapon loadout they start with. This may not sound like much, 
 but it really has a positive impact on the flow of the game, and it raises the question why most 
 "realistic" shooters don't have this option. In a world war game, I can see having issued weapons, 
 as that's historically factual. But why doesn't everyone's favorite space marine have the option 
 to pick his own weapons when he goes off to battle? Joanna does, and the game is all the better 
 for it. Granted, weight and size comes into play when selecting the starting weapons. You can pick 
 two small weapons (like assault rifles) or one large weapon (rocket launchers and rail guns) in 
 addition to one mission support item. Mission support items range from lockpicks to data miners, 
 and which one you choose may alter the route you take through a given level. There's also no aim 
 assist, which again is a bold move that people will either embrace or be totally pissed off over. 
 I'm in the former category. Long have PC gamers kicked sand in the faces of their console brethren 
 due to aim assist, so we now have a game that requires a lot more skill and dexterity to succeed 
 at. The controls are solid, with everything mapped to the the 360's exceptional controller in a 
 logical fashion. 
  
  The single player portion of the game is above average in length, spanning anywhere from twelve 
 to eighteen hours depending on skill. Don't be surprised if you find yourself replaying the game 
 on the increcibly difficult Perfect and Dark Agent settings. The difficulty here is a huge jump 
 from the lower levels - ammo is at a premium and there are more objectives to complete on top of 
 the enemies being absolute crack shots. 
  
  The multiplayer modes are fabulous. They ooze with options and game types ranging from the standard 
 deathmatch to the inspired "infection" mode. In this mode, players form two sides, one consisting 
 of skeletons and the other humans. The goal of the humans is to wipe out the skeletons, while the 
 goal of the skeletons is to infect players from the other side. When that happens, the infected 
 player joins the side of the skeletons and the match is won when there are no players left on a 
 side. As expected, the variants are abundant - everything from bots to weapon types can be modified. 
 On top of that, the game runs pretty smooth online as well, although the graphics are scaled down 
 a bit from the single-player portion (I'm assuming to aid in lag prevention) .
  
  There's also a fully-featured, online compatible co-op mode. This alone is worth the price of admission, 
 as the game's story (which really isn't all that great) ties in a second player perfectly through 
 Jack Dark, Joanna's father.
  
  Speaking of online, it must be noted how much the accomplishments add to the experience. Microsoft 
 has had a real stroke of genius with this feature, and Perfect Dark has some really challenging 
 goals for reaching all the accomplishments, both online and off. 
  
  Perfect Dark is going to be overlooked by many people for its visuals not being impressive enough, 
 which is too bad. They're missing out on a terrific shooter and a real battlecry from the folks 
 at Rare. There's really not much to dislike about this game besides some clunky AI, unexplainable 
 choppiness in the cutscenes and a bare-bones story, but in the end, the game does so many things 
 right that you'll be tempted to forgive the few missteps that it makes. Between this and Kameo, 
 Rare is back in a big way. This game feels like a Rare game through and through, and it's good 
 to see that some developers aren't content with simply trying to ape Halo. Perfect Dark stands 
 just fine on its own, and in some ways, even eclipses Bungie's venerable series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subtizzle
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 6:32 pm PT
Review:  i love it
  the graphics owns
  the gameplay owns
  the music owns
  the whole game owns
  my only problem is the voice acting
  "im gonna drop you like a bad conversation"
  i mean come 
 on
  GAMESPOT MADE A BAD REVIEW ITS GETS A 9.9 IN MY MIND
  
  
  MY REVIEW OF NHL IS UP AND PGR 3 IS COMING
  COD 2 IS 2ND TO PDZ THEN QUAKE 4
  
  
  
  P 
 D Z O W N S 
  T H I S G A M E O W N S\
  
  B E T T E R T H A N H A LO 1 O R 2
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: judgementday666
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 4:23 pm PT
Review:  this game is gods gift to first person shooter fans. it is set to be a classic and has a high replay 
 value to stasify any gamer for quite a while. it reminds me of the original classic 007. Howerer 
 there are some problems. the levels of this game are huge and winding, they tend to mix you up 
 and send you back where you came from. the little arrows that rare put on the ground are proff 
 of this. also the difficulty of the game is ok when set on normal or eazy, but once on high perpare 
 for a giant pain in the ass, one man turns into eight. the difficulty setting need to be evened 
 out. if you are buy the xbox 360 and have enough cash for a game, then pick up Perfect Dark Zero 
 for shure. i also remomend Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeeswin24
Rating: 1.9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero makes me happy when I play it. There is a girl in it. You play as the girl. Her 
 name is Rosanna or Joanna or something and you run around with her. You run around with multiple 
 hers and are her and shoot her in multiplayer. By playing this game I, Billy, have exceeded my 
 wildest expectations. I like shooting girls. It is fun. Also the game is fun. When I play it I 
 sing a song, it goes a little something like this... "La... La La La... La... La La La La La Laaaa... 
 La... La La La... La... La La La La La Laaaa..." It is fun but it blows my mind.
  
  Sincerely,
  Billy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokurocks2442
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 10, 2005 1:14 pm PT
Review:  In this game u play as joanne dark and u have to play through levels but the sad part about this 
 game is the graphics and the story line can get short if your really awsome at shooting games.
 
  
  This game is all around awsome but if u are good at the halo series then just give this game a 
 rental and see if this game is gonna last u. The game can get very boaring and can get very exciting. 
 The sad part about this game is when u get excitied about beating a hard level and u find out the 
 next level is just as boaring.
  
  When u get close up to a charictores face u will see it can get a little blury but this does not 
 take anything away from the fact that this game is really fun but does have its moments of not 
 fun.
  
  But enough about the bad lets talk about the good. This game showes really powerfull guns and really 
 fast action music. There are many tricks u can in this game like rolling and dodging bullets. There 
 is alot of blood in the game so dont buy this for kids under 10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luc11044
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 11, 2005 1:55 am PT
Review:  First, let me start by saying that after playing Perfect Dark Zero, I was very motivated to write 
 my first 360 review. I've been having so much fun with my 360. Kameo is such a treat to play with 
 its awesome visuals and varied gameplay ideas. NBA2K6 looks spectacular on HDTV and is probably 
 the best overall basketball game I've ever played. Finally, Call of Duty 2 definitely ranks as 
 one of my all-time favorites for its stunning graphics, realistic environments, amazing sound effects 
 and easy control. Just stunning...
  
  Then, there's PDZ...
  
  Perfect Dark Zero disappoints me in every way. I've been enjoying all the launch titles I've purchased, 
 except for PDZ. I've had to force myself to play PDZ in order to write this review. Taking into 
 consideration that FPS games are one of my favorite genres, this is not a good sign. 
  
  This is the major launch title for the 360, so let's talk about the visuals to start. As far as 
 launch titles go, Call of Duty 2 is the game to get for the best visuals in a first person shooter. 
 It's certainly not Quake IV and it's definitely not Perfect Dark Zero. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, Perfect Dark Zero's graphics have some polish but that's the problem. Everything 
 from the environments, the enemies and weapons look like they have been polished. The graphics 
 have a "crystalized" look to it that just doesn't look right. 
  
  The animation is even worse. If you closely look at the way your enemies move... it's like their 
 limbs move in slow motion but they are still coming at you quickly. Once, I saw some soldiers coming 
 down stairs and it was the most unrealistic movement I had ever seen... I just bursted out in laughter.
 
  
  Finally, the movement of Joana Dark is ridiculously slow. There's no way to see how good the frame 
 rate is because you can't move fast enough. It's insane... you're getting shot at from all sides... you're 
 trying to run but can't???
  
  It doesn't get any better from an audio perspective. Average sound effects and a really bad soundtrack 
 worsen the gaming experience. The soundtrack in particular, reminds me of some "techno mix" that 
 anyone could have created in their basement. There's nothing here that really adds to Perfect Dark 
 Zero. Just like the visuals, the audio really disappoints as well.
  
  The storyline is so boring and at no point during the game did I want to know what happens next. 
 It's uninspired and the same can be said about the missions. Rare has done nothing to have us feel 
 connected to the character and her objectives during the game. 
  
  The online aspect of Perfect Dark Zero is the strongest aspect of the game. You can easily find 
 your friends by creating rooms with specific game types. There is also a great deal of variety 
 with these game types available online. The other aspect that's enjoyable is that at no point during 
 my online battles did I notice any lag or slowdown, which is fantastic!
  
  The only problem with all these cool online features is that you can't really enjoy them if you 
 don't enjoy the broken and often boring single player campaign. The controls and visuals are the 
 same, therefore it wouldn't make sense if I enjoyed the online play... would it? 
  
  There's not much more to say other than I'm really disappointed with Perfect Dark Zero. Visually, 
 this title is more Xbox than it is 360. It's uninspired storylines and campaigns left to be desired 
 and although it has
  a strong multiplayer component, I can't recommend this launch title to anyone. I tried and even 
 forced myself to play it in order to see if it would grow on me but, it didn't.
  
  There are so many better launch titles available for the 360. Perfect Dark Zero is so mediocre 
 in every way that I no longer wanted it in my collection. I couldn't believe it wen I walked in 
 to my favorite gaming store and uttered the words, "How much store credit can I get for Perfect 
 Dark Zero on 360?"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalbat
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 6:19 am PT
Review:  I was happy i got my Xbox360 with 2 games Call of Duty 2 & Perfect Dark Zero. The first game i played 
 was PDZ. I was suprised when i started the singel player mode i felt like it was a mix betwen Splinter 
 cell, Halo & metal gear solid.
  
  GRAPHICS: The grafics are OK, but nothing more. I expected more from a Xbox360 game but i can live 
 with it.
  
  CONTROLL: If you liked the Halo 2 control you will like the PDZ controll too
  but i would really enjoy a jump-Button
  
  GAMEPLAY: If you like Timesplitters you love this 
 game. But the hectic tempo mixed with all the colours then sometimes everything just mixes up and 
 you can really see nothing
  
  SINGEL-PLAYER: I expected more by the Singel-Player mode. The missons are not very funny. And sometimes 
 the game is just too easy. But where the singel-player Disipoint the multiplayer makes up.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: The multiplayer part is really amasing and offers alot of mixed gametypes like 
 Assult, Deathmatch/Team deathmatch, CTF, Virus & Teretorrys. And the multiplayer offers up tp 32-player 
 Action.
  
  SOUND: the sound is OK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hittin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 10, 2005 3:56 am PT
Review:  Intro::::::
  I dont have a Xbox 360, so i might not cover all this game, but i have played this game quite alot 
 at a friends house, so i think its worth reviewing it.
  
  Graphics::::::::::
  The graphics are great in this game, exactly what are expected for next-gen gaming, but not the 
 best, not even close to Half Life 2, The graphics looks like your running it on a meduim gaming 
 pc. If there is to be another Perfect Dark Zero, the graphics need to be improved to make them 
 special, but still the graphics in this game are still great.
  Gameplay:::::::::::
  Gameplay is the most important attribute in a game, and im glad to say for all you Xbox fans, this 
 game is amazing in gameplay. Its got fast action, big tensions and great cut scenes, just like 
 f. e. a. r and call of duty 2. Although the game can be too difficult at times, and you might want 
 to rent it first, to see if you like it.
  
  Overall:::::::
  If you like amazing graphics, and fast gameplay and your really good at first person shooters then 
 definitely get this game, otherwise rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterles
Rating: 3.8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 2:02 am PT
Review:  i really didnt have an enjoyable experience playing this game. single player, co-op, or multiplayer. 
 i really didnt have any fun. i didnt get into the story, i thought the gameplay was quite sluggish, 
 and the soundtrack and sound effects were annoying. the game looked good visually, except for, it 
 looking like everying thing was covering in a coating of valseline. i bought an xbox360 the day 
 it came out, and ive spent the last couple weeks playing the game on and off seeking for an experience 
 worth my money, i dont feel as though i got it. i've played and beat over a dozen fps's this last 
 year, so its not like im ignorant to console fps games. if ya'll had a good experience all playing 
 the game and what not, power to you. but this game just came off all ff x-2 on me, but even gayer. 
 i didnt have fun plaing the game. really i didnt. it surely didnt diserve a 9, give me a break..... go 
 play call of duty 2 if you want an intense good looking, and fun fps on your 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redice
Rating: 1.6
Date: Dec 9, 2005 11:15 pm PT
Review:  The worst game I have played yet on the 360 empty a full magazine from an Uzi into a guy and he 
 is still standing.... shoot a guy with a shotgun point blank and he lives... it has to have the 
 worst control's ever they should have went over and tried out call of duty 2 or any other shooter 
 before putting this out. The controls are unresponsive and when it comes to look sensitivity un-changeable 
 its maxed out at 100 default and cant be changed to anything higher.
  
  The AI is crap, graphics are sub par, and the gameplay is un imaginative. Go buy Call Of Duty 2 
 if you want a real shooter buy this for the 4 year olds in the family maybe they wont notice how 
 bad it is.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EihBeir
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 9, 2005 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Having been one of the unfortunate souls to purchase this game, I can honestly say I wish I had 
 taken the $50 and put it down on Kameo instead.
  
  The graphics and sound are fine. They're what you'd expect for a next generation system. The problem 
 with this game is that it plays almost EXACTLY like Goldeneye 007 for the N64... and that's a BIG 
 problem.
  
  Either Goldeneye was two generations ahead of its time, or the controls for Perfect Dark Zero are 
 a couple of generations back... Maybe a little of both.
  
  Clunky.... clunky is the only word I can think of to describe how this game plays, and that is FATAL 
 for a First Person Shooter.
  
  If you buy this game and Call of Duty 2, you'll realize just how bad it is. 
  
  I'm six missions 
 into PDZ... and I'm also going through CoD2 for the second time... this time on Veteran difficulty 
 (the hardest difficulty.) And those two things are basically the same... get killed, try again, 
 get a bit further, get killed, try again, get a bit further, etc... The only difference is, when 
 I die in CoD2, I'm dying due to low health and good enemy AI. When I die in PDZ on normal... it's 
 due to the controls.
  
  I haven't played much of the multiplayer, so I can't say if the game is any better there, but it 
 seems to me like clunky controls would plague that too.
  
  Rent this one first to see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da6t3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2005 8:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far, one of the best launch titles on the Xbox 360. The graphics are incredibly 
 sharp, the sound is verrrry gooood and as for the gameplay itself, you won't get bored. It encompasses 
 a great balance of stealth, shooting and mission essential challenges that will keep you paying 
 attention in order to successfully advance from one mission to the next. Good stuff, Maynard! In 
 order to get the most out of my copy, I've started playing on Secret Agent and I refuse to restart 
 from a checkpoint. If I get get whacked, I start the entire level over again. Maybe doing things 
 a little differently than before. Beware of the A. I., it's pretty good, even though there were 
 a couple of times that I should have been wasted but wasn't. This game is LOT of fun. I'll need 
 a little more practice and some "Perfect Agent" time before I take on challengers via Xbox Live. 
 Honing my s (kills) for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Equality3531
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2005 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I must say.. i was very worried about the hype that this game was bringing with it... but i have 
 to say that overall.. this game turned out to much better than i was expecting. The single player 
 is okay... its much fun to play.. but the story is very uncohesive and the voice acting is absolutely 
 horrible... but overall it is a hell of a lot of fun to play. The pros outweigh the cons in the 
 single player. the mutliplayer however... is absolutely flawless... i havent played a game this 
 awesome in multiplayer since the original perfect dark (go figure) . Awesome game.. its a must buy 
 if you have a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceXdude05
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 9, 2005 11:11 am PT
Review:  Even though i dont have an xbox360 yet (I should of had one a week and a-hafl ago..... weeekly shipping?... right) 
 i own the game and i've played it at my friends house. THe gameplay is freaking awesome. The are 
 so many wepons to choose from and the fact that you can start a mission with whatever guns you 
 have used is great. The multiplayer is very entertaining especially against bots, i just love geting 
 head sniped with a p-shooter a mile away by dark agents! OMG it just looks orgasmic on my 32 inch 
 LCD TV. O yeah anyone know what that card inside the limited edition game is? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtaft
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 9, 2005 10:20 am PT
Review:  The only thing wrong with Perfect Dark Zero was that it was hyped so much it was never going to 
 live up to everybody's expectations.
  But what Rare have done is delivered us a taste of what first person's can do on Microsoft's new 
 machine.
  The Graphics are amazing you can spend hours just looking at the detailed textures, the lighting 
 is just sublime and the action, well frantic is an understatement.
  The gameplay is fantastic, the weapon's are the best in a first person shooter yet, the levels 
 are all rich in detail and scale making almost futuristic but believable worlds in which to explore.
 
  The difficulty levels are finely evened out, but the best thing about this game is the replayability.
 
  With each level ou complete you gain new weapons which you can go back to levels you have already 
 completed and use them in a new and more explosive way.
  But we save the best for last..... THE MULITPLAYER.
  If you xbox live this is the game that everyone 
 will be playing it is simply to good and in ways eclipses even Halo 2. It also has a great co-op 
 over split screen or live.
  So to sum up a massive solo campaign and a endless mulitplayer means this is the number one shooter 
 to get and will be untill a certain person going by Master Chief comes along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAMFactor
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:56 am PT
Review:  This is a good game, but not as good as other 360 launch titles, and definitely not as good as 
 all the hype would suggest. I was disappointed. 
  I will start with the negatives about the game, and then go over the positives. For one thing, 
 it's VERY short. I can't remember ever finishing a game that fast before, and short games are a 
 real pet peeve of mine considering the price tag of games these days. Expect to get 9-14 hours 
 out of storyline mode depending on your ability level. Unacceptable for a $50 game (and, cringe, 
 I bought the $60 collector's edition because of the hype...) . Second, the graphics are excellent 
 most of the time, but I encountered 2 instances of a choppy effect where the background was cut 
 off and there was a big old hunk of plain blue screen. I expect more from a next-gen game. Third, 
 the storyline was corny and poorly written and not engaging at all. It's hard to even care about 
 what happens to the characters. Finally, the gameplay tends to be repetitive. Waves of bad guys 
 shooting at you, over and over again, with an occasional lock to pick thrown in. Now for the positives 
 of the game. The enviroments are varied and beautiful, and I enjoyed playing through the different 
 and interesting areas. The graphics look great, most of the time. The gameplay is enjoyable, albeit 
 repetitive. I would recommend buying this launch title but only after buying Condemned: Criminal 
 Origins first - it was a far, far better game if you want to shoot at people. Perfect Dark Zero 
 is one of the most overrated games ever. Note about my attributes: these scores (for example: graphics) 
 are as compared to other 360 games, so oranges are being compared with oranges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bomber_8013
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:11 pm PT
Review:  no offense but i think you people arent that smart. now i havent personally played this game but 
 from what ive seen its just like the original. now i dont know about yall but im not gonna pay 
 50 bucks 4 sometin thats not even better han the original. and how dare you reviewers compare it 
 to halo 1. halo 1 in my opinion still has the best single player ive ever seen. the only reason 
 y Perfect Dark is better than the original is the graphics. i know graphics are kool and all but 
 for someone like me that doesnt even have an hdtv it doesnt really matter. in my opinion Perfect 
 Dark was seriously overated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2005 7:20 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I loved this game., and I continue to play it on Live. It has much of the feal Perfect 
 Dark and Goldeney on the N64 had. (It even has the same bullet ricocchet sounds.) This game is 
 beautiful, and colorful. Not in a realistic sense, but non the less they mad a good decision. 
 
  
  The gameplay is solid, not quite as good as Halo, but solid. The sound is also great. I couldnt 
 stop playing it. There are many different guns and gadgets to you use. You can play a level and 
 then play it again with a completely different strategy. So the replay level of this game can very 
 depending on how you look at it. there are different stages of difficulty depending on your skill, 
 so it wont be easy if you shoose wisely.
  
  The best part of this game, is coop mode. I dont know why all fps dont have this. It integrates 
 another level of fun. Just get this game. You wont be dissapointed. You need somethingt to entertain 
 you before halo 3 or gears of war comes out anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bedoo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2005 10:15 am PT
Review:  its a great game and just perfect if u have 360 you must try it and just cool game i think this 
 game come after halo 2
  of course but any budy say this is a crapy game ithink he dosent love firs person shooter and also 
 he dosent know how 2 review a games and agin just perfect . and the muliplayer is sooooooo gooooooooooood 
 that i think its the first game thats you can play 32 players in one battle : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) 
 : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) THANKS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSwampy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 8, 2005 6:24 am PT
Review:  I'm going to start with the things that annoy me first.
  
  The story is rubbish, the worst I've seen in a game for many years, it's like they didn't even 
 try. 
  
  The voice acting is terrible, whoever hired the actors to do the voices should be fired as he was 
 having a laugh. They are annoying and sound like they belong on a episode of Power Puff girls, 
 not a spy game. 
  
  The enemy A. I is garbage, they have been programmed with the intelligence of a peanut. Forget trying 
 to do a level stealthy. Even if you cap a guy with a silenced pistol his friends magically spot 
 you hiding behind a wall and open fire. 
  
  And every enemy wears armour which means that they soak up a load of bullets, a silenced head shot 
 results in his helmet being shot off but he lives and calls in reinforcements. Like I said the 
 stealth in this game is broken, it does not work. Every level becomes a shoot out, this is not 
 what Perfect Dark should be.
  
  The Graphics are nice but to keep the frame rate up at certain points V scan gets turned off. This 
 results in screen tearing which spoils the look of the game. The textures are way to shiny and 
 characters are quite ugly and are animated unrealistically.
  
  The level design is just bad, I'll use the Jungle level as a example. This level looks great but 
 you can't see the enemies for all the foliage. The only way to do this level is to equip your RC-90 
 and use its infrared mode to spot people, This results in most of the level being played with a 
 red screen which is silly as the level looks nice but it's very hard to see where you should be 
 going. 
  
  Other levels are so badly designed you end up not having a clue where you are going and have to 
 turn on those annoying waypoint markers that hold your hand and tell you exactly where to go. 
 
  
  Some of the levels are short, I think level 4 must be the shortest level ever made in a game. You 
 go up to the front door of the mansion, go inside and fight a boss that's it. It would take you 
 thirty seconds to walk the whole level if you forgot about killing people. Also not enough levels, 
 13 is a joke when the previous games offered twenty levels + extra levels for completing different 
 difficulties. There are really only 12 in this game as the last level is just a boss fight.
  
  I've complained enough about the bad now on to the good.
  
  The Guns, these are some of 
 the very best I've ever seen in a game. They are just fun to shoot and are animated beautifully 
 with great reload animations textures and lighting. most of them have secondary modes which allow 
 for such things as cloaking, night vision, infrared, added silencers, grenade launchers, flash 
 light, plus many more. The guns are the star of this game by a mile. My only gripe is you have 
 to reload to often which leaves you open for attack.
  
  The Graphics, although the textures are weird and the animation of characters a bit stiff, the 
 graphics still look really nice, great lighting on every thing, large levels that are really impressive 
 in there scale. Not the best graphics out of the launch games but still a very good looking game 
 that can't be done on any other console or most PC, s.
  
  The Music and sound effects are great, the music fits perfectly, Rare decided to use dance tunes 
 that really fit the game, even the African level has Middle Eastern music mixed with a bit of modern 
 stuff, it sounds really good. The sound effects are great, guns are loud and sound authentic and 
 even though tey can get annoying, characters have loads of one liners they throw at you which keeps 
 things interesting.
  
  Multi player is great, you can go online for lag free gaming and play loads of different modes, 
 team games, death match, CTF, and counter strike style Dark ops. You can also play with a friend 
 and do the single player game in co op on one console or take it online to play it through with 
 a friend.
  
  Mission objectives change depending on the difficulty you play on, this adds a lot of replay value 
 and keeps the single player game interesting after you've completed it. And unlocking guns to use 
 in any level is good but I would have liked there to be more things to unlock.
  
  Even with all its faults this is still a fun game with good replay value. I criticize it a lot 
 because it's the sequel to in my opinion the best FPS games ever made, Goldeneye and Perfect Dark. 
 
  
  It falls short of those games in many areas but it's still good enough to warrant purchase if you're 
 a fan of those games or just want a decent FPS, Just don't compare it to Perfect Dark or Goldeneye 
 to much or you'll be disappointed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rezlow
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 8, 2005 5:50 am PT
Review:  First off let me write an expression for all of you.
  
  Next Gen Console =/= Next Gen Graphics
  
  There is much more that this processor-powerhouse 
 named 360 can and will do that is not directly related to pretty pictures. Better AI, voice-syncing, 
 fewer graphical glitches, smoother animation, more responsive controls...
  
  Also, Rare has always had their own artistic direction with in game graphics. Some appreciate it, 
 some don't; I like it. CoD2 gives me gritty, PDZ gives me fun.
  
  There _is_ a noticable difference is graphical quality between campaign and Live. But with the 
 people I've played online with, I haven't noticed to distraction, it's just been fun.
  
  I also like the way the majority of the achievements unlock through multiplayer play. This is where 
 the game is the most fun. Think of the story as a long tutorial.
  
  One more big feature: Co-op on Live! Chaos Theory did this, and I plan to check it out with my 
 360. This is the multiplayer that I like. Two players against the machine. ;)
  
  This is the only launch title I've bought, for what it's worth.
  
  So what are you waiting 
 for? I can always use another team mate against Datadyne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catherinebryant
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 7, 2005 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I know al lot of people out there are ganna be pissed at me for writting this but PDZ for me just 
 isn't that great. For me the game was extremely easy even on the higher difficulty settings. The 
 entire weopon slot system seems a little weird but that didn't bother me too much. The vehicles 
 were very unsatisfying, and sorry to say this but the story is terrible, you have to at least agree 
 with me on that. Yes the graphics are really great, and the multiplayer is better than others. 
 But all in all this game really didn't deliver what I was expecting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbx4ever
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 7, 2005 8:40 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long time coming but PDZ was definately worth the wait. The game-play is more along 
 the lines of the original PD or Goldeneye then say a Halo or Half Life2, and I think that's why 
 a lot of people have been bashing it. The single player experience is deep and varied with a huge 
 amount of weapons and gadgets at your disposal. The A. I is oldschool but def challenging on anything 
 other then the Agent difficulty setting. The only negative thing I have to say about the single 
 player is the fact that the story is a touch weak. Tthe style in which they provide the cutscenes 
 combined with the old school structure of the missions make it difficult to get emmersed into the 
 story but that doesn't mean it's not enjoyable. The controls are super tight, the audio and visuals 
 through the roof, and there's enough variety to keep it interesting from start to finish. 
  
  As good as the single player is, the multiplayer blows it away. This is hands down the most 
 complete multiplayer console game to date. Yes, it's got more depth then even the mighty Halo2. 
 You've got online and offline co-op, Deathmatch, and even objective based modes. You can play with 
 up to 32 playes online, and even include bots in your online or offline modes. The game only features 
 2 multiplayer vehicles but I'm sure there will be more to come via Xbox live marketplace. Overall 
 this is a great game and the first must have game for any Xbox 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notetoself1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 7, 2005 3:49 pm PT
Review:  wen i first popped this game in i thought it was amazing, then when i started playing it got a 
 little annoying. All the guys are like the exact same person and they have the same expressions 
 on their faces. Then in some levels you go up against these girls that just happen to all be twins, 
 all 30 of them, and it just doesnt feel next gen. Its cool wen you shoot somebody and you see their 
 armor cum off and blood splatter on bullet contact, but thats all thats cool. load times are a 
 little long for next gen i thought also. Its just an average game at best. Single player mode just 
 isnt that great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurky
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 7, 2005 10:47 am PT
Review:  i think that if u liked the original on the N64, then you will be pleasantly surprised and happy 
 with this title. the graphics are unbelievable along with the gameplay and sound. the game's mission 
 or story mode is pretty good and rather long enough to keep you very entertained. as for multiplayer 
 you can spend countless number of hours playing against other bots like in the original. multiplayer 
 is great and the maps are gorgeous with great guns and selectible options. def must have title 
 for the early months of the 360.
  right now on this site it is the highest rated game for the system and rightly so.... the prices 
 are insanely high on all the new games but you have to buy at least one till or for christmas then 
 get this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FartSlash
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:29 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is a pretty cool game overall. It has some pretty neat weaponry, a pretty solid 
 multiplayer, and a somewhat lengthy campaign. 
  
  Graphics- They look ok, but some of the characters look pretty bad up close. This is definitely 
 a game that should be played in high def. I have seen the comparison and it adds a lot of shine 
 to the weaponry. The weapons are perhaps the coolest looking things in the game, and their are 
 plenty to choose from. My main problem with the graphics is that they do not look as good as a 
 next gen console should and the ragdoll physics are nothing more than comical.
  
  Gameplay- The game plays like most FPSs you are used to. Dual analog stick movement and zoom functions 
 are present here. I have heard many complaints with the aiming, but it is my belief that it is 
 customizable enough to make sure you reach your full potential. The cover system that the game 
 adds shows some level of innovation, but it's implementaion is at times sort of wonky. The multiplayer 
 features the standard game types like deathmatch and capture the flag with the addition of a pretty 
 fun objective based mode called Dark Ops. The game works pretty well on live and is relatively 
 lag free in my experience. They also added a dodge roll button that can quickly get you to cover 
 while keeping yourself low.
  
  Sound- As you might expect, the VA's in this game are pretty bad. They feauture everything from 
 a whiny teenage protagonist, to a man with a fake scottish accent and a kilt. I have heard much 
 worse, but I am still disappointed that the actors are so terrible. The gunshots and explosions, however, 
 are really satisfying. I love the way you can hear your bullets chewing into your targets skin, 
 very cool. The vehicles also hold up pretty well too.
  
  Overall Value- As far as Xbox 360 launch games are concerned, this is not such a bad choice. It 
 has enough to keep you busy for a solid twelve hours if you don't have live. The campaign has several 
 difficulty modes that probably wont keep you coming back to it, due to the fact that their are 
 no unlockables. If you have xbox live. this game will suit you just fine. If not, it is still a 
 pretty sound choice for your first game but don't expect anything you havent really seen before. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubino
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 7, 2005 6:33 am PT
Review:  Having never played the original Perfect Dark, I felt a little out of the loop because I had no 
 idea what to expect from this game. I owned other FPS games for N64 like Goldeneye, but I always 
 heard that this one was THE best back in the day. So needless to say I decided to buy it. The reviews 
 looked good, saying it was the best launch title. I'm not entirely positive that it is, but so 
 far I've played Condemned, Kameo, and King Kong all the way through, and based off of my own collection 
 I'd have to say I agree. The single player mode is enough to keep you busy, but I find that it's 
 a little more fun to just get online and play multiplayer that way, thanks to my free month as 
 a gold member. Multiplayer has just the normal free-for-all modes of course, but I think games 
 like Infected, where two people start off being infected with a disease and spread the disease 
 by killing the other people in the game only using pistols, is really where the multiplayer shines. 
 In conclusion, if you've just picked up your brand new Xbox 360, and thinking about which titles 
 to take home with you, don't forget this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorgMind00
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 7, 2005 2:02 am PT
Review:  This was a great launch title for the XB360. Rare had a lot to live up to with this release and 
 old fans of the series should keep that in mind while they play it. 
  Graphically, the game is impressive, the Art style I questioned a bit before getting into the game 
 but after playing it, I see how it worked out perfectly to set the mood for the world of JoAnna 
 Dark. 
  The story was great in the end, old fans will finally be treated to some gap fillers in the story 
 and new fans will like it all in all. I must admit, some of the plot twist were generic however 
 and in the end youll say, boy, I saw that coming, but its still good and funny to see it played 
 out and see that you were right
  Everything else in the game is what you expected, the controls are pretty solid, no jump button 
 though, but again, this is to be expected because neither the original or Golden Eye utilized a 
 jump button. The physics in the engine was just great and sometimes you just pray to kill an enemy 
 on the ledge of a cliff, just to see him fall. The rag doll physics are a laugh and a half. If 
 you get the chance, check out the water effects and look at an extinguished enemys body as it 
 floats on by in the water, its amazing. The soundtrack wasnt great, but it was good enough for 
 me to listen all the way through without the use of my streaming iPod [I really love that feature 
 though] . Most of the weapons were believable and their respective sounds fit in with their capabilities.
 
  My biggest and only complaint with the game has to be with the Xbox multiplayer features. The 
 CO-OP was implemented perfectly and users of XBOX LIVE will want to revisit this one again and 
 again. The Combat Arena however is a whole other story. The use of bots in the combat arena seems 
 like a logical decision at first, they fill the void of not enough players to fight and theyre 
 pretty smart [too smart sometimes] but after a while, the matches become a monotone shoot-fest 
 with no kind of strategy involve, point and click away at bot-GLACIUS [kudos to Rare on the killer 
 instincts reference by the way] and shoot away.
  To sum it all up, the purchase was worth it, great game, lots of replay value; the online could 
 have been implemented a bit better though.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exchros
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:39 pm PT
Review:  A nicely made game, beautiful graphics, the people in it could have had some work. The first time 
 i tried it out at future shop, i was amazed by the graphics of the surrounding and the guns. The 
 character graphics are alright, could have been better especially for a long waited game. The first 
 time i played perfect dark, it was the best game (while it lasted) . A new episode was great, lots 
 of guns to play around with and nice co-op. A really fun game a good starter for the xbox 360. 
 Its addictive if you really get into it. Espacially alone (or with a friend and no one else at 
 home) , it makes a great game to keep at home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IloveGodcards
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2005 4:42 pm PT
Review:  This is the next big hit right before Call of duty 2. Not only does it introduces you to next generation 
 graphics but it also has a great game play. This first person shooter game introduces you to high 
 tech weaponry and great sorroundings. The story is pretty good and the only thing its missing is 
 better sound. Dont get me wrong, it has the graphics, the gameplay, and value, but it is just miissing 
 the sound. They could of done much better work with the sound. This game is need to own game for 
 the xbox 360 fans. I reccomand you buying this game for yourself or friend or family for the holidays. 
 whatever you do, do not buy King Kong, that game is just retarded, its  
 Have a good day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mullen1200
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Im mostly focusing on multiplayer. I really believe the game was much more geared toward multiplayer 
 gameplay rather then single player. The plot is pretty weak, but it does make sense and it doesnt 
 really matter anyways. The graphics ARE good but they dont compare to games like king kong that 
 were made to look insanely good. They relaly kept the game balanced. The various multiplayer modes 
 include infection, onslaught (one defending, 1 attacking at a disadvantage) , deathmatch with respawn, 
 eradication (deathmatch without respawn. AKA rounds) , destroy enemy objective type of game, and 
 maybe more, I cant really think off the top of my head right now. OH yeah, it also includes coop. 
 I do like this because they work you into an alternative character, sometimes unimportant characters, 
 somethings main players. If you play with people you like online and love to socialize and work 
 as a team in multiplayer, then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReaLity81
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 6, 2005 4:09 am PT
Review:  Ive played Halo 1&2 for the original xbox and Ill start out by saying that this is no Halo.
 
  
  The gameplay: Ive just played 2 hours or so into the campaign mode, and to me its fairly repetetive. 
 You follow the blue arrows, blasting your way through enemies, lockpicking doors until you reach 
 the end of that level. Thats how you play most Fps however im finding myself just playing to see 
 whats coming behind the corner, not really enjoying the moment. Dont get me wrong its not a bad 
 game at all, but its nothing that I havent done before. The good part of this game are the guns, 
 they are pretty cool with the sniping features, you can make headshots with even your gun! You 
 can also take cover behind corners, the enemy cant see you but you see them and as they close up, 
 you fire at them giving them a surprise! But common Rare, you cannot jump in this game. All FPS 
 you should be able to jump i do not think this was a good move, instead you can roll to evade bullets, 
 its a cool feature but i would prefer jumping over it. My conclusion about the singleplayer campaign 
 so far into the game, dont expect this one to blow you away, it is a good FPS but its not as good 
 as Call of duty 2 or Halo 1&2. A good example of a good FPS campaign should be F. E. A. R for the 
 PC. This game brings nothing new to the scene, she has her gadgets and so but so does Sam fischer 
 in Splinter Cell
  
  The Graphics:
  I have not yet been able to seen this game in HD resolutions and i would expect this game to shine 
 more. It is a significant step up from the Xbox, but if you have a computer with an 6800 or eqvalent 
 graphicscard, its not that impressive as the games are up to par with most new games to PC. Ill 
 grade it.
  PDZ for 360, F. E. A. R for pc, COD2 for pc&360, HALO2 for xbox, . FAR CRY for pc.1-5 with 1 having 
 the best graphics
  
  1. F. E. A. R
  2. COD 2
  3. PDZ
  4. FAR CRY
  5. HALO2
  
  note that this is not based on any technical parts of the game just my opinion. I am not to fond 
 of the characters having a cartoon style, or anime style. I prefer as realistic as it gets. the 
 strong parts of the graphics in this game is the specular lights and ligtning effects. It seems 
 that Rare has tried really hard to make this game looking glossy, asfalts shine, walls shine, everything 
 sparkles and it looks pretty unnatural to me but it does look nice anyway. The models doesnt look 
 all that good and even games like Half life 2 look more next gen compared to this title when looking 
 at models.
  conclusion about graphics:
  Its a step up from xbox but on par with modern games on PC, If you play modern Pc games you wont 
 be impressed, if you have an HDTV then again you probably would be impressed, but thats playing 
 a big screen with high resolution, to me thats doesnt compliment the game as much, but more to 
 the xbox 360 capable of displaying those resolutions.
  
  Sound:
  It supports DD 5.1 and it works very well, making you feel more into the game, but i cant stand 
 the mission assistant, she sounds really out of place. But thats my only complaint. I love that 
 you can use your own mp3s on a computer, streaming it from a Pc.
  
  Controls:
  pretty intuitive. You pick up the controller and it works similar to Halo. But you have two more 
 L and R buttons. You roll and use secondary fire with them, I love the xbox 360 controller. It 
 feels good and the buttons are well placed and this game uses it very well, my only complaint is 
 the meele attack when you press the button it isnt very responsive. I find myself pressing it twice.
 
  
  Multiplayer:
  Once you have played through the campaign i doubt i will replay it ever again, you will enjoy playing 
 the multiplayer as its more fun than the campaign. You can play against other players over xbox 
 live, or with friends in a Lan via systemlink or go splitscreen. You can even play alone vs bots, 
 the bots are really though at the hardest settings and makes it challenging. it has two categories, 
 Deathmatch and Darkops, Deathmatch is basic shoot to kill but darkops is very fun and you who have 
 played Cs will like this, you but weapons for cash and you either wipe out the other team, if you 
 die you will spectate untill the round is over, there are lots of other modes as well for you to 
 explore. This game is the one to play until Halo 3 comes out if you like multiplayer action, i 
 like it but i still take Halo 2 over it. My complaint here would be that it only ships with 6 maps, 
 thats way to low. But other than that, get some friends togheter either via live or invite them 
 over bringing their boxes just as you did with halo 1, and you will have some fun hours ahead!
 
  
  Next Gen:
  I would rate this game, placing it just about this gen. I dont find this to be next gen, not by 
 graphics, not by gameplay. Xbox live does make it go a little next gen but thats not enough.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whalenapp81
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 11:09 pm PT
Review:  perfect dark is a great game, it oozes style from the very minute u begin playing, overall it has 
 great grahpics, but in some of the textures u can def see where this has transitioned from one 
 system to the next (n64, gamecube, xbox) , and the physics engine does a nice job of flying bodies 
 around, though when characters r walking they often look like they r sliding, sound is top notch, 
 esp if u take the time to listen to all the voices and announcers, u catch tipbits of humor, voices 
 though can be hokie and very sterotyped (i. e. asian voices) , mutliplayer is fun, ur standard fps 
 fare, with what u would expect, when playing online i occasionally noticed framerate drops and 
 glitches, perfect dark has a good amount of unlockables, and various diffuclties, overall i really 
 enjoyed playing this game and would recommend buying it, my major gripe being that it seemed that 
 it could've used a little more polish, perfect dark is "perfect" for anybody who loves fps and 
 has an xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perryjd1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:41 pm PT
Review:  i have tried to like this game, i just cant. it has some great looking levels and the techno music 
 is really good (would maybe even consider getting it on cd) - but the game is lame. The characters 
 look like old gen rehashes, and the controls are wierd - they just seem off. I also noticed some 
 graphical glitches, - halo2 looks better overall on the 360 then this game... an ok shooter if 
 you need one, and if you need one - i suggest either call of duty 2, or quake 4 ( which comes with 
 quake 2 for free) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjj2003
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2005 7:17 pm PT
Review:  When a game is announced for both the PC and consoles, the question always arises about what's 
 different between the two versions. Did any compromises have to be made on one platform or the 
 other? Did something get lost in translation? As it turns out, the recent release of Call of Duty 
 2 on the PC turned out to be a very accurate preview of what Xbox 360 owners could expect to get 
 from next-generation shooters. Almost everything that makes the PC version one of the year's best 
 shooters remains intact on the Xbox 360 version of the game, which looks just as good and actually 
 runs smoother than all but the most beastly of gaming PCs. If not for the online multiplayer that's 
 limited to eight players, the Xbox 360 version probably would have been hands-down better overall. 
 But as it is, Call of Duty 2 still sets a high standard for any shooters following in its footsteps 
 on Microsoft's new console, and it's considerably faster, prettier, and more exciting than most 
 any other shooter available on consoles. 
  
  
  Call of Duty 2 sets the bar high for Xbox 360 first-person shooters. 
  As in the first PC game, 
 Call of Duty 2's campaign will put you in the shoes of a few different soldiers fighting for different 
 Allied factions. You start off as a private in the Russian army, visciously fighting off the invading 
 Germans in Moscow and Stalingrad. The British campaign is unlocked after beating the first Russian 
 mission. For most of these missions you'll be fighting in the sand-swept deserts of North Africa, 
 alongside the Desert Rats, against Field Marshal Rommel's troops. The final mission in the British 
 campaign sends you to the bombed-out houses and hedgerows of Caen, France. After you're done with 
 that, you'll play as an American corporal in Europe. Yes, you will be doing a D-Day landing, but 
 not on Omaha Beach or Utah Beach, which you've probably played several times before. Instead, you'll 
 be scaling the sheer cliffs of Pointe du Hoc as artillery with the Army Rangers. If you already 
 thought rock climbing was an "extreme" sport, try doing it with artillery and machine-gun fire 
 raining down on you. 
  
  Each of the game's 10 missions is broken up into a few different stages. If you play the game on 
 regular difficulty, you could blow through it in about 10 hours. Ratcheting up the difficulty a 
 notch makes the game much harder and more tactical (this is probably the experience the designers 
 intended) . Since you'll be creeping and peeking more carefully through all the encounters, you'll 
 lengthen the campaign significantly, and you'll enjoy it more. 
  
  Breaking up the campaign into several different narrative vignettes arguably weakens the impact 
 of the plot as a whole, although that was never the strength of Call of Duty in the first place. 
 What this does is let the designers put you in a lot of different, interesting situations. One 
 memorable moment in the Russian campaign has you crawling through a raised pipeline to sneak behind 
 German lines and into a fortified factory building. As you make your way through the pipeline, 
 you'll spot and snipe small pockets of German infantry through holes in the pipe. When they fire 
 back up at you, you'll notice bullets tearing through the rusted pipe, ripping open holes for shafts 
 of light to poke through. It's a thrilling effect. 
  
  You'll also get quite a rush from both participating in and defending against all-out infantry 
 charges across open city squares in Stalingrad. But just as the novelty of these wears off, you're 
 shunted over to the British campaign in North Africa, where you'll do things like participate in 
 night raids of small Tunisian towns, climb up to the top of spires to call in artillery on enemy 
 tanks, and even drive a tank yourself. The American campaign has its own memorable moments, like 
 scaling the cliffs of Pointe du Hoc, or sniping at German mortar crews from the top of a grain 
 silo. The game paces itself so that you're always on your toes, and you'll find yourself switching 
 back and forth almost constantly from an offensive position to making a defensive stand against 
 counterattacks on the objective you've just captured. Yes, at the end of the day you're still just 
 shooting a lot of Nazis, but the constantly varying contexts of how and why you're doing it keep 
 the game compelling from start to finish. 
  
  
  Massive amounts of infantry can populate the battlefield. 
  You won't be participating in these 
 forays alone; far from it. In every setting you'll be surrounded by what seems like dozens of soldiers, 
 both friends and foes, who move and act in a realistic fashion. Lots of your artificially intelligent 
 mates will die by your side, along with the dozens of enemy soldiers you kill, but more will come 
 in from the rear echelons to take their place. The designers often do a good job of reminding you 
 that the war isn't just the infantry skirmish in which you're fighting. From time to time you'll 
 see planes engaged in dogfights flying overhead, or when you complete an objective of capturing 
 a German harbor, you'll call in a naval strike and see enemy merchant ships being sunk at the docks. 
 
  
  In each confrontation, you'll find yourself setting up at logical stopping points to exchange fire 
 with German resistance. You can snipe dozens of enemies out of the windows and from the trenches 
 in front of a house, for example, but reinforcements replace them. It never feels as though the 
 game is cheaply spawning in more fodder for you; it just does a great job of making you feel like 
 there are a realistic number of soldiers holed up in a building. You need to get a feel for the 
 flow of each pitched battle, and this can be done by advancing your line when the enemy ranks look 
 thin enough, and then breaking into the house or bunker. Your allies will follow you in and help 
 you clear out the objective. Of course, if you're too meek at attacking and pressing your advantage, 
 the enemy AI is wily and aggressive enough to take charge. They're not afraid to pour fire on your 
 position and toss tons of grenades at you. Thankfully, a handy grenade danger indicator lets you 
 know when and where you have to scurry away from an impending blast. When you do die, the game 
 reloads very quickly, and you're even treated to a quote about war from various historical figures. 
 One that sticks out in our minds is an ironic one from Solomon Short: "The only winner in the War 
 of 1812 was Tchaikovsky." 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mustang93302
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  this game reminds me when i got the first xbox and playing the first halo . i was just in awe wih 
 halo and with perfect dark zero i get the same feeling. half the time i played the game my mouth 
 wide open and i was just stunned how awesome this game is. the graphics r the best yet on any console 
 and almost as good if not equal to, say doom or riddick on the pc. and perfect dark zero is a launch 
 game i cant wait to see the games comin later. the graphics r goin be crazy. the sound is very 
 nice, guns sound awesome, the new walter or P9P in the game is just so awesome i luv that gun. 
 the gameplay is just like halo but more solo spy style instead of tactical. and not to forget the 
 online play i got the system on the first day it was out and all i played was madden and condemned 
 i wanted to wait till winter recess so i can play perfect dark, cod2, and pgr none stop till next 
 term. but i coundnt wait till recess i started playin pdz about a week ago and i cant stop playin 
 it, the online play is so addictive and just plain awesome. i have a feeling im goin put about 
 300 hrs into the online play like i did with rainbow six and halo2. overall i think its one of 
 the best games of all time right behide the halo series and the splinter cell series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Quack_Quack
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 5, 2005 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Well, all I have to say is this game is definitely one of the best Xbox 360 launch title. For those 
 who consider themselves die-hard fan of first-person shooter should go to your nearest video game 
 store and pick up a copy right now. 
  
  - This game has every important function that makes first-person shooter games so much fun. It 
 has tight and responsive control and fast pace shooting action. However, the story is pretty weak 
 and players can easily get lost.
  
  - Perfect Dark Zero is definitely a showcase of Xbox 360's graphical power. The gun models look 
 fantastic and the background scenery look extremely realistic. I also liked the fact that there 
 is special motions blur effect when players make sharp turns. However, the character models are 
 that great when seen up close and the skin texture are a bit unrealistic.
  
  - Very satisfying gunfire sound effect and nice music. However, voice acting is a different story...
 
  
  - Multiplayer consists of standard multiplayer modes. The one that stands out the most is the cool 
 split screen and online cooperative play mode. This will most likely keep Xbox 360 owners glue 
 to their television screen for hours.
  
  Overall, this is a great game that should not be missed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockelars
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:43 am PT
Review:  Probably the best game you can for your xbox 360 at the time.
  Love the graphics and the sound are great too!
  I must say i like first person shooters better 
 when you have the opportunity
  to jump. Especially when you play multiplayer. The videos could have been better. You don't see any 
 difference on the graphics between gameplay and videos.
  The weapons in the game are fantastic and you will surely like most of them. It's a nice combination 
 of common weapons and i little more futuristic
  weapons. Only complaint is the zooming feature on some of the weapons could have been better. You 
 can't adjust the zooming as you wish.
  Its either 2x or 4x if you know what i mean. But i bet you get used to it after playing it for a 
 couple of hours.
  But overall it's a great game with plenty of fun both single player and live!
  Enjoy!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: schoeplein
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 6:38 am PT
Review:  Graphics aren't what make a game tick, but it definitely helped me trudge through this muckery 
 of a game. The guns and their abilities are swell, but you don't even need to use 80% of what is 
 in the game. Enemies are placid and boring; multiplayer seems to be just tossed in as the gameplay 
 there is sluggish and boring. What does the game do well? Level design is clever and linear (good 
 or bad, that's up to you) . The graphics of the game are stellar and breathtaking. However, as amazing 
 as the level design is -- its disgustingly repetitive and you'll find yourself at the same rocket 
 launchpad over and over and .... If anything, this game definitely does not deserve a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edward1211
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 4, 2005 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Pdz is pobably the first game you should pick up for your 360. First of all the 
  singlre player campaign is amaising and the level of detail of the gun is 
  outstanding. The 
 thing that I love the most about Pdz is the multiplayer. There 
  are alot of modes to chose from and it never gets old. The only bad part about the game is that 
 the people that your shooting at alittle bit on the ugly side but if your just looking at the guns 
 the whole time you'll be fine. Pdz is a fantastic game 
  and i will deffinatly be playing until saints row comes out or black comes out. 
  which ever 
 one comes first.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefHunter1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 5:14 pm PT
Review:  It is not quite as good as everyone was expected but it is not a letdown. The graphics are great 
 and the missions are pretty fun with many awesome features and a wide range of weaponry. It has 
 difficulty settings for the novice, intermediate, and expert players making it suitable for everyone. 
 The game has a James Bond like feel to it and will take a while to get used to if you play Halo 
 a lot (like myself) . However, it has many new features like covering and dodging bullets which 
 adds a fun element to the game. The Xbox Live multiplayer is excellent and it has its own ranked 
 games as well as custom ones you can create for both the serious and casual gamers. If you have 
 an Xbox 360 it is worth buyng this game because it is NOT $60 like some of the other games avaliable 
 and it would have been worth paying the $60 anyway. If you enjoy a fun shooter for a multiplayer 
 and want a few innovative changes, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demah
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Just like most of you I buy my games after I research about them and read the reviews on the net, 
 but I have to say that I wasn't impressed with this game at all. The graphics and the weapon's 
 models are great and so are the explosions, but there are more negatives in this game than positive. 
 First of all the enemies dont die unless they are shot in the head, and still it takes 4 or 5 
 shots in the head for them to go down. Another annoying fact of this game is that every time you 
 get shot, your character gets paralyzed and you cant move forward or turn around for about 2 seconds. 
 Most of the time you are just running around without knowing what to do until you get some sort 
 of arrows telling you where to go, and the online gaming is just a headache. For some reason you 
 get kicked out all the time before you even get to start the game, and when you go online most 
 of the people dont know what they are suppose to do or what sort of match it is. The audio is 
 also some sort of European house music. Overall I didnt have a good experience at all and I traded 
 it in after a couple of days. Youll be better off if you just rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: little_kenney13
Rating: 3.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I'll start this offf saying that the game is looks cool, and despite some things, such as faces, 
 looking kinda bad I can chalk that up to style which makes it kind of cool. Beyond that, the game 
 is pretty bad. None of the sound really fits as it goes for an almost techno feel. This may fit 
 witht he theme but once the action starts it kinda ruins the mood. And if you want something to 
 ruin the mood look at the weapons. These thing shtat are supposed to tear apart your enemy lack 
 any oomph and witht he drawn out deatha nimations it feels like your shooting rubber bands instead 
 of bullets. The few missions I ahve done are very unlinear, whihc can be a good thing, but there 
 is too much lack of direction. Now that may be my failingm but the missions were not enjoyable 
 at all. The biggest failure I saw was in the multiplayer though, as the level design and amount 
 of health people had destroyed any possible strategy. If you attempt to use cover you have no chance 
 as the enemy can just charge you and come through your fire almost unscathed, and now they get 
 an equal amount of free shots as you ahve to pop off the wall and find them. It turns into running 
 around as you shoot blindly at each other. My tip? Go pick up Call of Duty... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njnaz765
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game I really did, but I just couldn't play it. The story is unbelievably 
 ridiculous, hard to follow and uninteresting.
  
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics are pretty much standard. The player models are a bit better than xbox hardware can 
 provide, but still not so NEXT GEN looking. The only real obvious visual upgrade is the floors 
 and walls, they do look really good. Besides that, I don't see a reason that the current Xbox couldn't 
 provide the game in it's collection.
  
  SOUND
  The soundtrack is ridiculous, not in the fact that it's bad, but in the fact that it seems so out 
 of place in the game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  For a "next gen" title, the load screens are past gen quality. If a game like Halo 2 can eliminate 
 the need for load screens why does a "next gen" title need incredibly long one's? The action is 
 somewhat fluid and action packed. But the amount of regenerating baddies is absurd. Also, the hit 
 detection is garbage. I mean, You get better shot response in online play than in singleplayer. 
 Headshots rarely make a difference which will lead to a enough frustration to cause you to break 
 the game into many many pieces. The roll button is well, useless. Considering enimies never miss, 
 what's the point of rolling around like an idiot. Speaking of idiotic, why can't Joanna run, or 
 at least jog? The standard height of the player seems way to close to the ground. The vehicles 
 are sad attempts at trying to upstage Halo's vehicles, and really never seem neccesary. The guns 
 are horrible. Each weapon has strengths and weaknesses, but they all do about the same damage when 
 getting shot by enemies you can't see. The multiplayer is abysmal. Considering that the map names 
 are as exciting as, "desert" or "temple" and my favorite "old town". Cmon RARE, use some imagination. 
 The only saving grace is the cover feature. It is the most usefull skill you have.
  
  BOTTOM LINE
  Perfect dark is far from perfect, yet it doesn't deserve a zero. But gamespot is 
 insane for giving this game a 9.0. If you must rent it, but unless you have money to waste or are 
 a fanboy hellbent on this games success, than don't buy it. Pick up Call Of Duty 2 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C-o-r-e-y
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Though I wasn't able to play the whole game though considering how I was being charged 4 bucks 
 an hour to play the game, I was still able to get some good and bad information on the game.
  
  First off, you can't jump which I hate in games like those because it makes you easier to kill 
 (just trust me) . The game isn't all bad. You can hug yourself aginst the wall and pop out and shoot 
 the baddies, cameras, ect... A really cool feature is when you turn to the left or right really 
 fast. Try this, shake your head from left to right really fast and thats how it looks on PDZ.
 
  
  Since I only played about 30 minutes of it (so I could spend the next 30 playing Quake) I was very 
 dissapointed with the campaign. The first level turns out to be a training level which sucks and 
 your main enemy are spider-bots which is very gay. 
  
  I then turned my attention to Xbox Live... WOW! It was really awsome and it had some fun features 
 which I really enjoyed to play.
  
  If your in it for the story, turn away. If your in it for the Xbox Live, buy it.
  
  Grade: 
 B 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dakkon544
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2005 11:16 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was great at first. The graphics were a dissapointment but i got over that. 
 Well now that I have beat it and look at it, I just dont think its that great. The story is a joke, 
 completely unconsistant and just makes no sense. The graphics are far from what I thought was going 
 to be next gen. The multiplayer is fun online and off, and is easily the best part of the game. 
 And the co-op is entertaining as well. But I just dont see myself playing multiplayer for a long 
 time, it isnt that different from any other game. I liked the old perfect dark because even today 
 I could hook up my N64 and play for an hour or so. Oh well, even though the game was a bit of an 
 upset, I am glad i bought it for the multiplayer and co-op. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KumbackKid
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  Well what can i say about PDZ well it is surely in the top 25 greatest shooters...... but its probally 
 in the bottom of that barrel this is probally the best game for the 360 i mean its not a Halo or 
 Doom or Quake or Unreal 
  
  Its not really a killer app that the 360 needs like the original had for Halo the story plot is 
 pretty descent but my personal favorite is the online play you get 2 categories DEATHMATCH and 
 DARK OPS deathmatch is exactly what it sounds like and dark ops is all strategy and makes you think 
 My favorite game is the Dark Ops Eradication game everyone only gets one life so you have to take 
 it slow and think about what you are doing
  
  
  THE STORY of PDZ is that Johanna Dark and her father are pretty much Mercs and do whatever they 
 can for money and your first mission you have 2 rescue an inventor and all hell ensues for there 
 on
  Campaign is pretty good but the Multi player is awesome.
  
  
  
  Oh yea the sounds of the gums are also really amazing!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taishaku
Rating: 3.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 10:30 am PT
Review:  If you've ever played the original and then played this, a few things come to mind. First off, 
 it's confusing that this is a PREQUEL to the next game (Star Wars flashback) , and it's also pretty 
 sad considering the next game has more archaic weaponry (Is it me, or did the Dragon come BEFORE 
 the Superdragon?) . They have dD in this one... with some Asian guy with tubes in his brain for 
 a super bad guy (Ooooh, I'm so scared, he's going to think me to death!)
  
  Control format is the same. It's not like FF X-2 where Yuna becomes Laura Croft... (I mean there's 
 no jumping) . The new roll and peek-a-boo shot idea is nice, wish I had that in the original PD, 
 but otherwise, same ol' same ol'. Just alot of action and no aliens... darn.
  
  As for graphics... wtf happened to her hair? Joanna looked totally different in the original, I 
 know this is a "prequel," but no one turns from a red-haired bounty-hunter/super model bombshell 
 to a dark-haired (and flat) super-spy with a British accent. I've heard she even paints her fingernails 
 in this one! People also say everyone's faces look stupid when you get close to them; I agree. 
 And the giant silver gun, not practical.
  
  Sound is nice. But it doesn't beat Halo I's soundtrack... or the N64 PD's, for that matter.
  
 
  Replay Value is bad. There's no real point to replaying things. In the original N64 version, you 
 could explore the Carrington Institute and unlock Multiplayer goodies (And there are ALOT of those) 
 by shooting on the firing range or doing those challenges where you have to hide behind the wall 
 and wall-hack kill the godly AIs.
  
  I think Rare would've done better in three ways: 1) They not keep us waiting for a crappy sequel-gone-prequel 
 for 5 good years. 2) They should have stuck in more aliens and more alien-looking guns so it doesn't 
 resemble a Tom Clancy game. 3) They should've just taken the original PD, upgrade the graphics, 
 push the storyline forward and maintain the majority of the old features, and it'd be a blowout 
 3x as good as it is now because it'll actually lure some Nintendo gamers into the Microsoft market. 
 I mean seriously, you buy a company that developed Nintendo's 21st century flagship shooter, and 
 you're not exploiting it by dragging gamers into your fold? What happened to you, Microsoft?
  
  So far, Call of Duty seems the only fun shooter on 360. And when I mean fun, I mean original 
 and not mind-boggling boring... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kubrick_11442
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 26, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  pefect dark zero is a prequel to the very popular n64 game which launch the now popular franchise. In 
 perfect dark zero you once again play as joanna dark just like in the first game.
  
  The games graphics are really not very next gen especially alot of the character models which are 
 rough and seem some what rushed for a release date deadline to meet. The gameplay is truly excellent 
 especially the role move feature which is different for a 1st person shooter, and the ability to 
 cover around corners also make this different to many other first person shooters out there at 
 the moment. The sound is also excellent in this game and really helps to lift the overall quality 
 of the game. Value? The value of perfect dark depends on wether you would play multiplayer or not, 
 or use xbox live otherwise once completed i couldn't see myself rushing to pick it back up again. 
 overall perfect dark zero is a must have launch title but probably wouldn't even consider it after 
 the 360 has a stronger catalogue of titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSonic223
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 4, 2005 9:09 am PT
Review:  If you have played Perfect Dark or Goldeneye on the N64 you are going to find a lot of similarties, 
 you don't have to know anything about the previous Perfect Dark to play this. However, this game 
 takes a lot of adjusting, not only do you have to get used to using the new 360 controller with 
 this game, but the control skeme is a little bit tricky. The controls are a little bit similar 
 to Halo's on Xbox, it has a dodge button which is pretty cool and you can cover behind just about 
 anything. One thing that really upset me in this game was the fact that there was no jump button 
 like Goldeneye and Perfect Dark, but if you can get over this then you can still love the game. 
 Another thing that I like about this game is that depending on what weapon you carry that determines 
 your speed. For example if you have a pistol on hand and the other person has an M60 equpped will 
 be harder for them to catch up to you. In addittion to this if you have a rocket launcher which 
 takes up three weapon slots u only have space for a pistol or grenade which take up one weapon 
 spot. The missions are good and they can be pretty difficult playing through the game on secret 
 agent or perfect agent. I suggest that you first play through the game on agent to get the hang 
 of the control skeme. The multiplayer is great too i haven't played it online yet but I have with 
 friends and it's great. This game is for all people who love shooters therfore, it is a MUST buy 
 for anyone who has an Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moorphy
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 4, 2005 6:23 am PT
Review:  After reading the review of this game, i decided to buy perfect dark zero..... I always trusted 
 rare, they make good game. But one hour playing PD almost convices me to throw it by the window. 
 
  
  The gameplay is 10 years late, johanna is an ugly charachter (she sucks) , the story is poor, you 
 never understand what's going on. Bad guys are ridiculous, moving slowly, with no IA at all., they 
 sucks. Graphics are fair most of the time, but nothing great. I finished the game in 7 hours , 
 the end is weak, one of the weakest thing i ever seen
  
  This shooters is ugly, particulary for a so called "next generation game"...
  
  DON'T BUY IT 
 !!!!
  
  I always trusted rare, they used to make good game......
  Gamespot gave him a 9/10, that game don't deserve a 7.
  I used to trust gamespot, but no more..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tickyBIGdicky
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 4, 2005 4:36 am PT
Review:  Realistic, brilliant, unrivalled. These are the adjectives which spring to mind when you hear the 
 words "Perfect Dark Zero". The greatest FPS of all time, created by the greatest game developer 
 of all time, brought to you on the greatest games console of all time. Masterpice doesn't even 
 begin to describe it. To put things into perspective, this makes Goldeneye look like Quake 4. If 
 you don't own an XBOX 360 yet, then buy one, buy this game, and recognise.
  As soon as you take control of Joanna Dark, you realise why it was worth waiting nearly six years; 
 brilliant control, innovative weapons, with lock picking, decoding and explosives all having their 
 own challenge before being activated, and finally we have A. I which don't appear mentally retarded 
 and can actually think for themselves.
  
  I kid you not, one of the greatest games i have ever played, think halo and then some. A truly 
 orgasmic assault on the senses
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reaper2491
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 3, 2005 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Well to start the game is good and the graphics rock (but I hope they get better) but it didnt 
 seem like it was up to 360 standard. It was just small things that made me think this like the 
 fact that when you are in the jungle none of the foliage seems to notice you there. I would have 
 expected that the bullets from a RCP90 would have no problem ripping through a few plants.
  Also in the 2-player co-op J. Dark dose not ware body amour but if the other player picks it up 
 them she/he will.
  
  But the game is good but I hope that things get better from the X Box 360 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Penguin93
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:55 pm PT
Review:  This Game Was Great I Can Play It Forever. But Their Was That One Flaw That Messed Me Up In Both 
 Single Player And Multiplayer. The Melee Button. I Would Go Behind My Enemy And Then Press It And 
 It Wouldn't Work Its Not That My Controller Was Busted Its That I Had To Press It 2 or 3 Times 
 Just To Get My Character To Melee. I'am Not Sure If Any Other User That Has Played This Game Has 
 That Problem But It Happend To Me And Messed Me Up Many Times. But Other Then That I Thought It 
 Was Great!
  The Graphics Were Great! The Best Part Was The online MultiPlayer.
  Its Really Fun, If You Have A 360 I'm Sure You Own This Game And If You Some How Don't Then You 
 Must Go Out And Buy It. I Highly Recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshgarcia89
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:41 pm PT
Review:  The Online Multiplayer makes this game a must own for the xbox 360. I've played this game numerous 
 times online and I can't get enough of it. The ability to play co-op online in story mode is also 
 another reason to get this game. The online games are never laggy, the community is always nice, 
 and the game never gets boring. To me it's just like halo and halo2, but even better. You can play 
 Deathmatch and Darkops modes online. The single player mode is great, but the thing that catches 
 most gamers eyes is the online multiplayer. This game requires real skill due to the fact that 
 you don't have an auto-aim feature like halo. I would definitely recommend this game to anybody 
 who owns an xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grydeskeen2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 10:46 am PT
Review:  At first it just look like another game in a long line of mediocre first person shooters but the 
 more you play the more you realises it isnt. 
  
  The story in singleplayer aint the greatest but it doesnt suck. The AI is actualy pretty good in 
 this game you dont see any bots running into walls or anything like that. 
  
  Even thoug this the singleplayer in this game is good its realy an multiplayer game. It might not 
 be as good at game as halo but its still a good game worth the money that is if you like first 
 person shooters of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duke442games
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 2, 2005 8:29 pm PT
Review:  The playability is not only sloppy, but not up to spec with any FPS in the last 3-5 years. Oh sure, 
 you can find a worse shooter, but you really have to look hard. The only quasi redeaming factor 
 is that it allows for online co-op in story mode. This is by far the best part of the entire game. 
 Too bad the graphics are only good on first viewing, and are not good enough to make this game 
 worth the money. 
  
  This is really a sad release title, but I suppose the best time to release a crummy game is when 
 there is not alot of competition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlienGamer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2005 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game ever!!!!! Nothing best it, not even HALO!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I play this game every 
 day. ever since i got my xbox 360 at midnight on the release date. This game is so addicting and 
 you cant let go of it!!! I LOVE THIS GAME SO MUCH!!!!! THIS GAME SO MUCH!!!!! THIS GAME SO MUCH!!!!! 
 THIS GAME SO MUCH!!!!! THIS GAME SO MUCH!!!!! THIS GAME SO MUCH!!!!! THIS GAME SO MUCH!!!!! THIS 
 GAME SO MUCH!!!!! THIS GAME SO MUCH!!!!! THIS GAME SO MUCH!!!!! THIS GAME SO MUCH!!!!! THIS GAME 
 SO MUCH!!!!! THIS GAME SO MUCH!!!!! THIS GAME SO MUCH!!!!! THIS GAME SO MUCH!!!!! THIS GAME SO 
 MUCH!!!!! THIS GAME SO MUCH!!!!! THIS GAME SO MUCH!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisloos
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 2, 2005 12:38 pm PT
Review:  it has all the makings for an amazing multiplayer FPS. Great gameplay, specacular graphics, interesting 
 multiplayer maps, tons of game modes, and AMAZING weapons.
  
  The single player leaves a lot to be desired though. Voice acting? Paper thin. Interesting plot? 
 Not a chance. Cheese factor? Through the roof. Its frustrating that so many elements of this game 
 are spot on, but that so many are WAY off. 
  
  Still, this cheesyness only effects the single player, as all you supply your own plot and voice 
 during the multiplayer experience. I can still recommend this game, as long as you intend to stick 
 to multiplayer.
  
  Also, this game has the coolest intro ever! Very James Bond, very sexy, and VERY high def! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryan454
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 2, 2005 9:13 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark: Zero
  
  Mm mmm, this is the candy right here. The game EVERY body loves. I read review over review and 
 everyone had something good to say about it. But then again, why would someone wan't to say something 
 bad about this game? It's the best first person shooter out there right now and deserves a little 
 respect haha. 
  
  This game does certainly deserve a really high score. Maybe not a PERFECT score, but a high one 
 The game-play was really good i find, there where some parts where i got kinda confused on where 
 to go, but a lot of games are like that these day's, and the graphics are great but i found them 
 kinda choppy at times it's not a really bad thing but overall the graphics are Truly AMAZING.
 
  
  Reviewing wise, I read a lot of them and most people and frankly they don't really seem to know 
 what their talking about. Seem's like thier just saying what everyone else is saying. But that's 
 alright. 
  
  -Ryan Coombs
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilyoda861
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2005 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Everything in this game is just... so amazing I cant really say in words, you will just have to 
 play it for yourself and wet yourself silly. It's that great!
  
  It is everything that made PD perfect, only a new generation of Perfect! Best game ever. Joanna 
 kicked Halo2's balls and it cried and died. If you loved PD on the N64 then you will love this 
 a hundred times more. The better framerate alone is worth playing this instead of PD, but honestly 
 who can actualy physicaly stop playing PD? It may be quite old now, but it sure just doesn't feel 
 that way. Now that it has a fresh new look though it is just like being Daniel Carrington, changing 
 the world to a better place, but you didn't cure it so you have to blast a bunch of bad guys to 
 let go of some anger towards PD fanboys who just dont know a good system when they see one. cheers 
 to those who actually love PD, like I do with a passion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: divade
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2005 8:57 pm PT
Review:  In this game you take the role of joanna dark and jac. you will fight your way through a veriety 
 of differnt levels and terrains. You will be able to use wepons from high teck hand guns, ausult 
 rifles, heavy machine guns, and the 12 gauge shotgun. the game has great ragdoll physics and grat 
 sound effects. the graphics in this game are so powerful and amazing that it really makes you feel 
 like your joanna dark. this is also one of the most actioned packed game i have ever played. forget 
 about long loading signs and small skirnish battles. prepare yourself for nonstop action. If it 
 doesent sound interestng or look good go to a store and at least rent the game because no madder 
 what i know you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_Love_Shooters
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is a perfect shooter for single and multiplayer. If your in love with fps's get this 
 game now. The single player is great esspecialy its graphics amazing. The guns have amazing detail 
 and everything is great. The multiplayer is another thing it has to be one of best multiplayer 
 games iv played. You can add bots, system link, co op system link, and dark ops which is a counter 
 strike based way of playing. I think this games worth the money. get it now now now now now now 
 now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now 
 now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: circussamurai
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Holy smokes, this game rocks. I'm just happy to have lived this long, to see how far games have 
 come. I waited 8 hours in line in front of cold Wal*Mart to get this with the system, then played 
 it that day. I got no sleep, didn't shower and I was almost late for work. It was well worth it. 
 Since I'm a poor college student (no money, not bad grades) I can't afford to keep it, so it's 
 on ebay right now. Will I lose $$$ because Its a used game and system? Most likely, but that one 
 day of playing was well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karnivore67
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 1, 2005 3:41 pm PT
Review:  The game looks great: the graphics are sleek, the gameplay is crisp, and the fast-paced core action 
 of the game makes it a must-have launch title. The normal and bump mapping make the environments 
 look textured and realistic, the ragdoll and object physics give the game an odd sense of realism, 
 despite its odd, sci-fi futuristic feel. The new cover system makes the game more than just an 
 ordinary first-person shooter, and the melee system and the bullets whizzing by your head give 
 this title an Halo-esque, action-movie vibe. The environments are varied, from closed, dark corridors, 
 to bright, vast, enormous city levels. This change-up in the level layout make the game more than 
 just a run-n-gunner; it forces you to make some strategic advancements. The co-op mode lets you 
 team up with a buddy, and take on the game together, giving the game and even more strategic, double-teaming 
 edge.
  
  But with all PROS of a game, comes the CONS. The game is pretty short, and while the environments 
 are constantly varied, the game does get a repetetive curve sometimes. Alot of the enemies you 
 face are security guards. Also, some of the character models look bland up close. My biggest problem 
 with the game was really one thing -- its good, but its definitely not a next-gen title. Games like 
 BLACK are more next-gen then this, and they make better use of the tools given to them.
  
  Overall, the game is a GREAT work of art; the environments are great, and the action is fun. If 
 you're a gamer that can exuse the minor flaws and just have fun with it, this is JUST THE GAME 
 FOR YOU!
  
  Mike Ryan
  
  New Jersey
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudX90
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2005 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I dont have this game yet but i played it at ebgames for like a hour and its freakin cool. This 
 game has really good co-op and graphics for the 360 and they were right to put this on the 360 
 instead of the ps3. The story line is really good and the weapons are amazing. There are loads 
 of guns and gadgets you can use and i guarenty that this game is worth the money. GO OUT AND BY 
 THIS GAME NOW BECAUSE YOU ARE MISSING OUT ON ALL THE COOL STUFF IN THIS AWESOME GAME DUDE!!!!!! 
 G E T I T N O W O R Y O U W A S T E T H E U L T I M A T E G A M E E X P I E R I E N C E O N M A 
 D D E N 0 6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebiddybop
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  first off I would like to say that "rare" has proven to me that they are a great game company. 
 Every game that I can remember that I gotten under "rare" was a great game. (goldeneye, perfect 
 dark, killer instinct)
  
  GAMEPLAY : reminded me of the fun times when I played goldeneye on n64, and of my first days of 
 playing halo. this game is just plain fun. my only problem is that there is no jump button, but 
 other then that the game is great. The game has jetpacks, ziplines, and a "cover" feature to make 
 up for the lack of jump. 
  
  GRAPHICS : the graphics are good but not great. they look like really good "chronicles of riddick" 
 type graphics but without the glitching and slow framerate. The characters all look like they have 
 a plasticy clay feel to them but so does the atmosphere around you so it balances out and makes 
 you feel like your in a unique world.
  
  SOUND : the sound is classic bond'ish type music. the bullets reflect off of surfaces and sound 
 great as they dangle between objects. enemies tell each other when your reloading and interact 
 with you. you can even choose to talk back in certain situations and choose your response. the 
 sound is exactly what you should expect from a next gen game.
  
  VALUE : this game has great replay value as you can try to beat the game on harder difficulties 
 and even play through the game on co-op with a friend. the game is xbox live capatable and has 
 great multi-player matches to keep you as busy as goldeneye kept you back in the day, and I'm sure 
 'rare' will release more options online as well.
  
  MY TILT : I loved the game and I'm glad I payed 70$ to buy it. It's well worth the money. If I 
 didnt buy the game then I would have spent hundreds on renting it. I got the special edition and 
 I love the case. I'm glad I got this collectors. If you don't get the special edition then no worries, 
 you'll still get the same great game.
  
  this game has a "locktipus" on me.
  
  Joe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donalbane
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2005 10:06 am PT
Review:  Let it first be stated that I am a huge fan of the original Perfect Dark, as well as it's predecessor, 
 Goldeneye. Before these games came out, console gamers had to contend with poor control schemes 
 that shoddily approximated the superior FPS experience already enjoyed by millions of PC FPS fans. 
 These two N64 games from Rare proved, really for the first time, that an FPS could be done right 
 on consoles... a tradition Halo continued during the launch of the original Xbox. It makes sense 
 that Microsoft wanted a partnership with Rare, because they have always made excellent shooters, 
 and Perfect Dark Zero is no exception, despite the barrage of rumors to the contrary. Gamespot's 
 review understandably glanced over the differences and similarities between the Perfect Dark and 
 Halo games, but let's look at them here a bit, shall we?
  While Halo succeeded in accomodating console controls with it's slowed down movement and aiming 
 rates, Rare found a different solution to the controler problem than Bungie did... one that focuses 
 more on zoomed, percision aiming and accuracy (as opposed to Halos 'spray and pray,' auto-aimed 
 approach.) Perfect Dark Zero plays like an enhanced version of the original's gameplay, which is 
 a good thing. They kept the basic formula similar to the N64 games, but added some new moves and 
 slick graphics that keep Perfect Dark Zero from feeling stale.
  
  Gameplay
  In this reviewers opinion, Rare handles FPS controls for consoles better than anyone, including 
 the great Halo, which feels sluggish and innacurate by comparison. Not much has changed here control 
 wise from the days of Goldeneye, which fans will be immediately thankful for. The feeling of getting 
 a successful headshot from a concealed position is really hard to beat, and there's a definate 
 emphasis on aiming for specific parts of your target... usually their head. The weapons are numerous, 
 and for the most part excellent in terms of their power and percision. Secondary, and occasionally 
 tertiary firing modes really spice things up and allow for players to pick a style of play based 
 on their favorite weapons. Dual wielding is also back, thankfully, although doing so comes at the 
 expense of your secondary fire and aiming features. 
  The new combat roll and cover moves are new to the series, and both add a defensive element to 
 gameplay that was lacking in previous iterations. The roll manuever is helpful in avoiding turret 
 and small arms fire, and works wonderfully as a means of getting out of trouble in a hurry. Cover 
 works equally well, and allows players to aim while keeping safe. While this might seem cheap or 
 unfair to some, it does allow the game to put players in more heated situations than the earlier 
 Rare shooters did, and I therefore applaud it's inclusion. In addition to the defensive moves, 
 players can now sprint when unarmed, which is a nice tradeoff. Finally, unarmed characters can 
 both disarm enemies, as well as influence the occasional unsuspecting gaurds. None of the new features 
 get in the way of Rare's good old rock-solid FPS gameplay, and allow the series to evolve without 
 changing the core shooting elements that fans have come to revere.
  Singleplayer missions are a blast, and are widely varied in terms of what they ask of you. The 
 ability to play co-operateively is a welcome addition as well, and you can tell Rare really took 
 the time to differentiate the missions from the singleplayer game by adding cooperative objectives. 
 Use of gadgets is well implemented, and the game lets you choose your gadget/weapon loadout at 
 the beginning of each mission to allow the player some freedom regarding how they wish to tackle 
 the objectives. Multiplayer is also well done, and many game modes are included which approximate 
 those found in popular online shooters like Day of Defeat and Counterstrike. Other unique game 
 modes are included, making this the most robust online experience available to 360 FPS fans.
  Another neat thing about Perfect Dark Zero is the fact that harder missions reward players with 
 more objectives. It's not as though ramping up the difficulty merely makes baddies tougher, the 
 game actually adds things for you to do with each level of difficulty. Therefore, the only way 
 to see everything the designers put into the game is to play on the hardest difficulty, which is 
 a compelling reason to give it a try. It's the only setting I play on, and it's certainly a challenge, 
 albiet a rewarding one.
  
  Graphics
  Wow! After all the rumors that Perfect Dark Zero wasn't coming together graphically, it sure was 
 a relief when I fired it up on lauch day and was rewarded with some of the most stylized, beautiful 
 eye candy I've ever seen anywhere. It is important to note, however, that the game doesn't attempt 
 to be realistic in appearence. The characters look like cartoon action figures, not the ultra real 
 models found in games like Call of Duty 2. Nontheless, the game has style and polish dripping from 
 every nook and cranny. You can really see the level of detail Rare included into all facets of 
 the game's appearence, which was no doubt facilitated by the games 6 year 
  
  Sound
  The soundtrack really stands out in Perfect Dark Zero. It's a mixture of classic Bond spy music 
 and modern electronica, and it enhances the actiont terrificly. The sound effects and voice acting 
 are also well done, but it's the score that will stick with you most of all. Really top drawer 
 material. 
  
  Story
  The story is pretty standard cloak and dagger fare... although it is exciting for fans of the N64 
 classic to see Joanna's origins as a spy. As I have not completed the game, I can't comment beyond 
 the 1st few levels, which set the stage nicely for Jo's evolution into a super badass. Perhaps 
 I will come back and update this section upon completion of the singleplayer campaign... on Perfect 
 difficulty, of course! 
  
  So if you have been on the fence, don't be... Perfect Dark Zero is an amazing accomplishment that 
 will be fondly remembered for years to come. I honestly can't believe how good it turned out after 
 hearing all the negative comments made about it during it's numerous previews at various gaming 
 expositions. Make no mistake... this game is NOT like Halo. It is more of a finesse sort of affair 
 that will demand more percision than console shooter fans are perhaps accustomed to. That being 
 said, the game will push you to improve your skills as a gamer along the same lines as Ninja Gaiden, 
 which was challenging, yet ultimately rewarding. Impatient gamers looking to blow through the game 
 as quickly as possible perhaps won't find themselves liking this game, which puts story on the 
 back burner. This game is all about action, not storytelling. Shooter fans with a modicum of patience 
 and the desire to become better gamers will not be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2005 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Perfect dark zero is a great game. It has some of the best graphics i have ever seen. I really 
 like the aiming, it is smooth and feels right. This game really reminded me of james bond games, 
 the classics like goldeneye. PDZ0 reallys plays well, it never gets to caught up in the plot but 
 doesnt abandon it either, The levels are entertaining and fun to play. I also like the online play 
 its pretty fun. Overall i would give this a 9.6 and would say its highly reccomended for anyone 
 wanting a good game for there 360. I think it will be the xbox 360 game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dussk
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I waited in line all night for the 360 about a week ago. I decided to buy PDZ because every one 
 of the Best Buy employees said it was excellent and was worth buying. I began to play it with a 
 very open, excited mind and came to realixe it was a good game, but thats about it... I played through 
 its simple single player missions and although very impressed with the graphics was dissapointed 
 in the story and actaul gameplay. It is by no means the next "Halo" and should not in my eyes be 
 called "great". The movement is a little sluggish and the blure effect is pointless. Online is 
 very fun and should be played by all 360 owners, but PDZ isnt what it was cracked up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:28 am PT
Review:  Updated: This game is pure gold. Halo 2 is a wet dream, PDZ is a fiery red head with DD's whos 
 like "take me, I'm yours". Really, this game makes me go "Halo what"?
  
  Pros- All pros here. At first, I hated the roll that replaced "jump" in this game. Now, I wonder 
 why no one has done this before. It keeps bunny hoppers at bay, while adding a much needed strategy 
 to the "shoot and hope I kill" mentallity of FPSs. The weapons are wide ranged and attractively 
 modelled . The charector designs are both stunning and original in appearance. The "evil corporation 
 is taking over the world" scenario is very cool, and a very realistic. Many dis the story, mostly 
 because they are too thick headed to even come close to understanding it. The story is based on 
 a popular conspiracy theorey of corporations gaining so much power, they actually have the ability 
 to wage war. Yea, crazy huh. What if Wal Mart had an army??? lol. But the real touch here, just 
 like an FPS game, is it's multiplayer. There are jet packs/mech walkers and giant hover crafts. 
 There are Dark Ops, which is like Sci-Fi Counter Strike (awesome) . There are the most intense Death 
 Match games, mostly due to level design. The levels and respawning is designed in such a way to 
 make battles disperse more, rather then gamers rushing to the same spot over and over. This game 
 is truely brilliant, and brings you into the next gen in both graphics and outstanding game play. 
 Also, I'm very impressed in the games lack of lag online.
  
  Cons- I would say jump, but now that I've got used to the roll, I don't miss jump at all. There 
 are occasional frame rate drops, but they are so minor and far inbetween, they aren't even worth 
 listing as a con.
  
  Final Word- This game reminds me why I'm a gamer, and make me feel like a kid again.... pluging 
 the Perfect dark cartridge into the 64 for the first time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer_marc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2005 1:10 pm PT
Review:  So I spent approx. 15 hours with PDZ, and I actually beat it.. Which is not to say that its an 
 easy game, but rather a quickly paced well-rounded FPS. 
  
  The graphics are nicely textured, a bit cheated at points.. Mainly flat textures on surfaces where 
 Rare could have easily rendered them individually. The weapons are nicely rendered with a great 
 ATD. It was especially nice to see my old favorite from PD64, the laptop gun, and the RCP90. The 
 secondary functions on the weapons are also great touches.
  
  The voices are solid, the soundtrack AMAZING, it's almost worth it to buy the soundtrack... The 
 controls are fluid, the camera bob is a little unsettling, but thankfully disablable.. 
  
  Like I said, the game runs a nice clip, with levels being about the right length, albeit, the length 
 of the total game. I didn't get to play multiplayer, or on a higher difficulty level than the default, 
 but I can't wait to play PD mode, and get in there and have an all out frag-fest.
  
  The plot really feels like the first season of Alias though.. Which is a bit strange considering, 
 but Jo is the first sexy female spy I can think of, so maybe J. J. Abrams took liberties with that.. 
 I mean Jack Dark and Jack Bristow, c'mon.. 
  
  The whole game was a really great intro to what will develop into an even greater series.. A sequel 
 should already be in the works, and I'll definitely pick that one up as well. It would, however 
 been nice to have the original PD in upscaled 720p though. I loved PD64 and to play it again would 
 be great.. Maybe Rare will remake it.. We can only hope.. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bl4ckAdDer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 30, 2005 9:58 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is just plain awesome both single and multiplayer online, I have to say that 
 my little blip about finding rooms larger than on Perfect Dark Zero has now changed, "there rooms 
 upto 32 people", awesome game play and fun, Very little lag issues!! : ) I do recommend getting 
 this game if you are a first person shooter fan, this and Call of duty 2 is a must. The online 
 line play on Perfect Dark Zero should be a standard to which online gaming should be made especially 
 for a shooter as good as this.
  
  I can't this for the online play for CoD 2, the single player is Awesome!!
  
  Graphically, 
 well what more can I say, triple core processors are awesome". Character models are great and 
 so are the weapons, both look, feel and sounds!!! : )
  
  bL4cKaDdEr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXXfartinXXX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2005 7:48 am PT
Review:  this is a great game. it has absolutely stunning graphics for a early release. Joanna dark has some 
 brilliant weapons. The costume design is excellent and has got a nice colour scheme to it (costume 
 that is) . The cooperation missions are just supremely entertaining and the fact that you can either 
 do it on system link or xbox live is just great. i think it's good that they have brought out a 
 collecters edition that has some good things on the second disk. i wouldn't say that this is better 
 than halo2 but it's certainly better than quake 4. i would recommend that you buy this game not 
 just because of it's graphics and game-play but it's value on either co-op or either xbox live 
 or single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayer_9
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 11:09 pm PT
Review:  It wasn't as good as it should of been. I was expecting alot more out of it. For parts of the game 
 the graphics were quite beautiful, in other spots there was room for improvement. While playing 
 I noticed several graphical bugs and flaws. Such as textures that were streched or poorly applied, 
 especially in corners or places where it was dark. This to me just looks sloppy, sort of like they 
 just didn't feel like putting in the effort. Another glaring flaw is the use of new special effects 
 only possible on the new X-box 360. I am reffering directly to how every object has reflective 
 qualities to it. When you can see yourself reflecting on the plaster wall that well is supposed 
 to be made of non-reflective material. Same with the shiny boxes, hello guys wood doesn't shine, 
 metal does.... They just got a little carried away, and that is forgivable. I just hope developers 
 put more thought into the whole does a box shine question.
  
  However the gameplay is quite good, and 4 player co-op r0x! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamdolla
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 29, 2005 6:29 pm PT
Review:  the graphics are awsome, but i dont think next generation for this game at least. It seemed to 
 me they worked on the gameplay out of everything. It is incredibly smooth online and off. I still 
 talk about how the gameplay is better than i ever thought the regular xbox could never run this 
 type of game. If you have xbox live this game is the best out there now. Don't worry about any 
 online issues with this game you will feel as you are playing single player. Weapons are well balanced, 
 no one weapon towers over another they can all be used better than the other depending on your 
 style. This game is worth the 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niroshan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 29, 2005 5:40 pm PT
Review:  It wasnt what I expected when I first played the game. Its gameplay had a James Bond type feel 
 to it rather than the ones in the Halo series. Visually its graphics are just slightly better the 
 ones on Halo 2 when played on the 360. It doesnt seem to have the next generation feel to it in 
 comparison to the look of the upcoming games like Ghost Recon and Gears of War. Even though it 
 didn't live up to my full expectations, it was fun to play none the less. It has many different 
 difficulties which can be enjoyed by a novice player to an expert. Its multiplayer is mediocre 
 and will not match that of Halo. I still believe that it is one of the better games on 360. It 
 is not $69.99 like other 360 titles and is worth its price. It is definitely worth the buy or at 
 least a rental at some point if you already own the system. You should NOT buy an Xbox 360 just 
 for THIS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basinboy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 29, 2005 5:12 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are impressive if you haven't seen any next-gen graphics before from PS3 or 360, but 
 only the environments. Character models are hideous while voice acting is abysmal. The gameplay 
 is very solid, deep, and worth the time, but story and atmosphere are cartoony in the way they 
 are presented. Maybe I'm being nitpicky about it, but this Perfect Dark just doesn't compare to 
 the first. The different difficulty levels just beef up bullet damage which don't really add to 
 the experience, but rather make it more frustrating. Online co-op is a blast, multiplayer is ho-hum, 
 and having bots in multiplayer is pretty fun. Beef em up to their hardest difficulty and watch 
 yourself get pwned by a computer. If you are planning on getting a 360, give PDZ a rental at least 
 just to experience the gameplay, but don't buy it. CoD2 is much better and more intense, although 
 the lack of co-op is disappointing.
  
  The Gist : PDZ offers great gameplay, but if you are one that enjoys single player games, this 
 one just doesn't quite make the mark. Worth a rental, but a purchase only for those who like the 
 cartoony and somewhat childish approach. Could have been much more than it is if given more time 
 and not have so many development transitions between systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greydragon17
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:52 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest first person shooters since 007 on the N64 has come back on to the 360 and 
 my personal commits on this is, "Bring it On!" And with a luck of a preorder I was able to play 
 this game. Perfect Dark as most know already one of the most beautiful games out there for the 
 360 and a must play to see the graphic's in motion, but after seeing the graphic' their isn't much 
 else to look forward to.
  
  Perfect Dark is a game that is really ment for those hardcore gamers that loves the series to really 
 enjoy everything that the game has to offer. While for others like myself can enjoy the single 
 player mode and thats about it. Let's go ahead and give where credit is due though. The graphic 
 and game play is there, no matter what people have to say about it this never gets dull. The enviroment 
 is simple eye candy and is the greastest I've seen yet on the system. The sound is great as well 
 depending on the persons sound system this can be enhanced greatly. As for the music choice I say 
 this is were a I see a bit of a problem as all the music offered by the game is techno mixes that 
 doesn't fit most of the scenes you play. "Who listens to techno in the jungle full of the enemies?" 
 But of course this can be looked over as the 360 allows you to plug in your own sounds incase you 
 don't like the music in game.
  
  Multiplayer is still here which if I must look back to the N64 game of Perfect Dark hasn't involved. 
 There still the bot option and most of the weapons if not all have made a great return, ut as we 
 look deeper into the game this mode of play seem to lack in some ways. The multiplayer either online 
 or off can be fun at first as you see the wide range of players out to kill you or help you in 
 the beautiful enviroment with no sign of lag anywhere to be found most of the time... but after 
 playing a few rounds you can start to see that the pace of the game is some what slow, the weapon 
 choice add to the spice, but not by much. Even though I can't say that this mode of play isn't 
 fun, but for people that have played great mulitplayer games offered by Tom Clancy, or any other 
 great first person shooters with a multiplayer mode will find Perfect Dark version to be less fun.
 
  
  And last but not least, the greatest part about a game is the story. Now Perfect Dark has a pretty 
 ok story from what I've seen and it doesn't quite fall apart and make you wonder why you wasted 
 away your hours playing to find out nothing (don't you just hate games like that!) But the story 
 doesn't make your jaws drop either though.
  
  To the point this game is a must buy if your interested in first person shooters and your trying 
 to find a game to play for your XBOX 360. But if you purchase this don't expect great things besides 
 good graphics and some points to add to your gamer rep. And for those that didn't like this game 
 at all, which I actually found some including myself... don't whine about it just go get you a copy 
 of Call of Duty 2 or wait till the new Ghost Recon game comes out and call it a day! ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vic07
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:10 pm PT
Review:  They keep saying, "don't compare it to Halo".... Well, even if I were to compare it to the original 
 Perfect Dark, the game would still fall short.
  
  First off, the multiplayer maps are boring and plain at best. Where are the indoor close-quarter 
 battles? Anyone at Rare remember the "Facility" map?
  
  Second, where's the Jump button? I know the original didn't have one, but the controls for that 
 game suited the lack of a jump button just fine. In Perfect Dark Zero, the controls have been updated 
 to suit current style of FPS.. so leaving a Jump button out is ridiculous. 
  
  Third, Bot AI is atrocious. If you enjoyed teaming up with friends to take on a horde of uber bots 
 in the original Perfect Dark, don't expect the same fun from Perfect Dark Zero. The Bots will attack 
 and camp your spawn point.
  
  Forth, the weapons are to yawn at, and the way one takes damage is different/ridiculous. They butchered 
 the Laptop gun... -sigh- And the health bar is done in Marvel Vs. Capcom style.
  
  Finally, the character animations and death sequences are to laugh at. Although this, to me, isn't 
 that big of a complaint, it's like the straw that breaks the camels back.
  
  Overall, this is an average multiplayer First Person Shooter. Spend your money on Call of Duty 
 2 (even though they don't have a way to lean and the lack of a health bar is annoying) . Or even 
 better, wait 'til a Medal of Honor comes out if you want multiplayer fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefanovicho
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2005 3:29 pm PT
Review:  perfect dark on the n64, sometimes I still play it for hours with friends.... ( trying to get a 
 better rank in the combat simulator) hell I even dare to say I played it more then farcry chornicles 
 of riddick doom III batlefield 2 and joint operations together :P, the game offerd you tons and 
 tons of weapons and multiplayer mode's the most advanced mutliplayer mode there was back then ( 
 maybe still ) .
  
  Rare showed its qualities again and made a very good prequell, altho the game still feels like 
 the older version of the game ( the A. I. does the same stuff ) its still a great experience. graphics 
 are just great and the sound effects take you back to the original.. witch had great sounds. you 
 just have to love this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  I was going to make a review for this game (a land mark in my collection as it was my 1st 360 game 
 - thanks to GameSpot) , but Xupex described just what I felt of this game:
  Pros:
  - The in-game art looks very good.
  - Sound is well placed among the levels and it has it's quality.
 
  - Good presentation.
  Cons:
  - Cheap difficulty..., way too hard in higher levels of difficulty (even in Normal) , as enemies 
 take a lot of ammo before dying, and in many ocasions, even if you hide yourself and don't move 
 you get shot. And you can't save mid-mission (why ?) .
  - Awful cut-sceens: why did they use the in-game models ?, they are not very good-looking... evenfor 
 the in-game.
  - "Skin-deep" and confusing plot (credit to GameSpot, as they warned about this) .
  
  So, I 
 received CoD2 for Christmas, and it is much, much better. I wished GameSpot had given an higher 
 grade to the later, and I should have gone for Kameo instead.
  The difficulty issue spoilt all the fun as it got frustrating, mainly because of the lack of "quick-save 
 anywhere feature) , and I don't like to play games in easy mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluetybo
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 29, 2005 1:43 am PT
Review:  I mean its pretty good, but the reactions from people are a bit out of hand. Just bought it tonight 
 so I've only put an hour or so into it. To me it seems more like a regular xbox game. In time I 
 hope the software developers will utilize the power of the 360 much better. I'm a little dissappointed 
 with most of the games I've tried, but I think i was expecting a little too much. Don't get me 
 wrong, I still love it. (the system that is)
  
  The free hat is kinda cool, a mug would of been better. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remaGloohcSdlO
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I know this is not really a "review" in the true sense but I tried like heck to get into this game. 
 I loved the N64 game and have been watching and waiting for the sequel.
  
  I don't really care for the controls and even though you can customize to some degree, it just 
 feels stiff. I don't like the fact that you can't switch the "X" axis to reverse either.
  
  I wish I had a complete review but I just want to let some people know that for this to be the 
 current high ranking 360 game, it's not for everyone.
  
  Graham 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sleight42
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 9:24 pm PT
Review:  While the graphics are next-gen, the single and multiplayer gameplay are nothing short of mediocre. 
 The single-player campaign is too short. -- too short and the plot disjointed, formulaic, and poorly 
 told. Multiplayer is likewise sadly unoriginal.
  
  Not to mention, no jumping?
  
  Multi-player is likewise uninspired. Sure, "Infection", a new game format where "killed" players 
 are converted to play for the bad guys, is a little bit original but it hardly makes up for the 
 lack of complex game physics or vehicles ala Halo 2.
  
  9.0? Hardly! The 360 is a fantastic machine but Gamespot must be pandering to Microsoft. Buy Call 
 of Duty 2 and pray for Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underoathswsfoe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark zero is the highly anticipated prequel to the N64s original, perfect dark. Perfect 
 dark was a game that EVERYONE loved and remembered and would never forget. Does this "sequel" live 
 up ti its hype? I believe so.
  
  single player:
  
  The Single player's storyline was a little dissapointing. There actually really wasn't much of 
 a storyline at all, you just got sent around to different continents to shoot the crap out of everything 
 you see. But, The shooting sequences in the game are very satisfying. Very realistic gun sound 
 effects and detailed weapon models are seen and heard throughout. The character models are mostly 
 very well done, and the voice overs are pretty much the same quality. The AI is pretty decent, 
 although I've seen better, like in Condemned, or something like that. But the AI does change around 
 quite a bit, so you can play the single player over and over and not have the same thing happen 
 twice, which gives the game excellent replay value. Speaking of replay value, there are a couple 
 of other modes you can play which are very addicting. There is a full-blown co-op mode that you 
 and a friend can play through. Also, on top of this, there is an "instant action" mode where you 
 can play multiplayer modes by yourself, using the incredibly intelligent enemy AI. You can play 
 all the regular online multiplayer modes in this, so you will find yourself playing it for a long 
 time. Overall, I really enjoyed the single player portions of the game, as they looked, sounded, 
 and played fantasticly. 
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  MP modes on Perfect Dark Zero are amazingly addicting. You can have two player co-op and 4 play 
 split screen vs mode offline. Like I said before, the co -op is very enjoyable, and the 4 player 
 split screen is ok., but nothing compared to playing online with up to 32 players. Speaking of 
 which, the online play is revolutionary. 32 players with jetpacks is as fun as you think it would 
 be, and there are many weapons, gametypes, and maps too choose from. Anyone who loved the original 
 Perfect Dark Multiplayer will go crazy over this. 
  
  Conclusion: 
  
  I recommend this game to any FPS fan, especially those who loved the Perfect Dark on the Nintendo 
 64. It features an enjoyable, single player, fantastic co-op and instant action, and some revolutionary 
 online multiplayer that will blow your mind. If you own an xbox 360 right now and don't have this 
 game, you need to get your bum back to gamestop, and buy the thing. All you will be doing for yourself 
 is a favor.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atl7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:14 pm PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 is lucky to have a game like this. It looks good, plays good and is very addictive. 
 The gameplay is solid. The only prblem is the sound it not all that good. It is not that bad either. 
 Best game out so far for the 360. If you are looking for a game to buy for your 360 It's this one. 
 It is only 50 bucks which is cheaper than basically all the games out right now. Unless you want 
 the collectors edition. Best first person shooter for the 360 (2nd Call of Duty 2) . If you want 
 a great looking shooter that is very addictive you should defitnetley check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lpdragon4get
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This game was the first game i got for the 360, and i got it before the 360 even came out. and 
 let me just say waiting 11 hours to get the 360 was worth it to play this game. once i got the 
 control system down i was totally hooked, i took the 360 home and played this game for about 5 
 hours straight, then i had to go to work. but i couldnt put the controller down and almost was 
 late for work, but i did skip school to play this and it was worth it. if you own a 360 and did 
 not buy this game i think this is a definite must have or you're missing out on a great gaming 
 experiance. at least rent it, it will be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanRam13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Xbox 360's launch was a good one besides all of the trampling and fights and mad brawls just to 
 get one. Anyways with the launch of the system there are the games. With Perfect Dark Zero (PDZ) 
 being one of them you should have already have it but if not heres a review.
  
  PDZ is the prequel to the N64's original Perfect Dark with this prequel the game starts with Ms. 
 Johanna Dark before she became a bounty hunter. Like that short little intro that is how the games 
 storyline will feel... short and unimportant. This is because you'll be drooling over the eye-candy 
 graphics to even pay to much attention.
  
  The game play is solid with a whole assortment of weapons to choose and kill your enemies with. 
 I personally like the way Rare handled this by letting you choose your weapons before you start 
 and limiting you to the weapons you carry by the ones you choose. For example if you pick a rocket 
 launcher that doesnt mean you can also take an assault rifle along with you. You would be limited 
 to a pistol a much smaller weapon. This adds a bit of strategy to the fire fights through out the 
 game.
  
  The graphics as said before are beautiful and not to be missed especially on a HDTV along with 
 the sound which is high quality to the max. The only flaws I have with this game are the storyline 
 which I mentioned before seemed unimportant. Also while the graphics are top notch when looking 
 at the characters they do in fact look funny or weird and not smooth and sleek as like in mid battle. 
 
  
  The multi-player online is fast and intense and has a CS feel to it which I very much enjoyed. 
 This game cannot be missed for anyone who has a 360. However if this game doesnt seem like your 
 type of game with the sci-fi feel then I would recommend going with Call of Duty 2 with its WWII 
 setting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shooter_elite
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This game has alot to offer for anyone who likes hardbone shooting action. Its crisp, clean gameplay, 
 audio and visuals make this a must have for any xbox 360 owners. A massive variety of weapons and 
 levels make this game fun and addicting. Single player modes are great at first but then xbox live 
 is where this game really starts to shine! 
  There are a few graphical errors, but none of which matter at all. Some gameplay concepts are a 
 bit odd at first but dont interfer with your epic gaming experience. The storyline isnt to unique 
 but the designing of the game and other properties make it rise like no ther video games with its 
 somewhat storyline. Like many games with a few extra coats of paint this could have been a much 
 more realistic and challenging game. Like how joanna dark cant jump over boxes or other objects. 
 Even the nature of the health bar, how it just shoots right back to 100 percent when getting shot 
 by numerous thugs and criminals. What they should have done is just use health kits or other healing 
 devices. This is really no big issue but like i said it could have been more realistic and challenging. 
 So for anyone who likes a game with a good storyline and imense twists packed with pure gut wrenching 
 action then perfect dark zero will be a superb game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnLiMiTeD801
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:09 pm PT
Review:  In this new 360 shooter perfect dark provides solid gameplay. The campaine is fairly well done. 
 The multiplayer is nothing special but it's still fun. The graphics are the best i've seen in a 
 video game but they are not 100% perfect there is some graphical errors. There is also INVISABLE 
 WALLS???? what is up with that this if i wanna jump into the water i will well i can't now but 
 the game is good but not a must get which is an extreme dissipointment for the time they had to 
 develope this game. It provides a perfect dark atmosphere with old guns returning and ghost recon 
 weapon select screen before the mission and if you play all the difficultys you get gamerscore 
 points... woot but this game is decent and is a rent before you buy it's different then what we 
 have seen from rare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmhgh
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 1:50 pm PT
Review:  pdz is a game worth playing it is one of the best xbox 360 's launch titles it runs realy good 
 on the 360 it restores the series and gives gamers a new experince the gameplay and the graphics 
 are wicked awesome i give thisgame a 9.7 superb this game i highly recommend for gamers. the pdz 
 series or if you are new to the series it is a great if any of you gamers out there want to comment 
 or have any questions email me at 
  grayson871@ hotmail. com all you gamers out there need to pick this game up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilmerk
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2005 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Man i been waiting for this game to come out for a long time and its soo much fun man.. play this 
 u will be hook to u beat this i think it was kinda sort but still great . i been hearing all talk 
 about PS3 omfg its going be the best system out there i think going be kool but the 360 ... man 
 this plan out fun this going be a great year for games PCs to 360 to ps3. i hate all these ppl 
 saying 360 sucks and all bull **** but what if ps3 came out all wrong ppl will be piss and if ps3 
 came out 1st will be will say 360 going be f n awesome ... will get off topic but if u want great 
 game GET THIS PD ZERO u might want try rent but i promis u will going to love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco_sweetdude
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 12:07 pm PT
Review:  It's a great game and the graphics are amazing. There are some graphical mistakes on the characters 
 that i did notice. Xbox 360 worked hard on the controller and it is awesome. But playing perfect 
 dark zero they do not even include a button to jump: S and it would be fun in this game to also 
 prone (lay down) like in COD2 which is (by my opinion) better than perfect dark zero. In all its 
 a good game but they could have worked a little more on it. (specially on the controls) . I recommend 
 it since it is fun but its not perfect. And for thos waiting on the ps3 i have a feeling you'll 
 be a little disappointed :D Xbox all the way 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiggyRob44
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  The story is a little quirky but some of the dialogue is simply not necessary such as the cussing, 
 it just does not fit with this game.
  
  I play Kameo and PGR3 more than this game but I keep picking it up waiting for it to do something 
 to me that makes me go WOW (because all of the hype)
  
  Don't get me wrong because it is graphically and acoustically awesome but I just keep thinking 
 to my self it could have been so much better. It's like going to the movies and seeing a movie 
 you could not wait to see, you like it but you know if they only did this or that it would have 
 been so much better.
  
  I put Halo2 into my 360 to get a sense of what I am missing here , and there really is no comparison 
 as far as the WAY the story is told.
  
  I have played it online and it is ok.
  
  It is a good game and I just want it to be better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hollow-man
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:06 am PT
Review:  Joanna Dark returns in the Xbox 360-exclusive "Perfect Dark Zero," the prequel to the international 
 award-winning and multimillion-selling first-person shooter "Perfect Dark" from famed game developer 
 Rare Ltd. A secret war has begun between shadowy corporations bent on world domination. Joanna 
 Dark and her father, Jack, are caught up in the fight for the planet's future. A routine bounty 
 hunting mission rips open a global conspiracy that will change Joanna's destiny - forever.
  
  Players must guide Joanna Dark on her journey to become the Perfect Agent. Featuring a compelling 
 and captivating story, "Perfect Dark Zero" plunges players into a world of corporate espionage 
 and conspiracy. "Perfect Dark Zero" merges the excitement and intrigue of its predecessor with 
 revolutionary game design, online play and amazing graphics to deliver an experience that defines 
 next-generation gaming and entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShawnP1178
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 9:21 am PT
Review:  This is the game to buy if you like co-op games. From the moment me and my wife were on the rooftop 
 levels and I had to watch her back from above while she battled in the streets, we were hooked!! 
 This first few levels were "ok" but as you got deeper into the game the real beauty of this masterpiece 
 really shined!! I have not been able to play on live very much so my review is just on co-op for 
 now. But if all with all of the customization I've heard that can be done in multi-player I'm sure 
 I'll be hooked on that too!! A must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peasant11
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 28, 2005 8:50 am PT
Review:  I was very excited for PDz but I do feel alittle let down. 
  
  It seems like the artists felt like "Next Gen" meant that you have to make everything in the game 
 look wet! Dial back your cosign power maps fellas!!!! Its too much! 
  
  Physics are great but the goofy ragdoll deaths are really hard to watch. When you mix that with 
 the completely unrealistic AI it makes killing foes much less fun than it could be. 
  
  The cover system is poorly implemented as well and no jump?!?!? Come on! There are parts of the 
 game where you cant jump over a small curb!!!
  
  Not happy: ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redrummy2013
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 28, 2005 8:12 am PT
Review:  The first time I played this game I thought to myself..." just another Halo
  game play type". But later on I was starting to enjoy the game as it gets more and more difficult. I 
 like this game but I still think it has a minor
  letdown just because it has the environment of HALO and another fact is who is Jack? another minor 
 letdown is most of this is taking place in China? In my own opinion i thought that they should add 
 more weapons in this game (but still keep the ones from PD) I still like the regular PD better
  but I still love my first-person shooting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinkblush1992
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 8:11 am PT
Review:  Wow! this game is fun to play, and awsome. The graphics, are great and the enviorment fells smooth 
 and real. This game has got to be your 1st game for your xbox 360. I mean the first 1st shooter 
 game they come out with is awsome, and i hope they have a sequel to this game like Halo did.
  This game has hot wepons, and the action of this game is like a gangsta fellin. Me and my home 
 girls be playin this game on split screen or online, and my home girls always say this game is 
 the joint. 
  What more can i say about this game. Perfect, hot, smooth, and gangsta.
  This is my #1 game so far far for my brand new xbox 360. ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Large_Soda
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:43 am PT
Review:  Things I liked:
  
  Really ambitious style in terms of graphics and music. Vintage Rare.
  The amount of weapons and their many secondary functions. The action was fast paced and the satisfaction 
 level was high when shooting someone.
  
  Things I disliked:
  
  As ambitous as the graphics were the framerate bogged down in some areas, not to the point where 
 it was unplayable, but enough to notice it. The voice acting is horrific and the story is not very 
 compelling. The movement of the characters is very unresponsive and panning left and right felt 
 like I was underwater. No matter what sensitivity I had the controls on I found the aiming to be 
 difficult and awkward.
  
  This game did not feel like Halo, and since every fps for the Xbox will be compared to it PD0 just 
 felt flat.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  
  Although my points for the game are more on the negative side, I have still had immense fun with 
 the game. I will finish it and more than likely replay it. There are just certain things that bring 
 the whle product down to an average level. AAA game? Not quite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gyles6
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 4:37 am PT
Review:  most people will remember golden eye on the n64 this game is from the same guys it also is the 
 follow up wow i say follow up its acutally set before the orignal perfect dark on the 64 which 
 was rated 9.9 by gamespot arguably the best n64 game ever. let start wid what i think is the best 
 part off the game multyplayer on xbox live which support 32 players the game is pretty much lag 
 free has some counter strike like game modes and some standard deathmatch modes but all in all 
 its a gr8 online experince the graphics in this game r amazing in some spots like the way light 
 reflects of the guns joanna hands look gr8 when shes reloadin her gun the enemys character aint 
 all that strong look 2 cartoon like havent really played the single player game so im gunna end 
 my review here on a gd note gr8 game the only must buy title for the 360 so far
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dejam4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  man what more can i say about this game i used to think that golden eye was the best game ever. 
 Wellll it still is but the second best is Halo, which i have played till the game was smokin, But 
 then comes perfect dark . What an awsome game if the rest of the F. P. S come out like this xbox 
 will have all of my cash. Theres not much i can say but Classic. If you are a fan of the fist person 
 shooters then this is the game for you. the only down fall about this game i can say is there is 
 no jumping but i can deal with that, i mean after playing 007 until there was no more james bond. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hirushubi2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Next Gen. Ok let me start off by saying if this game is'nt next gen then what is?! This game is 
 superb. I hate when people say xbox360 is not next gen. People have this image in their head of 
 what next gen is gonna look like and its some mind blowing technology that we will probably not 
 have within the next ten years. O yea and when people say the ps3 is next gen well i've been lookin 
 at mgs4 on the ps3 and this game perfect dark zero for the 360 and honestly I think that they both 
 have some details in the graphics that are uniqe and better to each system, and even if the ps3 
 has some more graphical power than the xbox 360 that doesnt mean anything as we have seen this 
 generation between the original xbox and the playstation 2. Keep in mind this is the first generation 
 of 360 games they have'nt even got everything graphics wise out of the 360 yet. Enough of that 
 lets get back to the game I mean come on superb graphics, gameplay, music, and mutiplayer what else 
 could you want from a next gen game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxPaYnExX
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero. What a visual achievement. This ladies and gentlemen has got to be one of the 
 most well made games I have seen in all my years as a gamer. What Rare has released is a masterpiece. 
 I loved the original perfect dark on the N64. Back then I thought it was the greatest game around, 
 I thought it had the best graphics, the best sounds, the best wepaons. And now with Perfect Dark 
 Zero I have gotten that same feeling again. The level layout is just open concept enough to let 
 you run around and explore and yet it stays confined so you don't get lost. The lighting effects 
 and ambient noises add a sense of reality and atmosphere. I love how when you shoot a light it 
 actually breaks and the room becomes darker. The textures look amazing, other then the small fact 
 that some of the face textures look a little funny up close, but this is a minor deffect in an 
 otherwise perfect game. The weapon assortement is amazing, I think there is a final count of 24 
 weapons, I mean... WOW! that is alot of guns! The soundtrack above all is the aspect of the game 
 that is on the top three of my favorite things of PDZ. All the music is perfectly chosen and played 
 at just the right time to emphasize the area you are in, or the part of the mission you are in. 
 It reminded me alot of the sweet music that played on the original Perfect Dark. So to recap, this 
 is one of the most amazing games I have played to date, it is also an amazing console launch game, 
 and I can really see the effort put into this game to give it a next-gen feel. I bow down to you 
 Rare, for once again creating a masterpiece, a visual orgasm of graphics, sounds, levels, story, 
 just everything. No matter who you are, if you own an xbox 360, you must own this game. You MUST! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacfrost1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 4:09 pm PT
Review:  PDZ is a great game and will take you back to the days of goldeneye for the N64. The graphics are 
 amazing and the weapons are shiny and slick which leads to the problem the you will be looking 
 at your guns more than the baddies themselves, they're just to darn pretty. Each weapon has a secondary 
 fire and some even have a third i. e. the RCP-90 has thermal vision which is useful but other guns 
 have useless options like the falcon pistol. The enemies a. i. is not that great and the story line 
 is kind of boring, the single player is fun but where is game shines is it's 50 multiplayer and 
 split screen co-op which are very hectic, and with out a bit of lag this game is a kill fest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hippiesmoter
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2005 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Simply put this game incrdibly fun to play. I actually played this game at my friends house, because 
 i haven't got my 360 in yet, and it was amazing on his HD tv and it was still amazing when we hooked 
 it up to his monitor and played.
  The single player in PD0 is actually quite good. The story is kinda dumb, but FPS are not exactly 
 known for the most engaging stories ever. The graphics are simply amazing when playing on HD and 
 looked exactly like what a next-gan game should look like. The lack of jumping caused a bit of 
 confusion for the first couple of tries on the first level, but he cover sysytem that replaced 
 it is actually quite fun to use. Although it lets the player pop out at any given time, this actually 
 makes the game a little to easy at some times, but geniusly fun.
  The sound in the game is amazing as well as the graphics. The crazy rave-techno music fits so well 
 with this next-gen gem of a game. There is no feeling like blasting through a Chinese nightclub 
 with the constant pounding of techno in the background.
  Probably my favorite part of the game is the weapons, and also one of the games only problems. 
 All of the guns have a secondary fire, although a lot of the second ary fire are used over like 
 a silencer. Most of the weapons have a very unique seconadary fire whether it be the Uzi that becomes 
 a land mine to the M60 that deploys caltrops, most of the guns have their own special secondary 
 ability, their should be a gun that fires homig bullets, like Halo's needler. All of the weapons 
 are beautifully detailed and sound big. The pistol sounds like it could rip the arm off of an enemy, 
 althyough it can't.
  like every video game, PD0 is not perfect and have two noticeable flaws. The first one is although 
 the weapons sound like they could rip through an army, their power doesn't show it. Often, some 
 weapons will go through half a clip to take down one enemy, however i have heard that some of the 
 weapons are better at taking down armor than others i have yet to experience it yet for myself. 
 The other problem which can enrage even some of the most experienced FPS gamers is the checkpoint 
 system. the game gives a checkpoint at about the halfway point of each level, which can lead to 
 anger, especially to those playing on Dark and Perfect agent.
  Of course PD0 wouldn't be so great if it were not for the Multiplayer. Playing on Xboxlive is an 
 amazing experience that puts Halo 2 to shame.
  You can create matches with bots that are replaced as players join the matches. That brings me 
 to another point... Bots. Finally a game includes bots. Multiplayer without bots kind of suck when 
 there is only four people, now bots can join to add to the mayhem. back to xbox live, the online 
 is simply amazingly fun, although there are certain occasions where the lag can take over.
  PD0 boasts a multitude of gametypes, including a Counter-Strike spinoff which is still very fun, 
 however no bots can play in this mode. Probably the best new game, next to Predator from Far Cry: 
 Instincts, is infection. the creators from Rare took the amazingly fun Zombies custom game from 
 halo 2 and actually turned it into a game type that forces people to change teams when killed and 
 is immensely fun when playing with 32 players online.
  All in all PD0 is an amzing game and is going to set a new line for next-gen shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 3:41 pm PT
Review:  "Perfect Dark Zero," much like the Holy Roman Empire, is neither Perfect, nor dark, nor a zero. 
 It's a mildly flawed but unquestionably engaging entry into the next-gen experience, showing both 
 the capabilities of the XBox 360 and the untapped potential that game developers will spend the 
 next few years cracking.
  
  First, the good: PDZ has a nice little storyline, brings back a great N64 game from the grave, 
 and makes good use of weaponry. The first-person shooter has gotten much more refined in recent 
 years, and so it seemed likely that Rare would have trouble keeping pace considering that this 
 is a series that effectively skipped a generation of consoles. But the action is smooth, the aiming 
 and reloading system seems accurate, and the enemies are pretty cagey. And the "wow" factor is 
 pretty strong, as there are some nice visual effects to go along with a compelling soundtrack.
 
  
  Now, the not-quite-so-good: PDZ's facial models aren't very impressive. Considering how advanced 
 the 360's scaling is purported to be, a lot of the renderings of characters and buildings come 
 off as somewhat half-baked. The dialogue is kind of clunky. And after being able to do amazing 
 things with the protagonists in Far Cry: Instincts and Halo/Halo 2, it sure is disheartening to 
 take command of a lead character who can't even jump.
  
  The caveat: I've not yet ventured into the multiplayer modes, about which I am hearing/reading 
 rave reviews. So consider this review somewhat limited in that context, but I'll give the benefit 
 of the doubt and assume that PDZ's online/split screen modes provide excellent entertainment value 
 and depth to a game that has a very stellar single-player mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rowancoop
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 27, 2005 1:17 pm PT
Review:  While I have got to admit the graphics are killer, especially standing in the middle of a waterfall 
 in the jungle, I do wish it would have taken me longer to play it. Maybe I will try a harder difficulty, 
 afterall, that's part of the fun -- to try to beat it harder and better than before. It just seems 
 there could have been more boards to play, bad guys' heads to blow off, that sort of thing. Just 
 gotta scrap it up to first person euphoria and go get another game to beat. But until then, atleast 
 I know I didn't have to cheat, and I can always play again. Thank you Microsoft, for the reality 
 of the first person shooter games, my time is well occupied. : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jared_Vegeta
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 1:14 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Perfect Dark Zero, I really wasn't impressed or did I care. I never kept 
 up with the new screens or watched any of the gameplay videos that Gamespot put out. To be honest, 
 I thought it looked like a subpar game, I mean the screen shots didn't look as good as other 360 
 titles. I was actually waiting to get Condemned, but once I saw its review, my bro went ahead and 
 got PDZ and PGR3. I'm not a racing fan, so I was basically stuck to playing PDZ. Well, we got our 
 360 and I started playing some PDZ and I was amazed. The games graphics are great. The lighting 
 effects are really what look the best. But I played it more and more and now I love it. As I mentioned, 
 the graphics are some of the best for the 360 so far. Do not trust the screen shots you see in 
 magizines and on the internet because for some reason they downgrade the graphics. The presentation 
 of the game is supreb. The levels in single player start out kind of lacking, but with each stage 
 you advance, the levels get more unique and the art direction starts to stand out even more. The 
 game is realitivly short with only 13 single player stages (14 stages over all because the first 
 stage is labeled mission 00) , but with three different difficulty levels, that should keep you 
 busy if your that interested in the single player. You also have a choice of playing these stages 
 on co-op mode. This is just as you would expect it to be and better. You and your buddy will go 
 threw the same stage, but depending on what is happening in the stage, your buddy might play as 
 another character and won't be right by your side. An example of this is on the rooftop stage where 
 Jonna must protect Jack from the rooftops. Well in co-op mode, one person plays Jonna on the rooftops 
 and the other plays Jack who is down on the ground working his way to the extraction point with 
 Jonna protecting him. It is evident that a little more work went into making the co-op mode feel 
 a bit different from the single player mode. Once you finish the single player and co-op mode, 
 you can head on over to deathmatch. The deathmatch mode enables you to play aginst your friend 
 or bots (or both) in a few different game types. These include Killcount (FFA deathmatch) , Team 
 Killcount (Team deathmatch) CTF, and Territories. There are only 5 levels to choose from, but their 
 is customization to each gametype to make it different (Weapon sets, bot number and difficulty) . 
 This being said, the bots' AI in the game is not the greatest. While it is still fun, they are 
 really easy on their lowest setting (Agent) and extremely difficult on their highest (Dark Agent) . 
 It seems as though the only thing that increases is the weapon damage and their aim. This holds 
 true in single player as well. But I'm not complaining because these bots are still fun to play 
 aginst, esepecially for those who don't have Live. I've heard numerous complaints about the way 
 the bots behave and how their AI isn't the greatest, but nobody else is putting bots in their game 
 so it is really a much welcomed addition rather than an annoyance. There is also another game mode 
 called Dark Ops. It is another multiplayer mode, but you cannot play bots in it. It has different 
 game types and kind of a different feel to the games. The first thing that came to mind for me 
 was Counter Strike because before the match begins, you get to buy your weapons with the credits 
 you earned from the previous game. In this mode you can choose from Eradication (wipe out the other 
 team) , defend a base mode (forgot the name) , Infection (one person starts out infected and everyone 
 else is not, and if you die you become infected, last man standing is the winner) and some property 
 mode (have to protect your property so that the enemy doesn't destroy it all) . These games are 
 fun as well and more suited for Live. One last thing, I've heard many complaints about the aiming 
 system in the game. I feel people are complaining because it is harder to aim and the auto-aim 
 isn't nearly as strong as Halo 2's auto-aim. The aiming takes a while to get used to but once you 
 do, things really start rolling. I really recommend you check this game out. If not buy it, at 
 least give it justice and rent it. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhilTheChamp92
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2005 11:46 am PT
Review:  Pefect Dark is along awaited first person shooter. This was suspose to be the game of the year. 
 This game is very graficly advanced because of the 1080p 
  support but for those who do not have that type of a HD should worry because this 360 games dont 
 look good on Tube tvs they look like xbox games not munch detail. Gameplay is good but not that 
 as intense as Halo 2. This will last me till ends meet for gears of war or the big HALO 3. But 
 this still a great frist person shooter but not that great for a 6 year devoplment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewho5567
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 11:40 am PT
Review:  this game had everything! great graphics, sound, gameplay, The works!!
  When you first play it the game is instant action. The levels are huge and very detailed. ugly 
 faces but who gives! The ragdoll is awsome cause wherever you shoot them they react as if someone 
 would react in real life. a great game worth your money. AMazing Graphics! The weapons are the 
 best part because you have so many to choose from! dual weilding some weapons like the pistols 
 is awsome! Buy this game NOWW!! If you dont then your gonna die a painful death! oh and the multiplayer 
 is sweet! you get to play with a friend through the entire game and can play against bots along 
 with friends!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rizzopolo6
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2005 11:04 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark was the first game that I got to play on my friend's 360, and I was less than impressed. 
 The graphics are amazing, as in all 360 games. But, the controls were copied directly from Halo, 
 minus grenades and the ability to jump, and the voice-over guy wouldn't quit yelling "kill-tastic!!". 
 
  
  Also, I felt like showing off the graphics got in the way of the gameplay. In the jungle/mayan 
 ruins type multiplayer level I was frustrated with the amount of foliage covering the floor. I 
 couldn't see a damn thing as the BOT's ran rampant, sniping off the first shots through the dense 
 jungle camo. I'm sure I could have adjusted to this after a few hours, but the game didn't draw 
 me in enough to even care. When I do get my own xbox 360, Perfect Dark will certainly be one of 
 the last games I consider picking up.
  
  Perfect Dark had a chance to be a great launch title for the 360, but with two little words the 
 developers managed to completely ruin this game for me, 10 minutes into the experience. 
  
  I've just got to say... that's suck-tastic." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xupex
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:42 am PT
Review:  Good points
   Amazing graphics and sound.
   Great looking weapons all have secondary functions. 
   Cooperative mode is a brilliant idea.
 
  
  Bad points
   Aiming system needs to be worked on. 
   Campaign is to short. 
   Multiplayer is awful.
   Enemies can take far to much damage. (Sometimes half a clip.)
   
 Ai characters on Campaign constantly get in the way.
   No way to save during levels means playing on hard difficulty is frustrating, sometimes having 
 to go back to the beginning of the level.
   No jump
   Story is awful.
  
  This game in no way can be measured up to halo2 or the original halo considering they have been 
 working on this game for 5 years its very disappointing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haloteer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 9:59 am PT
Review:  Having gone to a xbox 360 event in Leeds a few weeks ago my head was full of anticipation for kameo 
 and pgr3 with a brief thought of perfect dark in mind. As i went in though my mind was boggled 
 by the screen in front of me with this game on display. Having as much time as i wanted i thought 
 why not. Having spent 2 hours on that white couch playing that game i can safely say that it is 
 quite a good game. The lighting effects in the dark from little lamps is visually stunning as it 
 reflects off the bricks and the explosions from barrels when you shoot them is jaw - dropping. 
 The gameplay and lifespan is outstanding and one of the best parts of the game is realism. Now 
 in usual first person shooters you can shoot someone and nothing will happen to them - no clutching 
 where they have been hit or anything like thios but in perfect dark this all changes. The smile 
 that will apear on your face when you say shoot somebody in the foot only to them double over in 
 pain therefore allowing you to apply the finishing touch is quite spectacular. As soon as you pick 
 up the controller you can see how simply stunning the graphics are and how easy it is to get used 
 to the learning curve. I can tell you now that in the charts of all time first person shooters 
 this is right up there with the likes of halo and goldeneye. A simply must get for all and if you 
 are deciding on whether or not to buy a 360 then this could well be the game that will turn you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sitting_dux0r
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:45 am PT
Review:  the games pretty standard, does nothing new, and tbh has many flaws.
  
  theres no anti-aliasing atall, you cant jump... who would make an fps in this day and age without 
 a jump button? and it has these stupid 3rd person aspects, i played a beta about a month ago and 
 honestly i wasnt impressed in the slightest, gotham 3 did blow me away however.
  
  frankly im not all that interested in single player games anymore but from what i see thesingle 
 player is ok, just nothing special. i didnt get to test the multiplayer which is what i was keen 
 on seeing, other than some 4 player system link deathmatch which is pretty boring, but i did notice 
 you can still use this 3rd person modes in multiplayer which completley ruins any tactics you may 
 have, as you can simply look round a corner without being seen... stupid realy.
  
  so yeh 7/10 for me, simply cos you cant jump, it doesnt do anything new, but at the same time doesnt 
 do too many things badly. just dont listen to the hype people. go with gotham instead :o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dthwish09
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:05 am PT
Review:  The multi-player alone makes this game a must-buy for anyone who owns a Xbox 360! You must play 
 this game aka. The Halo Killer. It mixes games like Halo, Counter-Strike, and Team-Fortress all 
 in one... This is an amazing game and you owe it to yourself to pick it up!
  
  The multi-player alone makes this game a must-buy for anyone who owns a Xbox 360! You must play 
 this game aka. The Halo Killer. It mixes games like Halo, Counter-Strike, and Team-Fortress all 
 in one... This is an amazing game and you owe it to yourself to pick it up!
  
  The multi-player alone makes this game a must-buy for anyone who owns a Xbox 360! You must play 
 this game aka. The Halo Killer. It mixes games like Halo, Counter-Strike, and Team-Fortress all 
 in one... This is an amazing game and you owe it to yourself to pick it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sukey4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:05 am PT
Review:  PDO is a very good game with great multiplayer but the single player is lacking a good storyline. 
 The gameplay and controls is perfect. The graphics are good but not as good as they could be. The 
 sound is generally good but can come of bland in some spots and the overall value is good because 
 of what the multiplayer has to offer. The multiplayer wil keep you playing just like like halo 
 did . So If youre looking for the best FPS at the launch you can either go with this or call of 
 duty 2. Depending on your preferences there both great games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Powerofc3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 1:50 am PT
Review:  Ok this game is easily the BEST of all the XBox360 launch titles if you're a shooter fan. Personally 
 I don't care about sports games, which left me with like 5 other games to choose from. 2 of those 
 5 games I've already beaten the PC versions of before the 360 even launched. I'm talking about 
 Quake 4 and Call of Duty 2 obviously. Other than those two game, which I already owned, the only 
 game left that looked like it'd be worth my time was Perfect Dark Zero. I never played Perfect 
 Dark on the N64 so it was a new experience for me. 
  
  Let me start off saying... if you own an X360, you like shooting things, buy this game immediately. 
 Now with that said on with the good and the bad.
  
  The good... The game plays great, if you owned an XBox, then you had to have owned Halo, and this 
 game plays just the same way, without the ability to jump of course. So it's easy to pick up and 
 get to the killing, and alot of killing there was. Although you had AI players help you out, they 
 really sucked and let you do all of the work, typical men right. The game was a decent length so 
 you get your monies worth and you can always do it again with a buddy in co-op mode.
  
  On with the bad... First thing that grabbed my attention was the graphics. I play ALL gaming platforms 
 which includes PC. So I make sure I have a $2500 box each year to play my games MAXED out. Although 
 the graphics were good, they didn't WOW me. Since FEAR and Quake 4 relased about a month and 1/2 
 ago, they raised the FPS graphics bar to a new level. Even the X360 Quake 4 doesn't match up. It 
 seems as though they were planning on releasing this game for the original XBox and pumped up textures 
 and added DX9 shaders to the game for the X360. Since this is a launch title I wasn't expected 
 to be WOWed by graphics anyway. As far as gameplay goes, my only gripe is the slow paces action. 
 I'm used to playing CS: S so Jo's slow moving deminor left me going "Hey let's move it along," inside 
 my head more than a few times. Also the inability to jump gets annoying when trying to dodge enemy 
 fire. The last gripe is the frame rate. I heard they guys working on Gears of War expect nothing 
 less than 60FPS. This game drops down around 20 everyonce and awhile (I play enough PC games to 
 get a general idea of what the FPS are at any point in time.) It's still playable, but I was expecting 
 for my new $400 XBox to truely show me what all that power can do. Once again it's probably because 
 it was a launch title and they most likely ported it from the original XBox, and due the fact that 
 they wanted to make it for launch they probably didn't have enough time to totally troubleshoot 
 it.
  
  Overall... I'm very happy with this game. The gripes list my seem long, but almost all of that 
 is probably due to the new nature of the hardware and software developers sturggling to keep up 
 as usual. The game is extraordinarally fun, and due to the co-op feature packs alot of replay into 
 the game with your buddies. I didn't try the online multiplayer because I already know I would 
 have alot of gripes about it. After you get hooked by Counter Strike, NO online FPS matches up... 
 expect maybe Unreal Tournament. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyboy070
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 14, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Game play in single player is fun, but not revolutionary. The same things have been done before: 
 Dual Wielding, recharging life, zooming pistol... ect. Don't believe me? Halo2 has dual wielding 
 (and they weren't the first, just seems the most controlable) , Kill zone also had recharging life, 
 Halo had zoooming pistol. The armor breaking off the characters is neat, but not realistic. Armor 
 doens't fall apart. Guess I'm supposed ot remember that this is a comic. The story seemed brief 
 and light, no big details, but a good twist.
  
  Graphics are good, but not fantastic like some others. Ran butter smooth all the time though. Even 
 with split screen multiplayer it ran well. Multiplayer is fun, coop mode is good as well. Seemed 
 that even xboxlive worked well. However the competative multiplayer isn't that great. Offers no 
 real twists. Fun, but not revolutionary. 
  
  Overal a fun game, but nothing really new too it. The only real difference is an odd combination 
 of stealth and run and gun. The only big issues I had was the zoom with the weapons only allows 
 you to use the left stick to aim. unless you use default with swapped sticks, this is counter-intuitive 
 and this is difficult and annoying to get used to. I couldn't find a way to change this. Plus the 
 overall lack of anything new. Nothing really new to this game besides the console it is on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Man
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 10:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is defiantly a MUST for your future collection of 360 games. You might start out the 
 game playing the very first level (training mission) but as soon as that is done you will immediately 
 jump online play. The online play is fantastic... although it will soon be like Halo2 with all the 
 trash talking. After what seems to be only an hour you will wan't to try co-op. This is the strongest 
 aspect of the game. Before you know it you will be playing the entire campaign in co-op rather 
 than single player. You might not even bother playing it solo ever unless you wan't the gamer points. 
 
  
  The online play is good with no lag that I have experienced. On some occasions the game does bog 
 down from very graphically intense fights, but that only last a second or two.
  
  The graphics.... wow the graphics... there isn't much to say about it other than the screenshots 
 don't do any justice to the game.
  
  The sound isn't as good as it should be. The gun fights are very repetitive but you don't even 
 notice it after a while... I'm not playing with 5.1 so I'm sure its not nearly as bad as just coming 
 from 2 speakers. The music on the other hand is extremely well done and it sinks you deep into 
 the game where you almost think you are in the game. If I could break sound down to music and sound 
 effects, I would give music a 8 and sound effects a 6.
  
  The only bad things I dislike about the game are that there's no bots in darkops mode, little trash 
 talking punks with their squeaky voices (but I guess Rare couldn't do much about that) , the multiplayer 
 games sometimes seem a bit too slow paced for what Rare seemed to be aiming for but that depends 
 on the map.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2005 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Was I amazed by this game. I tell you, I seriously thought this game wasn't gonna end up being 
 as good as I had hoped, but instead Rare dumbfounded me and made the game even better than what 
 I first expected. The gameplay is just so amazing and immersive, it really gets you into the feel 
 for the game. Every little gadget, every weapon all feel perfect in this masterpiece. Dozens of 
 weapons to choose from, and loads of action, this is definately the must have game for any Xbox360 
 owner. And at first, I was skeptical about the graphics because I wasn't wowed by them when I first 
 saw them but they have updated them and when you see this game moving in fluid motion it is gorgeous. 
 Every little thing in there is just so good to look at. I found myself getting shot while I was 
 looking at the little indents in the concrete as the moon shined over it. It looked so damn real. 
 Forget about graphics like Chronicles of Riddick (which was one of the most beautiful games I have 
 ever laid eyes upon) , this is definately a new era of graphical advancement. And the multiplayer, 
 everything you loved about multiplayer back with the orginal Perfect Dark has gotten even better. 
 It is so great that it seriously, and I mean seriously, made me forget about Halo's great multiplayer. 
 No Joke. If you love action, good storyline, and badass multiplayer, you best get this game. It 
 is worth every dollar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atarii
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  OK Rare.... I've quite simply had it with you. I keep giving you guys a chance to make an amazing 
 game, and you keep letting me down! First Conker Live and Reloaded and now Perfect Dark Zero!? 
 I'm not calling either of those games bad, but rather just decent. I want something that is truly 
 jaw-dropping, and instead I buy an average XBOX360 launch title. I think that the game hits the 
 floor run and burns out way to fast. The aiming needs some work - it doesn't seem refined. And 
 I knew this wasn't possible in the game but still - NO JUMPING! C'MON! Anyway, the positives.... 
 good graphics, and that's about it. The multiplayer is fun but right now not many people are on 
 playing. The story is confusing and doesn't really matter much to the game. It's more about shooting 
 guns rather than trying to figure out what's going on. I just wish that Rare would have refined 
 the gameplay more. The cover mechanic is interesting, but not that useful.... a decnt XBOX360 launch 
 title, but not for those looking for a great FPS - Call of Duty 2 fills that spot nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieInABox
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2005 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutly brilliant. The graphics are AMAZING, everything is so smooth and richly 
 textured. The motion is super clean and the frames are smooth as Joanna's Dark. This game features 
 a few things that make it kinda unique and one of which is there is no jumping however jumping 
 is subed with auto jumping over anything possible. The gun selection is HUGE ranging from everything 
 you would ever want at your local armory and maybe a lil more. The multiplayer is just total fun 
 with bots to continue the headshot madness. The multiplayer is kinda lacking in the ranking dept. 
 I really hate how they botched that up but there is so much more multiplayer and co-op that this 
 is a small piss in the awesome pond which is PDZ. This game is awesome and I just cant say that 
 enough though it only has Two vehicles a jetpack and a hovercraft both of which are really really 
 cool. This is only a launch title and a good sign of things to come if you dont include this in 
 your launch games you have no love for great first person shooting action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHUNTER11111111
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:33 pm PT
Review:  i was never really intrested in this game until me and my bro got our 360 that we waited 16 hours 
 in freezin weather for and 3 our games (PerfectDark, Condemned, and PGR3) . i was very surprised 
 about everything that this game has to offer. very stunning graphics on the level design, good 
 character design ( Joanna is hot!) . good lookin and soundin guns, mediocre voice overs that'll 
 make u giggle, and solid controls. the story, wich is shorter than condemned, is okay, but u'll 
 be sayin WTF? alot, unles u've played the original (which i havent) . multyplayer is simply the 
 best on 360 so far, very good with lots of game modes, very big games sometimes, and just plain 
 fun. overall, if u get a 360, u should get this game along with condemned. now i wait for Saint's 
 Row, Oblivion, and Gears of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SantaMayCry
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I was looking at all the screenshots and I kept saying, naw.. that HAS to be CGI. Well i must say.. boy 
 was I wrong  _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssA_Clown
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2005 11:01 am PT
Review:  Now before you freak out i already wrote a review for this game on my other account oO Gold Fish 
 oO and I did not feal lke writing another one because I would just be saying the same stuff over 
 and over again. So here's my review.
  
  Ok. to start of this game is amazing. Not only the multi player but the sigle player also. Everything 
 about flows, and plays great. The single player is outstanding, there are many levels and here 
 are very many ways to beat them all. When playing the campaign you don; t feal as if you were running 
 along a set path killing everyone in your way, insted ou get do do things your way and take the 
 paths you choos. In fact if you set the game on the less dificult setting it will give you arrows 
 and a path to follow. Another great thing is the Co-Op. The Co-Op is not as if you and a cloan 
 of Ms. Dark run togoether and kill stuff. You and a buddy can play as two toaly difrent characters 
 and work together in totaly diffrent parts of the map. Alright enough about the single player. 
 It is now time to talk about the Multiplayer. PDZ has just about every multiplayer game into one. 
 You can choose between the normal Deathmath, Team death Match, CTF, or you can choose gametypes 
 simalr to Counter Strike, Battle Field 2 were you have teratories, or maybey if your a old school 
 Halo fan how does a little Zombie sound. The game also has a large aray of wepons and gadgets. 
 The guns in this game are great for many reasons. To start they all look and sound great. The textures 
 and the reloading animations are great. There is aslo a cool secondary function for very wepon. 
 This makes the game more fun and entertaining. In the end if you are a fan of First Person Shooters 
 you must get this game. Enjoy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: timothyt
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 11:00 am PT
Review:  If you liked GoldenEye, Perfect Dark N64 or Timesplitters you'lll like the solo game better here 
 (plus it looks a LOT better, at least on HDTV) . The multiplayer is rock solid. I especially love 
 Darkops: Infected, where one player starts out infected and each time someone else is killed they 
 become infected as well (infected players look like skeletons, which is a really cool effect - 
 especially when there are 2 of you left with 25 skeletons coming at you) .
  
  Like everyone, I would have liked to see them release with Halo3. If that had happened, however, 
 I probably wouldn't have picked up Perfect Dark Zero, and that would have been a shame because 
 there's a really excellent game here. Glad to see that Rare still has it (Kameo is also excellent) . 
 In all it's really good that they are building new first party franchises instead of just milking 
 the same *cough* *Mario* *cough * characters to death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darko31786
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 10:34 am PT
Review:  i spent a good 10 hours with perfect dark zero on thanksgiving, and was not impressed, the single 
 player was boreing as hell and the deathmatchs were pretty fun with some cool features (like tearing 
 the gun off the hover craft) , but its just not what i expected from this super over hyped game. 
 Reminded me a lot of Timesplittlers, but Timesplitters is a lot funner, faster paced. I didnt like 
 the over all cartoony look of the game, and the music made me want to shoot my self with joanna's 
 gun. Overall the only 360 game i really enjoyed playing was NBA 2k6, its pretty damn amazing, go 
 get that insted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:53 am PT
Review:  This is the first good for x box 360. Awesome first person shooter. The game play is highly addictive 
 and really fun. This will have you glued to the TV screen with its amazingly fun game play. The 
 graphics are the best for x box 360, this is what all the games should have been like. Highly detailed 
 graphics and crystal clear character movements add to the game play. The guns are amazing and look 
 like you can pull them out of the screen. The guns are very similar to the guns we use today but 
 have technological improvements to them. There are also new weapons that look so real and they 
 do not have guided laser beams on them they are actually believable weapons that, in the future, 
 we will probably have things that look similar to the. If you have an x box 360 you must have this 
 game in your library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cItYoFtHeDaMnEd
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:06 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is well worth the wait. this is an instant classic, with huge levels and awesome 
 gameplay, this game is the best game to come out for Xbox360 yet. This is the best shooter of the 
 year. The value is good also, with extra co-op mode, even after you beat the game you`ll still 
 have things to do. I was very dissapointed with the graphics however. The faces look terrible. 
 If you go up to a player, he looks dformed, if i wanted these graphics, i could have played the 
 original perfect dark, which was still better i might add. This game compares to GoldenEye, and 
 thats a statement. If you squint really hard and ignore the graphics, this game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nerv0sa
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:54 am PT
Review:  This game sports great graphics and sound, no doubt about that. The storyline was weak and cliche 
 over all. I enjoyed the game mostly until i realized it was over and i felt unfufilled. Now I am 
 all for 360, but this game sadly did disapoint me. After the 6 hours of gameplay it took to beat 
 the game I moved to multiplayer, which i also did not enjoy that much. And i still don't understand 
 why the people that were helping me had to be leaded around by me? Maybe i am just used to Quake 
 and Halo. Who knows? 
  
  ~Pros~
  -Great Graphics
  -Fantastic Sound
  -Neat Weapon Design
  -Wonderful Sountrack
  
  ~Cons~
  -Weak Storyline
  -To Short
  -To 
 Cliche
  -To many one liners
  -Moronic AI
  -Bad Multiplayer
  -A little bit of camera lag (too used to mouse/keyboard) =P
  
  All-in-all i would say go rent 
 before you buy.
  
  Bye bye
  -Nerv- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joecool7188
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I don't know if anyone could forget Perfect Dark for N64, for those of you have, to recap your 
 memory allow me to sum up the game in a rather uncommon phrase "Best Game of all Time." Now sure 
 thats been said about Halo, Half Life and all of those other games but for PD its true. It isnt 
 just another FPS. Between the gameplay, the graphics (for its time anyway) and amazing story the 
 game was just plain ahead of its time. 
  
  STORY
  With that said it think its alright to talk about the prequel to the Best Game of all Time. First 
 off I would like to give Rare props for bringing back the Super Dragon great gun ( even the Master 
 Chief wants one) . At first I thought settting PD0 before the original was a rather creative idea. 
 It would allow for character development through back story and build up to the original. But as 
 it turns out Rare had its own plans. I'm extremely sorry to say that overall I was disappointed 
 by the games story. Its not really fair to compare it to the original because that is so much to 
 live up to but as long as people are comparing Halo and Half-Life to their sequels I guess thats 
 a safe route. The first game had many story twists, some big, some small. But none the less the 
 story was gripping. Part of what made it so gripping was a great mixture of fresh scenery, gameplay 
 and its just overwhelmingly fresh feel. But enough about the first. The second, PD0, starts off 
 rather action packed but somewhat lacking in story. By the time I reached level 6 I was starting 
 to wonder wheter or not there actually was a story or not. And when reached level seven and I was 
 fighting these stupid cowboy hitman I pretty much gave up hope. To my suprise my hope was regained 
 when, at the end of level 7 I was met with a plot twist and another mention of Carrington. But 
 again my faith was lost when I reached the last level and found myself fighting some guy out of 
 a lost anime series stored away in Japanese archives next to pokemon. Seriously what the hell? 
 When you have some chinese guy with supernatural powers as the main enemy you know there is something 
 wrong. Oh how I miss the Skedar.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Compared to the originals... well c'mon thats not fair that was like two generations ago. The visuals 
 were quite astounding, a lot better than wha I had expected anyway. If this is what launch games 
 look I cant wait to see what games are looking like around the time of the 360's end. The bump 
 mapping with the multi filtering effects create so amazing scenery. The only complaint I is that 
 some of the people look sorta like plastice and some surface appear too shiny. In single player 
 I noticed that the physics are just great and the most realistic I have seen to date. Aside from 
 a few glitches here and there Perfect Dark Zero has the most beautiful graphics.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  Halo 2 step aside its time for PD0 to sit at the top of the Live charts. Aside from 
 the lack of maps, which is almost garaunteed to show up as downloadable content, there is nothing 
 wrong with multiplayer. There are tons of options between maps, game modes and weapons the possibilities 
 are great. And you cant go wrong with bots, which is what the orignals multiplyer so great. The 
 gameplay experience is great it feels just as competitive as other games while maintaining a fun 
 atmosphere.
  
  SUMMARY
  Look if youre searching for a good shooter that will last you a long time this is definitely it. 
 Between XBL and trying to earn achievements there are months to come where perfect dark zero is 
 your reason for insomnia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IChangedMyName
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:30 am PT
Review:  im jes gonna say a very slim overlook of Perfect Dark Zero. Ok if u ever heard, owned or played 
 the perfect dark for 64, u know that multiplayer was the fricken best. perfect dark zero fills 
 both the gaps of story and keeps multiplayer mode fun. story mode iz also co-op so if ur looking 
 for halo type sci-fi co-op and multiplayer exstravaganza perfect dark is ur best bet. course the 
 graphics and details on the guns are tremendous also if u have an HD T. V. hook that sh*t up ur 
 gonna cry as i did when u see the difference between gaming with perfect dark. multiplayer mode. 
 ok here i go, you can have over 16 bots, up 16 player via system link, the different modes of multiplayer 
 are also very entriging. Capture the flag and all the tradition types are still present with the 
 addition of mechs, vehicles and a type of game that has u defending ur base 1 second for points 
 and taking enemy bases for more points. the maps are also very entriging and beautiful. the sizes 
 of maps are very well depicted, meaning if ur looking for a small kill eachother quickly game, 
 they have maps, or if u feel like hunting ur prey, they have maps where u could actaully get lost 
 the whole time. also 1 last thin i want 2 note. in story mode while playing co-op the 2 players 
 can explore as far as they like from eachother b/c this game doesnt load between missions, once 
 in a map, u dun load till u've completed so its a plus 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjcop
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 25, 2005 11:26 pm PT
Review:  PDZ is a fun game. The graphics start to show what the next gen games are capable of, but we know 
 there's more! This game doesn't fully push the 360 to it's graphical limits, but it does have some 
 amazing detail!
  The gameplay is typical of a FPS game. The only thing I was missing was a jump button. Little things 
 like that annoy me, but I wouldn't consider it a reason to "fault" the game. The weapons are fun 
 and powerful.
  Overall I had a blast with this game, I just wish it wasn't so short. The Live games are fun too, 
 with HUGE maps. Sometimes it takes you awhile to find anyone to fight with. So, is it the next 
 Halo? I'd say that it can easily hold it's own against Halo, and it even excels in the details... but 
 the 360 has more to offer, so I'm sure something better is just around the corner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: switchfooted
Rating: 4.6
Date: Nov 25, 2005 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok so my roommate spent 12 hours waiting inside a Wal*Mart only to walk away with a core system. 
 So if that wasn't a let down enough he only bought was this game. We played multiplayer for about 
 10 minutes and I was so bored that I longed for the good old N64 days. How does Rare get off putting 
 out this crap? There is nothing new here. I mean you can't even jump. It doesn't even look good. 
 So far microsoft has really dropped the ball as far as some sort of quality control. I mean I expect 
 EA games to suck but I expected more out of Rare. So far this whole launch has been a major dissapointment. 
 So here's hoping for the new Nintendo and Playstation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_burnor
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2005 8:37 pm PT
Review:  A secret war has begun between shadowy corporations bent on world domination. Joanna Dark and her 
 father Jack are brought up in the fight for the future of the planet. A routine bounty hunting 
 mission rips open a global conspiracy that will change Joanna's destiny -- forever. Players must 
 guide Joanna Dark on her journey to become the perfect agent. Featuring a compelling and captivating 
 story, Perfect Dark: Zero plunges players into a world of corporate espionage and conspiracy. The 
 title merges the excitement and intrigue of its predecessor with revolutionary game design, cutting-edge 
 online play, and amazing graphics to deliver an experience that defines next-generation gaming 
 and entertainment. The ship date and retail price have not been confirmed and therefore are subject 
 to change. If the retail price is decreased you will receive the lower price.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroid_16
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2005 8:23 pm PT
Review:  This game may not be Halo 2, but its still an awesome game. I really liked the single player campaign. 
 It sometimes seemed like it should be repetitive, but the storyline kept it all at a good pace. 
 The mulitplayer was absolutly amazing. I thoroughly enjoyed playing online because it was so fast 
 paced and different. The credit sysytem in Dark Ops is a nice spin on classic online play. The 
 graphics in this game also wowed me; on a high def TV, they look simply stunning. But, unlike some 
 other 360 games, it still looks great on a standard TV. The music in the game was a great addition. 
 It seemed to go with every scene, every frame of the game. I don't know of many other games that 
 have done quite this well. The bullets sounds are also good; different sounds on different objects, 
 and different sounds for even different Pistols. I believe this will be a game just like Halo 2; 
 even after a year of playing, people will still be online playing the amazing mulitplayer.
  Some people disagree with such high ratings, but this is what I think. And besides, this is possibly 
 the best launch title, even better than PGR3 and Call of Duty 2.
  Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oO_Gold_Fish_oO
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Ok. to start of this game is amazing. Not only the multi player but the sigle player also. Everything 
 about flows, and plays great. The single player is outstanding, there are many levels and here 
 are very many ways to beat them all. When playing the campaign you don; t feal as if you were running 
 along a set path killing everyone in your way, insted ou get do do things your way and take the 
 paths you choos. In fact if you set the game on the less dificult setting it will give you arrows 
 and a path to follow. Another great thing is the Co-Op. The Co-Op is not as if you and a cloan 
 of Ms. Dark run togoether and kill stuff. You and a buddy can play as two toaly difrent characters 
 and work together in totaly diffrent parts of the map. Alright enough about the single player. 
 It is now time to talk about the Multiplayer. PDZ has just about every multiplayer game into one. 
 You can choose between the normal Deathmath, Team death Match, CTF, or you can choose gametypes 
 simalr to Counter Strike, Battle Field 2 were you have teratories, or maybey if your a old school 
 Halo fan how does a little Zombie sound. The game also has a large aray of wepons and gadgets. 
 The guns in this game are great for many reasons. To start they all look and sound great. The textures 
 and the reloading animations are great. There is aslo a cool secondary function for very wepon. 
 This makes the game more fun and entertaining. In the end if you are a fan of First Person Shooters 
 you must get this game. Enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMBBDHbrandon
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2005 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was AWSOME anyone that has a Xbox 360 need to get this game. I mean u would 
 be wasting your money if u dint get this game becuase u got the 360 for awsome Graphics, Gameplay 
 and Sound and this has it all and more. I was vary impressed it is by far my favorite game. I am 
 goint to start buyng there brand games from now on. Well i will write another review on other games 
 soon but for now i am going to play some more Perfect dark zero. Have a good one and hoped i helped 
 u decied on getting the best 360 game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _tsukasa
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2005 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Finally! This game has been in production for so long, and after jumping from the gamecube, to 
 the xbox, to the 360, Perfect Dark Zero is finally here. 
  
  A prequel to the original, Perfect Dark tells of how Joanna Dark became who she was in the first. 
 The story itself is rather simple, but it works well. There's alot going on throughout the story 
 that leaves you questioning just what's going on. It's not as deep as most games, but the story 
 is solid.
  
  Graphics. Simply amazing. These are some of the best graphics I have ever seen grace a video game, 
 bar none. Characters have texture on their faces and have wrinkles that really stand out. Lighting 
 effects are very realistic and are some of the best to ever grace a game. Even the surroundings 
 look excellent! Walls have texture, the ground looks walked on, the computers look like computers, 
 and the streets look grungy. Truly amazing.
  
  Sound. Sound is simply awesome. Every gun sounds like it's a real weapon, and that you could go 
 out and get one if you truly wanted it. And the soundtrack! It's one of the best video game soundtracks 
 I've heard in a very long time! The music sounds like something out of a spy movie, and really 
 helps you get into the action. Overall, the game sounds excellent.
  
  Alright, the moment you've all been waiting for. Gameplay. Let's get something straight, this is 
 NOT Halo. Halo is NOT the only way to make a shooting game great. Halo is not the only good shooting 
 game out there. Alright, now that we've got that out of the way, I can say why I say this game 
 is perfect. Have you ever played an online match against someone in a shooting game and felt cheated 
 when you died? You ever know you should have killed someone when they really killed you? Perfect 
 Dark Zero NEVER leaves you feeling like this, whether you're online or off. This is one of the 
 very few games I actually felt like I ahd an equal chance with everyone, even if they had a good 
 weapon. In Halo 2, he that hath the sniper rifle or rocket launcher rules the map. In perfect dark, 
 a good shooter can easily take down someone using the rocket launcher or sniper rifle. Weapon blanace 
 in the game is perfect, and any single gun can take down another. There are no useless weapons, 
 which is a change from the games that have useless weapons no one uses. Online is great, with modes 
 ranging from infection (Zombie to all you halo 2 players) to standard killcount (deathmatch) . The 
 online games are so excellent, some may never even touch the single player. This is just talking 
 about the online. The single player/co-op is incredible. There are missions where you have to cover 
 someone, stealth missions, assualt mission, and every other type of mission you could want out 
 of a shooting game. It's simply amazing. Co-op adds another element of fiun into the mix. There 
 are missions where you and your partner are split and have to meet up somewhere. There are missions 
 where you and your partner stay near each other. Co-op is just a blast, it really adds replay value 
 to the single player experience, and you can even play it online! Every aspect of the gmeplay is 
 simply phenomenal.
  
  So why do I say this game is perfect? Because it does everything right. The only thing that could 
 make this game better would be a jump button (though when you're playing the game, this option 
 is never missed) . Other than that, Perfect Dark is a masterpiece, one of the finest first person 
 shooter experiences ever made. It's not Halo. Do not compare the two, they're two different types 
 of shooters. Give this game a chance, I highly doubt you will be dissapointed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex-_3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2005 10:39 am PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero, is a brillient first-person shooter. The graphics are stunning, and the sound 
 blew me away. This game isn't "Perfect" though. It does have its flaws like everyother game. The 
 characters look ugly up close. This game is extremely FUN! The multiplayer is a blast. They really 
 worked on the multiplayer part more than the single-player aspect. Perfect Dark has such a rich 
 plot, I don't think the makers got to the root of it. All in all PDZ is a fun multiplayer game 
 with much to offer. I recommend this game to anyone who loved the original, for the nintendo 64. 
 Trust me, this game is better than the Original!! This game is FUN to the point where you don't 
 want to stop playing. And to me that's a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaLaDiEzPrAyA
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2005 8:56 am PT
Review:  Great Job for the game developers who created perfect dark zero. Perfect Dark Zero has a huge impact 
 on the Xbox 360 actually its a first person shooter thats cutting off the gaming market. PDZ is 
 a game thats true to its story its graphics is really substancial the gaming it self reminds you 
 of the halo saga. PDZ has tons and tons of guns the best part is once you run out of ammo in the 
 game just kill some enemy and retain back the ammo. Its really great the tilt of the game is awesome 
 the enviorment are just mindblowing and creates a great experience for gamers and hardcore gamers. 
 My opinion is get PDZ if you are a great 1st person shooter cause believe me the game lives up 
 to its online experience.
  
  
  By Michael Singh
  Xbox 360 Newsletter Editior for John Adams High School. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradoxliar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2005 6:57 am PT
Review:  Is it perfect? No, but its pretty good. The action is decent and there are two ways to play on 
 some levels: You can take a straight ahead assault method, or you can try to go stealth. This definitely 
 adds some variety to it. There is a huge selection of weapons and trying to pick the right ones 
 for each mission is fun. You will probably find two three guns that will become staples for you 
 and youll use them on almost any mission, but this isnt a bad thing. The control is pretty intuitive 
 and can almost play like Halo.
  
  This game isnt perfect because sometimes when you kill a guy the game cant really decide how 
 hes supposed to play dead and so he kind of flops around for awhile. The music gets repetitive 
 as well as many of "Jo's" sound effects can grate on you after awhile.
  
  Its a great launch title without a doubt and knowing that his game hasnt scratched the surface 
 of what the system can do is amazing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSnake9000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2005 9:14 pm PT
Review:  When i first got Perfect Dark Zero i was skeptical and worried because it was my first 360 game 
 but three days later that all changed. The game is amazing in feel, power, and excitment. Its the 
 gameplay and action that makes me want more, but its also the voice acting that drives me far, 
 far away telling me finger nails on a chalk board are better then this. 
  Then the weapons and combat system are great and inovative it seems like they took things that 
 worked on other games and combined them in PDZ. Theirs a great veridy of weapons from pistoles 
 and smgs and assult rifles sniper rifles well two sniper rifles but how many do you really need. 
 the reloading actions are perfect and so far with the exception of xbox live I have seen not one 
 single glicth, which in my mind is good. this game could have been better if the actors wern't 
 so bad it seems like they were acting for the wrong game, and it also reminds me of another Rare 
 game Starfox 64, and Konami's Metal Gear Solid series. If there are lots of spelling errors, it's 
 so all of you puncks wast your time correcting them. haha ha ha ha ha ha ha!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raziel170
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is beautiful and amazing looking. It is a mix of halo, and splinter cell. Just becuase 
 you suck at it doesnt mean its a bad game. And if u dont like Halo or shooters u wont like PDZ. 
 Also if u are a fan of online XBOX Live u will love the 32 player 16 on 16 matches! It is a great 
 game in my opinion, If u like technical shoot em ups buy or rent out Perfect Dark Zero if you can, 
 you will be impressed, dont believe any bad reviews they just suck at the game trust me i should 
 when ppl r in a bad mood or just PLAIN SUCK AT IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knucklesdude
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 7:12 pm PT
Review:  ===GAMEPLAY===
  
  + This section of the game was very fun. There was a nice variety of weapons and alternate functions 
 to each. I was experimenting with them through the entire game. The abilities to cover and dodge 
 add new strategy to the gameplay, and even more online. On Xbox Live the levels are well done and 
 fun to play.
  
  - I only found one bad thing. In the multiplayer, it got somewhat hard to shoot at enemies when 
 they were small girls.
  
  ===GRAPHICS===
  
  + Absolutely astounding. High detail is applied to everything. You can not find one texture without 
 tons of small details. This game redefines eye candy.
  
  ===SOUND===
  
  + Sound is yet again done wonderfully. Lots of different voices and sayings giving each character 
 a personality. It was also interesting how you found out what to do mostly by someone telling you, 
 instead of lots of reading.
  
  - Some bots have some very odd voiceovers when they die, which takes a bit of realism away from 
 te game.
  
  ===VALUE===
  
  + Superb value. It won't get boring for a LONG time. If I were to go crazy and sell it on eBay, 
 I would start the bidding at $100.
  
  Overall, if don't have it, buy it. If you do have it, treasure it until the Xbox 720. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0wndizzled
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Well as you all know Perfect Dark Zero is the launch title of the 360 that takes place before the 
 original Perfect Dark. 
  
  Graphics: If you have an HDTV or not the graphics in this game still look amazing, the guns look 
 so real and the reloading animations are beautiful, with and HDTV cable you will be getting rid 
 of all those nasty sharpies in the backround and still have a liitle graphic improvement which 
 is good. The fire from shooting barrels or grenades in this game is amazing too.
  
  Sound: Now most hardcore Perfect Dark fans remember the brilliant sound track that the original 
 had, though this games music is a little diffrent from the old music you will still find it nice 
 and brilliant. Most of the guns in Perfect Dark are also in this game and have most of the same 
 sound they did from the first installment, other than that this whole game has great sound affects 
 and you will hear some interesting dialogue in a fire fight.
  
  Gameplay: You have a wide variety of weapons for your arsenal but you only have four slots and 
 most SMGS or HEAVY guns take up two or three slots, PISTOLS take up one. Each gun has a secondary 
 ability ranging from silencers, night vision, cloaking device, flash light, thermal vision, etc. 
 Some weapons even have three ability's.
  
  Story: In the first stages of the game you work with your father Jack Dark in a mission to save 
 a scientest who is being held captive, once you get further into the game you start working for 
 the man who started it all Daniel Carrington from the first Perfect Dark game. After that it all 
 leads up too the first Perfect Dark.
  
  Multiplayer: The game ranges from CO-OP, Deathmatch, Capture the flag, Infection, and a whole lot 
 of other game types to have fun with friends. Perfect Dark Zero is also Online enabled.
  
  Now theres alot more to this game but I dont like spoiling things so I will leave you with this, 
 there are also two vehicles in the game and can be used in campagin and multi player.
  
  Anyway I think you will really enjoy this game if your willing to pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentfall
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Rare came through with Perfect Dark. The game is overwhelmingly cool, with wonderful graphics, 
 amazing gameplay, and a huge arrary of weapons and gadgets. Single player mode has a decent story 
 line behind it and is packed with a lot of room to explore and a lot of people to "take care of." 
 The multiplayer mode is just as fun. Even though they could use more maps, the multiplayer portion 
 of the game offers a lot of action with a lot of people and a lot of weapons.
  
  Overall, this game is a perfect release for the XBOX360. It shows the potential of FPS shooters 
 and forces Bungie to make Halo3 even better than before. There is no doubt that you must pick up 
 this release if you buy the XBOX. It will not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H2gtasarcua
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 24, 2005 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Great Game. Singleplayer is nice and co-op is aweosme and u can play it online which makes it even 
 better. Multiplayer is just as good as halo 2's but i just wish there were more maps to play on, 
 but that where the Xbox live Marketplace come s in so hopefully rare can give us some maps to download 
 in the couple months. The cover feature is just awesome and gives a great variety when u use it 
 in multiplayer matches. The roll move u can make when pressing the left bumper is ok but i really 
 dont use it that much. The weapons have great variety in them with diffrent pistols, assault rifles, 
 heavy weapns and grenades are an extra plus too. The real only problem with the game is there is 
 no jump button and the charecter in multiplayer moves kinda slow. But besides these two things 
 the game is pretty flawless and should be an easy pick up for any Xbox 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coppernaut
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Play this game through, enjoy it. Now I hope you have a great PC, cause you need to go buy No One 
 Lives Forever 2 and play it next. When you're done, tell me which game gave you a better sense 
 "action/adventure", and which super gal impressed you the most with her wit, charm, and professionalism. 
 Both good games... but fans of FPS and content might be more than willing to compare these two 
 titles and say, "they're both good, but she did it better.. whatever "it" may be". Of course graphic-wise, 
 Perfect Dark surpasses NOLF2 marginally, but NOLF2 graphics still hold up for atmosphere. One thing 
 I wanted more out of this game was more weapons that actually exist. Minor gripe, but makes the 
 overall game feel more realistic when I see things in game I tend to know of or see in my every 
 day life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrainedMyDamage
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 24, 2005 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Well, I have been waiting for PD0 since the day I knew about it, and just could not wait for the 
 sequel (prequel) to the greatest game of all time, in my opinion. And now it's here, and I love 
 it. But, the weeks leading up to the game, I saw some of the screenshots, and there was something 
 that was turning me away, or that the game would just not be as great as the first. My doubts are 
 gone.
  
  Let me start with Co-op. Many games already have this feature, such as Halo 2, where you can tackle 
 the missions with a friend. But, PD0 adds features that are rare. Have a buddy across the country? 
 Want to play a mission with him? Halo 2 wouldn't let you. PD0 is a different story. Online co-op, 
 and it's great. Another great feature-split up. So it's not just double your strength all the time 
 running around shooting. One level opens up with each character getting split up. One runs the 
 streets, while the other gives added protection from the roofs. And the best thing is that the 
 mission has to different ways to play. You can be on the roof one time, and the next be on the 
 ground for a totally different feel in the same mission. Another great feature-there's more than 
 one way to go through the levels. Skip secondary objectives, or find a different way to complete 
 the objective than what Chandra, your guide, gives you. One drawback-although the arrows are very 
 useful going through for the first time, it kind of makes a linear game. You don't need to figure 
 things out, the arrows point you the way. I'm sure that you can disable them, and they're not there 
 on harder difficulties, but the first time can ruin it.
  
  Multiplayer is where the game is though. Don't have anybody to play with? Perfectly fine. Just 
 play with some bots. And not just any bots. Some of the bots I've played against play like some 
 of the dirtiest players in the game. They spawn kill, they roll over and over so it's harder to 
 shoot them, and they are some really intense bots, sometimes quite difficult to defeat. When playing 
 against others, there's a heckload of fun. 32 people is great. And huge levels that can be made 
 smaller to fit the number of players is a wonderful innovation to FPS games. The ranking system 
 is awesome-it gives you something to try for, and added hours of fun.
  
  And, finally, the one thing that I was hoping beyond hope would make an appearance in PD0. The 
 original had it, and I loved it. And, to my great wonderment, so does PD0, and this is the stats. 
 How many times did you roll? It has it. How far did you walk? It has that too. How much did you 
 climb? It's on there. Separate stats for each gun-how many times you shot, how many kills, hit 
 %. Compare yours to others who played in the game. I loved the stats, and I love these too.
  
  So, PD0 is an awesome game, and the graphics are just stunning. The soundtrack, very similar 
 to the first, is one of the best in the gaming industry. Go now and buy PD0 if you have an Xbox 
 360, Cause it is the new Halo, and in many ways, better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyroBob117
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  I have had a blast playing this game. The secondary fire on the guns is awesome, however, I am 
 not to taken with the way the gun moves when it is scoped. A great game with refreshing gameplay 
 and fun multiplayer. The online servers are much better that that of Halo 2. I do't experience 
 any lag, and the game can continue when it is searching for a new host. The gametypes like onslaught 
 and infection are instant classics. If you buy a 360 pick up Perfect Dark Zero, It is an excellent 
 compliment to a great piece of hardware. And for God's sake, play it on Xbox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sidewinder3001
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 7:33 am PT
Review:  Perfect dark zero
  
  where do I begin. The single player mode is brilliant and is exactly like the halo single players 
 modes. Sure better graphics but overall the same presentation. Now my review is mainly going to 
 talk about the exciting and AMAZING online play that is offered by rare. There are two modes of 
 games you can play. Either death match (everyman for themselves) or darkops (which is a team based 
 mode) . Each one of these modes has different types of game play for instance if you choose darkops 
 mode you may want to play eradication (annihilate the other team) or defend (where you defend your 
 base and then switch to attack the other teams base) , there are more types of game play but I like 
 eradication the best. Also there are online leader boards so if you want to check how you rank 
 vs. others online just go to a leader board and press x where it automatically locates you amongst 
 the thousands who are playing. The voice chat is also fantastic in perfect darks online mode. The 
 online mode is very easy to play and learn. Threw my many hours of online play I have experienced 
 zero lag, even when the server was full (in a 16 man server) . I would recommend Perfect Dark Zero 
 for those gamers who want a great online game as well as a pretty great looking single player campaign.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rs_m_sprite
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2005 6:08 am PT
Review:  WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! 
 WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! 
 WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! 
 WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! 
 WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! 
 WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! 
 WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! 
 WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! 
 WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! 
 WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! 
 WOW! WOW! WOW! WOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 3:52 am PT
Review:  All right, let me get this out of the way first. People that said the graphics in this game are 
 poor considering what the Xbox 360 can support, have some serious issues and should get help ASAP. 
 The graphics in this game are amazing, though you might argue that some characters in the game 
 don't look as awesome as the main characters. Pretty much every object in the game is crystal clear. 
 The lighting is ridiculous too (for example in the Nightclub Stakeout level) . The weapons in the 
 game are pretty much out of the ordinary, because they are one of the best I have ever seen in 
 a first person shooter, and they all have a really good feel to it too.
  
  If you are like me, who spent the last year or so playing Halo 2. You probably spent a lot of time 
 perfecting your aim. Now when you pick up this game you are going to miss a lot at first. The controls 
 are great themselves, but the precision is a lot harder to achieve this time around.
  
  The sound in this game is just as good as the graphics are. The shooting sounds perfect. The music 
 changes well to the mood of the situation you are on and depending on your surroundings.
  
  The single player mode will definitely take you a while to complete it. The amount of time it takes 
 you to complete it completely depends on what difficulty setting you are playing with in your first 
 time though the game.
  The easiest difficulty setting is way easy, but perfect agent is quite hard and after you beat 
 each level at that you will unlock a even harder difficulty level which is dark agent, which is 
 in other words "almost impossible".
  
  The multiplayer component is really where you will spend the majority of your time on. You can 
 play though the single player mode cooperatively in your local Xbox 360 or though Xbox Live also. 
 Playing though the single player game cooperatively in many ways offers a completely different 
 experience than when you are playing solo because player 2 won't start out as another version of 
 Joanna Dark. Player 2 will start out as another character that is contextual to the mission, so 
 the second player might start out at a different place than the first player, but they will eventually 
 meet up in the way. The online experience isn't anything out of the ordinary, but the huge selection 
 of options, the really good quality maps, and the smoothness (I haven't ever experienced lag since 
 I started playing this game online) of the online experience, still makes this game a really competitive 
 shooter. You have 2 gametypes witch include "Deathmatch" and "Dark-Ops". Deathmatch will let you 
 play with bots. Deathmatch variants include Killcount, Team Killcount, Capture the Flag, and Territorial 
 Gains. Dark-Ops works just like the Counter Strike rounds system do, so you will earn money every 
 round as you play and you can use it for buying armor and weapons between each round. Dark-Ops 
 variants include Eradication, Onslaught, Infection, and Sabotage. So this multiplayer should keep 
 you busy for quite a while.
  
  While this game does not redefine the first person shooter genre, it's one of the best shooters 
 of these past years, simply because of its crystal clear graphics, awesome sound, and of course 
 its huge amount of single-player and multiplayer options. This pretty much has everything you would 
 want in a first person shooter game. Anyone who gives this game a score less than 9.0 has technical 
 issues in their TV or they, themselves just have issues like I stated earlier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneSierra
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 24, 2005 2:01 am PT
Review:  Just to start, people who are saying the graphics are pretty poor for a next-gen system arent playing 
 on a t. v. set from the early 80's on.... or are  Seriously, 
 if you kneel down and zoom in on the floor, there is no distortion in textures at all. Every single 
 tiny little bump on every single rock is crystal clear. Every leaf of every green living thing 
 reflects the sun like nature intended. The graphics and lighting is absolutely rediculous.
  So to get the graphics issue out of the way... game play. Most of us are most likely Halo/H2 fanatics 
 who have spent months of real time perfecting our aim. While playing PDZ, be prepaired to miss. 
 While the controls are good
  in themselves, precision is more difficult to achieve. I'm glad to say the "Clasic PD" control 
 set up or, Legacy, is available for us torn between being a lefty or a righty.... but one problem 
 lies deep beneath. When you use the aim function or cover function (which totally rules by the 
 way) the controls are changed. I have no clue why, but it shifts all movement to the left stick, 
 so it realy throws you off when trying to aim. Especially in the heat of the moment. Also, the 
 aim functions speed is really slow when fully zoomed. You plain and simple cannot catch a running 
 person who is a little too close when fully zoomed.... which by the way isn't just a push-button 
 pre-set zoom level. The more you hold the left trigger, the more it zooms in. Sounds cool? Sure 
 does. Is cool? Sure isn't. When you're running around in the frey trying to aim it's hard to keep 
 your finger at a certain point on the pressure sensitive trigger.
  Other than that, the game is just pure and simple fun with a few gadgets and moves like the quick 
 third person evasive rolls and what not that give it a new spice. It's definately straight up shooter 
 at times, and a little stealth at others. Gun fights will have your heart racing, bullets flying 
 and crap blowing up. Then the stealth parts, you're heart is beating just as much, but you have 
 to spy on people and listen in on their conversation. I have no regrets. Haven't played online, 
 just seen the levels, and they are set up pretty well. The fact that they change size per how many 
 players is a great feature. Oh, and the one thing that all of the old scool PD players.... AI Bots 
 in multiplayer. A feat nobody seems to know how to conquer lately.
  Overall, great game!
  Difficulty: Perfect settings. Real easy to real hard.
  Learning Curve: Very familiar feel, but 
 due to the difficulty (I think anyway... you might love it) of the pressure sensitive aiming and 
 slower movement, I'm giving it a little bit higher of a time to get used to those.... which I still 
 am not fully. Gameplay takes a small hit too, thanks to the aiming.
  Sound: Futuristic sounding music that changes depending on your surroundings and if anyone knows 
 you are around. PDZ has killer sound fx and a real deep, fufilling sound track.... Remember how 
 awsome Goldeneye: 007's fx and track was for that time? Same deal.
  Graphics: I really do not know what to say about the lighting and details. Something that no description 
 or computer dowloaded movie can really describe. Absolute beauty.
  
  In short, this game's awsome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BNation
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:41 am PT
Review:  As for single player, if you played the origional there are tons of fun little cameos in the game 
 that only you would know. The story is a great one discussing what happened to Joana's family and 
 how she came about the Carrington Institute. Every mission can seem hard but there are always ways 
 around things so you dont have to worry. Charecter development is very good in the game as you 
 can see while you play as Joana. The weapons are all very fun to use and some of the origionals 
 from perfect dark such as the laptop gun are back for you to use. 
  
  As for multiplayer, I was always hooked on the halo 2 online capabilities. Each mode for PDZ online 
 is well balanced due to the fact there always being a way aorund everything.... mines... snipers.... 
 or just simple Tactics.
  Co-op: If you have seen the video of the rooftop levels the co-op can be very fun since you wont 
 have the usual same paths to go on. 
  Deathmatch mode: Simple things like deathmatch, team deathmatch, CTF, and Territories can be found 
 here. All well fun but less played online do to the Dark Ops mode.
  Dark-Ops mode: Some would say this is a mix of Counterstrike thrown into the mix. You pay money 
 that you gain from objectives and kills to buy weapons and veicles. There is Extermination (Deathmatch) , 
 An assault the base mode which is very fun, Infection (If you have played Halo 2's Dawn of the dead 
 gametype) and then theres a mode which i have yet currently tried destruction mode where whoever 
 gains the most cash from dmg done to the enemy base wins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 10:07 pm PT
Review:  PDZ is the best 360 game out. It has awesome graphics and a killer story line. Its a fairly long 
 game, but keep in mind first person shooters are never the longest. The single player is incredible 
 but the online/ multiplayer is even better. The controls are really easy and just plain perfect. 
 Definatly the game you should have for the Xbox 360. If you like the first perfect dark wlell technically 
 the second one I guarentee you that you will love this game. A must have for any Xbox 360 owner 
 looking for the game that will blow you away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusthemessiah
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:49 pm PT
Review:  the crosshair is half the screen, you walk super slow. its cartoony the guns are lame. theirs not 
 even much recoil it takes 30 bullets to kill one person, you can basically walk throu the levels 
 its quite impossible to die, online is lame, and the story is kinda ehhh , sorry for not going 
 into much detail and my poor grammar... just lazy rent it dont buy it no one ive talked to yet 
 liked it their are plenty of other good games im a little disapointed with teh 360 it might have 
 been waiting in the cold dont get me wrong call of duty 2 is one of the best games ive eveer played, 
 and need for speed is amazing, madden seems liek they made it in a week im feeling much better 
 games comming in the future 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stephen149
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 5:18 pm PT
Review:  For anyone who has not played this game, IT IS AWSOME! I am not going to go into too much detail 
 because I don't want to ruin the game, but all I can say is "wow". I have to admit, the graphics 
 aren't as good as I thought they would be but they are still VERY good. Gameplay though, it is 
 just wonderful. Multiplayer=awsome, single player=awsome. Perfect Dark Zero is good for anyone 
 who is just starting out as a gamer or has been in the business a while. It has lots of action 
 and it can keep you occupied for hours on end. I would reccomend this game to anyone who has an 
 Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloMaster21
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 23, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is so weird. Everything seems like it is slow motion, but the enemies move in regular 
 speed. Aiming, even on 80% is slow as hell, probably like a 4 sensitivity in halo. Shotguns take 
 4 shots to kill, assault rifles are like the one in halo 1... they do nothing. Basically, this is 
 a great game, just the aiming sucks so badly that it makes it bad. Oh yeah, and you walk so slow 
 that it seems like you are crawling.
  
  I love everything about the game, detailed stats, setup, innovativeness, gameplay, just the aiming 
 RUINS IT. Single player is good, multiplayer offers lots of choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I waited a long time for a sequel to my favorite N64 game and I got it. It was worth every waiting 
 second. The graphics are great and all that but dear Lord! The sounds blow everything away that 
 I've seen so far!
  
  The multiplayer is great, although it isn't really anything new. I just wish they had damage decals 
 on the characters. Something like Hitman or Quake did. If I had one complaint, it would be that 
 the physics seem a little off. They're real floaty in the air but while on the water, they seem 
 to be motionless.
  
  If they'd had more games like this, they'd be going for a lot more on ebay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazchile
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:38 pm PT
Review:  DESDE QUE JUGUYE EL PRIMER PD ME IMPACTARON SUS GRAFICOS, MUSICA Y SUS VARIADOS MNODOS DE JUEGO, 
 ESTA VEZ TENEMOS ANTE NOSOTROS LA OPORTUNIDAD DE JUGAR UNO DE LOS MEJORES JUEGOS EN LA HISTORIA 
 RENOVADO EN TODOS SUS ASPECTOS, AQUELLOS QUE ALGUNA VEZ JUGARON PERFECT DARK PARA N64 SABEN DE 
 LO QUE HABLO, EL MULTIPLAYER ES SIN DUDA DE LO MEJOR QUE SE HA VISTO, BRINDANDO LA OPCION DE HASTA 
 32 JUGADORES EN LINEA Y BOTS CONTROLADOS POR COMPUTADORA PARA AQUELLOS QUE NO GOZEN DE ESTE SERVICIO
 
  SOLO PIENSEN EN LO QUE TIENE:
  * MAZ REALISMO
  *MAZ DETALLE GRAFICO
  *MAZ ACCION
  *MAZ ADRENALINA
  
  *MAZ CHILE!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diablostarzzz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2005 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This is definately the killer app for XBOX 360. The graphics are out of this world for a console, 
 the online play is the best I have ever seen and the missions are fun but the only problem is the 
 story line is not worthy of 100% but it is still great. I would say this is the game to get over 
 any other XBOX 360 game. I would also recommend getting Kameo because it is so fun even though 
 it looks kiddy it really is not that way. I would also recommend buying the XBOX 360 because it 
 will definately be the best of the next generation consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sp-rt-n
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2005 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Holy %$#@ ! I must admit, I was a little hesitant when I heard Rare's Perfect Dark Zero was coming 
 to the 360 back in June, however that hesitation disappeared into thin air when I saw it and actually 
 tried it. The game is sleek, sexy and action packed. Graphics are wicked, and give "next gen" games 
 something to look up to. The sounds, if you own or have a friend who owns 5.1 or 6.1 surround sound 
 configurations, is truly immersive and aw-inspiring. Also, the gameplay is very much a part of 
 why PDZ is an amazing game. With the ability to use cover, dodge enemies and access an array of 
 many weapons (all with secondary, some with tertiary features) makes the game fun and variable. 
 The cinematics are truly well done and it's overall depth is beautiful to behold. However, one 
 of the most important aspects of the games present and future respect has to be the Multiplayer. 
 It was at one time brushed off because of lousy reviews from gaming magazines, but, to actually 
 be in there fighting against up to 32 people over XBOX LIVE, really humbles you. Overall this is 
 a game that rubs you in the right way, with an ending way better than Halo and it will keep you 
 coming back for more. If this is a further indication of what 360's game will look like, all I 
 got to say is - me likey. Me likey lots. It's a must own launch title for your 360 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinfelker42
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2005 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Graphics & Sound are truly Hi-def era material, so I don't want to reiterate any reviews on those.
 
  
  My complaint is gameplay: the stealth aspect. You can get weapons with silencers, and people won't 
 know where you're shooting from most of the time, but you never really know when you're "hidden." 
 There's not meter (i. e. Splinter Cell) that informs you if you're hidden or not. You can shoot 
 out light sources, but I have no idea if that even helps since there's no reference.
  
  And that wouldn't all be so bad except for the fact (this is what really annoys me) that once you're 
 spotted, they always know exactly where you are and never lose track of you. You can run through 
 an air duct, and they'll be shooting at you the second they see your foot on the other side. This 
 is reminiscent of Elder scrolls 3: Morrowind where if you get in trouble in the town, EVERYONE 
 comes after you until death, just unacceptable. This wouldn't be such a complaint, but this game 
 is meant to give you several optional paths to get through levels, so stealth should be more intuitive.
 
  
  Firearms combat feels very real, and the ability to use cover and jump out with a quick shoot is 
 great. I particularly like the way the opponents run around when you're trying to aim at them because 
 it's more realistic. They're not going to just stand there and let you shoot at them. The drawback 
 is that hand-to-hand combat becomes difficult because of this movement as they run backwards and 
 sideways.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero's Cooperative and Multiplayer should dominate XBOX live for some time giving 
 it great value in replay.
  
  If only I were able to play PD0 more intuitive (and forgiving) stealth and not so frustrating hand-to-hand 
 combat (I so wanted to use the vibroblade) , I would have given it the "Perfect" score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DieHardTWB
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 23, 2005 11:09 am PT
Review:  Okay, so fans of Perfect Dark finally get their sequel. How does it stand up against the modern 
 competition? Fairly well, all factors considered. Most sequels to games seem to follow the tend 
 of movie sequels - they suck. 
  
  I've spent a few hours playing PD0 and thus far I've been impressed with the mission design, interactive 
 envrionments, voice acting and eye candy. The only problem I've encountered so far is that it has 
 locked up on me for the second time. 
  
  PD0 lacks a mid-mission save feature. I've seen many people being confused by seeing the SAVE symbol 
 appear at various points during the mission, supposidly creating check points. Unfortunately, these 
 check points are only accessible after you complete the mission and using these checkpoints don't 
 affect your statistics.
  
  The sound quality is definatly impressive, as are the controls easy to adapt too and the learning 
 curve is rather short with a fun tutorial at the begining of the game which is often fun to replay 
 just for kicks or to get your friends acquinted with the game before jumping into: multiplayer
 
  
  The multiplayer aspect of PD0 is where I think the majority of the fun is to be experienced. The 
 revolutionary method of having a team amory before launching into the mission is a keen step towards 
 being able to pick the right tool for the right job before you even begin the mission. The XBOX 
 360 new matchmaking process throws into the mix the likelyhood of meeting those who you give a 
 positive feedback to and the unlikelyhood of meeting up with those you scored a negative feedback 
 to, and the same works for their reviews of you. I believe this is a feature Microsoft is incorporating 
 in all the 360 games.
  
  Overall, Perfect Dark Zero packs a pretty nice punch in all the categories and offers as a solid 
 launch title for the XBox 360.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nec0Machina
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 10:24 am PT
Review:  The game looks good, the reason it didn't get a 10 on graphics from me was because I just didn't 
 see anything in the art design that wowed me. The main reason it looked so nice was because of 
 all the bump mapping and lighting, but the locattions and character models were all kinda boring 
 to me. In fact, I found some of the locations downright frustrating. I thought the night levels 
 were just slightly TOO dark which made it hard to spot the enemies, and the jungle level had way 
 too much foliage for me - I was getting shot at from every angle by enemies I couldn't even see 
 through all the bushes but somehow they could "see" me. The gameplay was average, but there was 
 absolutely nothing new here. The multiplayer seems decent, with lots of gametypes and options, 
 but again nothing that blew my socks off. I think the best part of the game is it's coop mode, 
 as you aren't necessarily placed right next to your partner in the level. You are often fairly 
 far apart from your coop partner and have a completely different path through the level, but can 
 see and cover each other from different vantage points which makes it fun. Also you can play it 
 over the network, which is nice. Overall the game was decent, but I felt disapointed after completing 
 it. This is definitely not the "killer app" that the first Halo was for the original Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philcorey
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:08 am PT
Review:  This game proves that even top of the line PCs cant compare to 360s power because programmers 
 don't utilize for the high-end PCs. It is because I own this game and have an HTDV with 720p I 
 can say that when put on HD mode, PD0 has the clearest, most crisp image of all other fps right 
 now. The moment I picked my 360 out of the box and played PD0 for 35 seconds, I saw that these 
 were the best graphics I have ever seen. This game provides fluid motion, polished sprites, and 
 just the crystal clear guns. Some of the things that made me feel this way was the fact that you 
 could see the individual bricks sticking out in actual 3D, bubbles in the asphalt of a parking 
 garage, life like sprites which are very intelligent, and realistic atmospheres. In my opinion 
 if you have a 360, this game is a must. If you don't have a 360, don't waste a year or so waiting 
 for PS3 because its controller doesnt look like it is catering to fps. I must say that I am completely 
 happy with the 360, from a large variety of online features to amazing graphics. I would recommend 
 this console, and game to anyone I cared about. One of the cool features in 360 is the ability 
 to play any music acquired from either your computer, online, or peripherals compatible with the 
 360 in any game you want at any time. I think that Microsoft and Rare are both doing everything 
 right for this console. If you have the means, GET IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mako
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:30 am PT
Review:  This game is OK but it is certainly not revolutionary. I am playing the first couple of missions 
 and already I am not getting it. The controls are a little awkward and the graphics seem like something 
 I would see on the Xbox, not the 360. While graphics do not make the game, the polish is just not 
 evident and certainly not what I would expect from a company like Rare. There are a lot of clipping 
 issues. Objectives in the mission are not always so clear but at least if you start to stagnate, 
 you get a helpful nudge from the game via communication from an in game agent to point you in the 
 right direction. There is plenty of bump mapping and reflective texturing and per-pixel lighting 
 but it just does not look very clean and polished. Character animations are also sort of clunky. 
 The voice acting is also pretty dead pan and uninspired.
  
  I would not have given it a 9 out of 10. It is fun. Yeah, sort of, but not worthy of a 9.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chanester
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:01 am PT
Review:  As I stood in line for the 360, I was arguing with myself on wheather I was going to get Call of 
 Duty 2 or Perfect Dark Zero.
  
  I decided to pick up Perfect Dark and it is the best game at launch, and if you have or are getting 
 a Xbox 360, than you need to pick up Perfect Dark Zero.
  
  There is a wide variety of weapons and it is so much fun to use every single one of them (my favorite 
 is the shotgun) . The whole game is just amazing and there is just no more I can say about it....... amazing...... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: audia4
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2005 12:00 am PT
Review:  Picked up the game with my 360 and I was happy with the graphics (I have an hdtv) . The story doesn't 
 seem to be too great but the graphics and music make up for it. There are also cool weapons and 
 gadgets in the game. You will find yourself sneaking around at times, fighting tons of enemies 
 at times, and just exploring the beautiful environments. The objectives are difficult to understand 
 sometimes. Enemy AI is really good they can spot you from a mile away, but may shoot at you with 
 the wrong weapons for the distance they are from you. One problem is the crsshairs are not that 
 accurate making aiming a tough task sometimes. Overall it is a greaat game and I can't wait to 
 take it online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMac76913
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:36 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a sequal to the original Perfect Dark for the Nintendo 64 for the longest 
 time... and now, I finally get what I want and was lucky enough to get a 360 on launch day and 
 I was not dissapointed with this game... It was the first game of the ones I bought (NFSMW & Tiger 
 06) that I played, and I just love it so far. I think this is one of the best, if not the best 
 launch title for the XBOX 360, if you have a 360 and do not have this game, I HIGHLY recommend 
 this game for anyone and especially for the fans of the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MMORPG_GAMER
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:17 pm PT
Review:  PD0 is to first person shooters what World of Warcraft brought to the MMORPG genre. Artistically 
 brilliant. Shadow effects are amazing. Lighting effects outstanding. I was sucked in from the beginning. 
 Is it the best FPS ever? No. Does PD0 do justice to Rare and the PD franchise? Oh hell yeah it 
 does! The presentation factor in this game is top notch. I love it. The biggest surprise to me 
 in the 360 launch hands down. I really thought the lack of info meant MS was hiding a stinker. 
 My opinion? MS was hiding a secret weapon. We all know what her name is.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Savages_Havic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutly amazing the graphics for the most part exspecially the detail to the weapons 
 is great looking. The game play is also very good and runs really good. People who are saying this 
 game is a halo rip off need to rub their eyes a bit. Perfect Dark was created before an an xbox 
 or Halo ever existed. Perfect Dark and goldeneye Revolutionized FPS on consoles. Believe all the 
 hype about this game because its just simply very enjoyable. For those who also say its to easy 
 try bumping up the skill level and I promise u wont blow threw the game like it was nothing. This 
 game is very customizable, alot of different variatiosns and game modes for xbox live. Definetly 
 purchase this game, its the best launch title so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2005 5:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is actually really good. I have to say I was kind of unhappy that so many first-person 
 shooters have come out. I bought it just becuase it is PERFECT DARK that RARE made. Surprised how 
 good this game came out, I am more than happy to play it single player and multiplayer. This game 
 looks really good and plays very well. It is not completely perfect, but it is close for video 
 quality and surround sound. It makes an HDTV stand out. This is one of the times I have to say 
 the $50 price is worth it. This is a game I feel will hold value. I have to recommend this game 
 to anyone that has the oppertunity to purchase an XBOX 360. The launch of the XBOX 360 is very 
 positve.... with the exception of MADDEN 06. The review of this game off of Gamespot. com is right 
 on the money for this rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HEaLthy_BoWELs
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This game looks awesome and lives up to what an Xbox should and can deliver, the only problem is 
 that it is on the Xbox360. Now that I have dropped $400 on this supposed next Gen System, I feel 
 kinda let down. Don't get me wrong the gameplay is fantastic but the game itself just looks like 
 an Xbox game refined. Sort of the same way many people felt about God of War, who knew the ps2 
 could produce such masterfull graphics. I feel that this game will down the line be looked at as 
 a prototype 360 game meaning that this is what the 360 can deliver on the low-end and that there 
 is much more to look forward too, or at least I hope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Xbox 360 has just been released, and of course, its all about next-gen gaming. You want to see, 
 hear, and play something truely next-gen? Then Perfect Dark Zero is what you're looking for.
  
  The gameplay is stellar. Prepare to immerse yourself into a world filled to the brim with crazy 
 gadgets, weapons, vehicles, and of course, gunfights. Each weapon seems like it took into consideration 
 how much it could way, and how fast it would fire, almost every single gun is different. Each gun 
 also have a unique secondary attachment. For example, one pistol has a sensitive scope (depending 
 on how hard you pull the left trigger) , an SMG can plop a grenade down, and a standard-issue assault 
 rifle has a static scope. The gadgets are also unique, in one mission you can use binoculars to 
 find out someone's identity, which works like a gun would, except it scans them instead of pumping 
 a bullet into them, there also a hacking device that works like a little mini-game. The multiplayer 
 is great as well, expect long afternoons and nights playing one of eight awesome gametypes. There 
 are your standard deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag gametypes, which you have most 
 likely come to know, and love. But, seeing as Rare likes to change up multiplayer a bit (a la Conker: 
 Live and Reloaded) there are more objective-based gametypes, like Sabotage, where you have to destroy 
 another teams property, and whichever team wrecks it up the most wins. And a particularly interesting 
 one, Onslaught, which pits one team as the attackers, the attackers only have basic weapons, but 
 unlimited lives. The defenders one the other hand, have 1 life, but suped up weapons. Of course 
 there are plenty more gamemodes, and ways to play them too,
  
  What can I say? Truely next-gen. Awesome lighting, effects, and well placed motion blurrs to make 
 things more movie-like. Also, to make things EVEN MORE movie-like there are parts where there is 
 a split camera during gameplay, showing you a different part of the action, like 24. Never have 
 I played when it dropped below a smooth 60 FPS, even when about 10 people are on-screen. All in 
 all, insane, but, you would appreciate it more with an HDTV.
  
  Awesome. Enemies chatter during combat, and the gun/ explosion noises are awesome. Also, really 
 good music, it kind of makes you feel like James Bond when you play. One part I didn't like was 
 the voice-overs, but its not like you would care when you're caught up in the rest of this awesome 
 game. Great with surround sound as well.
  
  From the killer singleplayer, to the awesome multiplayer, to the co-op, this game will be hard 
 to forget in your Xbox 360 library for a while. But, I can see how singleplayer might not be too 
 great once you've beaten it, but still can be replayed.
  
  I'm not a fan of the PD series at all, I didn't like the first, but this game is awesome, theres 
 just so many weapons, and gadgets, and multiplayer modes, and cool singpleplayer! If you have an 
 Xbox 360, and you are searching for one of the best games you will have on it for a while, PD0 
 is what you should get.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tok3d
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 3:40 pm PT
Review:  This game truly is one of the best lauch titles ever; no questions asked. Unlike half of the people 
 writing reviews under me, i have actually played this game, and this is not a false review to prevent 
 people from buying the 360, or a review from people who are just angry at microsoft, so they rate 
 the game horribly; i am a fan of all systems, and Xbox 360 truly is next gen, and will moost likey 
 be the best next gen system even wen the others are released. The graphics are just damn amazing 
 on HD, and everything about it is great. The gameplay, the sound, everything. Th controls take 
 time to get used to, but they are still amazing. Although this is a PDZ review and not an Xbox 
 360 one, i can still truly say this system is quite amazing, and even over came what i expected 
 out of it. Dont listen to the people that say this system is an Xbox 1.5: This truly is next gen, 
 this truly is the Xbox 360.
  
  Gameplay
  PDZ plays much like Perfect dark, although the conrols are alot better, and alot of new gameplay 
 elements; for example wall cover, have been added. This game truly lives up to its halo comparison, 
 although the only probelm is the 2 games are totally diffrent. People stop comparing the games! 
 But this game is truly a masterpiece, i dont regret it, and none of you guys would if you bought 
 this game. 
  
  Graphics
  Without HD, the graphics are slightly better than current generation systems, but with the HD tv, 
 the game looks so "real." Literally. The walls, are amazingly textured, and everythng from the 
 weapons, to the chracters, straight down to Joannas finger nails are truly outstanding. The graphics 
 are the best.
  
  Sound
  Great sound. Guns are amazing, everything sounds great. Expecially with digital sound. Dont forget; 
 you can enter your own music in for the crazy gun fights that take place in the game.
  
  Value
  This will last you your life. So much online, and multiplayer options. And plus even wn 
 you beat the single player, youll still want to jump in (get it; jump in, ehehehe) , and play it 
 all over again.
  
  Overall
  This game is a great successful launch title, and is truly one of the best launch titles ever, 
 if not the best. Although the controls take time to get used to, its a minor flaw to this idea 
 when the game is so amazing, youll forget about it when the action starts. (which is right away.) 
 Get this game, it truly is amazing. Dont hold off for a ps3. and infact since i have time, here 
 are the top reasons not to get a PS3, and stick with the 360.
  
  10 - The PS3 controller is completeley ridicolous;; the 360 is smooth, and really, really nice.
 
  
  9 - the PS3 isnt personal, no online status, no pesonal or customizable features, it really isnt 
 at all good.
  
  8 - Sony doesnt know anything about computers; they wont be able to make a console this good.
 
  
  7 - Microsot owns the computers, they will be able to pull off many features with Windows Xp, that 
 sony cannot.
  
  6 - Sony's system will be expensive for nothing; a disc that holds 80GB or something like that; 
 thats a waste of money, no one is going to fill that much of a disc.
  
  5 - Seven players is another stupid idea, waste of money. Although it will work for sports games, 
 all the other 80% of games wont use it; it just makes the system more expensive.
  
  4 - Sony doesnt care much for players, they only want money.
  
  3 - Sony barely makes any good 
 games (other than socom, and jak) while microsoft is able to provide a variety of games, just from 
 Microsoft game studios.
  
  2 - Microsoft has rare!
  
  1 - Bill gates, and microsoft is alot more rich than sony; they can add alot more things to the 
 system with the money they have.
  
  Trust me 360 is really amazing, and PDZ is a sure classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanegamer08
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2005 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is an amazing title most definitely worth your dollar..... i would recommend this 
 as probably the best launch title.......... for now at least......... amazing graphics mold with 
 an interesting plot...... i believe that it is far superior than its predecessor....... a must buy 
 if you ask me......... jo is so hot and kicks some major a@#.... not a halo, but it comes sparringly 
 close to it, if your looking for a fast paced action title and an amazing first person shooter, 
 perfect dark zero is the game for....... bearing almost identical resemblence to its creators original 
 title....... goldeneye for the 64, i feel that this game will revolutionalize launch titles and 
 set a standard for future xbox 360 titles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haitzz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is really awsome!! Go buy a copy right now. Everything from the graphics to the gameplay 
 to the sound is perfect. The best part of the gameplay is the cooperative mode as you can enhoy 
 the whole experience with a friend. It also introduces some interesting tactical differences than 
 from the single player campaign. The graphics are to be seen to be appreciated, they do have minor 
 glitches but not big enough to take away from the experience. The sound is on par with the graphics 
 offering an equally impressive experience. This is the game to get if your getting an 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamui_of_God
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2005 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is an amazing game - it plays just like the ground-breaking Goldeneye and original Perfect 
 Dark. Having said that, if you were expecting a Halo 2.5, then you'll be sorely disappointed. As 
 this game is focused around replay value and elaborate amounts of customization.
  
  With 32 possible players, huge amount of multiplayer modes (including Dark Ops which plays similar 
 to Counterstrike) ; huge assortment of unique weapons (27) in which its own secondary function and 
 some with tertiary function; 6 maps which can be made any size ( from 1vs1 to 32 player insanity) 
 and customizable bots - it proves for great multiplayer action and years of replayability.
  
  The gameplay unfortunately takes a minor hit from a somewhat odd story for its singleplayer 
 mode which spans across 14 levels. Fortunately, you can play the best co-operative mode of all 
 FPS out there on these levels which is very good.
  
  The voice acting is pretty lame (yes, even worse than the original's) , but otherwise the sound 
 is great.
  
  The graphics have a touch of animation to them, which detracts from "realistic" graphics. Even 
 though, the graphics are great except there are a few minor flaws such as upclose, some characters 
 don't look too good.
  
  This is a must have game for fans of Perfect Dark and Goldeneye.
  As the only minor differences it has from those two games is that you can roll to effectively dodge; 
 you can climb onto things you would normally jump onto in other games and you can take cover behind 
 walls.
  
  I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys FPS games, unless you were expecting a hectic jumping 
 frenzy like that of Halo's. This game is a bit slower paced (but it is faster than most other FPS) , 
 requiring you to use your guns and their various functions, and your surroundings with thought 
 and skill. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManStuckInCage
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The single player is not that fun and can get boring from time to time. But the Online and Co-Ops 
 is a blast. When i got my xbox360 today i bought this game along with it. One of my buddys caim 
 over and we coulden't put down the controler on co-ops its one of the best co-op games Iv ever 
 played. The online is also pritty sweet but if you are getting this game just for the Single player 
 missions save your money and go buy Condemed Criminal origin. Overall this game is worth buying 
 for one of your first games to play on the xbox360. Its not one of the most next generation games 
 but it is still worth to play just make sure you got a friend over or you have xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chirumbolo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Imagine a cross between Timesplitters and Halo (either) , in term of looks and gameplay. Perfect 
 Dark Zero has kind of the cartoony look and feel of Timesplitters, but at the same time, areas 
 of superb gameplay, especially when it comes to some of the co-op scenarios, lends itself more 
 to the likes of Halo. Not to say that Timesplitters, at least the later installments, are by any 
 means "bad" games - they're just not Halo regarding polish and depth. 
  
  So, is it worth owning? Any fan of action/FPS should pick this game up. The gameplay is solid enough 
 that it should handily keep any fan of the genre busy for countless hours. I'm a major fan of the 
 co-op play. It's not just meant to be an extra set of guns running around in tandem. There are 
 sections of the game, which truly require teamwork between players in totally separate areas of 
 the level in order to progress. Granted, this feature might have been under utilized, (I'm a sucker 
 for this stuff) , but it was great when it was employed. Moreover, the fact there are multiple ways 
 through the levels, both geographically and with gameplay styles, (I'm a shot first - ask questions 
 later, type of guy myself) , give strong reason to come back for more well after you have beaten 
 the game. The A. I. puts up a decent fight most of the time, and the boss fights, so far, are fairly 
 rewarding.
  
  A few minor complaints... Yes, the graphics are by no means the end all of graphics. As for the 
 story, it's not that I dislike it; I just didn't much care for the way it was told. It mainly consists 
 of characters' dialogue at the beginning of each level, accompanied with a map, going over the 
 next "where and why." The control is very good, but not quite spot on. (Remember though, if this 
 game wasn't so heavily tied to the Xbox 360 launch, with a little more time and polish, most of 
 the minor gripes I mentioned, as well as most others you'll hear and read about, would have been 
 addressed - but, c'est la vie) .
  
  I could go on about the game's merits as there are those I didn't mention or have yet to fully 
 appreciate, but instead I'll leave you with this...
  The original Perfect Dark was superb, and although Perfect Dark Zero didnt quite blow me away, 
 it hasn't let me down either. All and all, I strongly recommend picking up the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwhale42
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:34 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome game for anyone wanting a Xbox 360. The graphics are top of the line, Sound 
 is amazing, anything you ask about the game, this is awesome! The only way you could hate it is 
 if you don't like First Person shooters and you hate Xbox games, everyone else will love this game! 
 You will be playing this game until you Halo 3 comes out. However, this game is so awesome, the 
 only game in its league that cam out in 2005 is Resident Evil 4. 10 out of 10 from me. This is 
 a must buy. Get it today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tefdesign
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:05 am PT
Review:  I wish I could say I wasn't worried about this game before I bought it, but unfortunately, I was.
 
  
  I usually hold off on my game purchases until AFTER I read Gamespot's review, but alas, when I 
 went to the local Wal-Mart to stand in line for 10 hours to get my 360, Gamespot had not reviewed 
 it..
  
  I decided to take a chance and purchase the collector's edition based on my previous experiences 
 with Rare in the FPS realm. I remembered how Rare took care of gamers with Goldeneye and Perfect 
 Dark on the N64, and tried to reassure myself on how Rare wouldn't fail me again.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Playing the game "feels" right, and I am very pleased with the control of the game 
 with the exception of one thing. There is no jump button, and in my opinion, that's unacceptable 
 with a next generation console. I do like the cover feature though, it's a nice addition to FPS. 
 Another thing I was impressed with was the way your character slows down/speeds up depending on 
 the gun you have.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are sharp in 1080i, but lack that photo-realistic look I was wanting when it came 
 to in game visuals. By saying this, I am not saying the game has bad graphics at all, they are 
 awesome, but not what I was hoping for.
  
  SOUND:
  The sound of PDZ has no flaws. The sound effects are dead on, with the weapons and explosions seeming 
 very real. The musical score fits the game precisely.
  
  VALUE:
  Rare seems to have a knack for multiplayer games. The multiplayer is as expansive as ANY multiplayer 
 FPS you have ever seen. Co-op, Splitscreen, online, singleplayer vs. bots, it's all there. Throw 
 in a decent single player game, and you have a game that more then pays for itself.
  
  TILT:
  I was scared at first, but I am happy to say Rare didn't fail. Once again, Rare proves 
 that they still make FPS better then almost everyone else.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemipower_31
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 8:56 am PT
Review:  The game is incredible, I just got my xbox 360 and hooked up the HD cables to my hd-tv and poof 
 the picture was.......... perfect. All the people who say the graphics suck either couldn't get 
 a 360 or have more eye damage than my 94 year old grandma. If you put on the hd-tv setting and 
 have a quality tv, the expierence is amazing.
  This game is worth all the hype and waiting in line for 12 hours, xbox 360 the only true next gen 
 console.
  Please stop making false reviews, this is the KILLER APP
  All in all the story was good but the features, gun fights, action was revolutionary
  RARE two 
 thumbs way up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BYONDSharp
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 6:45 am PT
Review:  Many years ago Perfect Dark hit the Nintendo64 with a loud and stunning bang. It was what I call 
 the Halo of the n64, along with Goldeneye. Perfect Dark Zero, the prequal to the succesful n64 
 game, is absolutely worth getting. It's multiplayer action will keep you hooked for a while. Those 
 of you in which have an Xbox Live Gold Membership already, should already know how nicely done 
 the Multiplayer is. This game is worth buying, and if your a fps fan I highly suggest you get your 
 lazy bum off that couch and buy an Xbox360 for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starfox6425
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 4:06 am PT
Review:  perfect dark zero i dont now what to say because every thing is perfect just like it's name but 
 i must say some thing well the garphics are the best ever and game play are so cool so any one 
 didnt get that game he shoud get it now and then the sounds or the musics are incredeble so as 
 for the stages they are better than before i didnt mean that the one before are bad no it's cool 
 but this one is better so i dont now what to say but idint finish as for the game it's perfect 
 and the best thing about it that when i play it i feel that i am inside the game isnt that so cool. 
 so that all i have to say about perfect darck zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theO07
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 3:56 am PT
Review:  with characters that look like they come out of toystory it makes the game seam alot less real 
 but maby thats wat they were goin for i still dont like it. james bond will always be the way to 
 go with his stealth like moves its dominate over perfect dark. and as far as halo 3 ... not even 
 a comparison its like a d i-aa college footbal team goin agains usc. a b c d e f g h i j k l m 
 n o p q r s t u v w x y and z now i kno my abc's next time wont u sing with me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solar111
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 22, 2005 1:13 am PT
Review:  After allot of critisism and doubt about ugly graphics, bad AI etc. We finally can make our final 
 judgement with the release of this game.
  
  Not everyone has ever played the original Perfect Dark, some where questioning, what exactly is 
 this fabled game from the N64 age. What made that game and multiplayer aspect so good. Without 
 the connection that Live can offer these days. Well by playing PDZ you might just understand what 
 that game was all about. And we have the honor of playing the Next-generation of Perfect Dark. 
 
  
  Single Player:
  
  Perfect Dark works with an mission system. You choose an level, choose the difficulty level you 
 want to play it and there you go. In the beginning you can only choose 1 level off course, but 
 by playing trough the game you unlock the other levels, wich you can then play at will, and choose 
 the difficulty to play it on. Whats good about this is, lets say an game doen't have this option, 
 you start the game on Hard, you think you can handle it. The first part of the game goes well, 
 but then you get on an point where it gets too hard for you. Either way you keep trying and get 
 frustrated, start cheating, or start the whole SP over again. You just try it on an lower difficulty, 
 and later on tackle it on the harder setting. Perfect Dark gives you freedom of choice.
  Before the mission starts you get too choose your weapons, and gadgets, depending on wich gadget 
 you choose you can take alternate paths trough levels. And there are plenty of unlockables (replay 
 value anyone?)
  The level design is well done, and has the near-futuristic look you would expect. The weapons look 
 shiny and solid. Sharp textures and effects everywhere. The character models do not look too realistic, 
 they look a bit like hi-res 3D manga characters. Wich I actually quite like. Their facial expressions 
 are more dynamic this way. But its an matter of personal taste.
  The missions have plenty of interesting, tense firefights, sneaking, hacking, bombing, sniping 
 and stealth. So with the freedom of choice, alternate paths to take, choice of weapons, and nice 
 level design, its easy too say that the Singeplayer had succeeded.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  Then there is the battle arena, you can choose different modes here, lots of customizable option. 
 Start an botmatch, or go Live. Or play through the singleplayer campaign with a friend, wich is 
 extremely fun. Can't beat something on Dark-Agent, invite an skilled friend an double your chances.
 
  Most of the multiplayer modes are known well already, so they don't need an intoduction. There 
 stuff like deathmatch, CTF, Teamdeatchmatch etc, + some alternate modes, but if you played allot 
 of Multiplayer games, they should somehow be familiar too you. Multiplayer has succeeded as well. 
 
  
  Sounds: 
  
  The sounds are great. Blasting weapon fire, ambience, enemy chatter. Its all nicely done and usefull 
 too. Enemy's react different depending on the situation. Nice touches.
  
  Music:
  
  There a nice techno, groovy, afro-funk playing trough the levels. The music doesn't get boring 
 like Halo's library level Zzzzzzzzz..... and its fits the levels well. 
  
  AI: 
  
  The AI is good and tactically challeging, The enemy takes coves when needed or charge you on when 
 you are reloading or in another nasty position. There's not much too say about the AI. It delivers. 
 Best is too find out for yourself. But don't be an whimpy and play on Agent, escpecially when youre 
 an FPS veteran.
  
  Well I think PDZ can take a seat high up on the golden thrones next too GoldenEye and Perfect Dark 
 1. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_best
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2005 10:41 pm PT
Review:  the game we were waiting for, if you needed an excuse to buy a xbox360 ,here it is !!!! now you've 
 got the perfect 1 , this game loks amazing stuuf , i mean the playable part , the grafics are not 
 god enoug but not as bad as we had seen in the previous videos we watched on tv or in the net , 
 the final product has been fixed for god, an the arsenal ,the maps ,the dinamic of the game seems 
 to be perfect n the xbox live service that microsoft swear is gonna be the best ,then you got it 
 the perfect game for its launch dont miss it , a instant classic is in progress 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanconnery31
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:24 pm PT
Review:  From playing the demo, Perfect Dark Zero is the best Xbox-360 game on the market, no questions 
 asked. I played everything on the street. This means COD:2 , PGR:3 , Nba 2k6, etc. It kills everything 
 in it's competition"From the fantastic gameplay to the gorgeous graphics to the incredible amount 
 of replay value, every gamer should experience this game. It features every multiplayer option 
 you could want, and the feature list reads like a multiplayer gamer's wet dream."
  
  
  
  
  Positives : Outstanding sound and graphics. Amazing gameplay. Brilliant story. 
  
  
 Negatives : None really. Like Greg Kasavin said, player models could look a little better up close.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saldogg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is unbelievable. I got it today and have played for a couple of hours. I got my 360 on 
 Saturday, and this is the reason why! The game looks fantastic, plays like a stealthy Halo, and 
 just feels great to play. This game is a no doubter for anyone getting a 360 at launch. 
  
  Gameplay: Plays like your standard FPS with stealth elements like taking cover and rolling out 
 of the way of fire. It doesn't get a 10 here because it doesnt change the FPS formula much, but 
 its still as good as anything we've seen.
  
  Graphics: The game looks amazing. There's no other way to explain it and nothing else needs to 
 be said. As good as anything i've seen. If this is the beginning of what the 360 can do then give 
 me more please!
  
  Sound: I didn't really focus too much on the sound other than the guns. The guns sound great and 
 are distinct from each other. Solid overall.
  
  Value: The single player is great. The multiplayer with bots is very fun. I ahven't even gotten 
 into XBox Live yet. This is probably as good as it gets. There are 50 accomplishments in this game. 
 There's nothing not to love.
  
  Tilt: I love FPS, and this is the best since Halo 1. Graphically it is phenominal. And its so damn 
 fun!
  
  You heard it here. This game is what you expected it to be! Go get it and get to fraggin'! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardhead22
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 2:55 pm PT
Review:  A long time ago I was sitting in my room just looking around on the internet, and well I decided 
 to go to gamespot and see what the latest news was. Thats when I first heard about PDZ for the 
 xbox360. Instantly I was hooked. PDZ was my favorite game for the N64, and when I found out there 
 was going to be a prequil, well I just had to learn more. Long story short I now have a xbox360 
 and a copy of PDZ and Call of Duty 2. 
  
  Let me just first state that PDZ is very fun. No it is not halo, but very enjoyable. The game in 
 a nutshell plays alot like Goldeneye or the original PD. There are plenty of weapons to choose 
 from, and while the story mode is a bit average (depending on what difficulty level you are on) 
 its still enjoyable. The graphics are good at times and not so good at times. What I mean is that 
 sometimes the shinyness is well, to shiny and sometimes its perfect. That doesnt take away from 
 the pure enjoyment of the game though. 
  
  Don't even get me started on the online mode. There are tons of game modes to keep even the FPS 
 haters at bay. The online mode is what will draw people. There can be tons of people on at one 
 time and still the graphics will be great. The framerate is solid and hardly ever is slow.
  
  BOTTOM LINE: PDZ is a game everyone should experience. From the great gameplay, to the inthrawling 
 story mode, and the best online mode I've seen in a while. This is a must have for the xbox360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raza357
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2005 2:15 pm PT
Review:  So, how good is PDZ going to be, we'll most of us will find out tomorrow and most of us cant wait. 
 We all love PD (i certainly do) but is it up to the 'standars' ?
  Well take this into consideration:
  
  Developed By Rare ^*^ Check
  Joana Dark ^*^ Check 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jj_today93
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so here it is. The most hyped game so far arrives at luanch for one of the biggest hyped consoles. 
 Your excited right? Obviously, and I was to. So when I Played it on the system at the TGS, I was 
 pretty amped up. So I grabbed the controller and began the little demo. First off, the graphics 
 were prety darn enticing, and sparkly even though it was running on a BETA version. There were 
 beutiful details in the faces of each character. There were times when the lighting looked so real, 
 it felt as if you were in the giant hovering airbase gunning down the many invaders. It was all 
 just so good, besides a few minor framerate problems and some rather bland textures, they were 
 just fantastic. 
  
  The gameplay was awesome, yet unsatisfying because at first your all, "Sweet I have the AR-assualt 
 rifle" but then the gun wares off you easily, because well, the gun has the same sounds as the 
 original PD. Wich isn't neccesarily a bad thing, it just leaves you wondering, "That's it?"
  You know what I mean. The voices are great, especially, Chandra's voice it was quite well done, 
 but then again, theirs Joanna. Let me put it this way, Go Through Puberty Already! I mean her voice 
 just doesn't feel the same as the original, serious PD.
  
  And yeah, I guess that's it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papester1873
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 9:35 am PT
Review:  For those of you that say the game is terrible or good but haven't played it yet I have one thing 
 to say... DON"T DO IT FOR ANY GAME AT ALL! I have played the game since I won a 360 through Mountain 
 Dew. The day I got it one of my friends and I sat there and played PDZ for hours. I never did play 
 the original PD but my friend did and he said everything was far superior in PDZ.
  The single player is great, I have only played some of the mission on the agent setting and it 
 is easy but that is to be expected. The great thing is before you begin a mission you can take 
 any weapon you want as long as you have finished a level while having it in your inventory.
  The co-op is even better then the single player. The enemies are harder then sp so then you can't 
 go off by yourself. That is also true since you need teamwork to get through certain parts.
  I haven't played on live yet but I hope that is fun.
  The bots in multiplayer on the easier setting 
 play just like bots, but I have heard that on the harder settings they are really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PLENALTYCHAMBER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2005 6:07 am PT
Review:  what i think is that once again rare has turned out another diamond from the rough of halo rip 
 offs and ww2 shooters to make something to call its own the legendary rare has been known for its 
 shooter since GE for the 64 and this wont be any different. while there may be a few kinks to work 
 out it will defenitly shine in the co-op game play with the ideal of not 2 people on the same path 
 but where you need the other to survive the game the whole sniper and foot solider thing has never 
 been done this way before and it will be the first mayjor live game for the 360 I cant wait to 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwaws41
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 5:49 am PT
Review:  PERFECT DARK ZERO first great next gen game 
  
  this game reminds me of the good old days of 007 golden eye 
  as of course it is made but the 
 same development comany and i got 
  a sneak preivew at it and i played threw 8 levels and this game single player i s solid from start 
 to finish easy canidate for game of the year along with some of the titles that will be relesed 
 later this year 
  
  the GFX in this game are amaizing in HD 
  along with the amounts of wepons are more than most game have to offer 
  with i think 32 wepons 
 in cluding gadgets and if you ad in that mostly all of the wepons have secondarys so there is at 
 least 50+ new and unorthadox 
  wepons to chose from and i think that this game along with 3 other game will be worth the money 
 to go along with expensive price tag of the 360 it 
  self.
  
  this game is a must buy for fps lovers and gamers alike 
  all i have to say is at least check 
 this amazing game out '
  
  o and on single player if the Ai is set on easy its like shooting fish in a barrel but is you put 
 it on the highest setting it is extremly hard so make sure
  u are playing on the dificulty setting that is sutible for you
  
  learning curve its about 
 30 minutes or less or some hardcore FPS players 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mamad_raiss
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 10:41 pm PT
Review:  you can't even emagine what you have on of the best game I ever seen and play ,it has every good 
 parameters of a first-person shooter . 
  you will see some visuals that you didn't see before like excelent graphic and hilarious gameplay 
 , ultra HD sound quality , and many more things that I want to explore it and find it .
  the graphic engine is perfect even better than F. E. A. R in pc and maybe HL2 . AI is so good that 
 you find your enemy like a real peoples.
  I think 360 won the competetion of best console now with these games , and I think sony should 
 not release its ps3 because they will lose .
  sony wait for next generation you lose this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zmaster200x
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 24, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  So I spent approx. 5 hours with PDZ, and I actually beat it.. Which is not to say that its an easy 
 game, but rather a quickly paced well-rounded FPS. 
  
  The graphics are nicely textured, a bit cheated at points.. Mainly flat textures on surfaces where 
 Rare could have easily rendered them individually. The weapons are nicely rendered with a great 
 ATD. It was especially nice to see my old favorite from PD64, the laptop gun, and the RCP90. The 
 secondary functions on the weapons are also great touches.
  
  The voices are solid, the soundtrack AMAZING, it's almost worth it to buy the soundtrack... The 
 controls are fluid, the camera bob is a little unsettling, but thankfully disablable.. 
  
  Like I said, the game runs a nice clip, with levels being about the right length, albeit, the length 
 of the total game. I didn't get to play multiplayer, or on a higher difficulty level than the default, 
 but I can't wait to play PD mode, and get in there and have an all out frag-fest.
  
  The plot really feels like the first season of Alias though.. Which is a bit strange considering, 
 but Jo is the first sexy female spy I can think of, so maybe J. J. Abrams took liberties with that.. 
 I mean Jack Dark and Jack Bristow, c'mon.. 
  
  The whole game was a really great intro to what will develop into an even greater series.. A sequel 
 should already be in the works, and I'll definitely pick that one up as well. It would, however 
 been nice to have the original PD in upscaled 720p though. I loved PD64 and to play it again would 
 be great.. Maybe Rare will remake it.. We can only hope.. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIJesse7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I have'nt myself played it, but i know what i see, and i see a hit. This game looks as though it 
 could keep you busy for months. Graphics are superb, gameplay has some new twists, has a hot girl, 
 what else is there to say? Major replay value, crisp storyline, lots of third-person action, great 
 effects, and justs loads about it. But there is things that does'nt make it the perfect, perfect 
 dark. Don't worry, i'm not comparing it to halo. Stuff like the way the people die, seems linear, 
 and characters ingame don't seem that much life-like. I don't know about you, but that stuff doesn't 
 bother me one bit. Just one thing, if you want to make your freinds jealous, get perfect dark zero!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimReaper626
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is going to be one of the best games thats going to come out for any system for a while, 
 other than the halo series. Perfect Dark is a game of run and gun play with stradegy. When i first 
 played this game, I was in awww of the amazing HD capabilities and the many particle effects and 
 all sorts of other things there were. This game is going to be the best game of the launch for 
 this system, plus time to come. This should be a game that everybody should get for their collection, 
 just look at the first one, that got a 9.9 and if this one goes along the same path, it will be 
 an instant classic for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreamcrusher
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  After trying this game out, I've got to honestly admit I wasn't impressed. It was pretty boring. 
 Most of the time spent was just shooting little robotic spiders that didn't even really attack. 
 The rest of the time was spent just walking through hallways or shooting enemies that weren't challenging 
 at all. After a quick match of multiplayer, I had to finally admit that I was let down. I didn't 
 think they'd mess it up, but Microsoft has made this game garbage. Apparently I wasn't the only 
 one either, my friends that viewed as I played and challenged me at multiplayer were let down as 
 well. On top of that, one of the mountain dew contest winners returned the game to the store we 
 were at and said, "This game is total trash. I wish they'd never made it." So that's when I knew 
 I wasn't the only one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_maker23
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 2:31 pm PT
Review:  N64's perfect dark was as closest to perfect as a game gets. After playing perfect dark zero i 
 was overcome by sheer greatness. i've gotta hand it to u RARE, you've made a game that makes halo 
 look like an amateur. Honestly people, is jumping around and meleeing oppents all there is in the 
 world. Now a lot of people have been telling me lately, how halo started a new generation of first 
 person shooter. It has vehicles but u know what folks, i don't give a dang even if a game didn't 
 have vehicles. Fortunately for u halo fanatics, PDZ provides u with vehicles in both as pects of 
 the game; in the single player campaing as much as in the multiplayer. Come on, halo is good and 
 all, but we gotta try something new and innovative. Such a title is RARE's truly, Perfect Dark 
 Zero!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narasil
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is one of the most anticipated games of 2005. It is the prequel to the huge hit, 
 Perfect Dark which was on the N64.
  
  Perfect Dark Zero brings graphics to a whole new level, just like ResEv 4 did earlier this year. 
 The in-game graphics are unreal... I mean they look real... wutever. Lots of weapons and great 
 co-op and multiplayer gameplay. The sound is mostly techno music, but its really good music... 
 great for gun fights and stuff.
  
  If you like the Halo series you will deffinetly like this game. Actually, if you like ANY game 
 you will like this game. Its really hard to describe how fun it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theman1126
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2005 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who plays this game will realize that it is something that you think sucks or rocks. I did 
 not really like the first one that much but I really liked this one because the graphics and game 
 play are really good. It was not quite as good as Halo but it was still really cool. The story 
 was different from normal shooters. This time you can actually go outside instead of just running 
 around outside. The multiplayer and co-op are so fun I think they are one of the highlights of 
 the game, hopefully you have friends. Peace out home slices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GonerX
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 6:51 am PT
Review:  Totally what I was looking for! The game gots everything but good character face textures, how 
 familiar is that to DOA? Other than that, the character styles seems to come out just like Timesplitters. 
 Oh well, the graphics are extremely superb other than the fact the characters dont seem to show 
 enough.
  
  Some dialogue seems to be somewhat wierd at times.
  
  Seriously, when since any shooter enabled any dodging and sidle system? Yes Unreal Tournament, 
 but UTs gameply does turn out to repeat itself and such, but not PD0. PD0s dodging system brought 
 online is much funner and cleaner.
  
  PD0 is so fun man, gotta pick it up no matter what! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pfeiler24
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 6:08 am PT
Review:  The games graphics are good enough for me, gameplay is AMZING along iht the kick ass multiplayer. 
 Not hard to learn like other FPS sounds are good and is a game that will be fun for a VERY long 
 time. So the graphics arent the best thing ive vever seen and wont be the best of the launch titles, 
 but the games is fun and is great for all the PD fans, what we have all been waiting for. I always 
 say its the gameplay not the graphics that make the game, i loved it. Best FPS made up to this 
 date
  
  and Ive only played for 2 days, Once online gets goin PDZ will be a MUST have game and halo2 online 
 will be a ghost town 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irock27222
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Are you kidding me... This game is just a waste of money, time, and energy... There is nothing 
 different from this shooter then any other.. besides the graphics.. which i might add arent that 
 spectacular.. This FPS brings nothing substantually new to the table.... (TWO THUMBS DOWN)
  Now for me, i exspect somthing very new and improved.. Liked idk.. being able to take a guy, shoot 
 him in the head, then the blood spewwing from his skull could cover ur screen in a way as if it 
 got in ur eyes... BUT also enemys around if the blood were to hit them in both eyes it would be 
 as if they were stunned... or if only hit in one eye there acuracy would be grealty decreased... 
 Well thats just me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TSTIFF
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 19, 2005 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is a revolutionary game compared to the old classic perfect dark for the N64. But I did 
 find some things that could be improved like Frame rate, and when playing the single player I found 
 that the background, all though the visuals were extraordinary, the background resembles a background 
 of Halo. Also when you play the game you don't have to just play single player. My favorite part 
 of the game is the option of playing with you friends or against bots or both. This makes the game 
 lasting, and what I mean by that is it make game more exciting and takes the game a lot longer 
 it wear out or become boring, but I don't see how this game could ever become boring. The weapons 
 by themselves would make you want to see this game but combined with great lasting game play and 
 stunning visuals make this a great game that far surpasses my expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sithlord300
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:54 am PT
Review:  no matter where you play Perfect Dark its always the same awesome. you always get ensensation that 
 you have to be a spy and do this and that. Kill people to get to your object and the spy gear is 
 awesome too. If you only played the N64 version get this one you wont regret it. i mean the graphics 
 are awsome (well becasue of the X-Box360 ) and they made the mission objects more interseting. Its 
 a really all out game where you just play. Theres good multiplayer too. I really recomend this game. I 
 mean they are way different stuff in this game then there was in the N64 version. If you like a 
 James bond game then you should check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E2ESQUARE
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Dark Zero is the first xbox 360 game that people got excited about. Its the prequel to 
 one of the most acclaimed N64 games ever, and this game doesnt fail to live up to its name.
  
  First thing is the single player campaign. This is a beautifully animated, 10-15 hour run that 
 will have you comming back in every setting on every difficulty because its just that good. Is 
 it better than Halo 2? Campaign, yes by a mile. You wont feel betrayed by the ending and you will 
 be exilherated the entire way through this immersive story. Basically you are Joanna Dark, and 
 you assist your father who is a bounty hunter. The story line begins in the early days of the hunt 
 and evolves into deeper and darker plots of corrution and deciet (no spoilers here) .
  
  If the story isnt your thing, then the gameplay will certainly grab you. The game successfully 
 gets the stealth/melee combat from Metal gear solid and puts it into an action shooter. Unlike 
 Halo and doom where a silencer means better accuracy, in PDZ, secondary firing options like a silencer 
 mean a completely different strategy for a takedown. Its the difference between a rambo strike 
 and a run into open space revealing yourself to the world and risking getting sniped. Knowing how 
 to use what you have: your environment, your position, your radar and your weapon are crucial to 
 survival. In Halo 2, if your enemy cant see you on radar, they go look for you. In PDZ, your enemy 
 generally cant do that because its just too risky. Strategy, stealth and action are merged flawlessly 
 in the most and least intense shooting matches you have ever had.
  
  PDZ's online multiplayer is really what will keep you comming back for more. Long after you have 
 expended the campaign and your friends refuse to loose to you anymore, you take the battle online. 
 Co op, Dark ops and deathmatch modes keep vareity high. Its matchmaking system is across between 
 that of Halo 2 and Timesplitters (in terms of modes) . Bottom line: This game will rule Xbox live 
 until Gears of War, or even after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alchemy001
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 18, 2005 4:10 pm PT
Review:  At first i wasn't so excited about how perfect dark zero would handle and if it would live up to 
 its predecessor, but i can honestly say that this game is all it should be and possibly the best 
 launch title for the X360. The graphics are fantastic, the multiplayer is nothing to write home 
 about but its still solid fun, and the gameplay is a thrill, the likes of which have not since 
 been seen since halo. The A. I. is also something else with enemy's taking cover and rallying with 
 nearby comrads. I'm not too happy with some aspects of the games though, such as the grenade and 
 gun being held in front during combat which just seems awkwark. The storyline is quite well done 
 as well although the voice acting could use some work. If you are planning on getting an Xbox 360 
 anytime soon, write this one down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cwesty21
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 17, 2005 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I had alot of fun with the old pdz and i was expecting a great fps and thats what i got. Its a 
 cachy single player and even a better multiplayer but i dont think its a smooth as halo or halo 
 2. The graphics have no complains and the sound is pretty good but what this game lacks is more 
 multiplayer maps and gameplay. The roll feature is very useful, but without a jump this game seems 
 linear, unlike the killer app Halo 2. The shortage of maps will eventually be fixed so i wont complain 
 about them to much. But it is cool seeing the maps change with more people. Well id defintly pick 
 this game up if your just slightly interested in fps. 
  
  PM ME IF YOU Want MORE INFO CAUSE I RAN OUT OF TIME TO WRITE THIS BACK TO WORK I GO  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deerman890
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 17, 2005 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Alright, as most of you know this is the sequal, or should I say prequel to the N64 Perfect Dark 
 game. If you haven't played the N64 game you may be missing out on one of the best shooters on 
 that system, but that doesn't mean this game shouldn't be for you. This game, like a lot of system 
 games out now, is a first person shooter. What makes this game stand out is the awesomeness of 
 the types of weapons you can use. Some of the classic goes that we love have come back along with 
 some other interesting weapons. 
  
  GamePlay- 
  the game play is truely worth the buy if your a fan of FPS (First Person Shooters) . The game is 
 easy to handle with bottons in easy locations to quickly get to with out having to think about 
 it. I know how people hate to compaire games to Halo 2 but if you understood the controls in Halo, 
 this game should not be to hard for you to handle
  
  Graphics- 
  one of the two lowest scores. The reason for this is not that the game has horrible graphics and 
 it doesn't. The game just lacks in Graphics compaired to most of the other 360 games i've seen 
 or played. 
  
  Sound- 
  Another one of my lower scores. The reason for this is because of the voice acting. Voice acting, 
 being one of the main things to keep a good story going, was shocking. Some of you reading this 
 already know that Jonna's voice doesn't fit with the voice of the N64 version's. This may disapoint 
 most of you but it surely isn't a reason not to get this game. 
  
  Vaule- 
  I Havn't played the Multiplayer or xbox live but knowing that this game will have live and that 
 it came from, in my opinen, one of the best mulitplayer games of all time, i'm sure that PD0 with 
 have great online and also for those with out live will not be dispointed in the offline multiplayer. 
 The singleplayer has it's times that keeps your heart going and will bring you back for more to 
 try improve on your last score on the level. 
  
  The game is truely awesome, it has it's few minor things that could be tweaked, but other then 
 that it's a great FPS action game. With the Difficulty that can be childishly easy to you having 
 to be a Perfect Dark Agent just to live on any level makes the game injoyable for old and new players 
 of FPS. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
