-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/kingkong/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Playing as Kong flat-out rules.
 First-person action is a satisfying mix of great combat and simple puzzle solving.
 Highly atmospheric art design.
 Fantastic voice acting, sound effects, and music.
 Some truly horrific monsters to fight.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Six hours of gameplay.
 The whole New York section at the end is very brief, and not all that great.
 Not an awful lot of challenge, save for some very specific sequences.
 Not enough parts where you play as Kong.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 22, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.0, 72 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 3,381 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montpellie
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Nov 21, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It won't take you long to blow through King Kong, but its sometimes thrilling, often tense, and 
 always entertaining adventure is absolutely worth checking out. 

  The first-person action adventure/third-person gorilla beat-'em-up combo genre has been born in 
 Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie. As the long-winded title suggests, this 
 is the game based on the upcoming retelling of the 1933 film by the Academy Award-winning director 
 of the  Lord of the Rings  trilogy. King Kong feels more like a stand-alone product than a handy 
 cash-in for the license, however. This game blends the aforementioned first-person action sequences 
 with its third-person (or should it be third-gorilla?) components remarkably well, as you traverse 
 the perils of Skull Island as both screenwriter Jack Driscoll and the 800-pound gorilla himself, 
 King Kong. It also helps that both components, on their own standing, can be a great deal of fun 
 when the game is at its best -- which, fortunately, is the majority of the time. Unfortunately, even 
 the majority of the time isn't very long in the case of King Kong, a game that won't take you more 
 than a single afternoon to beat. But that afternoon will be well spent.  

          Skull Island: Home of beautiful people, lush beaches, and friendly animal life.     

 
  The story of King Kong opens with filmmaker Carl Denham (voiced by the always-entertaining Jack 
 Black) in a fit of desperation. A film studio is about to can his next project, so it's going to 
 take something drastic to get things back on track. Along with his screenwriter, Jack (played by 
 the soft-spoken Adrien Brody) , and struggling actress Ann Darrow (played wonderfully by Naomi Watts) , 
 Carl procures a ship to take him and his misfit film crew to the mysterious Skull Island, a supposedly 
 abandoned home of a lost civilization. Why exactly he goes to all this trouble just to film a movie 
 isn't really explained in the game. In fact, most of the early story exposition is told briefly 
 via the first half of the movie trailer you've likely seen in theaters already. Obviously it would 
 seem that there is more to all this, but you won't get to find out about it until you go see the 
 movie in a few weeks. By the same token, because the movie isn't out yet, we can't tell you how 
 much of the story King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie might spoil for you. If you're the 
 type that absolutely wants to be surprised, you might want to wait a few weeks before grabbing 
 this game.  

  The game itself picks up right as the ship reaches the gloomy island. You open your eyes to see 
 the world through the perspective of Jack, just as he's being lowered in a rowboat, along with 
 Denham, Ann, and a pair of sailors, to set forth for the shore. It's stormy waters, and sure enough, 
 things go awry when large chunks of rock begin plummeting into the sea, right near your boat. You 
 wake up on the beach, with the almost angelic Ann standing over you. You're marooned, confused, 
 and wondering what those horrible, beastly shrieks are that are coming from further within the 
 island. All this happens before you even pick up a weapon, and you'll honestly spend the first 
 10 minutes or so of the game just looking around, taking in the scenery and gaining your bearings. 

  In fact, you'll probably do a lot of sight-seeing in King Kong, partially due to the excellent 
 graphics (which we'll get to later) , and also because there isn't anything on the screen to distract 
 you from the enemies and scenery in front of you. There's no heads-up display of any kind. You 
 gauge how much health you have via a screen effect that flashes the screen red when you're injured. 
 When in such a state, you need to get away from the action briefly to heal up. If you take another 
 major blow while things are still flashing, you'll die. Ammo is kept track of via verbal cues from 
 Jack. Every time you reload, he says out loud if he's got enough ammo, or if he's starting to run 
 dry. It's a great system, really. You won't ever feel like you're missing a HUD, since these subtle 
 methods of information really keep you in the loop.  

  You can only hold one gun at a time, though you can pocket weapons in favor of pointier instruments 
 of death, like discarded bones of fallen creatures and spears that have been left lying about. 
 You will need to toss said weapon before you can pull your gun again, however (which does make 
 sense, given the limited carrying ability of Jack) . The game goes out of its way to make its ammo 
 pickups seem completely sensible, too. The captain of the ship flies around the island in a seaplane, 
 dropping crates full of guns for you to pick up here and there, while he looks for a decent place 
 to land. Spears and bones are left in areas that seem to make perfect sense for the scenery. And 
 apart from bones, ammo isn't unlimited. If you find a cache of three spears, then that's all you 
 get to use (though you can reuse spears over and over again if you need to) . You also only get 
 a certain amount of ammo per gun, and once you're dry, you'll need to improvise. It's great though, 
 because the game always seems to leave enough other weapons around to give you just enough to beat 
 off whatever threats are coming your way. If you're cautious and jump between spears and guns on 
 a measured basis, you'll never feel like you're hopelessly outgunned.  

          Contrary to popular belief, dinosaurs are alive and well, and think you're yummy looking. 
     

  Whether you're chucking spears, pumping shotguns, or letting loose barrages of bullets with a tommy 
 gun, the combat during Jack's sections of King Kong are always satisfying. The weapons all pack 
 a good punch, and it's surprisingly easy to hit your targets. There's no targeting reticle turned 
 on by default, but you don't need one. So long as you're aiming in the direction of an enemy, you're 
 likely to hit it. It's not that the game is completely holding your hand, it's just making it so 
 it doesn't have to clutter the interface with a precise reticle, and that's a great touch.  

  It also helps that the monsters you'll encounter on Skull Island are unbelievably ferocious. 
 Everything that lives on this island is like a bigger, significantly mutated version of an animal 
 that was highly dangerous and unpleasantly tempered to begin with. Angry dinosaurs, 10-foot-long 
 millipedes, hordes of giant scorpions, and bats that look more like massive gargoyles are just 
 some of the horrific beasts that inhabit this hellacious place, and they don't much care for the 
 fact that you're on their turf. They're smart, too. They'll attack in packs and force you into 
 hiding spots and cover positions. And boy, do they like to bite. Some enemies can't even be killed 
 by puny humans, like the packs of Tyrannosaurus rexes that periodically pop up. The best you can 
 do when they show up is hope to distract them long enough with gunfire and spears to find a way 
 the hell out of there. It's tense, gripping stuff when you're running around like a madman, desperately 
 shooting at a T-Rex that's angrily growling at deafening volume, and it shows that this game has 
 more to it than just mindless shooting.     

   

  The game definitely has its puzzle elements as well. Often times you'll be challenged to seek out 
 missing handles to insert into large wooden posts (for the purposes of rotation, to open a large 
 door) , or set ablaze a patch of briars to clear your path. OK, so maybe the term "challenge" is 
 a bit generous. Very few of the things you're tasked with take an awful lot of thought on your 
 part, mainly because the levels are laid out in such a linear fashion that it's tough to get lost. 
 It's also because your artificial intelligence-controlled compatriots are mostly smart enough to 
 know where they're going, so save for the few bits where you're on your own, all you really need 
 to do is just follow them. It's cool stuff, despite its relative simplicity. You definitely get 
 a primal feel out of spearing nearby grubs to distract a pack of raptors, and of realizing that 
 fire is your greatest resource.  

          Playing as King Kong is just as much fun as playing as a gigantic gorilla ought to be. 
     

  Oh, and did we mention that you get to play as King Kong? We make so much of the Jack portions 
 of the game because they're really the bulk of what you're playing throughout the adventure. Those 
 sections take up roughly three quarters to four fifths of the action. This is a shame, because 
 for as good as those sections are, playing as Kong kicks ass. During the Kong sections, the camera 
 switches to a more cinematic view, showing Kong in all his gigantic glory. There are basically 
 two things you do when playing Kong: Swing through the jungle and lay waste to ugly monsters. The 
 swinging portions are mostly contextual button presses. Get up to a ledge, press a button, and 
 he'll jump and swing from the rock hanging off the cliff nearby. Then press another button a moment 
 later, and he'll jump to and climb on a patch of vines that covers another cliff. These bits are 
 very clearly laid out, which is good because the swinging chases that Kong is often involved in 
 tend to move very quickly, relying more on reflexive action than any carefully thought out movements. 
 There are also times where you'll have Ann firmly tucked in hand, and you'll get to use her in 
 puzzle sections. By letting her loose on certain platforms, she can toss flaming spears at things 
 that would otherwise block your path.  

  That's cool and everything, but where the fun's really at is unleashing your gorilla fury on an 
 opposing beast. Be they giant bats, T-Rexes, or swarms of angry natives, Kong has a lot of enemies. 
 Though Kong doesn't have an awful lot of attack variety, he's got what a giant gorilla needs to 
 crack some skulls. You've got basic punches and grabs, a couple of little combo moves, and contextual 
 finishing maneuvers that involve Kong grappling a downed opponent, and you mashing a button as 
 quick as you can to snap a T-Rex's jaw, a bat's neck, or anything of that nature. It's simple, 
 but it looks fantastic when you're pulling these moves off. You really get that sense of pure, 
 animalistic brutality as you're laying waste to these unholy beasts.  

  Between the Jack and Kong portions of the game, there are a lot of enjoyable things to experience 
 in King Kong; it's just too bad the experience doesn't last longer. At most, this is a six-, maybe 
 seven-hour game the whole way through. Even when played casually, it isn't something that'll take 
 you very long to get through, since every chapter of the story moves at such a brisk pace. It also 
 bears mention that the conclusion to the game isn't the most satisfying thing in the world. Ninety 
 percent of the game takes place on Skull Island, but when Kong is inevitably captured and brought 
 to New York at the very end of the game, you'd expect some kind of fantastic rampage through the 
 city streets. That doesn't really happen. Yes, you get to go on a rampage, but it's a pretty subdued 
 rampage that doesn't take very long. Jack also completely disappears from the storyline the moment 
 you leave Skull Island, which is a touch disconcerting. The ending itself is done the way you would 
 expect King Kong to end, though it ties together with a little too much brevity for the way the 
 rest of the adventure is paced.  

  King Kong is available for roughly every platform known to mankind. OK, so there's no Commodore 
 64 version, but not counting handheld versions that have yet to be released, it's out on the Xbox, 
 PlayStation 2, GameCube, PC, DS, Game Boy Advance, and Xbox 360. Graphically, the three current-generation 
 console versions all look comparable to one another. The PlayStation 2 and GameCube versions look 
 near identical, and the Xbox version looks slightly better, with cleaner textures and better lighting. 
 However, it's the 360 version that really steals the show. This isn't just a half-hearted port 
 of the Xbox game. Everything in this version looks markedly better than the rest, which is what 
 you would hope for from a next-gen console. Fantastic lighting, improved level geometry and textures, 
 better fire effects, scarier-looking dinosaurs and beasts, and of course, a better-looking Kong, 
 all reside on the 360 version. Those improvements are noticable even in standard definition, but 
 HD is really where they shine. The frame rate does take a bit of a hit during a couple of specific 
 sequences on all platforms, though the 360 version handles these bits a lot better. Granted, the 
 360 version of the game is slightly more expensive than the other console versions -- $10 more, specifically. 
 But considering that the other versions are being sold at full retail price, it's worth going for 
 the 360 version if you own the system, simply because there's a big difference in visual quality, 
 even if the content is the same across the board.  

  Even without the vastly improved graphics, all the other versions of Kong capture the aesthetics 
 of this nightmare of an island extremely well. This is a dank, rain-soaked, ugly place to be, and 
 the visuals capture this atmosphere in such a way that you'll be delighted to look at all these 
 dreary details. All the creature designs are excellent, and they move and behave in a very realistic 
 fashion. Unfortunately, when they die they simply disappear (unless another beast happens upon 
 its corpse and begins to devour it) . The environments on Skull Island all have this hazy, creepy 
 look to them. You'll see these big mountains and stone structures off in the background, just beneath 
 the thick fog and the various flying monsters that circle around. This is most certainly a dangerous 
 jungle, and you never quite know where and when something nasty might jump out at you. There are 
 some minor details that stick out as less than great, like the gun models, which look a little 
 awkward, and some of the ground textures, which look nasty even on the 360. Also, the New York 
 bit of the game doesn't look nearly as good as anything on Skull Island. When you're playing as 
 Kong, hanging off the Empire State Building, that looks neat. But all the buildings have this overly 
 angular, flat look to them, and there's really not much to populate the streets. Again, you spend 
 far more of your time on Skull Island than you do in New York; it's just annoying that there's 
 this sudden drop in graphical quality the second you get out of the jungle.  

          Somehow King Kong manages to make a dark, gloomy, depressing island into a beautiful thing 
 to look at.     

  The audio in King Kong might just be its best feature. The voice work from the film cast, as well 
 as the remaining actors, is excellent. Jack Black really nails that egotistical, self-absorbed 
 attitude, and Naomi Watts plays the perfect damsel in distress. You don't get much Adrien Brody 
 dialogue, but what's there is fine. The sounds of the beasts are what really drive the point home, 
 however. When Kong starts beating his chest and lets out a roar, you feel it in every part of your 
 body, especially if you have a good surround sound setup. Of course, it helps that the game uses 
 a great blurring visual effect whenever the roars of Kong and other creatures reach peak levels, 
 but the recording quality itself is really amazing. Even when things aren't loud, you get some 
 great background effects. The rumbles of thunderclouds, the sounds of creatures moving through 
 the brush and chirping away off in the distance, the patter of rain against the rocks, and even 
 the heavy breathing sounds of Jack as he runs as fast as he can through the island's perils -- this 
 is top-quality effects work. The game features a full orchestral score that seems like it could 
 easily be taken from the film. Whether or not it's original or recycled film score, it's used wonderfully, 
 ramping up and fading out at just the right times.  

  King Kong easily represents one of the better film-to-game translations released in recent years. 
 This is a tightly delivered adventure with barely a dull moment, and the ability to play as two 
 such wildly different protagonists as Jack Driscoll and King Kong is a real treat. It's just too 
 bad that the two characters' respective sections weren't more evenly balanced, and that the game 
 ends so soon and with a final level that feels tacked on. But those problems aside, this is a game 
 that immerses fully you in a quality adventure, the likes of which will probably make you want 
 to see Peter Jackson's film all the more. It's the thing that so many licensed games shoot for, 
 and so few achieve. King Kong hits the mark, and hits it fierce.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (334 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bacchus2
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 3:32 am PT
Review:  King Kong is an entertaining adventure which sticks to its cinematic roots. While most of the adventure 
 takes part in first person with you playing as Jack Driscoll, there are segments where you will 
 also take control of Kong as the story progresses.
  
  The game is cinematic in scope, and actually starts with a clip from the film to set up the story. 
 It switches over to game-engine cutscenes while you are approaching Skull Island. While you won't 
 see yourself, the cinematic feel is further supported with voice overs and likenesses from all 
 the major cast. Before long you find yourself stranded on Skull Island, accompanied by Hayes, Denham 
 and Anne. You quickly meet some of the oversized wildlife such as crabs and millipedes. You will 
 have firearms at your disposal at times, which can be found in crates dropped off by a pilot who 
 is flying around the island trying to find a safe place to pick you up. These isn't much variety, 
 offering only a pistol, shotgun, machine gun and sniper rifle, but they will serve you well.
  
  Firearms have limited ammo though, and you will need to supplement them with spears that you 
 will find lying around, or bones ripped from carcasses. Failing this you can use your fists, but 
 usually getting in that range is disastrous. Spears are more powerful than bones, but are limited. 
 You can rip an infinite number of bones from a carcass, but these are less powerful. These can 
 be used to thrust to keep some of the smaller enemies at bay, though some of the larger reptiles 
 you encounter will ignore it as they try and make a meal of your head. They can also be thrown 
 for much higher damage. Whichever way you use them, they do wear down and break after a few uses. 
 They are also used to solve some environmental puzzles via fire. For example, some brush can not 
 be traversed, and you will need to light a spear on fire and thrust it or throw it into the brush 
 to burn it down to make a path. Infinite bones from carcasses means you can never fail to solve 
 these puzzles... how bone can stay on fire I don't know, but from a gameplay perspective it works 
 so that is fine with me. Another nice feature is that spiders are scared of fire, so you can brandish 
 a lit spear to clear them from your path. You will also have to find posts that will be used to 
 turn winches to open gates. A few times these felt a little like busy work, but for the most part 
 worked well and fit in with the theme of the movie.
  
  The enemies you will face range from the bugs previously mentioned, to pteradactyl like flying 
 beasts, to larger reptiles. Evading the larger reptiles is often the most fun, as they will not 
 be able to follow you into small places as you pick away at their life with spears and make a run 
 for your next destination. Your allies (when you have them; your circumstances change over the 
 course of the game) will also help with the shooting and spear chucking and for the most part are 
 effective. As a nice feature, you can press a button and you will look at the closest ally and 
 ask them how they are doing, and another button press will swap weapons with them. Occassionally 
 the allies don't seem to be doing what you would expect; there were a few times when they were 
 supposed to cover me as I swam across water (shooting enemies in the water chasing me) and they 
 didn't seem to be co-operating and I had to retry a few times. Similarly you have to keep your 
 allies alive, and there will be some moments when they will be jumped by enemies, and you will 
 have a short amount of time to fend the enemy away to save them. You aren't able to withstand much 
 pain yourself. One hit from just about anything has your screen flash dark red, which has the unfortunate 
 side effect of restricted vision, and can lead to a second hit of death as you are unable to see 
 your attackers or find a hiding place. However the game is not particularly hard, and usually the 
 first hit has you backpedalling while thrusting a spear as your health recovers.
  
  Another mild puzzle element is the food chain system. When enemies die, other enemies higher in 
 the food chain will come to feed on their carcasses. This can allow you to slip past them. You 
 can also find some harmless enemies like grubs, and you can stab them with a spear, and then throw 
 them near enemies to distract them. Most of the time I just killed all the enemies in the vicinity 
 to make sure I wasn't going to be followed, but the feature is a nice addition, and I wish it had 
 been required a little more and taxed the brain for solutions to harder problems.
  
  A few things can lead to instant death, most notably the V-Rex, an enemy that Jack and his allies 
 can not kill. You will encounter this beast a few times in cinematic sequences. Most often you 
 will need to attract its attention away from the others while they open up gates to make good your 
 escape. This usually has you running around pillars, and once the V-Rex has become frustrated will 
 buck up against them and knock them down. These are usually tense affairs as you try to keep his 
 attention on you while not getting too close for comfort, lest he grow bored of you and attack 
 your allies.
  
  After a few hours, you will get your first taste of playing as Kong. These action pieces are a 
 departure from playing as Jack, as Kong's segments are presented more like a typical 3D action 
 game. Kong moves are relatively limited, with his attacks limited to swiping, grabbing/throwing 
 (also used to pulling enemies from his back) and a combination lunge. You can also tap a button 
 to put Kong into a rage mode... but I have no idea what that did. I assume it made his attacks 
 stronger or something, but it felt entirely unecessary. These segments usually consisted of taking 
 out a large enemy, which required some well timed lunges, moving pillars, breaking through obstacles 
 and doing some climbing and swinging. Most of the animations are canned and it often felt like 
 you weren't quite in control of Kong, as though you had to wait for the animations to catch up. 
 Most of the time you play as Kong you will also have Anne, and you can pick her up and put her 
 down. This will be required at times for her to light fires to clear your way, and you will have 
 to make sure she is protected from enemies that might attack her.
  
  The game switches between Kong and Jack from then on, but the majority of the game (I estimate 
 two thirds) of the game will be played as Jack, and I think this mix is about perfect. The Kong 
 sections break up the game, but I felt the first person sections were better in general. Graphically 
 the game is good and aspires to match its cinematic roots, but it is not without flaws. While there 
 are a few moments where there is some great lighting, some places seem a little too dark and would 
 have benefited from better lighting effects. There are a lot of nice visual touches, such as the 
 way you slow down push your hands out to spread thick grass as you walk through, and raising your 
 weapons while swimming to ensure they don't get wet. The frame rate is consistent but does seem 
 low; this is noticeable but doesn't really get in the way of the action. Sound in the game is great 
 mainly because of fantastic performances by Adrien Brody and Jack Black and the rest of the cast, 
 as well as convincing and menacing sounds from the enemies you will encounter.
  
  King Kong comes with a good recommendation. It's a solid adventure from start to finish, with only 
 a few niggling issues. I usually never play with aiming settings for first person shooters, but 
 the turning in this game, especially vertical, felt very slow and there was no way to adjust it. 
 It wasn't until later in the game that I discovered I could have an ammo display and a crosshair 
 on the screen, but the game felt much more cinematic without it, and hearing Adrien Brody telling 
 me how much ammo was in backup (at the touch of a button) felt far more immersive. It's not a long 
 adventure, but it felt exactly as long as it needed to be, though the final level did feel like 
 a letdown gameplay wise with a few camera issues. While you are unlikely to be inclined to replay 
 it (there is a scoring system which I did not investigate) it is worth a rental, and you can probably 
 pick up a copy cheap in any case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  For years now games have been trying to find the right way to convey a range of emotions similar 
 to those present in other art forms, specially cinema. Though cut-scenes and FMV abound in modern 
 videogames, they can be seen as embodiments of a language unnatural to interactive media, which, 
 comprehensively, developers do not fully understand. Still, these elements managed to bring depth 
 to videogame narrative when the medium lacked proper tools to do so. "Final Fantasy", "Resident 
 Evil" or even "Metal Gear Solid" are good examples on how a more cinematic language can help fill 
 in the narrative gaps laid down by otherwise simplistic gameplay features and expressionless 3d 
 models. But this is the 21st century, games' audiovisual interfaces are now bordering life-like, 
 and it's about time developers learn how to harness that power to convey more than just the dull 
 notion of "Fun". This is where Michel Ancel's ("Rayman", "Beyond Good and Evil") "King Kong" comes 
 into play.
  
  For some reason, games usually fail in conducting the player through the roller-coaster ride of 
 emotions typically associated summer blockbuster movies. Mostly, I think, because designers still 
 aren't able to strategically define each set-piece's rhythm, leading the player from moments of 
 calm, anticipation and suspense, into adrenaline fueled climaxes. This is a consequence of gameplay 
 oriented design, that focuses too much on the player interaction (and the "Fun" factor that ensues) , 
 instead of a much broader notion of experience, that takes gameplay into account, but complements 
 it with audiovisual stimuli, which add depth to the emotional response of the player. In my view, 
 that is why movie-game adaptations fail: they get the basic notion of the movie, translate it into 
 gameplay mechanisms, create an interface according to the conceptual artwork, and glue it all together 
 with some shabby cutsenes or promotional movie clips; in the process, the movie's emotional impact 
 is lost, and with it all of its artistic expression. But not in "King Kong".
  
  The game's unfolding follows with scrutiny Peter Jackson's movie, from the moment the filming crew 
 lands on "Skull Island", a hidden paradise where pre-historic fauna and flora still exist. The 
 player takes Jack's perspective, using first person POV, as he explores "Skull Island" in all its 
 splendors and dangers; and King Kong's, in action adventure portions, as he tries to save Ann from 
 the Island perils.
  
  In terms of Jack's part, instead of taking the predictable road of allowing the player to shoot 
 everything on sight that moves, as in the traditional FPS genre, the game prompts the player to 
 explore and use his environment to survive the attacks of centipedes, demon adoring natives, and, 
 of course, famished dinosaurs (including a family of Colgate smiling T-Rexes) . Survive. As in survival 
 horror. You'll run, duck, hide, throw spears and bones, and even use the environment to aid you, 
 all so that you can survive. Sure, there are some action portions where you have access to real 
 weapons, but even then, the game casts you in a position of inferiority towards your enemies, never 
 alowing you to feel comfort or power as you do in a shooter. For instance, when you face the T-Rexes, 
 though you have a bucket load of machine gun ammo, it causes no impact on the large critters, except 
 for the fact that it reminds them that you'd make a great snack. The result is the aforementioned 
 roller coaster ride, a journey through hell, with all its ups and downs, where all you can do is 
 run and hope for the best. In that sense, the game fully embodies its movie counterpart expression.
 
  
  Kong's side of the story is not as well thought off, even if it's explored in a genre all too familiar 
 to Ancel. The first Kong levels are unusually cinematic, with great camera-work and fast pacing 
 serving platforming based chasing sequences (a la "Prince of Persia") , as Kong tries to catch up 
 with Ann. Unfortunately, from there on out, these sequences degenerate into mindless button mashing 
 feasts, as Kong has to get rid of those T-Rexes, in classical beat'em up style. These sequences 
 become all the worse as the game approaches its "Empire State Building Finale", with the superficial 
 battle system completely worn out by then, and some crazy camera view points that become too cumbersome. 
 Kong's scenes feel, above all, as a compromise with hard-core gamers that need a steady fix of 
 action packed sequences in order to maintain interest in a game, and in the end, they do little 
 to add value to the movie's translation. Perhaps if the levels were better designed, they would've 
 made sense as a complement to Jack's adventure, but that just isn't the case here.
  
  Ar least, it's all done with style and grace, achieving a perfect depiction of the environments 
 present in the movie, using gorgeous lighting schemes, beautiful multi-layer background compositions, 
 and a total absence of HUD/menu induced noise, just pure visual magic. Add the use of Newton Howard's 
 composition (that set the tone for the scenes in the game as they did in the movie) , and voice 
 acting by the movie's cast (filled with precious details like Adrien Brody's gasps when the player 
 runs too much, or Jack Black's silly comments on how "Amazing" Skull Island is) , and you've got 
 the perfect audio-visual translation of a movie into a game.
  
  "King Kong" delivers where everyone else has failed, in a wonderful translation of a movie into 
 a game that actually works in its context, and not by merely serving as an appendix, but as a full 
 out audiovisual interactive experience. It isn't perfect: Kong's episodes break an otherwise smooth 
 pacing, and some elements repeat themselves too much, but even so, the game manages to propel the 
 player into discovering a wealth of emotions undeveloped in games. Of course, this is blockbuster 
 territory, so don't expect life changing experiences, just an adventure filled with danger and 
 excitement, a fun-fair ride into the heart of "King Kong's" domain. If only all movie adaptations 
 where this good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I haven't seen the movie this film is based on. I've never been a fan of the King 
 Kong idea, but surely playing as the King of Skull Island in this game should be fun?
  
  Well, both yes and no.
  
  First and foremost, this game is split between trying to be a good 
 game, and trying to tell the story of the movie. If I had to judge, it does a better job of the 
 latter, but not to the point of making the player feel like they are a part of a movie. Or, should 
 I say, only now and then.
  
  Because King Kong feels is an uneven experience - in the beginning of the game, you'll se plenty 
 of fun and impressive moments, but towards the middle of the game, most of the gameplay variants 
 and ideas are exhausted, and even the storytelling loses some of its breath. 
  
  But King Kong is not a failure. Some of the ideas in this game are well implemented, especially 
 the dinosaurs (along with the infamous T-rex) are striking, and sometimes impressive. The Jungle 
 has a lush, vibrant glow to it and although the levels are linear, the illusion of an expansive 
 jungle is there. 
  Unfortunately, when King Kong finally comes to New York, the visuals fade to bland textures, appalling 
 3D models (the cars look like tin toys) and it doesn't help, that some of the actors models in 
 the game, refuses to open their mouths, when they say something (especially apparent in the end) .
 
  
  The actual gameplay is a mixture of FPS, simple logical puzzles and - when you play as Kong himself 
 - the game turns to a ape vs. dinosaur type of brawl n' run game. Often with a rather irritating 
 time limit, but otherwise these gameplay types complement eachother rather well - at least 'till 
 your halfway through. At this point the gameplay elements goes in 'recycle' mode, and only changes 
 a little at the very end in New York. And not to the better. The gameplay sometimes take a pause 
 for giving you an 'FPS' version of a cutscene. Unfortunately these living cutscenes feels convoluted 
 and not as fluently blend into the game as seen in other games (like Bioshock)
  
  And talking about the technical side of things, its as uneven as the game itself. The visuals are 
 decent - as mentioned before the jungle looks impressive, but some of the animations are stiff 
 and dead, and for a game that tries to take a cinematic approach, it is somehow striking that the 
 3D actors have few to none facial expressions. Some of the vegetation, that plays a keyrole as 
 a gameplay element, looks strikingly horrid and out of touch with the rest of the jungle vegetation. 
 Maybe it was meant to be that way, but it sure degrades the overall impression. The framerate is 
 far from solid, and although the game looks decent, though not impressive, this is a pure example 
 of why some the launch games to a console performs worse than we'd expect - and why these framerate 
 troubles extent to the short New York section is beyond me, as this particular section of the game 
 looks bland and at times straight ugly.
  
  So, check the bargain bin, and give it a try. I've seen the game for as low as 10$ - and its definately 
 worth that. Just don't expect a solid experience from beginning to the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Elijo
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  I am going to be honest with you. In the beginning the only reason I bought this game is because 
 of the easy thousand points for completing the game. By the time I had completed King Kong I realised 
 what a great game it was. Although the journey through skull is a very short one; the fun gameplay 
 makes up for it. 
  
  King Kong offers alot of variety in weapons and gameplay. In this game you can attack enemies with 
 anything from bones to sniper rifles. For a game that is quite dated; King Kong's graphics are 
 actually pretty good and the sound is even better.
  
  King Kong also very much reminded me of Turok. There are many different enemies in the game but 
 you mainly find yourself fighting dinosaurs. Also playing as King Kong is awesome. You change between 
 a human being shooting dinosaurs twice the size of him and an 80 foot ape crushing dinosaurs in 
 the palm of his hand.
  
  I am glad I bought this game. Not just for the thousand points to begin with; but ut was also a 
 fun game that was definitely worth playing. thousand 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjw514
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  King Kong I would say is the longest game I have evr played and full of FUN!!! You never get tired 
 of the rising suspense and the way you get to play as man and Kong. The levels are really long 
 and it is about 42 of them. As Jack, you are starnded on this island called Skull island and you 
 fight dinosaurs, creepy crawlies, bugs and more. You even have to fight crocs and these spooky 
 sea monsters. As Kong you can fight T-Rex or V-Rex as it is called and you fight these raptors 
 and other huge Skull Island creatures. The game has you kind of scared also because sometimes and 
 dinosaur might pop out of nowhere or a slimy crawlies or if you are runnign for your LIFE from 
 a V-Rex!! Intense indeed. :) It is very full of enemies you must fight and pop out creatures and 
 really wierd creatures you would find disturbing probly but it's all so fun!!!!!!!!! If you love 
 playing a game where you have to survive from out of this world creatures, you found your game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wintringham1983
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  Hmmm where do i start with this, well if your after 1000gp that has very few challenging moments 
 and is easily completed in under 6 hours then this is the game to own. Graphically not great but 
 then it is dated, it follows the movie (which wasnt the greatest either) well. There are however 
 many bugs in it which i discovered to be quite frustrating ie when you run ahead of the AI and 
 then the next sequence of events just dont seem to happen you have to reload from your last save 
 point, creatures seem to just appear from nowhere, you also easily run out of bullets which can 
 give u a challenge for a few seconds but theres always plenty of bones or spears to lob at the 
 dinosaurs or bugs which can get frustrating and repetitive, dont get me wrong the game is fair 
 and has its moments especially when ur actually playing as kong this for me was the highlight of 
 the game, but its very repetitive 2 as its just push the (a) button really. The game itself cost 
 very little so i wasnt complaining and with the easy gp's worth having, it proberly wont be getting 
 used again tho unless i have the urge of killing some t-rex with kong 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  I Rated the game so low and its difficulty as hard due to its Frustrating and broken save system. 
 You will find yourself dying and being sent back to the last save 10 minutes ago. Not Fun. The 
 graphics i also found to be sub-par. In King kong you have the chance to play as both Jack and 
 Kong, sounds cool right. Playing kong is fun for its first few minutes but after awhile it gets 
 repetative and annoying to control. I found myself hoping the next kong battle would end in a movie 
 and send me back to the FPS Jack. The Dinosaurs of the game are very unitersting and normal for 
 a dinosaur game. The T-Rex, Raptors and Big Brontosaurus' and did i mention giant Crabs. Yup, giant 
 crabs which rate high in my "Most Annoying Enemies" List. This is agme for serious Single Player 
 gaming and not running around for fun. I suggest it to people looking for a challange and Achievements, 
 other than that it is a very average game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  So what if I only picked this up to add an easy 1000 points to my Gamerscore... its not as if I've 
 gone and rented Avatar like other people I could name.
  
  I was pleasantly surprised to find that despite its age the game is still a pretty decent peice 
 of software, it may be easy, and there are parts when the quality of the graphics does drop but 
 as an overall experience its pretty decent.
  
  Unlike other First Person games you won't find yourself with more ammo than you could ever possibly 
 use, and you'd better get used to throwing spears and bone shards or you're simply not going to 
 get through the game unscathed.
  
  There's not that much variety in the enemies, all living creatures but much bigger in terms of 
 size, but this doesn't seem to be too much of a problem as the game isn't overly long either, nor 
 do they become boring as not one of them is used as the "cannon fodder" variety of enemy that serves 
 only to act as target practice.
  
  It may have been a cheap pick up for a cheap 1000 points, but it proved to be a highly enjoyable 
 experience into the bargain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryrjjj
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  welcome to my review on king kong for the xbox 360. the game is really exciting i bought it earlier 
 this year (may 2008) and enjoyed the experience the graphics and gameplay is amazing and the scenes 
 look nice aswell. you play as jack and kong as you go thorough skull island. the story is one of 
 the best as you now if you watched the film of king kong. on to the bad parts of this game. you 
 play too many levels as jack and hardly any as kong and playing as kong flat out rules. the levels 
 arnt really that exciting and their is only one clip of the film some levels are tedious and get 
 on your nervs a little. so overall the game cohld be improved and is the no 1 game for a king kong 
 fan and thanks for reading my review on king kong for xbox 360. also avalible on play station 2, 
 psp, pc and game boy advance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crabroast22
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  terrible - games of the movies are usually very bad!
  awful graphics...
  unless you gota lot of patience , and don't get angry very quickly!
  don't buy this game...
 
  
  in my honest opinion even if playing this game was homework from school , i still wouldn't play 
 it.
  
  the sound effects are nice with the storm and waves but above that it blows chunks! : (
  
  common 
 this game is soo overrated , i think I've lost all faith in humanity!!
  really after playing this game watch the movie again... and your find out how much better the movie 
 actually is.
  
  it's the hardest thing your ever have to play...
  try it and your be surprised.
  
  whats that i hear???
  oh nothing because apart from the 
 sound effects their is no music.
  only silence and the annoying chatter of your freak crew mates!
  
  i'm just so angry with the 
 score that i might just throw my copy of this game into the bin then poop on it lolz.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, King Kong was a great film with intense and emotional moments throughout. Fortunately, 
 this game captured the film's plot and the horrors of Skull Island very well.
  Story -- Unfortunately, the stories of each individual character were skipped, starting your game 
 off as Jack Driscoll, a struggling New York writer. Carl Denham (Jack Black) leads his crew to 
 a mysterious place in the middle of nowhere called Skull Island. Ann (Naomi Watts) is a struggling 
 Vaudeville actress who runs into Carl and decides to board the "Venture," their ship. Throughout 
 the game, most of the story-line is in this game, though somethings aren't done right, like Hayes's 
 death. But the relationship of Ann and Kong are very much in this game. Overall, the game captures 
 the character's feelings and relationships very well. The voice acting is very good as well.
  Graphics -- for a late 2005 movie-based game, the graphics are really good. There's detail in the 
 environments and creatures you face. The models of the actors themselves could use some work, but 
 they don't look horrible. Besides that, everything else looks great, ranging for the creatures, 
 environments, vegetation, rocks, etc. There's not much that's bad about the graphics, though there 
 are some glitches, but which game doesn't have those? The sound in this game is excellent. Anywhere 
 from Kong roaring, to a V-Rex roaring, to a Millipede crawling around, etc. The sound really captures 
 what Skull Island is like.
  Gameplay -- As I said before, you play as Jack in first person. You can pick sticks and spears up 
 as weapons to throw or stab against any enemies. Lighting them on fire will do more damage, but 
 a good way of killing a raptor is by setting some bushes on fire where it's standing. You can also 
 carry one gun while holding a spear. The guns are a Thompson machine gun, sniper rifle, shotgun, 
 and a pistol. Usually you don't have much ammo for them, and there isn't an on-screen count of 
 how many bullets you have left. Instead, by pressing B Jack says how many magazines are left on 
 backup. Boss fights can be a bit annoying, such as a V-Rex or a giant bat. You can't actually kill 
 a V-Rex with Jack, but you usually have to distract them so your comrades can open up a door to 
 get away. Playing as Jack takes up around 75% of the game. The other part of the game is playing 
 as King Kong, which isn't as fun as it sounds. Your only attacks are X and Y, like a button masher. 
 The missions for him aren't that great, though there are memorable moments like prying open a V-Rex's 
 jaw, and then snap it. And the whole New York part at the end isn't that great. You can run around 
 a limited amount of streets, which surprisingly look bad. Unfortunately, you can't cause the level 
 of carnage you'd probably want, which is disappointing. It also doesn't help that Jack Driscoll, 
 the guy you've been playing for most of the game, disappears once you're in New York. It feels 
 like that part was rushed a lot. The game will take you about 7 hours to beat, and it is very easy.
 
  Story: 8.4/10 -- it ties in well with the movie's, but if you've seen the movie, some moments will 
 seem stupid.
  Graphics: 8.8/10 -- the character models have issues, and there is some clipping and bugs, but everything 
 else looks great for a 2005 movie game.
  Gameplay: 7.2/10 -- it works but the ending in New York felt rushed, and playing as Kong isn't as 
 much fun as you'd want, but playing as Jack gets somewhat repetitive but is fun throughout.
  Final Thoughts: If you're a King Kong fan, then definitely pick this one up. For anyone who likes 
 easy achievements or likes to shoot dinosaurs and creatures up, then get this game, it'll be a 
 blast for you. Again, if you just want a game with easy achievements, rent this game, because it's 
 stupid-easy, at most 7 hours in length, and has VERY easy achievements. King Kong has some gameplay 
 issues, along with the poor character models, but the graphics, story, and blowing up dinosaurs 
 provides a long afternoon of good fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemmy2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  I admit I picked this game up in a bargain bin at Blockbuster at $9.99 the price seemed right. 
 I took it home started playing it, and started having fun. First of all the movie was horrible, 
 I'm still a fan of the 1930's original, who cares if it's black and white with at stop motion Kong. 
 It's still better than any of the crap that has been made since. Peter Jackson's should have been 
 a triumph, but it failed due to bad casting (Jack Black ruined the character) to long of a set 
 up (45 Min's. to even get to the island gees!, the original took 11 Min's to set up the story and 
 get things under way) and the fact that Peter Jackson didn't feel that simply offering a better 
 looking more realistic Kong was enough, he had to out do everything including giving Kong wrestling 
 moves and fighting more that one t-Rex at a time...... silly. 
  
  Okay having said that little rant. This game is better than the movie, although Jack blacks character 
 still serves as an annoyance...... I wanted him to die. The game offers several ways to kill an 
 enemy. You can go the straight out shoot them with guns, or impale with spear, or you an try to 
 lure you enemies into traps with various bait and then set fire to them.... thus saving your ammo 
 and giving yourself at pat on the back for being oh so clever. This game lets you use your brain 
 if you want to.
  
  Playing King Kong in the game is just cool...... no way around it. The button mashing you have to 
 do is a little tedious, and they like to throw a lot of enemies at you. The "red eye" when you 
 get hit thing is annoying, and often leads to death if your not quick enough to back off until 
 you recoup. I died several times. There are parts of this game that can be frustrating, but fortunately 
 the game designers seemed to have realized this and Incorporated a clever "dumbing down" situation, 
 where if you are getting killed multiple times in the same area the game compensates by removing 
 enemies a little at a time, so the more you die in a spot the less enemies you'll have to fight.... I 
 thought that was a nice touch. Also the game has great load time , so if you die you're back on 
 your feet in no time, some of the best load times I've ever seen. 
  
  The visuals are just gorgeous, maybe a little date by today's standards, but level designs look 
 great, the dinosaurs look great, and can inspire moments of pure awe or pure terror. I'll definitely 
 revisit this game in the future.
  
  The biggest draw back to this game was the ending, once you're off the island, the game designers 
 didn't even seem to care anymore. The end part of the game where you play as Kong in New York was 
 just horrible, I was so looking forward to being Kong running around New York, instead I was treated 
 with short and crappy level design, Horrible camera angles that ofter made scaling a building difficult. 
 No one running around the streets in panic to step on, a few cars you can throw, but big deal. 
 Finally you get to the empire states building , which is a little awkward to climb until you get 
 it figured out. Then you get to the top, swat a few bi-planes, fall, die, end. The last part of 
 the game may make up 5-15minutes of game time, and this isn't a long game. Maybe 8 hrs... not sure. 
 
  
  At the end though with the exception of a few flaws this game left me with a really enjoyable experience, 
 and if you see it in a bin near you pick it up you'll find it's worth the price . I'm gonna keep 
 this game, but you'll never see that piece of crap film on my shelf next to the great original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 7
Date: May 22, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  INTRO
  Most movie tie in games is usually are bad and rushed out on the shelves to meet the movie released 
 date. I did not have high expectations for this game when I started playing it. I just thought 
 since it was known for having easy achievement points I would get this game done quickly and painlessly. 
 
  
  Story and Content:
  The plot is follows the story of the movie to a certain extent focusing on the humans battling 
 insects and wildlife of Kongs Island. While there is little intro on why they are headed 
 to the island like the movie, it focus from the island part of the movie and on. All the characters 
 are included
  
  Game play:
  This is an adventure game that lets you play Jack (Janes human love interest) and King Kong. 
 While you walk around in first person view in Jack, you walk around with Kong in third person The 
 moves on Jack are basic but you occasionally find different guns to use but the bullets are limited. 
 You can always find spears lying around to use incase you run out of bullets. With Kong it more 
 like a fighting game where you have different attacks and a fury mode. There are no hit points 
 but if you get hit in either character, the screen usually turns red and if you get hit again you 
 usually die and start over from the last save point. Sometimes this will happen at the worst moment 
 when it is already dark and you will not be able to see the successive attacks. Some of the stages 
 will require you to figure out a puzzle to pass the level. Some of them are very easy while some 
 will take some maneuvering skill. One of the interesting aspects is the computer controlled characters 
 that help you along the way. They also get hurt like you and call out to you for help. They even 
 attack the enemies behind you and sometimes warning you to look behind you. If you get stuck they 
 usually give a tip on what should be done.
  
  Graphics: 
  Decent graphics for a game made in 2005. The characters and wildlife do look lifelike but they 
 are a bit pixilated. The certain items like grass do look 2-D while other items look decent 3-D
 
  
  Sound and Music:
  Music score is changes from stage to stage. The music also changes when you get hit and the screen 
 is red, it is more of a religious hymn that can get annoying if you get hit a lot. The sound of 
 the jungle are there with wildlife and the crackle of flames from burning urns. If you turn the 
 music a bit lower than the sounds you will get the sense your in the jungle.
  
  Difficulty:
  There is no real difficultly setting. The one thing that makes the game different 
 levels is your success rate on finishing the level. The game counts your kills, time spent on the 
 level, bullets used and times died. Depending on the level and your success rate, it will unlock 
 extras that have no bearing on the game. These are usually clips and stills from the movie.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  This is not a long game and certainly not a hard one either. This is one 
 of the better movie tie ins but certain not a refined product. The puzzles are fun to do but there 
 is no replay value, once you finished the game there is not much incentive to replay because it 
 doesnt change at all. Chances are you will find this on sale or in bargain bins for a very 
 low price. It would certain get your money worth if you buy it now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ensabehnur
Rating: 7
Date: May 18, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  I have to say, when i decided to play this (for the achievements of course) i was all ready to 
 put my six hours in of gameplay. I did not think it would hurt so much to play this game. control's 
 for Jack are not smooth at all and no fine tuning of them is possible. Kong is actually more playable 
 than jack is when it comes to controls. 
  
  Needless to say that i was not disappointed totally with the game after getting the hang of the 
 controls. 
  
  I have to admit though, i was pleasantly surprised with the grpahics in the game. I was actually 
 slightly impressed, definitely could use some major fine tuning but for a game where its from a 
 movie, this has to be one of the better ones (not counting any of the animated films) .
  
  This one is not a buy (not new anyway) , gamefly this or rent or make sure you pay less than 15 
 bucks for this if you plan on keeping it. 
  
  The achievements were ever to generous, 100 points for beating levels and 200 for the final game, 
 that has to be the biggest selling point of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 70 % This game is based on the movie king kong and the game looks exactly like the movie 
 it has good long missions and allot of action. This game gets pretty boring after a while but the 
 best thing is that you can play as king kong and you can beat up dinosaurs. If you've watched the 
 movie you'd be surprised how this game is fun. The thing that i dont like about the game is the 
 controls i think its hard to shoot and it doesn't feel like you're really playing an action game. 
 Overall this game is good i think you should rent this game first, for people that never watched 
 the movie and they like modern action adventure games should ckeck this game out.
  
  
  
  Graphics 72 % This game doesn't have good graphics it looks like if your playing this game 
 on the regular xbox. 
  
  
  Sound 75 % This game has allot of good music like the movie. And the sound is pretty good.
  
 
  Difficulty : I think this game is pretty easy but when you get to the end of the game thats when 
 it gets challenging.
  
  I reccomend this game for every one because you can play as the real character in the movie. And 
 you can play as ''King Kong'' !!!! I think that you should rent this game first to see if you like 
 this kind of game.
  
  7.0 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whiteghost09
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Ya know with all the movie video game spinoffs that are total crap these days, when I borrowed 
 this I never even thought I'd play it all the way through. I beat it in 2 days. 
  The story starts with Jack, Hayes, Denim and Ann (characters from the movie I suppose, I haven't 
 seen it) all trapped on mysterious Skull Island. They get split up several times, and Ann gets 
 captured by King Kong. The rest of the crew must try to work together using shotguns, sniper rifles, 
 pistols, spears, bones and the like to fight off hordes of dinosaurs and very large bugs and crabs. 
 Even though it seems like you don't have much of a selection, the combat is immersive and will 
 draw you in. You run out of ammo several times, but this isn't much of a big deal because there 
 are several spears and bones scattered throughout the levels, and if you used guns the whole time 
 it would be way too easy. The controls are really simple, only utilizing the sticks and around 
 four buttons. The scenes where you play as Kong flow well, even though a couple of the camera views 
 are off a tad. The fighting isn't the strong point in the game, however. King Kong is one of the 
 few movie spinoff games that has been able to seemlessly mesh the story into the game. While playing 
 you actually feel like you are a character in the movie. They do this by using voice acting through 
 the whole game (which is very well done, although Ann screaming "oh my god" 5000 times really gets 
 annoying) . Not to mention the graphics, which are absolutely stunning. They along with the first 
 person view make you feel like you are actually running through a jungle, riding on a raft, or 
 blundering through a swamp. When you get close to the fire, your vision around the flame actually 
 blurs, just like if you get too close to a fire in real life! Oh, and you know how in the GS reviews 
 one of the icons is "oh snap" because something in the game amazes them??? This game definitely 
 gets that. After rescusing Ann about 3/4 through the game you are chased by Kong until you reach 
 a cliff with a river a looong way below. Ann screams "come on Jack!" and after figuring out that 
 you are acually supposed to jump off, you take the plunge. I'm not even gonna try to explain it, 
 it was sooo amazing I about jumped out of my chair! Let's just say it was so exhilerating that 
 my stomach came to my throat, just like one a rollercoaster. Wow. The only gripe I have with the 
 graphics is that it can get a bit dark and I had to turn up the brightness on my TV. The gameplay 
 is only about 5-6 hours, so I would definitely reccomend renting this one. It's also a bit easy, 
 but that's not a big deal. 
  Anyway, if you want a good action game to really draw you in, I would reccomend renting this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fudger2
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is SO HARD!!! OK well its not that hard its just ridiculously long levels that are ridiculously 
 boring. As a human we get to kill birds (YEAH!!!) Scorpions (Yay) and Cemtipedes (WOOHOO) !!!! Later 
 we get to fight dinosaurs but theyre easier to kill then the centipedes. Its hardd to explain how 
 boring this gsme is, you spend most of your time looking for freakin keys to open doors!!! Now 
 that i think of it the game is king kong, not stupid film director. I wanna be king kong not jack 
 blacks assistant WTF Man!!! when you get injured the screen goes all red so its hard to live, consider 
 the red scrren death. Its all just a test of patience and i cant wait to beat it so i can get rid 
 of this ridiculously HORRIBLE GAME!!!!! the graphics are actually good, surprisingly good for a 
 bad boring game. goes back to 2 old myths
  
  .Graphics or Gameplay- I KNOW WHERE THEY WENT!!!
  
  .Good Movie means bad game- Its true
 
  
  I honestly cant believe the wack level of this game, i loved the demo swinging around and killing 
 raptors, i didnt know about killing bugs and finding keys. You have to be patient and much more 
 of a soldier then myself to complete this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frantii
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  Peter Jackson's King Kong - The Official Game of the Movie fot XBOX360 has some good parts, but 
 bad parts aswell.
  
  Mainly your in the Jungle and battling Dinosaurs and Bats etc, whilst solving puzzles (ie Setting 
 a spear on fire to burn bushes to get past them) but it gets a bit too repetative and, well, quite 
 boring.
  The worst part is that it DOESANT SHOW HOW MUCH AMMO YOU HAVE LEFT!! You have to keep on pressing 
 B to hear how much "magazines" you have left. Im guissing 1 Magazine is 1 Round of Bullets, etc.
 
  So yeah, you run out of them pretty easily.
  
  The graphics arn't bad, though. Yeah, they could be better, but their hardly awful or anything.
 
  
  Aswell, every now and then you fight V-Rex's playing as King Kong, which can get quite hard and 
 annoying sometimes.
  
  But this game is like, the best ever for getting Achievements. This is because you complete the 
 game within about 5-6 Hours and within that 5-6 hours you get the full 1000 achievement points 
 because the achievements are for getting to certain parts within the game, no "find the secret 
 objects" or anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigGun440EX
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Peter Jackson's King Kong The Official Game Of The Movie
  
  First of all let's start with the menus; you start by creating a profile and linking it to a storage 
 device as with most 360 games. The main menu has the options Play, Options, and Extras. Two are 
 self-explanatory and the Extras section contains things you unlock via a score system. You earn 
 points by the number of kills you get in a level, also ammo used. When you load your came there 
 isn't really a "continue" option. You go to a chapter select screen that looks like a movie reel 
 and select what section you want to play. The last section unlocked of course being where you left 
 off. You can pause the game any time and save, but it uses a checkpoint type save system and will 
 load you where the last checkpoint was, not necessarily where you stopped playing. The will say 
 the checkpoints do seem to be well placed after every major conflict you have in the game.
  
  Now on to the game play and story line, you start off by seeing a clip of the beginning in 
 the movie, Peter Jackson's King Kong. You are taken on an adventure with a character named Carl 
 Denham, a guy trying to film a movie that will save his career no matter what gets in his way. 
 Some of the other main characters are Ann Darrow she's an actress who wants to have the leading 
 role in the movie and plays a big part in the games story. Hayes is the first mate on the boat 
 carrying Carl Denham's team to Skull Island. Hayes is a good shot and helps you out allot with 
 weapons. Kong need no introduction, he is the big gorilla. You play a guy names Jack Driscoll, 
 you're a scriptwriter on Carl Denham's next movie.
  
  There are a few good enemies in the game the first you will encounter are the Giant Crabs. The 
 name says it all they are giant crabs. Their size does differ though. There is also a Megapede 
 witch can climb on walls and ceilings very snake like and sometime hard to spot until the jump 
 on you. You will eventually encounter Venatosaurus witch is a dinosaur that closely resembles a 
 raptor. And finally there is the V-Rex witch of course closely resembles the T-Rex. Some of the 
 most exciting parts in this game involve him. He's huge, can knock over huge structures and his 
 scream will send chills down you spine. There are also bugs in the game like dragonfly, larva, 
 and swamp crawlers. These are no threat to you but can be speared and used as bait to distract 
 the enemies. Also enemies that are killed are then food and attract other enemies. 
  
  Weapons you can get in the game, mostly from Hayes or in crates dropped by an airplane, are a pistol, 
 shotgun, sniper rifle, machine gun and the more common spears. There are two kinds of spears a 
 "developed" spear witch does the most damage, and a bone fragment spear usually found on already 
 dead creatures. There are a limited number of good spears at one location when you find them, but 
 the bone spears are unlimited. There are two ways to use the spear, one is to poke or stab with 
 it, the other is throwing it thus loosing it and having to grab another weapon, you can grab the 
 same spear again but the eventually break. Spears are also used to transport fire, fire can be 
 found in various places in the game and you can do everything from throwing your spear at it to 
 poking it the light the end of it. This is a major part of the game because there is brush that 
 you cannot walk through, and the only way to get past it is to set it on fire. This can turn into 
 a mini game all in it's self, trying to figure out how to get the fire to where you need it. Sometimes 
 that's a fun thing sometimes it can get frustrating.
  
  Another aspect of the game that can sometimes get frustrating is there are many gates to open, 
 usually needing one or two levers that you have to find to turn the polls and open the gate. Sometimes 
 these require fire to get to, sometimes there just plain hard to see. They are found on a poll 
 sticking out the side of it, you will learn to spot these, as it is frustrating early on due to 
 some of the games darkness. It is possible to mistake it for a spear but you cannot attack with 
 it. Another common mistake is picking it up before you need it, then dropping it for another weapon 
 and not being able to find it again. A simple reload should put them back where they need to be. 
 This mistake disappears once you learn where they are, and what exactly they look like and that 
 you WILL need to use them.
  
  Like I said before that your encounters with the V-Rex are among the most exciting in the game, 
 probably the most exciting or interesting are where you leave your main character behind for a 
 section or two and play as Kong. Kong is a powerful force, and the only thing that can take down 
 a V-Rex. During your time playing as Kong you'll get to climb walls, swing from limb to limb and 
 destroy everything in your path. You can also go into a "Fury Mode" where he beats his chest and 
 pretty much makes every thing he does hurt the enemies more.
  
  The controls in the game are pretty solid but, and this is totally just my opinion, the way the 
 screen moves just isn't as smooth as it needs to be. I could see it making the player dizzy, and 
 with the darkness your in allot of the time doesn't help much. Sometimes I've found my self with 
 a pitch-black TV screen trying to move around to see some light to move to. Aside from that the 
 controls are pretty close to what they usually are in FPS games. There is no inventory on the games 
 screen for weapon ammo also, you can hit a button and he will talk to himself letting you know 
 how much ammo is left. It is very easy to run out witch is what makes parts of the game challenging, 
 having to use and find spears provides more strategy the shooting your way through the whole game.
 
  
  The story seems to follow the movie pretty well; the entire story is what makes the game. The game 
 play is ok, and a fun title now at a bargain price I think it's worth a definite place in your 
 360 collection especially if you're a fan of the movie.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Based on the Academy award winning film, Peter Jackson's King Kong, you can now live and play the 
 epic adventure yourself. The game is a mix of first and third person game play. In first person 
 mode, you play as Jack Driscoll, a New York City playwright, who now must show his love and be 
 the rescuer of Ann Darrow, the actress, who as fallen in the hands of Kong. In the third person 
 mode, you play as the 25 foot tall Kong who survives against both man and prehistoric creatures 
 on Skull Island by means of his tremendous strength and power.
  
  The actual game play was good with smooth easy to use controls and good user controllable camera 
 angles. The storyline was cut down from the actual movie's plot and overall the actual game play 
 time was somewhat short. It had great environment and character graphics with a lot of attention 
 to detail but you couldn't help but notice that some things from level to level like weapon locations 
 and gate puzzles were all too familiar. On Skull Island, you played as Jack most of the time and 
 Kong saw limited action. As the game play progressed, I couldn't help but feel that the game makers 
 were under some kind of deadline to finish the game and the New York City level was cut extremely 
 short to where it became a mater of finding the Empire State Building, climb it, fight a couple 
 of airplanes, fall off and die, End of Game. All in all, it was a good game and should be played 
 at least once. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thpghalo3
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  ok now Peter Jacksons King Kong the movie game is the most boring and hard game i have ever played 
 it is a total waste of time! unless you are crazy about king kong i think you will like it but 
 i think ti stinks!!! ok now most of the game you play Jack and for about 20 miuntes you play King 
 Kong! what's up with that!!! so as i was saying you mostly play Jack and it getts boring about 
 after an hour all you do is run and shoot monsters and their is no pointer to aim or amo list so 
 you could be in the middle of haveing to shoot theis things and all of a sudden you run out of 
 ammo! thats another thing you have to hold down LT to be able to point where ever and shoot and 
 after a while your finger hurts!!! and most of the game is like this. AHHHHHHHHH Look out jack! 
 jack where are you! help me jack! it getts old after a while so if you are thinking abou.... wait 
 i forgot about the part of playing King Kong! ok now this is BORING still!!! all you do is jump 
 and kill for about 20 minutes so if you were thinking about buying this game dont!!!! go buy halo 
 3 or somthing just dont waist your time on this junk yard game!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trollbane
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun, but it is way too short.
  
  THE GOOD-
  1) The Gameplay. The gamplay in this game is fun, and it fits the gritty setting of Skull Island. 
 7/10
  2) The Graphics. The graphics in this game are good, and they hold up very well, but sometimes 
 they seem a little dated. 7/10
  
  IN BETWEEN-
  1) The Difficulty. The difficulty in this game is alittle wacky. Sometimes it's way to easy, but 
 some times its ensanly difficult. 6/10
  2) The Length. This game is really too short an thats a shame, because it's really fun while it 
 lasts. Expect 4-7 hours. 5/10
  3) The Enemies. The enemies in this game are cool, but there aren't many of them. Also, some of 
 the effects seem recycled. 6/10
  
  SUMMARY-
  For a movie-tie in, this is a role-model. But there are quite a few rough edges, that seem to pull 
 down the rest of the experiance.
  
  MY SCORE-
  7.1 (Good) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phundude
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Just to get it out of the way, i wouldnt suggest buying the game. Its far too short and youll probably 
 beat it within 3 days tops. You could beat it in one sitting if you got bored at home
  
  but anyways, this was cheap game i got at gamestop used, like 10 bucks or something. And as a fan 
 of the movie and FPS i decided to go with it, i saw some reviews online and figured it was worth 
 the money.
  
  and while it was fun while it lasted, it didnt last very long...... so if your friend has it, id 
 barrow it. or rent it. but pay no more than 10 bucks used. Just a tip
  
  but the game, it had lots of cool touches. No HUD when you play as Jack in first persone mode was 
 cool, and when you take too much damage it gets very hazy and some creepy dying music comes on. 
 I liked that alot. The Kong missions were fun also but just mindless button mashing
  
  my only complaint about the gameplay is that there are 2 or 3 times in the game that make you search 
 your current map for wooden stakes on the ground, which are used to open doors. and its kind of 
 annoying to run around and look for something that doesnt stick out. I think it was used so that 
 the game doesnt seem so short.... aside from that. thumbs up game, but not a masterpiece by any 
 means 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknown2114
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is a movie based game, people tend to stay far away from this types of games but they 
 might want to check this one out. Kong plays at as a FPS and a third person format. Jack plays 
 in the form of FPS. Kong plays out in the third person form. You will play more time as Jack. The 
 game really feels like your in the movie and you really are runing and fighting for your life. 
 Kong is also not a short game, its a pretty lengthly game for a movie based game. Naturally it 
 does have some problems. One is the constant need to get fire to burn down high grass that Jack 
 can't walk through, thru out your adventure you will not go a single level without haveing the 
 need to burn down the grass. Two would be the Kong levels, which are fun in terms of the jumping 
 and climbing but a drag in the combat area. Kong's control system is a bit lose and so its hard 
 to get a grip on the controls especially when you have multiple enemies on screen. Bottom Line: 
 Kong is a deccent movie based game with some flaws but it has its moments 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 8, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  King Kong isnow officially a bargain bucket gane so what do you actually get for bargain bucket 
 price.
  
  I'll start with the gameplay. You play most of the game as Jack Driscoll in a FPS perspective but 
 without a hud or crosshair on screen as default. This is cool as it gives you a cinematic perspective 
 of the game and helps suck you in. Also you have to hold down the L button to raise the gun so 
 when you are running around you get more of that cinematic feel. Also you can use spears and bones 
 to throw at the various monsters you will encounter on skull island. These include giant crabs, 
 milipedes and even dinosaurs. The dinosaurs are pretty well animated and sometimes makes you feel 
 like you're playing jurassic park and not king kong. When playing as Kong you go into a 3rd person 
 view which although sounds cool seems a little more restricted as you are stuck on a set path and 
 have very limited attacks. Although it does look cool when you have to use finishing moves on enemies 
 thats about it.
  
  The graphics look really nice on the levels and dinosaurs however the character design leaves something 
 to be desired. They seem very stiff and are not very well animated. The Jungle seems almost real 
 as your wandering around trying to find where your going. Kong is extremely good looking (not in 
 that way) and looks pretty cool when he is trying to pry the jaws of T-Rexes open.
  
  To sum it up King Kong although only lasts around six hours is a decent game to pass the time and 
 an extremely easy way to get a 1000 gamerscore as all you have to do is complete the game. Plus 
 for the bargain bucket price it is worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justaddwater123
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 7, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  This game should be amazing, you have 50 foot tall bronto... brontosauruseses? anyway, 50 foot tall 
 baguettes rubbing shoulders with equally as tall T-rexes making for some quite insane and awe inspiring 
 set pieces. Remember seeing that T-Rex for the first time in Tomb Raider? its like that but without 
 any of the immediacy or pant-shitting-ness.
  
  The entire game is ruined by the developer's misguided attempts to create an interactive film, 
 you constantly feel disconnected from the game and it feels as if you are being 'shown' the events 
 rather than experiencing them. Don't get me wrong, get someone sitting next to you watching and 
 yells of "HOLY SHIT!" will be heard echoing in your living room for weeks afterwards. The problem 
 is these events are sandwiched in between endless corridors of gray, boring enemies and way over-used 
 gimmicky puzzle solutions and a story that you've heard endless times before.
  
  Besides Kong all of the characters are lifeless and unlikable, you couldnt give a shit whether 
 Anne loses her head or not, in fact you probably couldn't even tell since the character models 
 are so bland and generic.
  
  
  ... Wait, what? 5 hours for 1000 achievements? 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white_sox
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is one of the most epic characters to grace fictional history. The game adaption of Peter 
 Jackson's remake is able to capture a lot of Kong's best features. The game makes pretty good with 
 the license that it has, but not without its faults.
  
  The game follows the story from the movie pretty much directly, and actually features a lot of 
 full motion videos to tell the beginning of the story. Throughout the adventure you play as two 
 characters; Jack Driscoll and the King himself. Jack is one of the crew members who ventures to 
 Skull Island to direct a movie under Carl Denham's. While on the island, everything goes terribly 
 wrong. The crew quickly learn of the island's secrets including dinosaurs, hostile tribesman, and 
 the biggest inhabitant of them all, King Kong.
  
  Of the aforementioned playable characters, you'll spend most of your time playing as Jack, the 
 protector. His parts are played through first person and are a mix of adventure and shooting. The 
 shooting feels pretty solid all around. You get 4 different modern weapons, including a handgun, 
 shotgun, sniper, and machine gun. You also get other primitive weapons, like spears and bones. 
 These are surprisingly strong and when low on ammo these are a great substitute that can really 
 pack a wallop. The game also successfully pulls a cinematic feel with using absolutely no HUD whatsoever. 
 Everything that would appear in the HUD is all conveyed through voice. Because the game is pretty 
 linear there is no map to be needed, and when wondering how much ammo you have, all you have to 
 do is press "B" and Jack will yell it out. It works well with what the game was going for, which 
 is a quality cinematic experience. 
  
  The puzzle element is the second piece of gameplay that fits into Jack's section. These puzzles 
 come into play throughout most of the game and most of them are really basic. For instance, you'll 
 be asked to find fires to burn bushes so you can get a stake to turn the level and this will let 
 you move onto the next section. To go along with this, the game has a food chain system. Again, 
 pretty basic situation here and all that's really called of you to do is grab a small grub or dragonfly 
 and throw it so the animals can be lured out. The puzzles mix up the shooting parts, but because 
 of the game's linearity they come across as too easy. 
  
  King Kong's section is probably like nothing you've played before. Kong's parts are probably the 
 most exiting thing that the game has to offer, though they can feel a little awkward at times. 
 Most of this can be faulted towards the camera system, which is a bit awkward during the Kong parts. 
 It goes for a cinematic view and the game could have benefited from a different, more accessible 
 view. However, It does offer some good excitement from time to time, especially when watching him 
 swing through the jungle and fighting the enormous V-rexes with his bare hands.
  
  Graphically, King Kong looks rather impressive. It has some great effects, especially with the 
 larger creatures like the dinosaurs and such. Kong himself also has some really good animations 
 and everything looks real good while still keeping a solid framerate throughout. A lot of the character 
 models look real good as well, especially Denham who looks exactly like the actor who portrays 
 him in the movie, Jack Black. Also, the game's decision to not use a HUD makes everything really 
 slick from top to bottom.
  
  The game's audio department fits right in. The game has extremely strong voice acting and it fits 
 in really good here with a lot of the same voices in the movie. The game can also just get really 
 loud, especially when you're playing as Kong. He'll beat on his chest and just blow the speaker's 
 up. It's quite awesome when he does this and it just makes you feel like you're in the game. It's 
 pretty intense, to say the least.
  
  King Kong's major shortcoming isn't it's linearity or weak puzzle solving, but it's really just 
 way to short to warrant a purchase on. The game will last you about 5 or possibly 6 hours worth 
 of gameplay total. It's extremely short and especially the parts that are played as King Kong, 
 which equals up to be about 45 minutes or so. It doesn't help that the game is being sold at a 
 retail price. It also offers almost no challenge at all. There are a few parts here and there than 
 can trip you up, but if you die more than five times in the game something is terribly wrong. There's 
 also no replay value whatsoever, and you'll feel swindled if you actually dish out the $60 to play 
 it.
  
  While King Kong lasts it feels good and is a well done, competent adventure game. Unfortunately, 
 the things it does right are overshadowed by the things it fails miserably at. It's probably worth 
 a play through if you have any interest of tearing the jungle up with an enormous beast, but it 
 really can't be recommended as a buy based on it's 6 hours worth of total gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treb3
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  this game describes the words cool, kill, annoying and fun. wondering why. well see a big problem 
 with this game is the way you switch to your gun, why should you have to hold L to shoot, thats 
 pretty much every thing wrong with it. mabey its a little shallow and the worm things are tough 
 as hell to kill, but not much else, so whats good about this, well you basically shoot everything 
 and kill everything. theres one bad thing I forgot to bring up the kong stages the camera blows, 
 the fighting blows, everything blows. luckily, theres not many of these. the graphics are great 
 except for jacks arms, theres so weird looking. I would actually prefer this over... actually if 
 you own halo3 call of duty and perfect dark you should get this game, if not get one of those games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantomtech85
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Based on the remake of the 1933 classic, Peter Jacksons King Kong: Official Game of the Movie 
 has you as one of the main characters, starring Jack, (Adrien Brody) along with Carl Denham (Jack 
 Black) , Ann Darrow (An actress who has previously lost her acting gig and looking for work) Played 
 by Naomi Watts. Carl is a film maker and desperate for his next big film so he and crew aboard 
 a ship to pursue a secret Island called skull Island to shoot their movie. Still on the shaky seas 
 and getting close to the island, thats when you as jack open your eyes as in a first person perspective. 
 Once you and the others set foot on the beach, youll spend time traveling around the island to 
 find your way. Suddenly, youre forced to pick up a weapon as there are nasty creatures coming 
 from the water.
  
  Automatic weapons are limited, a shotgun, sniper rifle and a Tommy machine gun (as used in that 
 time period) , are all at your disposal in the form of small crates found throughout the levels. 
 As Peter Jackson wanted it for a more realistic feel, there is no on screen HUD to begin with so 
 you have no sight of ammo, or health. But instead Jack will utter the number of ammo he has left. 
 You can also pick up spears as throwing projectiles that are laying around bones and other left 
 over parts of the environment, which can be very helpful in sticky situations if youre without 
 a gun. These weapons are fairly easy to used with seemingly a semi-auto aim function, which does 
 make up for the lack of a aiming reticule.
  
  The storyline really kicks off when youre with Ann and then ambushed by the local tribes people 
 that inhabit the island. You end up knocked out, kidnapped and tied up witnessing Ann being taken 
 away by the gigantic Kong who appears from the thick jungle. Of course Ann being Jacks love interest 
 as the film suggests, he will do anything to find her. So Carl stumbles upon Jack at that point, 
 unties him and their search Ann begins. This Jingle is not a safe place to be, the creatures here 
 are no joke. Youll more then likely encounter a good variety of weird looking monsters. Giant 
 bats and millipedes, are one of the frequent monsters youll face in the early sections of the 
 jungle.
  
  The puzzles in the game are pretty simplistic, repetitive, and offers no challenge or anything 
 new to the table. Most of the time, youre searching for wooden levers to open doors or finding 
 fire for burning down shrubbery to get pass certain areas. One of the bright spots of King Kong 
 is, actually getting to play as Kong. About more than half way through, youll transition from 
 Jack to Kong in third person plat forming and/or chase sequences. Its rather easy to traverse 
 the linear jungle as Kong moves swiftly and strongly. As big as Kong is, he will ultimately have 
 larger enemies to deal with, like in the film, he will take on V and T-Rexes as well as giant bats. 
 The fighting controls feel natural, but can be a bit to button mashy at times. Still, it doesnt 
 try to push the limits of what you can do with Kong.
  
  Graphically, theirs nothing special here, though the environments are solid, and accurate to its 
 movie counterpart. The character and creature models have decent textures to them, Kong himself 
 especially looks detailed. I did experience brief slow down on some occasions, but it doesnt ruin 
 the overall playability. The ambient sounds of skull island does have a sometimes eerie yet, immersive 
 tone. Its makes you aware of the many critters and monsters surrounding you. The intense musical 
 score brings urgency to the situation, as you fight, shoot your way through all the areas, its 
 certainly what the film and game did well.
  
  After jungle hopping, the last stop of your journey ends in New York City after Kong is captured 
 and put on display in a Broadway auditorium. Once you break out you must find your way up the empire 
 state building holding Ann and from there on you battle a gang of biplanes. If youve seen the 
 film, then youll know what happens next. This short sequence was disappointing as it ends rather 
 abruptly without further gameplay like the chasing of Jacks car through the New York streets. 
 Ubisoft certain couldve done a better job with that. All 1000 achievement points can be unlocked 
 quite easily, just by completing the game, its that simple. Overall with everything accounted 
 for Peter Jacksons King Kong: Official Game of the Movie serves as a satisfying movie adaptation 
 certainly compared to how most movie based games are these days. With that in mind, King Kong is 
 at least worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  The fact that this was one of the Xbox 360's first games still amazes me. 
  Yes, I know there are parts that can be a bit glitchy, but overall the graphics still stand up 
 two years later when compared to some games that are being released today. 
  King Kong is really a great all round, enjoyable, solid game. 
  The parts as Jack are fun to 
 play and I can even go as far as saying exciting in some places, but the real fun and cinematic 
 experience comes when you play Kong himself. 
  
  BEING KONG KICKS ASS. 
  
  Its easily enough reason to go out and pay the 6 ($12) for a used copy on ebay. 
  Even though 
 you dont get to be him for that much of the game, when you do it's so much fun swinging from branch 
 to branch, along cliffs and snapping & ripping dinosaurs mouths apart. Plus you get to fight the 
 planes on top of the empire state building!!! How cool is that? 
  
  They've done a fantastic job of getting what could be a boring run of the mill game and turning 
 it into a mini-cinematic experience. 
  
  It does start to get a bit repetitive, but by the time you start to feel a bit bored you are only 
 2 levels away from getting off the island and back to New York, so it's never really that much 
 of a problem.
  
  I would recommend anyone to play this game, especially as you can get it for next to nothing now. 
 
  
  One of the best movie to game transitions i've played.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: calzoony
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  well i never had any intentions if buy this game until i saw it was in a deal preowned, i thought 
 i would give it a try seeing as it is easy 1000 gamerscore. well i played this game in total for 
 about 3 hours, it bored me to death. i hated it, it just wasnt for me. all those people out there 
 who say that it is an easy 1000 gamerscore are right to some extent as there is no online mode 
 to get achievements, no secret achievements, you get all of the achievements after each mission, 
 which are incredibly long, frustrating and tiring. i gave up on this game in the end, but i would 
 advise to play before you buy and dont buy on the basis that you can get an easy 1000 gamerscore 
 !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerohour38
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  King kong as you all know is a hit movie movie title which was released in the 1930's followed 
 by many seqels and Spinoffs. The Game has a great story a man by the name of Carl is wanting to 
 explore some island that was thought to exist only in myth although what awaits here isnt pleasent. You 
 Play as Both Jack Driscoll And King Kong Himself as you play as Jack its a first person view where 
 basiclly your fighting using guns but these can actually be a real bother but to cover all that 
 you can pick up spears which are good against enimes at the right time. When you play as Kong you 
 are just fighting and climbing this can be a pain but fun at the same time when you are knocking 
 down the villagers but attacking dinosaurs is a real pain. Graphiclly the game looks Incredible 
 the island textures and effects really stand out for a spooky island. The Sound is Great especially 
 on Mono Or Surround Mode. The Game however is a littile short only taking about 8 hours to complete 
 for an average gamer. Overall the game is quite impressive and should be worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GMcConville92
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Peter Jackson's King Kong is an excellent film and although the game doesn't really live up to 
 it, it is still a great fun game (for the short time that it does last)
  
  You play the most part of the game as Jack Driscoll, although it does not have any defining FPS 
 features it still can be fun and quite intense. For the most part you will be blasting birds, dinosaurs, 
 spiders, crabs etc with some pretty beautiful looking guns, although there are only 4 guns in the 
 whole game. Enemies are usually pretty easy to handle and often force you to use your brain power 
 instead of just running and gunning everywhere, as ammo is very scarce. For a lesser part of a 
 game you will also have puzzles to do, these are quick and simple and just vary the game a bit.
 
  
  Friends also play a part in this game, not a big part though they only really relieve you from 
 fighting ALL the bad guys and are very proned to getting hurt which also adss a bit more depth 
 and difficulty to the game but not much. Your friends are Carl Denham, Ann Darrow, Hayes and also 
 Jimmy later on. Excluding Hayes they don't really help that much with the fighting but Ann plays 
 a big part in climbing things and opening gates from the other side etc
  
  Playing as Jack can get very repititive though, so the missions where you play as Kong brighten 
 things up a bit and gets you interested again. The Kong gameplay is completely different from Jack. 
 Kong's involves two things fighting enemies with punches and grabs and some pretty sick killer 
 moves and there is also some platforming in the Kong sequences. This is very fun and would probably 
 be better than the Jack parts.
  
  The graphics in King Kong are great, always a joy to look at. With some superb environements and 
 as I mentioned very detailed guns. Having played the game on 360 and PS2 the 360 graphics look 
 a lot sharper in all aspects. Some places where the graphics really stand out from the gen before 
 are lighting and shadow, fire and kong himself.
  
  The sound adds a lot more tension to the game and the voice acting us also brilliant, but the lypsincing 
 is just awful and also laughable. The game isn't very long so it was really depending on replay 
 value but that is not here, the only thing to make you want to come back is getting points in the 
 levels to unlock some unwanted unlockables. But Overall King Kong is a great game while it lasts 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K4ss3r
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  The King Kong movie set some very high expectations for the game, with good reason - It was quite 
 awesome.
  However, the game doesn't quite seem to deliver and the game just seems to disappoint in so many 
 ways, that it might just make you sad.
  
  The most positive thing to be said about this game, is probably how well it follows the story. 
 There are some very vital missions you get to play, that also takes part in the movie. You'll be 
 able to recognize a lot of thing in the game which you've already seen in the movie, and all the 
 characters seem to be there.
  The voiceacting is surprisingly good, especially from Jack Black, one of the characters you'll 
 probably hear the most, as he's the one recording the movie, and is kind of the 'Boss' at this 
 expedition. Sadly the gameplay is overly repetitive throughout most of the game. There's hardly 
 any variation in this game, except that you switch between playing as a Man and Kong. You usually 
 play as the person Jack, hired for this expedition and your main objective is to take care of the 
 others and make sure they're safe. Occasionly, you'll have a gun available but you mostly find 
 yourself with no bullets left, and stuck with spears and bones as your only weapon. The level design 
 is awkwardly much the same. Of course, it's one big jungle, and it's expected that it might look 
 a lot of the same, but you're pretty much doing the same thing over and over again in every mission, 
 and sometimes you'll encounter different enemies and maybe a change of environment (Like a swamp) , 
 but it still remains pretty much the same thing. Enemies never really provide much threat to you 
 and the game is quite easy. Although it's easy, it'll still take you a while to get through it. 
 (About 4-6 hours, depending how good you are.)
  One thing that's a bit of a let-down, is that you can easily use all cheats available and still 
 be able to gain Achievement. This really ruins the point of achievements overall, as they should 
 be something hard to get, and something you must work for, not simply cheat your way to. That being 
 said, they're easy to get, cheating or not. Simply by completeting every level in the game, you'll 
 unlock the 1.000 Achievement points available. Sounds good, but the bad thing? You'll most likely 
 be bored to death before this happens.
  
  The graphics are quite dated already, since the game was release alongside the Xbox 360 almost 
 two years ago. But even then, it was quite a letdown and never really too eyecatching. It seems 
 like a mere port from the Playstation 2 or Xbox version, with a tiny bit more polished graphics, 
 but not enough to really make a difference. The levels where you play as Kong though, are mildly 
 entertaining. Despite the random button-mashing that it is, it still feels quite awesome to be 
 this huge gorilla and taking down ancient dinosaurs by punching them all over. The fun fades quickly 
 though, and the levels as Kong are not many, and way too short. The game provides quick points 
 and occasionly some fun, especially in the Kong levels. But with so little amount of levels where 
 you play as Kong, and so many boring levels as Jack, this game turns out as merely a bad experience 
 that you'll wish to forget soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Movie tie-ins, most, suck a lot. But every now and then a Goldeneye 007 or a Riddick comes along 
 and gives everyone a glimmer of hope. Obviously enough, the next grand hope fell on the shoulders 
 of Peter Jacksons King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie (and for the purpose of keeping everyones 
 sanity I will refrain from ever using that whole title again) . Ultimately though, many found a 
 quality experience by their standards, but, maybe Ive been playing too many good games, because 
 all I found was a sub-par, mediocre action/shooter/horror hybrid title, that held so much promise, 
 yet failed to deliver the gameplay.
  
  The most amazing part of King Kong is the immersive world. If youve seen the movie, youll know 
 that Skull Island is pristine, dark, and oddly beautiful, and it makes for a perfect setting in 
 the game. Its moody and atmospheric, and when giant insects, and dinosaurs are hunting you down, 
 youll feel the excitement rising, as you carry what little ammo you have, with the one gun youre 
 allowed to carry. King Kong isnt trying to be Turok, where youre off hunting dinosaurs with a 
 variety of weapons, its just the opposite, youre just trying to get out alive. But thats partially 
 why the game is so atmospheric. You arent running around firing, youre hiding where you can, 
 conserving ammo, killing smaller animals to lure the larger ones away from you. On paper, this 
 sounds like an absolutely amazing game, but in execution it fails.
  
  Much of your time is spent in Skull Island, though youll have a brief stint in New York towards 
 the end. Theres just one problem, no matter how atmospheric the game tries to be, and no matter 
 how good the gameplay sounds on paper, King Kong is ultimately a boring game. The experience itself 
 might be cool, but whats the point when the gameplay itself just feels so average? Youll kill 
 plenty of monsters, but nothing really memorable really comes at you, there isnt any amazing AI 
 that will team up to hunt you down, its all so predictable. You can burn the grass to kill some 
 of the enemies hiding in it as well, or to clear a path, but all of this grass looks exactly same, 
 so youre never surprised at your ingenuity so much as you just happened to burn some grass that 
 was their to hold up your progress. Youll also traverse through dark caverns and whatnot, and 
 much of the game is actually set in the dark, but, again, theres a problem, in those dark caverns, 
 youll actually be tasked with finding pegs to insert into doors, to open them. Dont get me wrong 
 here, but didnt key-hunting go out of style in the 90s? And do gamers really look gullible enough 
 to actually not know that theres not a difference between hunting for keys or pegs? They serve 
 the same purpose: The doors locked, and they open it.
  
  Theres also another element to King Kongs gameplay, and thats actually playing as Kong himself. 
 This comes off as a cross between the excellent Prince of Persia platforming, and a button-mashing 
 fighter. In brief, running around, as Kong is great, smacking dinosaurs as him is a bore. No skill 
 is required of you, just mashing on buttons as fast as you can, to bring the beat down. Though, 
 theres something enjoyable about the platforming parts, it feels like the best part, probably 
 because all of it flows so well, and actually feels like a game should: fun.
  
  The events that take place in the game are different from anything found in the film. Yes, youll 
 see a great deal of similarities, but none of them are the same. This is actually for the better, 
 seeing as how if a three-hour film were replicated as it were it just wouldnt make for a compelling 
 gaming experience. The two best movie-based games dont tell the same story as their film counterparts, 
 and, for some reason, both are better then their film counterparts, these two, as previously mentioned, 
 are Goldeneye 007 and The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay.
  
  Nonetheless, the weak gameplay of King Kong isnt even its weakest link; its actually the length 
 of the game. This is a six-hour game, at most. Better gamers will actually plow through it even 
 faster, and theres no incentive to play through it again either. Besides, much of those six-hours 
 may just end up being spent peg-hunting.
  
  As for the visuals in the game, theyre great on the PS2, Xbox and GameCube, but the Xbox 360 version 
 looks way too much like them, theres no discernible step-up in the games visuals. That aside, 
 the game is atmospheric, so the visuals can, periodically, seem all right, but youll notice the 
 bland texture, and the ugly character models. Even for a launch title, this games graphics werent 
 impressive at all, and they havent aged well on the Xbox 360 at all.
  
  The audio on the other hand is stunning, superb, if not better than superb! The ambient sounds, 
 the great music, the deafening roars of vicious dinosaurs, the earth-shattering roar of Kong himself, 
 the gunfire, the effects, the sound of stomping feet, splashing water, all of it is amazing. It 
 helps the atmosphere in the game so much, and when you look at the basic parts of King Kong, the 
 greatest part is the audio in the game.
  
  King Kong tries to be a good game, and anyone can acknowledge that, but its overly simplistic gameplay, 
 last-gen visuals and short length add up to make one unimpressive package. At times, King Kong 
 will definitely show signs of greatness, like when a V-Rex is roaring in your face, and the screen 
 blurs from the power of it, you feel genuine fear and excitement for it. King Kong definitely has 
 its moments, but those moments never really add up to a fully realized experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adidasfootball9
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  The only thing that gives this game any bit of difficulty is your extreme lack of ammunition. However, 
 you have plenty of bones and spears at your disposal, so you're still good.
  
  The graphics in this game are very good, but you WILL earn all of the achievements in less than 
 one day... if you play for a few hours straight. This game only takes that long to beat, and your 
 earn all 1,000 along the way. However, it is fun to be a giant gorilla slapping around a bunch 
 of dinosaurs. I think the only reason that this game got such a high score is because of it's graphics. 
 However, at least you get an easy 1,000 points for doing virtually nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theUNstopable13
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  When I first played King Kong on the PS2, I was really scared to play it because I never new what 
 was gonna pop out somewhere else like in front of me or behind. The game isn't total terror, most 
 of it, you get to shoot a bunch of animal-based monsters on the island which does end up putting 
 you in some tough situations but the game some how gets easier as you travel through it. Mostly 
 if your a beginner at an FPS, it may be harder to kill the monsters. Now, enough of the FPS, lets 
 talk about playing as Kong. With a one-button jump, run, swing, and climb, it is somewhat easy 
 to control Kong. The only problem with Kong is that when you punch and/or grab something or someone, 
 Kong doesn't know what to do with it so he randomly throws it off to the side instead of the enemies 
 in front of him when you want to throw the enemy.
  
  The game is based on the movie, Peter Jackson's KING KONG, which is about a director whose about 
 to lose his job over silly films on the Safari in Africa until he discovers a map leading to a 
 place called, Skull Island, but he needs a new lead women so he finds a nice lady called Ann who 
 then gets captured by you know who, King Kong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uncle_Guts
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I like the game but it is fun but it is so easey that it makes it no challeng it needs more storyline 
 that is all the game needs the graphics are great but it needs all the fun and more guns if they 
 had all that they would get more games bought and more people would have fun playing the game and 
 not just running aroud not knowing where to fo so it is not all that good. When I played everyone 
 just keept dieing so it sucked and all I had to do was just keep walking on and on so it was easeyer 
 than it seams. I hate that you have to go throug the forest it is just plane boring I wish there 
 where more animes to v. s it would be a lot more funner. Thats all I have to say about this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawookie
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 8, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is, obviously, based on the movie made by Peter Jackson. In the game, you follow basically 
 the same storyline as the movie, where a load of guys from the Venture go ashore Skull Island to 
 shoot a film, but it almost immediately turns into a fight for survival.
  
  The story is around 6 hours and you play as Jack Driscoll, and Kong himself. You spend around 85% 
 of your time as Jack, which I PERSONALLY preferred. The Jack bits are first person, and you have 
 no HUD which makes things more realistic. There are also no crosshairs to look where your aiming, 
 but the weapons all have some kind of lock-on system that makes the bullets usually hit the target. 
 Jack can use a small variety of weaponry. Anglehorn will sometimes drop weapons on the island from 
 the seaplane. You first pick up a Luger pistol, which carries 8 bullets. There is also a shotgun, 
 thompson sub-machine gun, and a sniper rifle. You can press the B or Circle button on the gamepad 
 to check Jacks ammo, which is quite rare, so you must conserve it as much as you can. Whenever 
 you are out of ammo, there are plenty of Spears or sharp bones around to pick up. Now Kong is quite 
 different. There are just a few different moves for him. You can punch with the A or X buttons, 
 and press X or Square to rush and swing. Press B or Circle to grab or rapidly tap to finish off 
 a down enemy (by snapping the jaw, and crushing into the ground) , and rapidly tapping Y or Triangle 
 will get Kong into a rage which gives you a little damage boost of a limited time. The Kong bits 
 are quite alot of fun, but I personally found them a bit dull and repetitive.
  
  You encounter all the characters from the movie in the game. Carl Denham, Hayes, Ann Darrow, Captain 
 Anglehorn, Jimmy, and a little bit of Preston. Each character has great dialogue and all have their 
 own personalities.
  
  The graphics are totally fantastic. All the character models look realistic and pretty, except 
 for Kong, who I think looks like a burnt bush. Although the real star of the graphics here is the 
 environment. Your surroundings all look gorgeous, and none of them too repetetive. Unfortunately, 
 the game features no Leaderboards for single-player, which would've been kinda cool. And actual 
 multiplayer is simply out of the question for this kind of game.
  
  Overall, I would give this game a rental rather than buy, seeing as the game offers a mere 5-7 
 hours of game play with no real replay value, seeing as you get all 1000 points first time through. 
 Still, its easy points and fun while it lasts, so give it a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CleveBROWN
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 8, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  King Kong is a worth while game. while you play it is fun and when you get to be big bad and pissed 
 off KONG the game takes you on a thrill roller coaster. King Kong gives you something to do for 
 a day or so. (I beat it in a day) it is rather short and achievments come just by getting progress 
 through the ame so you dont have to go out of your way to get them or strain countless tries to 
 get them as you do in other games.
  
  The concept in the game is simple follow the path and dont get killed haha. It is very straight 
 forward such as defeat the dinos or save jane . The game follows the story of the movie with a 
 few changes but the generall story line is the same so its easy to figure out what comes next.
 
  
  DONT BUY THIS GAME!! JUST RENT IT!! ITY IS VERY SHORT AND AFTER YOU BEAT IT THERE ISNT ANYTHING 
 ELSE TO DO. ALL THE ACHIEVEMT POINT SOME FROM THE STORY AND PLAYING THE GAME OVER SEAMS LIKE A 
 WASTE OF TIME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanTnT
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 25, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I found this game to be very fun. It can be classified as a first person shooter, and 
 a action game. You play as 2 people/monsters. The first and most occurring playable character is 
 Jack, who is you didn't see the movie, are vaguely introduced to him. You can hold one weapon at 
 a time, and the ammo is very scarce so you have to use spears and other sticks most of the time, 
 which can get tedious. For the most part, you are finding fire, lighting a stick on fire, and burning 
 down a bush to collect a lever or get to an area. It can get repetitive, but I thought the environments 
 are great looking, and the encounters with various dinosaurs and giant bug things are intense enough 
 to be fun each time around. Playing as the second character, I believe was the most fun. Of coarse 
 I'm talking about playing as King Kong. You travel through the jungle with ease and go toe to toe 
 with dinosaurs. It is really fun to play as Kong. Another feature which I think made the game more 
 intense and graphically intriguing was that there was not any HUD. Gameplay: 8 / 10.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game were absolutely amazing. It was a Xbox 360 launch game, and 
 it showcased the power of it's graphical ability very well. The dinosaurs and other creatures, 
 including Kong looked very real, and the environments were great. The weapons looks real, and the 
 humans looked real as well. If this game came out today, I would give the graphics a 9, but since 
 this came out about 2 years ago, I have to go with a 10. Graphics: 10 / 10.
  
  Sound: Most of the sounds in this game were great. The soundtrack was epic in some parts, and the 
 voice overs were believable. The dinosaur roars seemed very alike, but I guess because they are. 
 Kong sounded scary and the humans sounded scared. Sound: 8 / 10.
  
  Value: Based off off the movie King Kong, directed by Peter Jackson. Since it's based off of a 
 big named movie, and one of the launch titles for Xbox 360, I'd say this game has a significant 
 amount of value. Value: 8 / 10.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: At first, I just rented this game for the rumored easy 1000 Gamerpoints, but instead 
 this turned out to be a very fun game for me. I loved the presentation of this game, and the intensity 
 of the battles, and playing as Kong was simply awesome. Reviewer's Tilt: 9 / 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 14, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Well king kong was one of my first 360 game and it wasnt all that bad you play as jack from the 
 movie only this game its a little different story well the way things happen. the gameplay well 
 when you play as jack its like a repeditive first person shooter you half to hit onw of the triggers 
 are bumbers to aim and the other to shoot now it wont realy bug you but you constintly have to 
 pick up a tourch and light something on fire to get to the next place or get a key and you do that 
 all threw out and as kong you play a beat im up game battle ing angrey villige people and and trexis. 
 The last mission of kong killing airplanes on the empire is actually realy fun. The sound is great 
 great voice actors like jack black and the graphics are prety good to but you wont realy be replaying 
 this one again and again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneWolfRei
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Let me state that I only rented this game just cause I heard it was a quick 1000 achievement points, 
 and after finishing the game I was very satisfied with the gameplay and only wanted more..... KONG!
 
  
  Gameplay: It is set up in two completely different sections. The one you will be playing as the 
 most is Jack (the human) who plays in first person perspective. The FPS portion while is nothing 
 amazing, it isn't to shabby either. This is not so much of run and gun, it is more about survival! 
 You get limited amount of ammo that really make you concentrate on really aiming and making every 
 shot count. Jack will play all his portion of the game on Skull Island. You can expect to fight 
 many giant dinosaurs and bugs and it is pretty intense! It you are running low on ammo you can 
 throw spears and bones and such at your foes. You will also have to solve a little bit of puzzles 
 that mainly just involve burning thorn bushes out of your path, or finding a lever to advance to 
 the next area, I personally didn't care for the puzzle solving. Oh and there are some very intense 
 chases from the gargantuan V-Rex! I loved those parts!
  
  The Other part of the game has you control the King of Skull Island himself! This is amazing! Kong 
 is just raw power and rage! As you play as him you will see all enemies fall like flies to kong! 
 He can even take out the mighty V-Rex like they are The Incredible Hulk playing with a plastic 
 children's toy! He will mostly be protecting the damsel in distress (Anne) all the time you are 
 Kong. She will also help you get past certain paths. He can scale walls like a certain prince we 
 all know and love and wing from tree to tree in all his gorilla goodness! Also if you tap the Y 
 button really fast he will start beating his chest and go into a rage! In his rage he can kill 
 about ANYTHING or destroy anything in ONE HIT! It is also a life saver in certain parts. My only 
 problem is.... You only get kong in a couple levels in the game and you will be craving more! Graphics: 
 While the humans setting is nice, it all kind of looks the same and the facial textures are kind 
 of nasty, but the Dinosaurs are very well detailed and impressive! Now the graphics and textures 
 of the kong levels are a marvel to behold! Especially in HD! Kong looks even better than he did 
 in the movie! All the scars and all the aggressive facial animations are all there, and all look 
 great! It really saves the graphics in this game, but again, to bad there are not more of it!
 
  
  Sound: Nothing I can say about this that everyone else has said before. AMAZING! Top notch! King 
 Sound! Whatever, you will be either wanting to play this game at full blast with your surround 
 sound on or be playing on a good pair of head phones, because it is all atmosphere here! Very impressive! 
 Story: Loosely follows the movie. Mainly you go to Skull Island to shoot a movie and end up getting 
 to far in, and well the S*** hits the fan! And the rest of the game is about survival for both 
 you and kong. Controls: Fluid and Work perfect, Some of Kongs controls could have used a little 
 bit of work. Replay Value: It only has one difficulty setting and isn't that hard to begin with, 
 and after you beat it and get your 1000 points you won't feel much of a need or want to visit it 
 again. It is only about 6-7 hours long game. Hard to recommend to buy although you can get it for 
 around $10-20 now. Overall: Great game, but will leave you craving more Kong and more be slightly 
 harder maybe. Good for fans of FPS and Action/Adventure, or anyone who saw the movie, loved it 
 and wanted to see it recreated in a good quality video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: You play as Jack, ripped directly from the King Kong movie itself. If you've ever seen 
 the new King Kong movie then you'll be mostly familiar with what's going on such as the New York 
 scene as well as dealing with the Natives. Most of the time it does have to take you out of the 
 storyline to add in content so you can fight Skull Island's predators to make a game out of the 
 story. What it does it does well in terms of story, and you won't go wrong here.
  
  Gameplay: King Kong is your basic FPS, you can use one gun and as such reload it, use a scope on 
 your sniper, and bring pain to your enemies. Also you'll be using a spear a lot of the time when 
 you run out of ammo or for setting fires on key places to reach new areas to progress the game, 
 spears break easily but can be picked up a few times and are decent defensive weapons. Also, you 
 can dip your spear in fire to increase the damage and as previously stated, burn down the bushes 
 that block your path. Your enemies generally only attack you if they see you, and when they do 
 get close you'll occasionally get in trouble (especially when fighting different species of dinosaurs) . 
 When you do get hurt your screen will start pulsating in red, in most games this is okay because 
 you can see but this game adds a bit too much and you can't tell what's going on. So basically 
 it's your easy puzzle game and regular FPS with a mix-in of story elements as well as being able 
 to play Kong (which is in all terms just a beat'em-up) .
  
  Graphics: When this game came out the graphics were great, and for those of you who don't realize, 
 it was one of the first games on the Xbox 360. The graphics are still great by today's standards, 
 and are much better than your average movie tie-ins. King Kong himself looks great, as well as 
 the character models. The island itself looks okay, but the bushes you burn down are questionable 
 in not only how they look, but why you can't just walk over them and instead you have to burn them 
 down and ideally there's a key piece behind them.
  
  Sound: The sound is great, as well as the voice acting and sound effects from guns, hitting, and 
 etc.
  
  Value: Not much replayability, and the achievements you can get in about one run-through of the 
 game. Also the game will run you only 5-8 hours and you can finish it in one sitting like I did, 
 it's just not much game time to justify the $15 you can buy this game for used, but if a friend 
 has it borrow it and experience it yourself. In all respects this game was great, but definitely 
 not worth the full-price of admission. Unlockables in this game are just not worth playing through 
 the game again for because they're just picture stills, and there's not many of them.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Like previously stated it's worth a borrow, not a rental, not a buy, just a borrow. 
 One of the better movie tie-ins that does the movie justice and represents a decent game that'll 
 pass the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfoboost
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  The things i like about this game are how you can play as kong and then as the guy or the other 
 way around. I also like how the graphics and sounds were so real, you really get a kick out of the 
 sound when kong yells. What i didnt like about this game is how you cant see how much ammo you have 
 left in your gun and how you have to look for boxes to get ammo. I also didnt like how it took so 
 long to kill a raptor cause i have to stab them like 6 times with a spear. The last thing i didnt 
 like about this game how you can tell what your health and how there is no health packs even though 
 your health comes back in like a minute, but what if you are being attacked by multiple enemys like 
 2 raptors and your about to die.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoKeR360
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jun 23, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  Im going to make this review a little shorter than i normally do. Honostly, because this game isn't 
 worth writing a review, but hopefully this will keep you from getting this game.
  
  King kong is a launch title, and the only thing it is good for is easy achievement points. I bought 
 this thinking it might be a little fun, but everytime i played it i dreaded it.
  
  Dumb puzzles that you have to work give you a headache and you really wont care. Most of the time 
 its setting your stick on fire so you can clear the way to get through... The majority of the game 
 you play as man, its just plain painful, some parts when you play as kong are a little entertaining, 
 which makes it the highlight of the game.
  
  With no online play, and crappy single player gameplay, this game is only worth renting to stack 
 up you achievement points, which may even be hard because this game will get on your nerves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LurtzOfIsengard
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I made the mistake a while back of buying this on the XBox cause it looked so cool at GameStop 
 on the 360. I didnt even finish that version cause Kong looked so bad. But this game, he has got 
 to be the best looking non humanoid character to date in a video game, and this was released, what, 
 2 years ago? Proves that you dont need extra time with a system to make a game look great, just 
 have to want to.
  The game is kinda short, but when ya dont gotta spend 50 hours to get some extra Gamerscore, cant 
 complain. But even though it isnt short, ya get just enough out of playing it, cept maybe 1 more 
 Kong segment woulda been nice.
  If you dont have it, i am sure you can spare the $15 like i did and go and get it at GameStop or 
 EB. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 7, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I defy anyone in the world to actually come forth and say theyve never heard of King Kong. And 
 now that the magnificent 2005 remake by Peter Jackson has come and gone, the hulking gorilla is 
 in a newfound revival frenzy of sorts. And hot on the movies heels came the inevitable game cash-in. 
 But for once, thanks in large part to the unprecedented creative collaboration between Mr. Jackson 
 and Michel Ancel (of Rayman and BG&amp; E fame) , gamers are treated to a movie-game that actually 
 manages to be good. No, not good, great in fact!
  
  The gameplay is a mix of first-person survival shooter and action adventure with light puzzle elements 
 mixed in. And you know what? They nailed it perfectly. You alternate control between Jack Driscoll 
 and Kong, with the former having a first-person perspective and Kong naturally relegated to third-person. 
 Contrary to my expectations, I enjoyed Jacks portions a lot more than Kongs (though thats not 
 to say that they were bad in any way) , mainly because its during these times that the game has 
 an excellent survival horror feel to it. With limited ammo and underpowered weaponry, youre at 
 the mercy of every lizard and insect that happen to come upon you. Youre forced to use your wits 
 on almost every occasion, with the food chain system being a good example. Say you need to get 
 past a family of flesh-eating centipedes. Well, thanks to a system that creates a real food chain 
 among the inhabitants of Skull Island, all you need to do is find some delicious spiders, impale 
 them with your spear and lure the centipedes away from where ever it is you need to go to. Its 
 a simply and slightly underused system, but its still great fun.
  
  Adding to the feel of desperate survival and realism (a realistic Kong game?) is the complete absence 
 of a HUD. Thats right, theres no life bar, ammo bar or even a targeting reticule (though the 
 final two can be turned on in the Options menu) , which is fantastic concept. Instead of getting 
 visual cues, you need to listen to Jack as he gives you cues on his health or ammo situation. My 
 hat goes off to the developers for adding (or would it be removing?) such a great feature that 
 intensifies the game tenfold.
  
  Once you take control of Kong, everything is turned upside down. The once mighty V-Rexes now cower 
 before your might and every living thing on the island fears you. Talk about polar opposite experiences? 
 Its this sudden and drastic change that gives the game even more drama and depth. Sadly, Kongs 
 portions fall slightly flat when compared to Jacks excellent adventures. The game transforms into 
 a third-person action beat-em up with platofrming thrown in for good measure. The fighting mechanics 
 are fairly simple, but thanks to their brutal nature and awesome finishing moves, they are still 
 great fun. The platforming portions are similarly straightforward, with the player controlling 
 Kong with well-timed button presses as he swings through the jungle and solves rudimentary puzzles.
 
  
  Surprisingly for a multiplatform release, King Kong is a beautiful game. Granted, some of the models 
 and textures could use a little work, but the jungle especially is so awe-inspiring and photo realistic 
 that I stopped every now and then just to make sure I was in fact playing a game and not watching 
 the movie. Playing this thing on a 100-inch projector screen and 6.1 surround sound is truly a 
 sight to behold. The game also keeps at a steady framerate and there are very few graphical glitches 
 to be found. The game also sports beautiful graphical design, but with Michel Ancel at the helm, 
 how could it not?
  
  The audio is similarly surprising. The jungle feels alive and you will truly learn to appreciate 
 and fear the roar of a V-Rex as it makes its way toward you. The game also features an epic score 
 partially lifted from the movies. Unsurprisingly, the cast of the movie pitch in and luckily they 
 do a good job of it. I especially enjoyed Adrien Brodys (Jack Driscoll) work. He manages to infuse 
 Jack with some depth and emotion, as well as add suspense and tension with his frantic panting 
 and heavy breathing during action sequences.
  
  Unlike most game adaptations of blockbuster movies, Kong manages to break the mold and delivers 
 a thrilling and beautiful game that is so intense, youll likely find yourself physically worn-out 
 after lengthy play sessions. Herein though lies Kongs greatest fault, length. While the game is 
 extremely short and over before you know, it still manages to make the time you spend on it exhilarating 
 and memorable. So for once in your life, dont hesitate on making the plunge when it comes to a 
 movie-game. Kong is well worth it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jejh1971
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 7, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  King Kong the official game of the movie - Heh, what a title. Anyway, this game is the very definition 
 of repetetive and dull in most spots, but honestly some of the sequences will excite you. Don't 
 expect much variety becuase there are only about 6 total enemies in the game and the only way to 
 make sure they don't kill you over and over again is to use the famed 8wonder cheat code for invincibility. 
 ... and do yourself that big favor. USE THAT CODE. The achievement points are extremely easy. Just 
 finish the game and you'll have them all, no exceptions. But again, without using that one cheat 
 code, you may have a long, hard road ahead of you. I got a dull feeling after finishing this game, 
 and replayability is 100% out of the question ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokizarro
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  this is a very fun game to play. I played it about a year ago on normal Xbox and was overly impressed 
 and i recently got an Xbox360 for Christmas with a couple of games including king kong. It was 
 much better on Xbox360 than on normal Xbox :D
  
  the good: there are a lot of weapons to get with jack including the pistol, sniper rifle, shotgun 
 and more. You can play as either jack or king kong. With Kong you can kill just about anything 
 to Velociraptors to a Huge evil T-rex. The graphics are good as well and give all the creatures 
 a brand new evil look especially the T-rex with the reddish eyes and darkish skin.
  
  the bad: there are not that many weapons to get as Jack and the levels are very short although 
 there are a lot of levels.
  
  overall: get this game you will not regret it, it is great on both Xbox and Xbox360 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 20, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  King Kong pits you in the shoes of Jack Driscoll - a screenwriter who takes a trip to the elusive 
 Skull Island with Hayes, main actress Ann, and movie producer Carl Denham to film a movie that 
 may save Carl's career and life. Anyway, while on Skull Island you run into a lost civilization 
 whose inhabitants kidnap you and Ann and try to sacrafice her to Kong. As Jack, you are to try 
 and save her as well as save yourself &amp; crew. Every now and then you get to play as the main 
 ape himself, but hes only in a few scenes so whatever.
  
  The majority of the game takes place in first person - through the eyes of Jack. You run around 
 the island equipping yourself with either spears, sharpened bones, or the occasional gun and make 
 your way through a pretty linear level system. You fight different types of dinosaurs including 
 T-Rexes, raptors, teradactyles and many more... its so satisfying to take a spear and hurl it into 
 the forehead of a dino, honestly. On that note, you need to solve the occasional puzzle which basically 
 is all about lighting a few bushes on fire in order to progress.
  
  Every now and then, like I said, you control Kong. His sequences are awesome because you run around, 
 climbing walls, jumping from ledge to ledge, fist fighting other beasts of the jungle. Its so brutal 
 when you can grab a teradactyl from the sky, flinging him into a V-Rex and then grabing the rex 
 and snapping his jaws two seperate ways. Then, you get to attack the natives village which was 
 awesome, and then you eventually get to run rampant through New York and see the ending of him... 
 in otherwords, playing as Kong is awesome.
  
  The graphics are magnificent, even if it was a launch title. Ubisoft really did a good job crafting 
 a living jungle, and did an even better job on creating the King of the Jungle as well as the character 
 models. Carl Denham - otherwise known as Jack Black - looks almost exaclty like his living counter 
 part.
  
  The music was okay, but the sound effects is where the money was. The dinos sounded superb, the 
 voice acting was great, and Kong's ferocious roar was amazing.
  
  The downfalls is that the game gets very repetitive: kill a few dinos, light a fire, kill dinos, 
 fire. The game was only about 6 hours long, it coulda been a little bit longer if it was more in 
 depth. And finally, the ending was just bad: Kong gets killed and a police officer is clearing 
 the scene saying the airplanes killed him. Then Carl is standing next to Kong's dead face and goes, 
 it wasn't the airplanes that got him. Beauty killed the beast. Then credits roll... hm.... so I 
 survived a jungle full of bloodthirsty dinosaurs and natives to hear that? Thanks Ubisoft.
  
  To end it all, King Kong was a very pleasant game and was indeed an awesome launch title. I 
 highly recommend it to really just about anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaRkNeSs2393
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 10, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I didn't expect this game to be any good at all. King Kong?!? But then I played it.... and was 
 amazed, this was a good game! The game follows the same setup as the movie, but adds a lot more 
 detail/ content that wasn't in the movie. The combat is nice, regardless of who you are playing 
 as. You spend the majority of the game playing Jack, a writer with Turok skills in dinosaur ass 
 kicking. Jack uses the normal fps weapons : sniper, pistol, shotgun, and machine gun; so that is 
 fairly disapointing. He does get to use spears, a rather enjoyable weapon that always feels is 
 in abundant supply. But then you get to play as Kong, and that's a blast. Kong plays in a fighter/ 
 dungeon crawler style that would get old quick, so I'm glad the Kong experience was always fresh 
 with new enimies and things like that. Playing as Kong is just damned rewarding, snapping a V-rex's 
 spine by ripping apart the jaws is Mortal Kombat brutal/awesome. The envoriment is nice, the jungle 
 seems to be alive and adds to the experience. But the best touch the producers put in was the fact 
 that there was no HUD. It adds to the suspense and action. Instead of a monitor showing how much 
 ammo is left, Jack will say something like Three magazines on backup, and whenever you get hurt, 
 the screen flashes red and all the sounds are blurry. But the most agravating thing in the entire 
 game were the puzzles. It was always the same: Burn the bushes, use the bait, find the handle, 
 and then open the door. The puzzles aren't the hardest in the world, but the most annoying for 
 sure . All in all, I'm pleasantlly suprised that this went beyond the medicore bargin bin game 
 that so many others fall. Plus, the innovation of the no HUD and other things make this feel next-gen, 
 even though it was a 360 launch title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas10soa
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 5, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  Peter Jacksons king kong the official game of the movie is a verry exiting game with lots of twists 
 and turns to keep you coming.
  
  the game starts off with you playing as jack, in skull island, you must learn to use all the resources 
 you can to take out these enemies, to be honest, the beginning isnt to great and the game takes 
 quite a while to get started, however after the first five levels the game realy becomes a lot 
 of fun and becomes one of the most exiting games on 360.
  
  the only real problem with king kong is the way you have to save your ammunition has it runs out 
 repeadetly, but you can use cheats to help you out and the achivements still work even after you've 
 used cheats.
  
  Over all Peter Jacksons King Kong is a game that only gamers that truly understand games will enjoy, 
 people who want to go for non stop action should look somewhere else, as this doesnt offer non 
 stop action, but offers just enough action to keep you playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironsoap
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 18, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  The intro to the clumsily-titled Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie (or 
 just King Kong if you're lazy) contains a clip from the actual movie that sets up the plot of the 
 game. This is somewhat jarring because the rest of the game is delivered in-engine, which boasts 
 some impressive visuals but the side-by-side comparison serves mostly to highlight the differences.
 
  
  Once past this initial setup the game begins with you taking the shoes of Jack (played by Adrien 
 Brody in the movie and voiced in the game by the same actor) as your crew arrives on Skull Island. 
 What unfolds are a sequence of events that more or less follow the plot of Jackson's flick with 
 some additional scenes added to extend the playing time. For those who've seen the movie, many 
 of the sequences that take place on Skull Island feel like excerpts from a video game anyway so 
 the translation works quite well here.
  
  Most of the gameplay while controlling Jack involves using a series of low-ammo weapons such as 
 shotguns, pistols and tommy guns which are found in crates dropped from the circling plane above 
 in various locations and, between ammunition sources, tracking down bone fragments or spears left 
 behind by the natives to fight off a variety of gnarly, overgrown bugs and dinosaurs. There are 
 some semi-frequent puzzle elements as well which mostly involve pathfinding via a system of locating 
 fire sources and burning through impassable brambles. Both bones and spears can be ignited but 
 sometimes the fire source itself is either blocked by carnivorous creatures or takes some searching 
 to locate. Often you will need to track down a lever hidden somewhere in a region to activate turnstile 
 door handles as well, again while fending off or avoiding big nasties.
  
  Occasionally as the story progresses you will have the opportunity to play as Kong, and during 
 these sequences the perspective shifts to third person. Kong's segments are less adventure/searching 
 and more beat-em-up as Kong battles against the gigantic V-Rexes that are impervious to Jack's 
 attack methods. But Kong also has several instances where he needs to do some pathfinding of his 
 own. Instead of having the giant ape try to handle fire, these sections are usually overcome by 
 setting down the heroine, Ann Darrow, whom Kong frequently carries around in his fist, so she can 
 activate the fire appropriately.
  
  A lot of the Kong segments have chase elements between fights, most of which involve pounding on 
 the sprint button and occasionally hitting jump. It might sound kind of platform-esque, but the 
 margin for error is ridiculously high and there is hardly any real challenge involved.
  
  In fact, for the most part the challenge level of the game is pretty light in all aspects. None 
 of the enemies are particularly tough and though you'll face increasing numbers of them at a time, 
 usually you have at least one other non-playable character fighting with you. The computer-controlled 
 allies aren't the brightest, but they connect with their attacks often enough to be of some assistance 
 and in almost all cases, that's sufficient.
  
  But in this case the relative ease of the game really works in its favor. The depth of gameplay 
 is limited enough that just about the time you start to feel you can't stomach looking for another 
 lever or spearing another giant millipede, the game will throw a Kong section at you to break up 
 the action and about the time that the Kong parts start growing stale the game ends. For a game 
 that is essentially a capable action adventure but little more, that's about right. You wouldn't 
 want this game to be much more epic than it is because even with the various wrinkles and general 
 ease of accomplishment, it already feels a touch padded for time.
  
  None of which is to suggest that the game isn't worth playing. For what it is (a big commercial 
 for the film) , King Kong delivers an enjoyable six-to-eight hour experience. Some of the action 
 set pieces are memorable and the excellent graphics offer plenty of eye candy. Plus, playing as 
 Kong is just cool and mercifully rare enough to not get overexposed. The only real downer is the 
 end sequence in New York which is abrupt and nowhere near the fitting climax it should be after 
 all the build up from the rest of the game. Considering that much of the New York stuff in the 
 film involved the weird love story between Kong and Ann, that might be a blessing, but the fact 
 that the inevitable fight against the fighter planes atop the Empire State Building lasts all of 
 about two minutes is likely to disappoint. The whole thing feels really tacked on like it was rushed 
 to meet a deadline; even the graphics suffer from a noticeable dip in quality once you escape the 
 jungle.
  
  Even if the movie or the story or the idea of ripping dinosaur jawbones apart don't entice you, 
 the 360 version offers a fairly compelling reason for admission which is the dead simple acquisition 
 of 1,000 Achievement points. All the Achievements are unlocked just by working through the game 
 (they are worded as if they required special attention, but each requirement is also a requirement 
 to advance the story) so just getting to the end will result in the points. If the game were crummy, 
 it might feel cheap, but fortunately King Kong is at least worth the eight or so hours it takes 
 to play through, Achievements or no. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: instantdeath999
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  Video games based on movies have a very bad reputation for being bad. King Kong, while not amazing, 
 is definitely one of the better ones, and its not very long, but pretty fun while it lasts.
  
  Most of the game put's you as Jack Driscull, the protagonist of the King Kong movie. You play 
 in first person view, though it is not a necesserily a shooter. You do use guns, though ammo is 
 scarce, forcing you to have to rely on the spears found in the game. At most times you will have 
 one or two allies with you, which by the way, have very good ai. You can actually count on them 
 to do things, though this doesnt mean you can let them all do it... you do most of the work. Like 
 I said, ammo is scarce. You rarely find it, and the guns available for you to use are a pistol, 
 shotgun, sniper, and machine gun. The game does not tell you your ammo on screen, so you press 
 a button and the character will say how much it has outloud. This makes it more realistic, but 
 also more tedious. If, and when, you run out of ammo, you will be forced to use the many spears 
 found on the ground, which, if used right, can be even more effective. The other half of the game 
 has you playing as King Kong. This is the more fun half, because who doesnt enjoy smashing things? 
 Kong controls pretty well, and some of the boss fights with the dinosaurs are fun. The graphics 
 on this game are better then on last gen ones, but with one disadvantage: this version is very 
 dark. In fact, it only looks light on a hdtv.
  
  Its a short game, clocking in at about only 6 hours, and is well worth playing if you enjoyed the 
 movie (or want 1000 points) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagacious_Tien
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps Michael Ancel and his development studio at Ubisoft believe there is a similarity between 
 art and gaming, and if gaming were indeed art, Peter Jacksons King Kong: The Official Game Of 
 The Movie (quite a mouthful) would be a showcase for beautiful design. Hacking everything of what 
 we know about first person shooters and leaving the player without a HUD is a risky venture, even 
 more so for a movie tie-in, and while King Kong more than manages it, the King Of The Jungle, no 
 matter how big he is, cant trade punches and stand side by side with the first person shooters 
 already out there.
  
  The game opens with the bumbling and harassed Carl Denham (voiced with hilarity by the always great 
 Jack Black) desperate for funding for his latest film. The studios want to can his next project, 
 and in a rush he manages to convince a rag tag group of nobodys to come with him to Skull Island. 
 King Kong follows the plot of the film closely; starting with the landing on the newly discovered 
 Skull Island (a lost world of prehistoric wonder) , and the journey to capture the elusive eighth 
 wonder of the world and bring him to audiences back home. The most promising thing about King Kong 
 is that it doesnt rely on the film to make the player wish to continue the journey. Whether on 
 purpose or accidental, there is very little footage of the film itself. Outside of the trailer 
 that merely serves to remind players this is a movie tie-in, the games story is easily navigable 
 by following linear paths and the games secondary characters all over this enchanted isle. As 
 a stand-alone product, King Kong more than delivers on what it sets out to accomplish.
  
  Players will become more than a little familiar with Jack, a begrudging but able hero, who has 
 been roped in to create a story but ends up falling in love and fighting for his life. As Kong 
 (and what gamer hasnt ever wanted to play as a mega-ton gorilla?) the gamer is thrust into a position 
 of earning the trust of the beautiful Miss Darrow and protecting her from all sorts of nasties 
 that see her as lunch. The first person human and the third person ape play off one another well, 
 but the majority of your gaming time will be with Jack.
  
  Without a heads up display of any kind, gamers are far more drawn into the environments than any 
 similar title. The scarcity of ammo and the ease of using spears and other non-descript weapons 
 lends the human sections to feel more like survival than simple shooting action. Ammo checks are 
 given audibly, and King Kong is forgiving on precise shots. The crosshair is represented by a finger, 
 but all this is superfluous to what atmosphere the game is trying to convey. You dont always need 
 to clear every area, and this is represented by being very vulnerable to attacks - just two in 
 succession will quickly see you felled. Using a spear to bait a worm and chucking it out of the 
 path can clear areas better than ammo can and gives the player a better chance of making it through 
 some well populated areas. You truly feel like a small person in the worlds large menagerie.
 
  
  On the surface, there is a lot to like about King Kong. It plays well, its easy to get into, and 
 the design is strikingly beautiful - this is a lost world where you will not get lost (this is 
 a linear game after all) but you will soak yourself into. That said, low poly characters that are 
 devoid of emotion and have woefully bad animation dont enamour you well. The enemy design fares 
 better, giant bugs and ravenous reptiles are great fun to blast away. And there is some epic moments, 
 most of them to do with Kong, but when you first see a herd of Brontosaur or when you are making 
 a fast run from a T-Rex (which emits a scream that is all-powerful and mighty) you can feel a little 
 speechless. The games art style is incredibly rich and flawlessly beautiful. You are easily drawn 
 into this amazing lost world.
  
  There are small issues though. Animations repeat often. The game world is beautiful but it isnt 
 vast, you are strictly corralled from area to area. There are far too many load times. And sadly, 
 though not often, there are clipping issues. By and large, King Kong looks fantastic, with the 
 Xbox 360 version easily being the most impressive, but whatever version you get, King Kong is the 
 same game on every platform.
  
  The sound is wonderfully done, with the effects being the real stand out. As Kong, players will 
 happily smash and crash through all manner of fauna and flora and every clatter and clang is accompanied 
 by a individual and great sounding effect. The music is suitably epic, and a remix of the films 
 title track, while not exactly original, serves the game well. The principal characters all sound 
 respectable, even if they are a little by-the-numbers, and of course, the rasping of the dinosaurs 
 are fantastic and chill-inducing.
  
  King Kong aims high for many of the right reasons - primarily it is trying to be the epic game 
 to partner with the blockbuster film, and on occasion, it gets this right. When you first play 
 as Kong you get a whole new perspective of just how small humans are in their fight to survive. 
 But you also have a lot more freedom to swing around levels and run along walls that it immediately 
 feels second nature. This is probably one of the games greatest points - it isnt believable, 
 but it doesnt pretend to be. It instead gives the gamer exactly what they are looking for in this 
 experience.
  
  Peter Jacksons King Kong: The Official Game Of The Movie may sound long, (indeed, it is the longest 
 game title I personally know) , but this is over far too quick and most gamers will blast through 
 this and quickly forget. This is a great game that not only does justice to the source material 
 but is a compelling experience in its own right. The small things against it dont hold it back 
 from being a title that any gamer will be happy to play through. And really, how many film tie-ins 
 can you easily say that for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asher20
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I actually have already played and beaten this game for original xbox over a year ago, but recently 
 went back to play it again for the 1,000 gamerpoints. If you have played King Kong on any other 
 system do not try the 360 version in hopes of anything more than what you got on your xbox or PS2, 
 you won't find it here. The graphics may be a bit more polished, but it also lends to pointing 
 out the graphical flaws in the game more. Would you rather have a superb looking xbox or PS2 game, 
 or a lackluster 360 game?? That's what you find in Kong. Gameplay: 7 The gameplay is still great 
 and this IS one of the better movie-to-game translations available. One thing I don't know if I 
 put in my first review is that the controls of Kong can be frusterating with the camera angles 
 changing constantly. Graphics: 6
  I suppose when the 360 first came out, these graphics might have been OK, but when you think about 
 games like Call of Duty 2, this game was sub par back then. Now with games like Gears and Oblivion, 
 this game is highly outdated. Again, I recommend being highly pleased with the presentation on 
 original xbox, rather than dissapointed on the 360. Sound: 9
  Still some of the best sound effects in any game. Value: 6
  I actually should have given it a 
 10 for value as in TEN DOLLARS. I paid $13.49 used for it and still felt a little cheated in the 
 end. This is definately a renter. It can easily be played through in under 6 hours. Also, there 
 is no replay value. They offer you to play it in B&amp; W when you beat the game, or with the screen 
 flipped in a mirrored image, but who really wants to go through that again??
  
  Tilt: 7
  Despite its graphical hinderance on the 360, Kong is still a good game. It's main value on the 
 360 over other versions is the very minor graphical polishing and the 1,000 EASY gamerpoints that 
 are awarded from plaing the campaign through (which takes under 6 hours) . To read a better review 
 for King Kong, check the one I wrote for the orginal xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  King Kong, the video game based on Peter Jackson's King Kong movie is an adventure that's often 
 thrilling and surprising that will leave you gripped to your seat at times. Best of all - play 
 as man and play as Kong? Yes, Kong.
  
  It is set out as mainly a first-person view game although at times when you play as Kong you are 
 forced in a fixed third-person view. For the most part, you won't be playing as Kong. You will 
 be given the control of the character, Jack who you will uses throughout most parts of the game. 
 When you jump right into the game you are set out at sea on a boat in stormy conditions. Pretty 
 much at this point you can only control the camera (which can also be inverted) until you reach 
 this island... Skull Island. Sounds welcoming, doesn't it?
  
  For those who have watched the movie they will see many elements used in the game. This includes 
 much of the story, voice acting and of course the environments. It is not a direct-telling of the 
 story from the movie and seems to be more like an edited-down version. As you start off on the 
 edge of this island you are introduced to some rather creepy crawly things coming out of the sea. 
 Eliminating them is pretty simple - pick up bones/sticks that are around you to throw at them. 
 Much of the game revives around shooting but due to the limited capacity of your bullets, you'll 
 often find yourself using bones as the last resort to kill an enemy. The enemies vary from strange 
 looking bugs to big dinosaurs. Throughout the course of the game, it aims to surprise you at the 
 worst of moments. So, when you think it's all over don't be fooled. Things come at you from behind 
 and above through cracks in rocks.
  
  There is no health bar or any other HUD elements present. You can take a few hits but any more 
 and you're dead. Health regenerates after a short period of time. The only possible way to tell 
 if you are hurt is that the screen will get redder and redder. It will gradually fade away so long 
 as you are not taking any more damage. The B button can simply be pushed to check your ammunition 
 amount as this is not displayed on the screen either. Another thing is that there is no aiming 
 reticle whatsoever but it's pretty much easy to adjust to.
  
  Many of the enemies only need to take a few hits before they are down (such as the millipedes) 
 but you will often need to take cover whilst trying to take down something as large as Kong. The 
 creature I am on about is the dinosaur. These will be throughout much of the game and can be the 
 hardest of enemies to defeat. Sometimes, the game will deliberately not make you kill them. So, 
 thus you'll need to find a way to get past them or distract them. It's all about logic - killing 
 a smaller creature near a dinosaur will usually keep their focus on that piece of meat rather than 
 yourself.
  
  It may be noticeable that if you walk to a certain spot in the environment you'll notice dinosaurs 
 suddenly come running towards you. This can often be frustrating because you're thinking Am I going 
 to make it or not? These moments will often keep you gripped and then you'll come over with a sigh 
 relief knowing you have just passed that level. The main element that makes you think that there 
 is an enemy nearby is the sound effects. You won't know where they are sometimes but boy can you 
 hear them! This particularly gets very tense when you are crawling through water at an unbelievably 
 slow speed. The whole tense thing continues through much of the game until the very last few levels 
 where you are placed in New York.
  
  Aside from killing enemies you can often feel stuck at times. Trying to find a lever to open a 
 gate can often be hard. It may take a good lot of thinking to know where the lever is. Even when 
 you do see them you will have to sometimes often clear your path. With the help of the other characters 
 (who all have excellent voice acting) you will find they can help you out at times and all you 
 mainly do is follow them. Occasionally, the game forces you to go through on your own but you will 
 often be reunited with your buddies not long after.
  
  A great extra addition they managed to put into the game was the ability to play as Kong. He has 
 a different control system to that of Jack. The camera is also fixed at a first-person view. It 
 may feel a bit awkward at first but works reasonably well. You'll be able to bite your enemies 
 to death, thrash them and do the infamous Kong roar. How cool can it get? Playing as Kong sometimes 
 involves you holding Ann too. It is often noted you must protect her at times throughout the game 
 whilst snapping dinosaur's jaws. Now that is what I call a great addition.
  
  When you manage to finally get off Skull Island you'll be off to New York. The last few chapters 
 of the game you would think would be the best but actually not quite. It feels like the developer 
 just didn't have enough time left and so they quickly put together these last chapters. It doesn't 
 feel too challenging at all but it can be made up when you get to play the alternate ending. Unlocking 
 bonuses is an excuse to play through this game again. It's not something I would recommend jumping 
 back into but it could probably be worth it for the bonuses. There is an interview with the director 
 of the film, Peter Jackson and an ending where Kong survives. There are some more but the ones 
 mentioned are probably the best to get unlocked.
  
  The visuals in the game are pretty good for a launch game. This is a good example on what the Xbox 
 360 can do. The environments look very well designed and the dinosaurs, creatures and Kong all 
 look stunning. There may be an odd patch here and there that doesn't look right but overall, it 
 should perform well on the graphical side. The game contains a lot of dialogue - it's clear and 
 ties in well. The roars from Kong and the dinosaurs have been carefully placed that give the game 
 that added thrill factor. There was one minor problem where the sounds in the game went higher 
 pitched once. This was most likely due to a glitch and was easily fixed when the game was restarted. 
 Also, take into note the soundtrack is different from the movie. This does pretty well on its own 
 and it changes depending on whether or not you are in a calm or thrilling situation.
  
  King Kong proves to be good but it's one of those games that you can get done in under ten hours. 
 Whether or not you feel like playing the game again is up to you. Not much effort is really required 
 to get the achievements though. The achievements could of been a bit more challenge. They are basically 
 given to you for passing certain chapters. If you're up for a brief but enjoyable action/adventure 
 game then look no further than King Kong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green_Spike
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 12:25 am PT
Review:  Alright, lets face it. Movie games typically suck. Although this one was actually pretty good. 
 Sound is phonominal (especially when you have 5.1 surround sound) . Graphics are good. Some tiny 
 visual upgrades for the next gen version, but not much. Theres around forty levels, but each one 
 takes around 5 minutes to beat. some require just running to a certain spot. You get all the gamerscore 
 for beating the game. Also, there are some bonuses to unlock for beating the game twice, but nothing 
 special. If your looking for some cheap thrills, or an easy 100 gamerscore, this is the game, but 
 rent instead of buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCO109
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 21, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  Kong is a tricky beast of a game to review. During my brief time with the game, in which I finished 
 it in less than 8 hours, I experienced the full gamut of gamer emotions. I was enraptured, frustrated, 
 thrilled, bored, satisfied and yet disappointed as well. The feeling of immersion is one of the 
 greatest of any first person games I have played for a long time. No health bars to clutter up 
 the screen, if you are wounded your vision and hearing will blur and you must survive until the 
 danger subsides and things return to normality. Likewise there are no ammo counters, if you want 
 to know how many bullets are left you ask Jack to tell you. No onscreen cursor sounds like it would 
 make shooting tricky, but there is a fair bit of leeway on the accuracy and you soon learn to eyeball 
 the targets, plus there is the option to look along the sights which also helps. With absolutely 
 nothing on the screen apart from the scenery and the characters then, playing as Jack Driscoll 
 really feels like you are there. The constant chatter from the other characters gives you clues 
 as to what you should be doing, as well as making you feel part of a story and not just playing 
 a game. The downside to this method of advancing the story is that conversations and events happen 
 even if you are looking away, or if you are fairly distant. This means it can sometimes be all 
 too easy to miss out on something, making you wish that for truly important occasions there would 
 be some pre-set camera moves so that you can keep up. As it was, I found myself needing to boost 
 the voices and lower the music so that I could catch all the conversation clearly, though the option 
 for subtitles would also help (but at the loss of the immersion factor) . Gameplay becomes an issue, 
 as the game sets savage ammunition limitations. Because there just aren't enough bullets to blaze 
 away, you spend most of the game picking up spears to throw. A typical confrontation then becomes 
 a case of run forward, throw spear, fire off a shell from the shotgun against a bug that gets too 
 close, run back and collect another spear, repeat. This is cute at first, but after a while you 
 long to just run around blasting away at the local wildlife. The designers seemed to realise this, 
 giving us a few levels in the middle of the game where there is a lot of opportunity for out and 
 out action, but then it is back to hoarding the bullets again. There is a strong puzzle element, 
 usually in the form of getting a gate open to the next section. Nearly always this comes down to 
 burning some bushes out of the way, or looking for a missing gate lever. It tries to keep this 
 fresh, but there are only so many times you can throw spears through distant firepots to burn things 
 before you've covered all the angles. Some of the time it can be superb though, riding a raft down 
 a jungle river while burning out the bridges of the hostile natives is very tense stuff. About 
 5 hours into the game, I had pretty much seen all I had wanted to see of the island. Ann gets captured, 
 rescued, captured, chased, rescued again and the game was starting to repeat itself. The Kong levels 
 at first provided a much needed touch of variety, but these levels were even more limited in scope 
 than the human levels. The best parts were the scenes where Kong needs Ann's assistance to proceed, 
 so he lets her down to go and burn down something blocking the path while he stomps the attacking 
 natives. Mostly though it is the same few gimmicks trotted out ad infinitum. Swing through the 
 jungle? Check. Fight 3 V-rexes? Check. Fight a horde of bats? Check. Basically you only need to 
 bash one button for the big monkey, with the occasional use of the jump or grab button for variety. 
 The rage ability slows down time when fighting, which makes it easier if not any more rewarding, 
 it is still just a single button masher. The swings through the jungle are good fun, but entire 
 sections of these are recycled for later levels. Even worse, one much overrused gimmick is for 
 Kong to lift a fallen pillar that blocks an old gate. When you find yourself doing this for about 
 the 10th time (no lie) , complete with identical animation) , you really start longing to get off 
 the island and get to New York and go on the rampage. Sadly, the New York level is very poor and 
 lacks any sense of giant-monkey-ravaging-the-city action that the gamer is craving at that point. 
 The scene on the top of the Empire State Building is pleasureable, but the ending is a forgone 
 conclusion as you would expect. I finished the game on the second day, that makes it less than 
 8 hours of total gameplay. There is no real incentive to play the game again, especially as all 
 nine achievements are unlocked in the process. There are some minor bonus features to unlock, but 
 having seen half of these I found no reason to assume the other half would be worth trying for. 
 The only gameplay features I unlocked were an old movie filter, which made the game black and white. 
 Colour me unimpressed, I can do that with my TV thanks very much. Another was a horizontal flip, 
 which wouldn't change the fact that hardly any of the levels deserved playing through a second 
 time. To make this game something that I would come back to, I want things like a different difficulty 
 level, perhaps some secret weapons, options to play with more ammo so I don't have to endure more 
 spear throwing, and achievements that actually require some effort rather than being a very cheap 
 1,000 gamer points for hardly any work on my part. Kong had none of these. Perhaps it did as one 
 of the other unlockables that I didn't see, but the game was over as far as I was concerned. I 
 was particulary bothered at how cheaply the game gives away gamer points, as other games give 10 
 - 25 points for some really difficult to accomplish achievements, but Kong is a guaranteed 1,000 
 to anyone with two evenings to spare. A shame, as the gamer points and achievements feature is 
 one of the things that gives 360 gamers incentives to get back into a game and try harder. Kong 
 undermines this in a big way. My review may seem overly negative, but actually I did have a great 
 time playing this game. My only concerns are that it is very, very short, which for a &iquest;45-&iquest;50 
 360 title is going to leave some gamers feeling very short-changed. I was lucky, it was a temporary 
 game that the store let me have while I waited for Project Gotham to come back in stock. As a freebie, 
 despite the negative points I'm glad I invested the 8 hours in this game. If I had paid money for 
 the experience, I'd have scored this game lower, there is no way that any game can justify a &iquest;45+ 
 price tag for such limited timespan. Ironically, the game would have been better if it had been 
 shorter. As a very tight, and less repetitive 5 hour game, this would have made for a more satisfying 
 experience. Lower the price to &iquest;25 maximum, put in some gameplay cheats and unlockables, 
 make the achievements something to play for, and this would have been a more worthy game. If you 
 can rent, borrow, or buy with and option to exhange, then I would heartily recommend that you spend 
 an evening or two going through the experience of Kong the game. Just be warned, good though it 
 is, after that second evening you will not have any reason to load it up again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redsam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  As an initial next gen release not bad, but definitely not great. Picked it up as a gap filler 
 to play some action adventure, as a vacation from the 360 shoot athon gameplay. I also needed some 
 quick points for Xbox rewards.
  
  While there is nothing really new here, there is an element of mindless fun. Nothing unexpected 
 happens (other than you can get all 1000 points just by completing the game) , the linear story 
 push kept me entertained, it killed the 8 or so hours it took to complete very easily. Some of 
 the structures of puzzles, such as fire/spear/burn-bushes and  
 is very repetitive, it just points to a quick development cycle they had to get the game out.
 
  
  Playing as Kong had great promise, but honestly ended up being a little like Prince of Persia light, 
 monkey man bounce off walls and then mash a button repeatedly and you kill everything
  
  The graphics are a bit uneven, targeting a bit vague. All that being said, as a break from the 
 FEAR/LOST-PLANET/GOW/CRACKDOWN give me something to shoot sameness of some of the recent releases, 
 I enjoyed the break.
  
  So, if you need a quick timeout, and 1000 points, pick it up in the used bin or even rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emerald101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:   l 
 l ll l ll l ll l lll lllll l l l l l l l l p p k i d d d d ddd d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d d s s x c d s x x dc d s s c c s d c s x s x s x s s s s sxss s x s s sx s 
 x s x x s x s x s x s x s x s x s x s x s x s x s x s x s x s sx ssxws xs s x s x s x sx s x s 
 xs x sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx sx 
 sx sx sx sx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  So I went back and read my xbox review of King Kong to see what differences I might find in this 
 version.
  
  To put it simple, this one felt like a true port. The textures were more defined and playing on 
 widescreen made a difference but I noticed so many collision issues that I was disappointed to 
 experience them in a next generation platform.
  
  The gameplay is the same as the xbox so it was easy to grasp since I had already played the game 
 before. I did still get a sense of paranoia and panic while playing the game and trying to avoid 
 being eaten.
  
  Over all the game is the same as the xbox version. I did notice the 2nd time through that the voice 
 acting really wasn't as inspiring as I had thought before. Maybe my naustalgia for the film blinded 
 me the first time I played the game but after more than a year, I didn't feel as impressed.
  
  So why did I bother playing this game again? Simply for the achievement points. I entered the 
 old spice challenge, and while I could have gotten the points with legitimate games like Viva Pinata 
 and LotR: BfME2 (which I actually have done at this point) , games that required a lot more time 
 and energy to complete. I felt a need to rush to the completion goal ASAP so that I might calm 
 down, relax and enjoy other games.
  
  Was this version enjoyable? Yes and no. I definitely should have rented it first but for $18 I 
 can't complain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyhat999
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 6, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  If only I could get the hours back I wasted on this game, the gamescore wasnt worth it. Everything 
 looks the same, it's all just one big bland texture after another, the kong bits were so simple 
 and boring, the movie was awful, every part of the game was exactly the same there was really no 
 variation obviously besides the kong bits but they were so bad they dont count, when you were dying 
 and the screen goes red and everythings silent is just irritating and I can't beleave this got 
 a good score.
  
  Graphics: 0 (no way near nex-gen)
  Gameplay 0 (was there any???)
  Value 0 (You've been robbed)
  Tilt 0 In my opinion just stay away. The only bit I did like was 
 breaking the T-Rex's jaws but im not gunna pay &pound;40 just to do that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TorstenSorensen
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 5, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is an interesting game, but with no multiplayer and a short story with no replay value, 
 its hard to enjoy.
  Story:
  Since it was based off of a good movie, you know the story is going to have to be good, right? 
 Wrong. The story has the same idea as the movie, but what happens in the movie doesn't really happen 
 in the game much, and the environments you are in are also not the same. The only ideas from the 
 movie carried over to the game are: 1, You are on an island filled with weird creatures. Thats 
 it. I was really disappointed with that, but once you get immersed, its not that big of a problem.
 
  Gameplay:
  This game is in First Person and Third Person view. In first person you play as Jack. In third 
 person you play as Kong. This game is an FPS... if FPS means first person spearthrower... For the 
 most part you have to use spears, instead of guns. Its not bad, but it was kind of disappointing 
 considering all the different weapons there are (For this type of game) . The game is very intense 
 most of the time, but not much happens. All you do is kill dinosaurs and follow linear paths through 
 levels that look big.
  Sound:
  The games sound effects are great, and there is also a soundtrack that fits perfectly. The voice 
 acting is high quality, all of the voices done by the actually actors in the movie. Doesn't get 
 much better than this..
  This is a good rental, but not worth buying. You'll get the full 1000 achievement points in your 
 first run through, which is about 6-8 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeskates5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Peter Jackson's KING KONG is an awesome game... The graphics on the King Kong game are really great 
 on the xbox 360. Skull island has grat screen shots for a video game. The sound is really amazing 
 (it is probably the best sound I have heard on a video game) The game is based on the first person 
 view of Jack from the King Kong movie. You play as Jack for most of the game, you also play as King 
 Kong but not that much so when you do it is really cool. This game is kind of short but it is definitly 
 worth playing. So i would suggest buying it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Peter Jackson's King Kong The Official Game of The Movie is an excellent game based on the movie 
 that came out not too long ago. The game pretty much follows the same storyline the movie had but 
 there are many things that are very different. King Kong is an awesome game that sadly is very 
 short. You play the majority of the levels as Jack from a first person view. But sadly ammo is 
 very scarce which requires you to constantly pick up spears that you find. The spears that are 
 find are one of the most important things in the game but one slightly stupid thing is that the 
 spears do more damage then most of the guns do. But for the most part the first-person levels are 
 fantastic.
  
  The other levels are the best. In those levels you play as Kong from a third-person view. These 
 levels are incredible because you pretty much get to run around as Kong destroying everything. 
 This includes beating up on the native islanders, breaking dinosaurs jaw's, and many other fun 
 things. The only bad thing about the Kong levels is that there aren't enough of them and they seem 
 to go by very fast.
  
  The gameplay is fantastic the first-person levels are great but the aiming system isn't very good. 
 To aim you have to hold down the L Trigger but when you do this your gun is kind of to the side 
 so it takes a little while to get aiming perfected. While you're holding down the L Trigger you 
 can click down the right stick for a Call of Duty 2 aiming style but if you have two dinosaurs 
 charging at you by the time your able to fully aim you could be dead. For the most part King Kong 
 is a great game but it has two significant downers. The first one is its length you can probably 
 play through the game in about six hours and once you beat it there isn't much to do. The second 
 bad thing is that the game spends way too much time on Skull Island. Now Skull Island is cool and 
 all but what everyone really wants to do is play in New York. That segment of the game last for 
 four levels and you only get to run around for two of those levels.
  
  The graphics in King Kong are fantastic. They are definetly some of the best graphics on the 360. 
 The graphics are especially great during the first-person segments. But during the Kong levels 
 it doesn't look as smooth.
  
  The sound is amazing the game has excellent voice acting done by the cast of the movie. But the 
 best part of the sound is the excellent musical score. It really makes the game feel super intense.
 
  
  The value isn't so good mostly because you can beat the game in about six hours. But you can probably 
 find this game for pretty cheap and you can get all 1,000 achievement points just by beating the 
 game. All in all King Kong may be short but its still a great game that gives you great gameplay 
 and tons of easy achievements which make it definetly worth picking up or at least renting.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magejutsu
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  Imagine if you will, a lost island, only thought to exist in myth. These are the words muttered 
 by Carl Denham. Just before he reaches the island that would change his life forever.
  
  when i first saw the reveiws on other sites, they were giving kong some of the worst scores. But 
 being the king kong fan i am i HAD to pick it up for the 360. After the hour of playing, im thinking.... WTF 
 WERE THEY THINKING. King kong is a beautiful game. Controls are easy, the game is fun, and if your 
 a survival game fan, this will be one of your favorites. The game is all about the survival. The 
 creatures are hard to kill and you will most likly use up all your bullets, and be stuck with spears 
 and bones for a bit.
  
  well this might be the most detailed reveiw but i got out my point... and hey... the gamespot reveiw 
 agrees. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 22, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Stunning graphics, voice cast from the movie, play as Kong, super easy achievement points.
 
  
  The Bad: Get's repetitive, not much variety in FPS missions, no extra features to make you play 
 it again.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Peter Jackson's King Kong was a wonderful, but uber long movie back in 2005. The game adaptation 
 of this epic movie trys to match the film's intensity, and does for the most part. In the game, 
 you play mainly as Jack Driscal, played by Adrian Brody in the movie and game. You begin when your 
 ship get's shipwrecked on the shore of Skull Island, home of the monsterous King Kong. Ubisoft 
 trys to make the game more unique by making the missions as Jack an FPS, while you play as Kong 
 in 3rd person. This is a nice touch and does make both types of missions unique. Kong kills the 
 big dinos, Jack just shoots them and runs away. The FPS segments are what you spend the most time 
 on, and they are also the weakest segments of the game. These segments are very repetitive, having 
 you shoot dinos, find fire, burn weeds, rince and repeat. That's pretty much all there is to it. 
 They occasionally throw in a T-Rex that you have to run away from for good measure, but that's 
 pretty much all there is to the Jack segments. The Kong parts on the other hand are great fun. 
 You get to beat the crap out of T-Rexes, climb on large surfaces and chase after Ann, played by 
 Niomi Watts. What's better than that?
  
  The graphics of King Kong are truely amazing and still some of the best the 360 has to offer. From 
 the stunning rain effects to the wind blowing on the trees, Kong looks amazing. The sound effects 
 are also outstanding, as well as the voice overs from the cast of the movie.
  
  Unfortunately, Kong isn't a game that will hold your intrest for very long. It can easily be completed 
 in 8 hours or less, and all of it's achievement points will be earned the first time through. After 
 that, there is no kind of multiplayer or special features to make you want to play it again.
  
  Overall, King Kong is a very good movie-based game that looks amazing, yet is pretty repetitive. 
 It is so close, yet so far away to being king of the jungle.
  
  Gameplay: Repetitive shooter missions get old after a while, but the play as Kong segments are 
 quite fun.
  
  Graphics: This is by far the best looking launch title the Xbox 360 had.
  
  Sound: Very well done effects and voice acting give this movie-based game a movie-like feel.
 
  
  Value: I got this game for under $20 used. At that price, you might as well buy it. Otherwise, 
 this is nothing more than a rental.
  
  Final Thoughts: Well, at least it's longer than the movie... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnTheGamer
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  King Kong was headed up by Peter Jackson (duh) and Michael Ancel who has a great past in good games 
 and King Kong shows it. In the game you play Jack Driscoll who goes with Carl Denham to Skull Island, 
 if you've seen the movie you know the story and the game doesn't stray too far from its source 
 material.
  
  King Kong is what I consider a first person adventure. It's got the first person view but there 
 isn't as much action as in a normal FPS. The controls are standard FPS fare and won't take long 
 getting used too. When you play as Kong though it goes out to a third person view. They did a great 
 job with the HUD. There isn't one! No but seriously they were creative in how they did this, whenever 
 you want to know how much ammo you have you just press X and Jack will say how much, there is no 
 life meter just when the screen begins flashing you better not get hurt and recharge, and there 
 isn't a cursor so if you need to aim you actually have to use the scope or gun, really brings you 
 into the experience. The Kong parts however aren't very polished, it just consists of pressing 
 buttons to do your aerobatics, which looks very cool and mashing them in fights.
  
  The AI all around is terrible, your allies will just stand around some times and won't fend for 
 themselves or get stuck behind something and turn out completely useless, as will some enemies 
 which for some reason you then can't kill and have to restart. However you can interact with your 
 allies by talking to them or trading weapons with them. the one part where the AI is really clever 
 is in the food chain aspect of the island. Let's say you're in an area with birds and a raptor, 
 if you kill a bird then the raptor instead of going after you will get the easy food and make it 
 easier to kill him. Also if kill something, its scent will draw other creatures.
  
  The game has a ton of missions but they are very short, some only about a minute while at least 
 one all you do is move. This makes it to where it's not a total slog and you feel rewarded quickly 
 and keep on going. The missions however are very repititve, in most you'll have to find a stick 
 to put in a lever which then in turn opens up a door and allows you to pass. The biggest complaint 
 about the game though is that it's just too short. You'll be able to beat the game in one sitting 
 easily.
  
  The graphics of the game aren't that good. This was a launch title after all. In most places the 
 graphics look last-gen, such as the water and most textures, but in others it looks good, like 
 the textures when wet. The character models are okay they're just in between good and great.
  
  The musical score is easily the best part. The music is a completely orchestrated and adds 
 so much to the atmosphere. when there's a V-rex in the room the music just comes in and adds so 
 much to the experience. The voice overs are very well done and have the cast of the movie, even 
 Jack Black.
  
  There are a few unlockables such as some art galleries and an alternate ending. To get most of 
 them you'll have to replay the levels and this time get a score of them so this adds a little to 
 the replayability but it's not a big deal or really worth all the time. The achievements in this 
 game are the easiest of any game on the 360. For some this will be aggravating but for most it'll 
 be a good way to boost your Gamerscore. Overall the game has a few great ideas with a last-gen 
 application and the game is just too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 11, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  Okay so I don't have this game. That doesn't mean I didn't play it. This game had pretty cool environments 
 and cool reptiles that you had to kill to distract to get away from the bigger dinosaurs. Although 
 short, it was pretty well done with voice acting from the actors themselves. So you'll hear Adrien 
 Brody and Jack Black and Naomi Watts and some others. A short game but fun. Playing as Kong is 
 the reason it's fun. Fighting the V-Rexes is amazing and how you end up breaking their jaws to 
 kill them is totally rad. It's basically you playing 2 sides. Jack Driscoll and Kong on seperate 
 levels. Achivements are easy to unlock and once you finish the game, you'll have unlocked all of 
 them. The movie was good and so was the game, but there were things that didn't happen in the movie 
 that happened in the game. Example: Hayes kets killed by Kong in the movie but in the game he ends 
 up getting killed by raptors. Another example is that a plane picks up Ann and Jack in the game. 
 So there were things different about the game and the movie but it was still a well-done game. 
 Especially on the 360. It's worth playing if you like FPS games and even better when you play with 
 Kong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameogameo
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  King Kong is an ambitious attempt on trying to recreate on the successful film of the same name, 
 and it has to be said does it quite well. Probably the most intriging part of the game is the achievements 
 list, 1000 points overall and that ain't half bad for a 7 hour game! Points aside though, King 
 Kong is an immersive first person adventure and should not be under estimated by anyone. The game 
 may feel a little hard but has a clever difficulty system which automatically makes the game a 
 little easier if you are continuously dying on a certain part of the game.
  
  The graphics are well detailed and quite attractive to look at, even now almost a year and a half 
 after its release. The gameplay is relatively straight forward, but be warned! It can get might 
 frustrating at times (you'll see what I mean) . The sound is very detailed as well, which adds realism 
 to the game. The game as a whole is pretty short, not that short but won't take you long to complete, 
 (less than 10 hours approx) . Don't let that put you off though, King Kong may be a little out of 
 date compared to other 360 games but is worth a rental just for the points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonam3gamer
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 27, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game because it was the only Ubisoft came that I have never tried out for either 
 xbox systems. I deeply regret doing this and it was quite possibly the worst 6 hours of my time.
 
  
  Gameplay- You play most of the time as a human and part of the time you play as King Kong. This 
 game tried to make things realistic by not having a HUD but then you are told everything by your 
 character talking you. Every moment of the non king kong part and even the last king kong levels 
 are incredibly mediocre. A lot of the time the game play involves standing by a bunch of spears 
 and throwing them. Another awful part of the game play is how linear the king kong missions are. 
 It does truly bring a new definition to the name Linear.
  
  Sound- The sound in this game is pretty good. The guns sound good and the voice acting is good.
 
  
  Graphics- The worst looking Ubisoft game of this generation and is rivaled by Red Steel.
  
 
  Value- The value of this game is the worst I've seen since MGS1. It's a 7 hour game with no increased 
 difficulty and no online there is no reason to play this game once you've beat it even if you like 
 it.
  
  This is simply a game that you shouldn't touch. I did play the game all the way through and I was 
 incredibly happy when I was done with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Wiifan
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  I bought this game expecting pretty much the 'Game of the Year'. My expectations were low and behold 
 a little bit to much on the high side. I wish my review consisted of nothing but words such as 
 'perfect' and 'incredible'. But, unforantly this review contains little about the good things of 
 the game. For, King Kong is ridden with tons of various problems. So, we will now begin at the 
 Gameplay...
  Gameplay: 8
  This is with out a doubt the highlight of the game. As, Jack I always felt at danger. With the 
 loads of dinosaurs constanly on my tail. Just, one dinosaur freaked me out! No ammo against a dinosaur! 
 I guess I gotta use a spear to fight this Tyransouras Rex! WOW! This is gonna be fun! Now, moving 
 on to gameplay with King Kong. Now, this definetly overshadows the gamplay as Jack. For, the platforming/beat-um-up 
 segments are just simply a blast! There are only two real complaints about them. First, the levels 
 feel a little bit to much on rails. They're just planned out. Which is forgiveable (take a look 
 at the gamplay score if you don't believe me) but, I can't help but wish that at times the platforming 
 was more free-roaming. Then, there's the matter of actual levels with King Kong. I'd always find 
 myself wishing that this next one was the one! This was the next King Kong level! Only, it wasn't! 
 Which, is quite dissappointing considering that Jack levels do seem to get a bit on the boring 
 side sometimes.
  Graphics: 5
  This is ceartinly one of the lowlights of the game. I mean look at all the other 360 games cough*GOW*cough. 
 The 360 is capable of producing much better graphics then the ones seen here. One, might argue 
 that GOW was released sometime after King Kong. A year infact! But, this is no excuse for the graphics 
 situation. The developers cearntinly could have simply delayed the game. In order to flesh out 
 the graphics. What is seen here is a lack of time and effort. Constanly, my characters body parts 
 would stick out of rocks. Or, even other people! Now, that we are here in Nex-gen it's time things 
 changed! There is no excuse for these graphical errors. So, graphics is rewarded a 5 for being 
 to much on the last-gen side of things.
  Sound: 7
  Sound is another lowlight of the game it's pretty much the same exact thing seen in the movie. 
 Played at the exact tune, rushed at action sequences, and non-existitent while in caves. Surely, 
 the developers could have taken the time to add more sound to add more music to the game! Of, course 
 there is also the matter of sound effects. These are all done real well. Such, as when you jump 
 in the water, throw your spear, your thrown spear pierces a dinosaur in the hear, your thrown spear 
 hits a tree, and etc.
  Value: 7
  The value of the game is pretty decent. All though the value of the graphics brings it down a notch. 
 For, the matter of your characters body parts sticking out of trees and other people! NO EXCUSES 
 THIS IS NEXT GEN! I occaisonly had a few problems with the game crashing. But, I believe this was 
 because of Microsoft's poor development procedure. For, I had the 360 laying on it's side at the 
 time. Which caused the 360 to become hot thus, becoming to hot to play the game!
  Reviewer's Tilt: 8
  I've got to admit despite the many problems that harass King Kong. It's still 
 ar pretty decent game. Yeah, the graphics could have been so much more. But, when you have such 
 great gameplay this sort of balances the matter. I also really like the King Kong series and being 
 able to actually play as King Kong is simply AWESOME! So, I've got to give the tilt a 8! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 8, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  King Kong combines elements from dinosaur shooters (e. g. Turok) with fighting elements (DOA style) 
 as you play as both human (Jack) and Kong. The bulk of the game is standard FPS fare that involves 
 engaging various dino critters and solving basic puzzles. There are repeating scripted events 
 which progress the story but also suffer from regular glitches and bugs. One bug, in particular, 
 resulted in me having to start the entire game again from the start as you only get one save game 
 and it saved the game mid-glitch  very frustrating! Playing as Kong is much more fun as the game 
 switches to a combo-based fighting game with Kong fighting various big dino monsters whilst swinging 
 through the jungle.
  
  Graphics:
  Although too dark in places, the graphics are very good. The characters have their recognisable 
 actor faces and the models &amp; textures are excellent. The weapons look good, and there are some 
 nice fire and water effects. The environments do get repetitive; as do the enemies, but both convey 
 the look and style of the film very well. Kong is the graphical highlight with full animated fur 
 and motion captured movements. Sound:
  The music and sound effects are often taken straight from the film and are pretty good. The actors 
 also lend their voices to their characters which emphasises the ambition of the game.
  
  Value:
  You can pick Kong up for less than &pound;20, but personally it is best enjoyed as a 
 rental. The game is short and you could probably complete it in a few days. The achievements are 
 all unlocked by playing the game all the way through.
  
  Reviewers Tilt:
  The film was too long and a bit unnecessary, even though it was a visual and cinematic spectacular. 
 The game follows the same trend, but this time it is too short and repetitive. As a movie tie-in 
 it is a sterling effort, but it is still a below par FPS with a few neat Kong sections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: babystar80
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  this game has the most realistic and amazing graphics i have seen since final fantasy. with more 
 stunning visuals then the ps2 equivalent. this game provides hours of awsome game play. player 
 friendly with clear instruction and easy controls. it brings justice to the film on every level. 
 lifelike charectors and kong looks fantastic. the best 360 game yet. if i have one criticism it 
 is that it is completed all too soon. youll be wanting more of the same and will find yourself 
 playing it over and over.
  although cheats are availible if you must use them the only one you will need is
  
  kk 999 
 mun
  
  which gives you 999 ammo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truth_Hurts_U
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  This game is a wonder in the graphics department... But there is some bugs that stair you right 
 in the face. An ex-sample would be, when swimming... You're hands are above the water and paddling 
 in the air.
  
  You can only carry one weapon. Spears are more effective when thrown then stabbing at something 
 to push it back. Guns are very effective. But some times you are forced to use a spear. Leaving 
 you precious time with you're piece.
  
  The food in the game last to short and is of not much use.
  
  Monsters in the game move life 
 like and you will be craping in your pants. They look out of this world up close and look something 
 out of a horror movie (the bat ones) .
  
  This game should not be missed. It is a great edition to the movie.. You really feel like your 
 there. But the best part is playing Kong... Though short and far between. But worth it, when you 
 do play as him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gladplugin
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 16, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  I'm not saying it's a bad game, I just wouldn't recommend the game to anyone for longer then a 
 4-5 day session. It's not long, the beginning of the game pits you in the shoes of Jack for way 
 too long for me and at times it's hard to figure out how to get out of the cave because everything 
 looks the same. However the story line and alternate ending is well worth the play if your a King 
 Kong fan. Though once the game is beaten it's not worth another look unless you have nothing else 
 to play. The one upside to Xbox 360 owners, if you love a high gamer score this game can give you 
 an easy 1000 points in a few days. Now graphics aren't bad but not the 360's best. Kong's face 
 looks like a smudge at the best of times but the environment is a good start. The coolest feature 
 of the game has to be Jacks breathing, when danger comes he starts to breath faster and alerts 
 you of the oncoming V-Rex's. Over-all I would not play the game again but I don't think it was 
 a complete waste of time to play at least once but if your not a big Kong fan, just watch the movie. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xamafeth
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  i found King Kong to be a very beautiful game. and for my first look at what the xbox 360 is made 
 of i was quite satisfied at least for the first hour or two. because the storyline is only limited 
 to what the film is about there aren't any real surpises in store. and the action although brief 
 at times is very satisfying however there are very few weapons to get your hands on and throwing 
 sticks and burning grass soon gets old.
  even playing as the great king kong is not how i imagined it. with only a set root to travel through 
 the game is very linear both as man and beast. Also there are very few things to be unlocked other 
 than a few rooms that show off the power of the xbox 360. there are no mini games to be found and 
 there isn't even and co-op or split screen play in this game all in all this game is a good movie 
 tie in but nothing more and certainly not worth the &pound;40.00 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ehansen24
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  Running through the jungle as a giant monkey is great fun. Unfortunatly, its less than half of 
 the gameplay to be had in King Kong. The Story starts out on Skull Island. You play Jack, the Oscar-winning, 
 beak-nosed protagonist of the movie. Armed with guns and spears, you make your way through the 
 drab and ugly environments. The graphics are not very next-gen for a 360 title. In fact, they seem 
 little better than a xbox game. The graphics do look a little better as the campaign progresses, 
 as if the programmers figured out the 360 as they went along. As a first person shooter (as much 
 of the game played as Jack is) the game is average at best. The game has a few good tricks up its 
 sleeve: Killing monsters (dinosaurs, giant centipedes, etc) can be used as bait for other monsters, 
 so you can sneak by. The game also has a couple of puzzles on each level, mostly using fire in 
 some way, or figuring out a particular sequence of events to progress. It's ok, but the muddy graphics 
 (I played it on a 42' HDTV) , mar the experience. The game shines a bit more when you get to play 
 King Kong. Laying the smack-down on V-Rexes (T-Rexes virtual cousin?) is great fun. However, the 
 combat mechanics are a bit one-dimensional. In my opinion, the best part of the game is rumbling 
 though the jungle as Kong. You can almost feel Kong's sheer size as he climbs and jumps through 
 the levels. The in-game story follows the movie closely, and expands on some of background on what 
 Jack is doing while the other actors in the movie are trying to escape Skull Island and save Naomi 
 Watts. Side note: Jack Black (just as annoying in the game as he was in the movie) is accuratly 
 portrayed, as is most of the other actors. However, Ann in the game looks nothing like Naomi Watts. 
 Kind of a bummer, when she was one of the best things about the movie (next to the giant chimp, 
 of course) . The story leads to one of the down points of the game: You know Kong is going to die 
 at the end. It makes playing through the last few levels of the game feel kind of pointless. I 
 mean, who cares if Kong gets killed on the next to last level, when you know he's going to die 
 on the last level? There is an alternate ending, that can be achieved by replaying a bunch of levels 
 to accrue enough points, so at least there's that. Ending comments: I had a pretty fun time playing 
 through King Kong. The game really grows on you (like lice on a monkey, heh) . The furthure I got 
 into the game, the more fun I had. If your a fan of King Kong (and who isn't) this game is worth 
 picking up for $20-$30 dollars. It would be hard to justify paying $60 bucks for it. Here's a rundown 
 of the good and bad points: Cons: 1. Bland next-gen graphics 2. You play as Jack more than you 
 play as Kong. 3. Repetative puzzles (how many times do I have to use fire to get past a certian 
 point? 4. Last levels in NYC feel tacked-on. Pros: 1. Playing as Kong is great fun. 2. Good scripted 
 events. 3. Story keeps you interested till the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShowStopper
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 29, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  Having played a early promo demo of the PS2 version of this game and liked it I really wanted this 
 game but other games and things came along the way and I forgot about it. Then when we got a XBOX 
 360 in the pack of games King Kong was one of them. So I played it and putting the power of the 
 360 really to work with this one it looked crystal clear and I haven't even seen the updated movie 
 of this I just wanted to be kong and kick ass. Right lets talk about this game there is a awful 
 lot of FPS action where you just walk around with a stick or what ever you can pick up and take 
 out small enemies and baddies. The is little puzzles on the way to work through but all seem the 
 same where you get wood and put it in fire and then burn more wood / grass and so forth. I hate 
 how your character always tells you how many mags he has on backup that's so lame. After levels 
 and levels of doing the same old thing you finally get to become Kong .. it doesn't last long thou 
 but it does look great and its worth it and the fights with the graphic of the XBOX 360 look stunning. 
 As more and more levels pasted with me walking around and picking up spears and sticks and taking 
 out the same old baddies I thought to myself the only reason I am still playing this is because 
 I get XBOX 360 points at the end of it. You can basically run through each level without really 
 doing anything as the AI is very poor. When you get to do something different near the end of the 
 game it all feels so rushed and then its all over. I don't want to give much away but the ended 
 isn't that good and isn't worth the 2 hrs I put into finishing it twice on my account and on shows. 
 Good bits about the game - Being Kong Bad bits about the game - Too much Same FPS and not enough 
 Kong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  If you have been playing games for really any length of time, you probably know that most games 
 that are based on movies suck. Well actually, it's pretty much every one. They usually lie somewhere 
 between a crappy game &amp; being the worst game ever created. Of course, with that last sentence 
 I am referring to 'E. T.' way back on the Atari. It's widely known as the game that started the 
 great videogame crash of the 80's . King Kong sets out to break that track record, and for the 
 most part it succeeds. It's a visual, audio and atmospheric treat that shouldn't be missed by any 
 gamer. The problem is that it's over WAY too soon, really has no reason to come back to it, and 
 playing as Kong (while being very cool) could've been so much better.
  
  Pros: You get to play as Kong; very nice visuals that really make you feel like you are on Skull 
 Island; great little touches, like monsters eating each other's corpses and Jack Black's character 
 filming while the group is getting attacked; the audio is amazing on all fronts; I can't even begin 
 to explain how cool it is when the T-Rex or Kong lets out a big roar; they got the actual actors 
 (Adrian Brody, Naomi Watts, Jack Black, etc.) to do the voices in the game; a nice mix of first-person 
 shooting, first-person melee combat, and of course third-person smashing with Kong; this game is 
 so atmospheric, it gets terrifying at times; you get to rip a T-Rex's jaws in half; a nice selection 
 of weapons are available; your companions have great A. I. for the most part, as do the monsters 
 that attack you; I really liked how there is no on-screen HUD, health meters, etc.; the way you 
 are notified of your remaining ammo is great and I wish more games would adopt this idea; this 
 is probably the best six-hour game you will ever play.
  
  Cons: WAY too short; I literally beat this in one six hour sitting; there are no Xbox Live features 
 whatsoever; there is no multiplayer either; while the game looks very nice, it doesn't look entirely 
 next-gen in many spots; the achievements are way too easy to get as you get all one-thousand just 
 for beating the game; while playing as Kong is a blast at first, the gameplay in these sections 
 are VERY basic and it gets old smashing on a few buttons over and over; if you have already seen 
 the movie, you already know what's going to happen here; the end of the game is very disappointing, 
 as you only get to smash up New York for a very brief period; after leaving Skull Island, the 'Jack' 
 character completely leaves the game for some reason; the gameplay never really evolves from the 
 start of the game; sometimes the characters that are with you get stuck on things in the enviroment; 
 this has the longest and dumbest name in all of videogames.
  
  About that last statement: I really hate it when a director puts his name in the actual movie title 
 (or videogame in this case) . Like we don't know who made the movie? It just comes off as being 
 pretentious and is a huge pet peeve of mine. Don't even get me started on 'Mel Gibson's Apocalypto' 
 or 'John Carpenter's -insert crappy movie here-'. But, back to the game.......
  
  While this is a game that I think any fan of the movie should check out, I really don't think it's 
 worth a purchase. This is the perfect example of a weekend rental. It's fun, looks nice, very short, 
 and you get a cheap one-thousand gamer points for beating it. I bought this game for $30, but it's 
 hard not to feel somewhat cheated. I can't even imagine how ticked I would be if I would have shelled 
 out $60.
  
  Obviously the draw of this game will be the ability to play as Kong himself. I must admit the first 
 couple times you get to use him, it's an amazing experience. Nothing can beat pounding the hell 
 out of a couple T-Rex's, tearing their jaws open after beating them, and then lettting out a roar 
 that will send your neighbors to their phones to report a noise violation. But you don't get to 
 play as Kong very much and that actually might have been a good thing, since his sections are very 
 basic button-mashers that get old after the 'wow factor' wears off. The real treat, in my opinion, 
 lies in the solid first-person adventuring of Skull Island. Just be sure you are o. k. with the 
 fact that the movie seems to be longer than the videogame that's based upon it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespotedpuppy
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  The king of primates has made a triumphant return to both the big and small screen, and as one 
 of the more anticipated Xbox 360 launch titles, King Kong is a decent argument for the short-and-sweet 
 action game. Impressive on many levels, the game is a clever mix of first-person action/adventure, 
 and third-person giant monkey pounding.
  
  Kong-Sized Action
  
  Like a lot of the 360 launch titles, King Kong is a cross-platform affair. The Xbox, GameCube, 
 and PS2 versions are similar, but the 360 version is definitely the highlight of the group. Exceptional 
 presentation -- although still showing some cross-platform roots -- and compelling action are deftly 
 mixed here in a single-player package that manages to be remarkably cinematic with an almost dreamlike 
 atmosphere without compromising playability.
  
  The visuals are sometimes beautiful, though the overall visual package is lacking when compared 
 to other Xbox 360 games. There's a list of strange graphic quirks that shouldnt be on a system 
 as powerful as this. Characters dont lip sync their dialogue (often, their mouths dont move at 
 all when they talk) , and fire effects, such as setting your spear tip aflame, dont affect the 
 overall ambient lighting at all. There are even occasional frame rate problems, which is completely 
 inexcusable.
  
  Cross-platform though it may be, King Kong does have some spectacular vistas, amazing dinosaurs, 
 and beautiful atmospheric effects. While the main human models have a rather stilted look to them, 
 Kong is modeled superbly. The audio is topnotch as well. The soundtrack is wonderfully dramatic, 
 the voice acting is excellent, and the sound effects and digital surround mix are first rate.
 
  
  Moviemaking Gone Awry
  
  Similar in many ways to the ambitious, if highly flawed Jurassic Park: Trespasser, King Kong throws 
 you into a world of primitive predators where a small band of humans are vastly outnumbered by 
 giant insects and crabs. Through most of the game, you take the first-person perspective of Jack 
 Driscoll, a screenwriter brought aboard the sea-going ship, the Venture, by obsessed movie director 
 Carl Denham.
  
  
  Denhams career is almost completely crumbled, and the director, played by Jack Black, is sure 
 that his salvation lies with a map to a secret, uncharted island. Also with you is Hayes, a World 
 War II vet and first mate of the Venture, who provides much-needed fire power. Ann Darrow is, of 
 course, the beautiful, down-on-her-luck starlet that Carl has chosen as his leading lady. You never 
 actually see Jack (played by Adrien Brody) , but there is a surprising level of interactivity with 
 the rest of the crew.
  
  Rumble in the Jungle
  
  One of the great aspects of this game is that, while you have almost no direct control over the 
 other characters, they act in surprisingly autonomous and human ways. Ann, in particular, is a 
 compellingly adept heroine -- capable of rock climbing and fighting off dinosaurs on her own. There 
 are sequences where you must defend your cohorts while they cross a dangerous pass, and then, when 
 you need to cross, rely on them to defend you. Even in normal combat, there is usually a distinct 
 feeling of teamwork. The computer-controlled characters will grab available weapons, defend themselves 
 and each other, and when you get hurt, theyll cry out. Their AI isnt perfect, of course. Sometimes, 
 they seem incapable of functioning or defending themselves (or you) for no discernable reason, 
 but overall, the human behavior in the game is admirable.
  
  The gameplay itself is clever as well. All over the island, you will find spears and spear-like 
 bones to use as weapons, and the captain of the Venture airdrops firearms throughout the island. 
 Youll take arms with a shotgun, sniper rifle, machine gun, and pistol, but ammo is always at a 
 premium, and the focus is usually on out-witting the prehistoric predators. You can light a spear 
 and set fire to brush, or spear small animals to use as bait to lure larger predators away from 
 you, and these puzzle elements lend an intelligent and distinctive air to the overall design.
 
  
  Its Good to be King
  
  You'll even get several chances to control the big ape, and these parts of the game are in direct 
 contrast to the rest since everything Kong does is about brute force. These levels are even more 
 involving than the first-person sequences, as Kongs movements are almost hypnotically fluid as 
 he swings from tree to tree, runs across vine covered cliff faces, and faces off against the giant 
 V-Rex, primitive natives, and the elements. That even Kong manages to come across as a sympathetic 
 and appealing hero in the game is especially impressive. The main problem with the Kong sequences 
 is that controlling the large monkey can be unresponsive. Even so, it's a shame that there aren't 
 more of them.
  
  Short-Lived, Just like Kong
  
  King Kong is short really short. The average player will finish the game in about six hours, and 
 for $60, thats not exactly a great value. While you can replay the levels to earn more points 
 and unlock extras, the game is simply too short to recommend purchasing no matter how involving 
 an experience it is. Just the same, King Kong is one of the best movie-to-game adaptations in recent 
 memory and has enough compelling elements to make it the ideal rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo2paul
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 12, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  As far as movie to game tie inns go they usually are not very good and are mainly an excuse for 
 extra money threw creating a complete and utter lacklustre gaming experience. Thankfully for us, 
 Ubisoft have created a game, which delivers all the thrills that you will see in the movie but 
 in playable form.
  
  You play as Jack Driscoll a screenwriter for an upcoming Carl Denham movie, though at first not 
 having an actress they stumble upon Ann Darrow who takes up the role as there lead lady in the 
 film and then set sail for Skull island. At first the island seems deserted, but they soon discover 
 that it is far from that and the islands inhabitants take you, Carl and Ann capture, and begin 
 a ritual in which Kong appears from the vastness of the jungle and takes Ann to the delight of 
 the skull islanders.
  
  The story in the game basically unfolds threw the forty chapters of the game and the format of 
 the story in no way changes to what it is in the movie, so if you have seen the movie you know 
 what to expect from the games story. It is fun, gripping has numerous scenes of emotion and disbelief 
 as the characters struggle not only for survival but also for trust upon each other and furthermore 
 whether they can trust Kong.
  
  The most interesting thing about this game is the way in which it plays. As Jack it plays as a 
 conventional first-person-shooter, you hold down the left trigger to holster your weapon to aim 
 and then use the right trigger to fire. Theres nothing really new that the developers have added 
 to the standard format of a first person shooter to make it anything different. But where the change 
 in direction as regards gameplay, is included in something unexpected. As there is no interface 
 in this game what so ever, so from loosing the interface theres no ammo count or even a health 
 bar. What this means is that every so often you are going to have to manually check your ammo to 
 see how many rounds you have left.
  
  The health system is somewhat similar to that in Call Of Duty 2, basically if you are hurt the 
 screen will flash red, your vision will be blurred, this indicates that if you was to take another 
 hit you will die. Once this vision mode has stopped you will be back to full health. Basically 
 the system works so that you are either at full health or are inches away from death, is a simple 
 system that works.
  
  The way in which the ammo has been delt with in Kong also works well and has obviously been put 
 together so you look after your bullets more and dont get too trigger happy whilst playing. As 
 other than the fact that you dont know how much ammo you have left till you check, ammo itself 
 is scarce on Skull Island. Thankfully for us all Ubisoft have included a handy feature where you 
 can holster spears as weapons, simply by holding down the right trigger. Simply by holding down 
 the right trigger then releasing it you will throw it at enemies spearing them if you get a direct 
 hit.
  
  There are only four guns in the game, and for a first-person-shooter that is rather disappointing 
 as one of the main things about first-person-shooters is that they usually have a wide armoury 
 of weapons at your disposal, there is the standard issue pistol, a shotgun, a sniper rifle and 
 lastly a Tommy gun, these weapons feel balanced, though you still feel that the game could have 
 greatly benefited from a wider arsenal of weapons.
  
  You play as Jack for about eighty percent of the game and sadly only a short percentage of the 
 game you experience as Kong. As Kong you dont play in the standard first-person perspective that 
 you are used to as playing as Jack but instead a third-person perspective that gives you more an 
 awareness of your surroundings and the environments around you.
  
  The combat whilst playing as Kong is simple yet fun, you have a standard attack, a powered attack 
 and lastly the ability to jump that is absent from Jacks levels. Though Kong has got a very simplistic 
 control scheme there are some nice touches to keep the combat interesting, being the fury mode. 
 By continuously tapping the Y button Kong will go into fury mode, enhancing the damage that he 
 does when he makes contact, this not only is incredibly fun to do, but it also can lead to some 
 very memorable moments while you effortlessly swat away your foes like they werent there. Kong 
 also has an array of finishing moves on offer and they are incredibly satisfying.
  
  Though after a while the combat can get a little bit repetitive due to the fact there isnt many 
 combos on offer, and it can feel a little bit too easy at times especially when you are fighting 
 the smaller enemies you feel completely unstoppable, which is no bad thing, but if you are even 
 remotely good at games you will find your self breezing through the Kong sequences in no time what 
 so ever, which is a shame as they are some of the best parts of the game, and it would have benefited 
 greatly having it had more of these sequences and having a better balance between playing with 
 the two characters.
  
  Throughout playing as Kong you will find yourself regularly on the trail of Ann. These parts can 
 be some of the most memorable scenes in the entire game as the style of play changes, you will 
 find yourself swinging from tree trunks, climbing up vines, running along mountain sides and a 
 whole variety of other acrobatic moves, you can tell that these parts of the game have been heavily 
 inspired by the Prince of Persia games, and they work really well acting as a barrier between the 
 two different types of gameplay that are incorporated into Kongs levels.
  
  On a graphical scale King Kong looks awesome and is a great way of introducing players into the 
 next generation of gaming. Kong looks amazing, his fur looks incredibly lifelike, and is amazingly 
 detailed, he dons scars and cuts upon his body, and other than the fact that he looks stunning, 
 he also moves with distinct realism due to motion capturing by Andy Serkis.
  
  The human character models though arent the best, still resemble the actors from the films but 
 up close they look a little rough. But as a whole the character models in Kong are amazing including 
 the giant bats, dinosaurs and especially the V-rex look absolutely stunning, and are brought to 
 life by the games incredible lighting effects that help bring the atmosphere from the movie straight 
 into the game.
  
  Another great touch that the developers have added is how the environments interact with your character. 
 One of the prime examples of this is when you walk through the tall grass its parts from your body 
 instead of it just going straight through your body as it would had done in a previous generation 
 game, is only a small touch but is in the right direction.
  
  There are forty chapters in King Kong and sadly none of them really last that long, at most a chapter 
 will take you twenty minutes to complete. But thats if you was to die a few times as King Kong 
 is a very linear game and sadly isnt that long either taking you between 6-7 hours to complete 
 everything in the game. There are achievements available but you unlock them upon the process of 
 completing the game and will have 1000 points without even breaking a sweat. Sadly there is no 
 multiplayer and there are no added extras to help lengthen the game either, you may want to revisit 
 some of the key levels in the games story mode a few times over but other than that the game sadly 
 has no real replay value. Also due to the fact that the levels in some ways play out very similar 
 to each other it may not feel as exciting on a second visit.
  
  From an audio standpoint King Kong is stunning. Kong and the monsters of Skull Island sound amazing. 
 From the sound of Kong slamming his fists upon his chest, to the noise of a V-rex jaw breaking, 
 to a shotgun being fired all sound incredibly realistic and give you a deep sense of satisfaction.
 
  
  The dialogue and voice acting is of great standard and that is due to the voice talent of the blockbuster 
 movie is featured in the game. The characters are played out brilliantly and from the all-star 
 cast from the movie there amazing talents transform all of the expression, depth and emotion from 
 the movie straight into the game. From the patter of rain, to the roars of the inhabitants of Skull 
 Island to the epic orchestral score everything is of high quality and just simply fits in with 
 the tone of the game, and is breaking new grounds from an audio standpoint in games.
  
  Multiplayer would have been nice, and a few more Kong levels would have been great, and only if 
 it was longer experience, though I could keep going on about what I would have liked, doing so 
 would not give the game justice. As King Kong in all its awe is fantastic, and an absolute must 
 play.
  
  It might not have enough content for most people to warrant a purchase, but is defiantly worth 
 a rental. And it just shows what can be done with a film licence through a game translation if 
 a company is dedicated and willing to make a great game out of a worthy licence. King Kong is epic 
 and a wonderful cinematic experience, though short lived is a defiant must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 3, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is a game I thought would be a good amount of fun, but ends up just falling short. The 
 beginning is not really as great as I thought it would be and as a whole game, it really is not 
 that intense. Except for the T Rex levels, it really falls short in all that it started out to 
 do. STORY: Peter Jackson's King Kong told though a game is not exactly the best story but really 
 puts up a good effort for a movie to game adaptation. A lot of the story has either been changed 
 or reworked but the core ending is of course still there, and you don't really feel like it did 
 justice to such a great movie, which could have been so much more.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics were pretty good . I have only played a few games, for my 360 so far but 
 this was probably the one with the least amount. I thought it would have been a lot better, but 
 the T Rexs still look good.
  
  PROS: Kong plays like a giant drunken gorilla but he still is fun to play with T Rexs with!, There 
 are some nice puzzles in it and the environment is quite lifelike, If your Jack, Once you hear 
 a T Rex you will surely run for your life!
  
  CONS: Very short campaign, the funniest times were probably when I was against a T Rex, yet those 
 were pretty rare, it was either Kong killing them or Jack running from them, barely any replay 
 value and no multiplayer, very disappointing ending and fails to be even intense, the first part 
 seems intense but around the end it really fails to do anything new and just repeats itself in 
 a flurry of new and shiny environments, that seem like you should have explored them a little more, 
 with other weapons, other then the constant spear throwing, which gets old after awhile.
  
  OVERALL: Its fun while it lasts but this game is worth no more then a rent, do to its, Very short 
 campaign and very lacking in different weapons and intensity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBlitzerx
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 29, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Straight to the point.
  
  Gameplay: Very repetitive. The Kong missions are excellent the first time through. But the rest 
 of the game is the same thing over and over. Kill these enemies, find fire, burn this stuff in 
 your way, move on to the next area, rinse and repeat.
  
  Graphics: The visuals are nice, although a bit dark. But I think they captured the mood and feel 
 of Kong well.
  
  Sound: Other than a few glitches I encountered, the music and sound effects were excellent.
  
 
  Replay Value: There are unlockable movies and other little things. But even with them, you will 
 probably get the most out of the game the first time through.
  
  Summary: If your a fan of Kong, you'll probably enjoy the game by looking over it's flaws. If your 
 not, rent it for the points like I did, and never go back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed some of tense moments of playing as Jack Driscall. The limited use of ammo and mostly 
 having to use spears as weapons really makes the player feel somewhat helpless against the creatures 
 of Skull Island. A lot of times you have to find hiding places instead of fighting and adds to 
 the tension of this game. The graphics are for the most part pretty good although I expect a little 
 bit more from the 360. The framerate is a tad slow and was hard on my eyes if I played for an extented 
 period of time. Playing as Kong is a great concept and is fairly fun because of the moves he has 
 and watching him swing around like the prince of persia. The moments when you play as Kong feels 
 more of an afterthought because he pretty much plays himself due to the straightforward nature 
 of this game. That is another problem with this game is you are pretty much led down a very linear 
 and short path throughtout this game. Overall a solid effort and fans of King Kong willl find it 
 quite enjoyable. But due to the fact that it can be finished in less than 10 hours I suggest a 
 rental instead of purchase 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  I've heard many bashing towards this game, but mainly in more hardcore sectores of video-gaming, 
 and developers, and the general buisness suits realized that big-bucks are on the mainstream players 
 part.
  And this game's designed for this chunk of the video-game world. And it does deliver.
  Graphics 
 are very good (on HDTV, on a SDTV they're just above average) , but it's in the sound department 
 that the game really shines, it has an amazing sound quality, it really drags a gamer deep into 
 the jungle.
  Playability is designed for the casual gamer, as it gets easier in propotion to how many times 
 one dies, it works, if not sometimes gets too easy.
  In the lines of Butcher Bay it has no HUD, and health is &aacute;-l&aacute; CoD2 and FNR3 , it 
 works for this as it worked for the former. It's a nice way of promote realism, the no-HUD thing 
 .
  
  On the down side:
  1. there's the glitches, some passable, some unforgiven, that in some (rare) situations, one could 
 have the need to start everything from scratch.
  2. Too short (although in my particular case, it had the perfect size, as I had other games to 
 play) .
  3. The downtown level is not up to the jungle levels, as a matter of fact, it seems like a different 
 game, it loses its panache .
  
  If you're not an harcore gamer, that enjoys mainly fast-furious FPS's this game might be enjoyable. 
 Nice to play with the family as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 6, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  Based straight off the movie, King Kong is a edge of your seat game in which you play as Jack Driscul 
 left stranded on an uncharted island with a few of your shipmates set out to rescue the poor Anne 
 Darrow! The graphics in King Kong are simply stunning! The dinosaurs, and creatures look awesome. 
 Controls are fairly easy to use and you catch on quickly. Only real problems are that its a short 
 game so it doesn't take long to beat and the last level when you are in NY is like 5 min long so 
 that was kind of dissapointing. Overall I would deffinately recommend this game to anyone but if 
 you don't wanna waste your money, go out to your local blockbuster and rent it, becaues you should 
 be able to beat it in a few days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgtGizmo92
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 30, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  Although Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie has one of the longest titles 
 in recent times, it isn't the longest game ever. But that is pretty much the end of the bad sides 
 of King Kong. This is probably one of the best film-to-game adaptations and the developers obviously 
 didn't just throw this out on to the market to make a quick buck. King Kong is actually a very 
 entertaining game. It does some interesting things like the hud-less gameplay. This makes the game 
 more cinematic. Also the foodchain element comes into play sometimes, where if you shoot down a 
 bat, a V-Rex will run over and start eating it, allowing you time to get to somewhere. Although 
 this game has guns, fire will ultimately be one of your biggest weapons. It allows you to clear 
 bushes that would block your path. But this is just in the levels where you play as Jack in the 
 first person. Then there are the levels where you play as Kong himself in third person. Although 
 these levels are quite linear, and there are very few of them, they are really fun. You get to 
 swing from branches and trees, climb on vines, fight V-Rexes, fight other monsters, destroy stuff, 
 and more. These are some of the most fun parts of the game. Overall Kong is a short, but exciting, 
 sometimes intense, and fun gaming experience that is definetely worth a rent or a buy for hardcore 
 Kong fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 5.7
Date: Sep 14, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Ill admit that when I got a 360, King Kong was not high on my list of games to play on it. Its 
 not because I havent seen the film, but just because my impression of it made it seem like a cheap 
 cash-in on the movie license. And to that extent I was mostly right.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  KK is set into two parts: playing as Jack, and playing as Kong. The Jack levels play like a boring 
 FPS. The levels are so linear that its impossible to get lost. Youre basically just following 
 hallway style caves to get to your objective. Things like using bait to distract other animals 
 on the island are interesting concepts, but poorly implemented since you can only use them in certain 
 situations. The Kong levels are just as boring. In theory it sounds good to play as Kong, but the 
 linear style levels, boring combat, and uninteresting objectives just make it a chore to play.
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  Graphically, King Kong is not using the full power of the 360. Screen shots of it look good, but 
 when actually playing you realize that all the good lighting effects are just static. Texture 
 quality is also sub-par, and looks even worse in HD. The frame rate is also choppy in spots.
  
  SOUND
  The sound department is the only halfway decent element in Kong. Roars, and environmental 
 effects have a nice thump to them, and really sound good in surround. The music lends a nice theatrical 
 feel to the game. The only downside is the gunshots sound flat, instead of loud and echoing like 
 they should on a deserted island.
  
  VALUE
  There is no lasting value to King Kong. No multiplayer. No secrets. Youre literally just playing 
 a game of the movie. About the only thing worth mentioning is that the achievements are super easy 
 to unlock. In fact, the full 1000 points is granted just for beating the game, which only takes 
 about 5 or 6 hours.
  
  The bottom line is that Kong fails to excel at anything. Instead, it just comes off at a cheap 
 movie tie-in, and doesnt even really succeed at that because any interest I had in the movie, 
 was ruined by this game. I wouldnt recommend buying this game for any reason. Just rent it if 
 you want easy achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 26, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say that I can't stand Peter Jackson's King Kong movie. Don't get me wrong. Peter 
 Jackson is definitely a talented movie maker. Although I hated the Lord of the Rings movies because 
 I don't like fantasies, they were still made very well. The man knows how to use a camera, that 
 is except in the case of King Kong. The movie had an incredible amount of build up with music and 
 slo mo. Like for instance, in the movie when Anne was stepping onto the ship reluctantly, the music 
 built up and when she stepped on, there was the big crescendo. Yeah, because nobody knew that she 
 was going to step on the boat. It was overused and just plain ridiculous. Although I wasn't a fan 
 of the King Kong movie, this game was an adequate attempt to convey the emotion that Jackson tried 
 to evoke in his movie and it succeeded on some level. Just in case for some reason you actually 
 don't know how the King Kong story goes, here is your fair warning. There will be some spoilers 
 in this review. So do not continue reading if you somehow don't know how the Kong story happens. 
 You start the game off playing as Jack. You are on your way to Skull Island where the director 
 dude wants to shoot his new movie. Nobody has even been there and been back to explain what's on 
 the island so it's uncertain what you will find there. Well, you find out that it's inhabited by 
 strange people and various creatures, including dinosaurs. You are soon taken captive by the natives 
 on the island and Anne is offered as a sacrifice to Kong. Well, Kong happens to have a strange 
 love for her and treats her great, but Jack also has a love for her. The story really revolves 
 around Anne wanting to stay with Kong because in some strange way, she loves him back, but also 
 to leave the island. All the way up to Kong's death, the game grapples back and forth between these 
 two loves, and it's told in a great way, but the problem is that if you know the story of Kong 
 (which I'd say most, if not all, of us do) , you know exactly where the game is going to go next 
 and it takes a lot of the emotion out of it.
  
  The gameplay is decent enough. When playing as Jack, it basically consists of running away from 
 big dinosaurs, shooting giant bugs, and burning bushes. I can't stress enough how quickly this 
 gets boring. Almost every area of the game forces you to find a spear or bone and light it on fire 
 just to clear the brush to proceed to the next area. So what you're telling me is that they can't 
 just walk through it? Please. Yeah, it has small spikes on it. It may hurt a little bit, but I'd 
 take that over being eaten by a dinosaur any day. It's a terrible play mechanic that they incorporated 
 and since it isn't fun the first time you do it, it certainly doesn't last until the end. There 
 are only about 3 guns in the entire game to battle your foes with, but you can only carry one gun 
 at a time. It makes no sense. Why can't you hold a pistol and the sniper rifle? A pistol is small 
 and can fit in your pocket or inside your pants if you so desire. I guess Jack just isn't very 
 concerned with surviving. It's just yet another stupid aspect of the gameplay that the developers 
 threw in to try to make the game harder, even though it fails. It doesn't make it harder, it just 
 makes it more tiresome.
  
  When it comes to playing as Kong, it is much better. Sure, it's still somewhat repetitive, but 
 it's way better than having to burn bushes as Jack. Kong only has a select handful of moves which 
 consist of a grab, punch, dash, and a finishing move. Most of the time, you will be fighting the 
 big dinosaurs, which I believe are called V-rexes. Once you beat them up enough to bring them down, 
 you can inflict your finishing move which is pulling their jaws apart until they break. Sometimes, 
 Anne is thrown into the mix and you are forced to protect her as well. You can put her down and 
 pick her up by pressing the B button, but it hardly ever matters when she's in the mix. The animals 
 rarely attack her and when they do, she usually has a spear or something to throw at them to distract 
 them. It's really just a diversion to make the gamer think they're doing something new when they 
 really aren't. The other parts with Kong consist of short bursts of platforming segments. You will 
 have to jump from branch to branch swinging to get to the next area. You will also have to climb 
 along walls, break down doors, and jump along canyons. These platforming segments are very basic 
 and easy, but still a nice change from the usual fighting parts of the game. The graphics are about 
 as good as you'd expect them to be on the Xbox 360. Some things, like Kong look downright gorgeous. 
 Other things, like the character models close up, don't look as hot. The game does have some nice 
 effects like when Kong or a big dinosaur roars loudly, the area around their mouths blurs and shows 
 the impact of the roar. The environment at times looks great, but at other times don't look like 
 they should. What I mean by that is in the smaller areas, more detail was put into them and they 
 look fine, but in wider more open areas, the detail was severely lacking. For instance, in the 
 areas where you must distract a V-rex, the game assumes you'll be paying more attention to the 
 dinosaur, which you will, but if you take the time to check out the area around you, it's not all 
 that great. For a 360 game, it's not as pretty as it could be, but it still looks good nonetheless.
 
  
  The sound is also pretty well done. I believe that the voice acting is done by the people from 
 the movie. If it isn't, then they have some remarkable sound alikes to voice them. There are hardly 
 any cutscenes in this game. Most of the story is told through conversation in the actual levels 
 and it sounds fine. The best part of the sound though comes from the animals, dinosaurs, and Kong. 
 Particularly when you are running away from a V-rex, you can hear the trees getting crushed beneath 
 him and the pounding of his footsteps. It sounds great. When Kong or the V-rex's roar, it also 
 is a treat for my ears. I can't really complain much about the sound.
  
  Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie is a pretty good movie to video game 
 translation, which is incredibly rare. Although I would have liked to see the end segment with 
 Kong in the city fleshed out more since it was severely lacking and not as fun as it should have 
 been, the rest of the game was a competent attempt at bringing the feel of the movie to the Xbox 
 360. The graphics could have used a bit more touching up to truly make you feel like you are in 
 a foreign environment with danger around every corner, but it worked overall. Unfortunately, the 
 most important part of the game, the gameplay, was lacking in the big fun factor. Luckily though, 
 the game only lasted around 5 or 6 hours so it never wore out it's welcome. King Kong is a powerful 
 story that, if told right, can make you feel emotion running through your body, sometimes sad, 
 sometimes happy, sometimes terrified and this game portrayed these emotions rather well regardless 
 of some shortcomings. If you're looking for a nice quick sit down and play game, King Kong is the 
 best you'll find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XT-inc
Rating: 5.9
Date: Sep 10, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is just a shiny piece of junk, I don't want fanboys saying this review is cr*p just because 
 I scored it lower then you think it deserves. Graphics mean nothing in this day and age and the 
 score is alright, but fact is about two hours in I switched it out for my own stuff like everyone 
 else. To start the game lacks depth and adventure anyone who wants to say this game isnt linear 
 as sin is welcome to lie but be honest. There is no replay value at all for this title. there are 
 7 weapons, a bone, spear, machine gun, sniper rifle, shotgun, pistol and your fists mind you you 
 may light the bone and spear on fire but that just bland. All you do is shoot the same old enemies 
 over and over with no mix up in the fighting, you switch between kong and a guy named jack, both 
 missions are whole heartedly lame just killing things over and over like serious sam 2 which too 
 sucked just as hard. you can only hold one firearm and a melee weapon at a time, you may not holdster 
 the pistol and use the machine gun then swap when your out of ammo. you constantly light grass 
 on fire that blocks your way ( ( wtf is that I do not care how prickly the bushes are if a raptor 
 is trying to eat me Id rather get scratched then eaten) ) and thats all you do, occasionally you 
 stab a bug and throw it to distract the enemy but its usually not necessary. Rent this game only 
 if your a gp nut this has the easiest achievements ever, beat the game get all 1000. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T13SAMBRLNM
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 9, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  Peter (or "Pete" as I like to call him) Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie as 
 VERY LONG TITLE... for a game that's really good. A unique combination of first-person action and 
 third-person monkey business, literally I may add, make for an interesting game. You play the game 
 as two characters. The first is Jack Driscoll, the screenwriter for Carl Dehnam, a director wanting 
 to make a movie at any cost at a hellish island called Skull Island. The other is King Kong... you 
 know, the large gorilla? Yeah, that thing. Anyway, playing as Jack is a first person perspective. 
 You try to survive with a small variety of weapons such as a pistol, shotgun, machine gun, sniper 
 rifle, spears and bone fragments... lots of the previous two. You encounter a lot of creepy monsters 
 such as giant crabs, large millipeds, big flying things and dinosaurs. Who'd thought that an island 
 in the 1930s would contain such horrifying monsters? As Jack, you can also use fire to set some 
 brush on fire or kill another monster so the other can eat it. As King Kong, however, you get to 
 go through obstacle course type things or beat the living stuffing out of giant monsters, which 
 is real fun. The two main gripes are that there aren't many times you play as Kong and the game's 
 rather short.
  
  The game's graphics look quite good. The monsters are great, the scenery is amazing, the lighting 
 and fire are quite good. What more can I say? This is a great looking game, but everything looks 
 better on the Xbox 360 version. The sound even better. The music and effects are good and all, 
 but the voice acting is flat out amazing. I don't know how they did, but I'm glad they did!
  
  This a great action game and those that want (or have) to see the movie, you will really like 
 this game.
  
  The good: Unique survival gameplay, Kong portions are so much fun, excellent graphics and sound.
 
  
  The bad: Very short, not enough Kong portions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjakybob
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw this game i said to myself this is going to be a crap game with easy achievements 
 well i was wrong it was actually pretty good, and to me I enjoy it more then the actual movie b/c 
 i fell asleep during it. Well most things shook out in the game i would have to say it was pretty 
 good but they should have changed some things about it like the fact that it could take you 5 hours 
 to beat it like i did and that each LvL is some times only a few steps also some parts were very 
 easy b/c there was only one way to go but it still makes for a good sit down away from everyone 
 for a few hours.
  
  The Good: The showed some real parts from the movie, graphics were pretty clear, fun controls, 
 great voice acting, and controlling a monkey is the best
  
  The Bad: only one cut sense from the movie, extremely easy LvLs, only one way to go through out 
 the game, just to short for a game thats in the next gen
  
  Achievements: Extremely easy, just beat the game and you got 100% of the achievements
  
  Well 
 for a movie game it wasnt bad but it wasnt good if you know what I mean it was fun but just not 
 there to make you miss work maybe 1 or 2 of your fav shows but its kind of worth it when you get 
 those easy 1000 achievements 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord_toccsn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2006 2:32 am PT
Review:  King Kong is an FPS/3rd Person action game that truly makes you want an Xbox 360. King Kong sets 
 you as two main characters, the movie's main male protaganist, and King Kong himself; but don't 
 expect to play as King Kong much expect a lot more of FPS gameplay which is great but not a lot 
 of Kong's amazing combat. The FPS parts make you as the main character feel small and weak only 
 being armed with standard weapons like a shotgun or a pistol (no howitzers here folks) while Kong's 
 parts make you feel absolutely gargantuous and massive full of insane power. (Which by the way 
 is a great feeling) Now the main flaw.... This game is short, and by short I mean really, really, 
 really short; you can finish it within around 5 or 6 hours so you'll have fun for about a day then 
 your 60 bucks is gone my friend. Now if you can look over the short gametime you are guaranteed 
 an awesome experience that is fully memorable, but is still great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Doom212
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 31, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  King Kong was a great game filled with bugs, dinosaurs, and adventure. Most of the game you will 
 be playing Jack (FPS) and you will play a few levels as the King himself. The FPS style is very 
 movie like, as the health bar and ammo indicator ,gun cross hairs are completely removed (Though 
 you can pick the option to keep it on) To find out your ammo you click a button for Jack to say 
 it. As Kong, the camera is a little confusing but that is over shadowed with great gameplay. There 
 are many things to unlock. The game is very short which is a let down. Overall it is a great experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CallMeHeavy
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 21, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Grab a spear, stick in fire, stick in brush. Rinse. Repeat. This game definitely does not live 
 up the hype, the reviews, or the movie standard. Glitches and bugs (and not the giant ones you 
 get to kill) are riddled throughout the game. Patch please? After 30 minutes of game play, you 
 have sampled all that the game has to offer. Playing Kong is a nice diversion for a couple minutes, 
 but it gets old quick. Horrible camera angles when playing Kong, clueless AI, collision issues, 
 repetitve gameplay, zero replay value, and a BORING plotline all drag this game down into the swamp 
 muck. The graphics are decent, but the designers seem to think that greens, grays, and black are 
 the only colors in a jungle. The sound effects are top notch, but after awhile, the continuous 
 "Hey Jack", "Over here", and the screams begin to grate on the nerves. This game is good for an 
 old gen game, but not what one expects for a next gen offering. Seems to lack refinement and polish, 
 and feels like it was rushed to release. For me this game is a do not buy, do not rent, but borrow 
 from a friend. I don't think they will miss it, you will be done with it in a sinlge evening. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob5o
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 21, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  There aren't many movie-based games, that are playable nor entertaining, but King Kong is an exception. 
 
  This game brought something new in the genre of FPS, it is the movie atmosphere, which has never 
 been transformed to a game so succesfully. 
  Player has the feeling of beeing a part of the story e. g. hollywood blockbuster. The graphics are 
 very good, but unfortunately, there are too many dark places in the game, so you can't see the 
 great visuals, maybe if I tried to play the game at night, it would be different. The sound is 
 great, you can here the jungle all around, as you were somewhere in the middle of amazonia... The 
 stongest point of the game is a part, in which you play as Kong, this is absolutly fantastic, the 
 dynamic camera mode, the sound,... Suprisingly the weakest point of a game is also when you play 
 as Kong, it is the last level in N. Y., it is too short and shallow, you go through a couople of 
 streets, destroy a couple of cars and cops, meet Ann, climb on top of Empire State Building and 
 get shot... that's all, also the graphic in this level isn't as good as in the other parts of the 
 game. 
  In conclusion, my opinion is, that Peter Jackson's King Kong is at least so good as the movie itself, 
 maybe better, but that's just my personal opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666_NOTB
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 20, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  King Kong was the overall suprise game for the Xbox 360. I remember picking it up at a friends 
 house and start playing it. After I while, I caught myself playing it for 3 hours straight. The 
 game overall is pretty slow, but it's worthwhile. I enjoyed playing the game a lot. Graphically 
 it doesn't look great in some areas, character models come to mind. The environments, especially 
 the rocks, look pretty darn good. 
  
  Gameplay - 8 - It's pretty fun to play. If you're looking for an adventure game to play this may 
 be your game.
  
  Graphics - 7 - Character models aren't good, but the environments are.
  
  Sound - 8 - Pretty good in surround sound.
  
  Value - 7 - It's pretty cheap now, I think 
 30 bucks. I think that's all it's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSpike360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is a fun one. You play Jack Driscle, a movie writer trapped on Skull Island, a giant 
 creature/bug filled jungle, with actress Ann, the girl he falls for, and directer Carl Denim. You 
 use spears, fire and guns to survive and escape the dangerous Island.
  
  The game is addictive and sticks to the story. it is very first person and realistic (if you were 
 trapped on a deadly island) . Enemies include gargantuan scorpions, rapters and Megapedes.
  
  Graphics aren't quite next gen but pass and sound is very nice. If you have surround sound, 
 its fantastic.
  
  All in all a great game, but rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markco20
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 11, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I was very skeptical of King Kong based on previous games that have focused on a popular movie. 
 King Kong does disappoint in that the story line closely follows the movie with little of no surprises.
 
  
  That aside, this game was fun and definitely worth a rental, though due to the length (6-8 hours) , 
 I would not recommend a purchase. If you are an achievement junky, I would recommend it as simply 
 playing through the game nets you all 1000 pts. Not bad for 6-8 hours.
  
  The fluid story line and the fact you can play as Kong more than makes up for the lack of creatures 
 and weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sotnick955
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 10, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the game wsa short, but not as short as everyone was making it out to be. The story 
 follows the movie script almost exactly so the aren't too many surprises, but the quality of the 
 graphics and detail of the creatures are enough to keep you entertained. The other characters keep 
 the move running smoothly. They tell you where to go by leading the way and are all good shots 
 with spears. Teh game is a pretty good but basic FPS adventure until you get to paly as kong.
 
  
  The battles feel like you are playing a Tekken game with Kong and a T-Rex. They even give you the 
 option of pounding your chest! The only bad part about palying as Kong is that he is good at swinging 
 his arms and killing enemies, but it is hard to control his movement. Kong is what makes this game 
 great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shreder911
Rating: 5.4
Date: Aug 9, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  i was hoping this would be pretty good i really liked good and evil so i thought these guys would 
 make a good game. Also with Peter Jackson working closely with the devlopers i thought it be like 
 a another take on the movie. boy was i wrong. the graphics were good as is the sound i'll say that. 
 the rendition of the actors was pretty good. but thats were the good ended it was almost repetive 
 protect your friends because the ai sucked they couldnt protect themselves. get a spear and set 
 the brush on fire. get the lever to open door why couldnt i just use the spear i had in my hand 
 . for movie purists it doesnt follow the plot that well. as said i just finished for the acheivements 
 there were easy to get just play the game through for bulk of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathKing81
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 9, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Becuase of the price drop to $40, this game is worth getting. Its suprisingly diffrent gameplay, 
 with ammunition that is valubale, and fighting dinosuars with spears. This game allows you to do 
 things like light spears on fire to burn plants that are blocking your way, killing something so 
 other creatures start eating its remains and pick them off 1 by 1 with a sniper or spear. Things 
 like that make the game good. But then, some levels are boring, and it gets repetitive. In the 
 beggining you do not play as kong much, but as the game gets on the parts with kong keep on coming, 
 which freshens the game so you dont get too board. But, the gameplay is very repetitive, slowing 
 down the game, making you wish you could skip levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  The open-air landscapes are quite nice. The caves, not so much. At a human, scale, the creepy-crawlies 
 are visually out of place, and actually scream at you. The best aspects of these sequences relate 
 to running for your life, rather than flopping your lifeless on-screen arms around.
  
  Graphics: By far one of the best looking games on the PlayStation to date, most definately competeing 
 along side Gran Turismo and Resident Evil. The visuals are so lush and detailed, that it makes 
 you feel like your part of the game and not just a player sitting in front of the TV.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrarmagedon
Rating: 2.9
Date: Aug 4, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  Unlike the movie which was actually pretty decent, this game does not deliver at all. Since I'm 
 not good at writing a review in a paragraph I'll some it up in sections.
  
  Game play
  If you like doing the same thing hundreds of times then you'll love this game. Since their is only 
 like 5 weapons and about the same amount of enemies. You will fight the same enemies constantly, 
 actually your pretty much fighting giant bugs and bats the whole game. As for the weapons you are 
 mainly stuck with the spear which breaks after you use it twice. But the worst thing about the 
 game is you'll spend half of it burning bushes. Bushes are the main obstacles in the game and you 
 are force to find a fire so you can use it to burn the bushes down and you do this the whole game. 
 As for playing as Kong, that gets very repetitive as well since he has little fighting moves and 
 you fight even less types of enemies as him. And lets not even get into the New York level which 
 almost seems comical.
  
  Graphics
  This game actually has good looking environments, too bad they all not the same though. The character 
 models are just horrible and so are the animations. Kong is looking pretty good though and so do 
 the bigger enemies. 
  
  Value
  This game has extremely low replay value. You almost seemed relieved to beat it rather then wanting 
 more. Actually going through it seems like a choir and really the only reason to beat it is the 
 huge amount of achievement points you get. Overall save your 60 bucks for god's sake and just watch 
 the movie or rent the game to get the points.
  
  Overall
  This game just seems like it is the same two levels over and over again. Unless you really like 
 playing as Kong or really want to add points to your gamer score stay away from this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 2, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  -------
  Lot's of fun playing as Kong, stunning sound FX adds to the games epic atmosphere.
  
  Cons:
 
  --------
  Not enough Kong, many crippling glitches further mar the games value.
  
  Kong started life back in the thirties, then he was rectreated in 1976, but this "remake" totally 
 screwed up the plot and story of the original. Then Peter Jackson got his filthy hairy hands on 
 the license and made an "all SFX film", but despite the lack of real acting, the film was a huge 
 success. And this game was made to accompany the film. With sound and special effects to rival 
 the films, it's hard to not like it when Kong roars or whrn a tree branch snaps. Though sadly, 
 this game is plagued with crippling glitches which stop your progression through the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyderfan1212
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 31, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is a first person adventure game. You play as Jack (i think that was what his name was) 
 and you basically you shoot things and solve puzzles on the mysterious Skeleton Island. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Jack- While playing as Jack you are in 1st person. Jack is basically expected to do 
 all the work. While playing as jack you run through each linear mission asfter another. It is pretty 
 intense though. There are plenty of memorable moments like trying to kill a v-rex with a spear. 
 you weapons while playing as Jack are either guns or spears that you find lying around anywhere. 
 The guns you can use are a handgun, a shotgun, tommy gun, and a sniper rifle. There are two types 
 of spears, Developed and Bone. Developed does more damage but there are less lying around. 
  
  Kong- Playing as Kong is pretty damn fun. Basically you run through and put the smackdown on 
 everything in you path. That is pretty much all you do as kong. However the Camera Angles while 
 playing as kong can get annoying at times.
  
  Overall Gameplay- It has its moments but there are some glitches and it does get monotonous.
 
  
  Graphics- The graphics look good. At the present time their our games that look better though
 
  
  Sound- The sound is awesome. The weapons, voice acting, and ambience are all done well.
  
  Replay Value.- None what so ever. Once you play through it you will find no reason to play 
 it ever again. ever.
  
  King Kong is a rental ONLY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoreCowbell6924
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 31, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  First off this game is probably not worth buying, because its a rather short game and isn't a game 
 you'll end up playing too many times after the first time you play it.
  
  The graphics look prettygood in King Kong. King Kong himself looks great. The character models 
 look pretty good. The dinosaurs as well as other creature you may come across look good whether 
 your playing as Kong or as Jack. The spears and guns look really good, though the sparks that come 
 out of the guns when you shoot them look kind of stupid, but its not a big deal. The fire and the 
 lighting look nice though when you burn weeds the fire does have a 2-D look to it, but when its 
 on your spear it looks pretty good. Everything looks decent enough, though for a Xbox 360 game 
 it doesn't impress me too much playing as Jack, but playing as Kong makes things look a lot better 
 for some reason.
  
  The sound effects are great, and really work well for everything thats going on throughout the 
 game. All the creatures in the game sound pretty much exactly how you'd expect them to sound. The 
 V-Rex's scream is insane, and can be really intimidating. Kong's scream is just as crazy. The background 
 music has pretty much the same quality of the movie which is great. The voice acting is phenomenal 
 and they used the actual actors and actresses from the movie. Though its really annoying that the 
 characters mouth movements don't really match what they're saying, but thats not a big deal.
  
  This game is really short and fun only the first few times. The unlockable extras may interest 
 you. The achievements will be unlocked in your first playthrough of the game. The price has dropped 
 to forty bucks since its release but it probably still isn't worth it.
  
  The gameplay as Jack is a blend of first person shooter, and spear throwing with some simple puzzle 
 solving, such as finding levers or lighting bushes on fire with a spear that you must find fire 
 to light it with. There is hardly any ammo or guns throughout the game so conservation of ammo 
 is key. Spear throwing is fun, and you'll probably end up using spears or bones way more than you 
 would any gun. You have to protect your friends who travel with you too which can get annoying. 
 They do defend themselves to a certaint extent, but an enemy may latch onto them and you'll have 
 to get them off before its too late. The puzzles eventually get repetitive and become very routine, 
 because of the lack of variety in the puzzles, but really makes the game a little more interesting. 
 The story of the game has some differences from the movie, on a whole follows the movie really 
 well, but adds more action like most movie turned game games whether your playing as Jack or Kong.
 
  
  Onto probably the most fun part about the game and that would be playing as Kong. As Kong the camera 
 angle isn't very good all the time, and not really adjustable at all. The camera angle being pretty 
 poor in some spots doesn't make it not fun though. Just beating the s*** out of dinosaurs and crap 
 is awesome. Picking up trees and pillars and swinging them around is really great. There are some 
 simple puzzles to be solved playing as Kong just like there was as Jack, and again will probably 
 become very routine. The ending of the game is a little short and not to great. Running around 
 New York wasn't as fun as running around Skull Island.
  
  Peter Jackson's King Kong the Official Game of the Movie is a game that is worth playing, but not 
 really worth purchasing. Its a good fun gaming experience that most people should enjoy whether 
 or not you enjoyed the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juanito5
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 30, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  King Kong for the Xbox 360 is a game where you can use Jack Driscoll and King Kong.
  Jak Driscoll controls like in an FPS and that's a great idea truly.
  You have very low ammo so 
 you must grab spears and bones to kill your enemies that goes from crabs to V- Rexes.
  It controls good but it feels like being in an FPS Resident Evil (You need to hold the left trigger 
 to pull out your firearm or to prepare to throw the lance and then you press the right trigger 
 to throw or shoot) .
  But playing like Kong RULES!!!!!!!
  You have to grab trees, punch bats, climb walls, etc.
  An all this controls good but the bad 
 camera ruins some of the great experience.
  I couldn't see the Empire State in the last mission.
  And the graphics doesn't lokk like of the 
 Xbox 360, well the stones looks better.
  This game is worth your money and it can give you 1000 g-score for only passing the game. Play 
 King Kong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  nothing like going from shooting down a teradactyl, to smashing a T-Rex in the face with king kong! 
 very unique experience and at times can be fun, but in the end there are more reasons to not pick-up 
 this title then are. this game really has no usefull unlockables meaning no reason to replay this 
 game. after so many gamers including myself have been blessed with online gaming, games without 
 it will always suffer. outside of the main game, there is absolutely nothing else to do. the gameplay 
 isnt bad but getting stuck on a part will cause many gamers to turn this title into a soda coaster 
 instead of a highly played game. the graphics look great and the campaign is fun but i just wish 
 there was more to this game. i would recommend renting first because i see no reason to continue 
 to play after the campaign. i would say rent it because it should provide you with a unique experience 
 that might give you a few nights of satisfaction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ztorin
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I just borrowed this game from a friend, just to try something different that I didn't own. For 
 a first round game for 360 it's not terrible, but it definitely seems rushed. No on-screen map? 
 Also, I found that the camera is horrible. Sometimes, I'm all over the place and can't figure out 
 where the h#ll to go. Overall, it's probably a fun game the first time through, but I can't imagine 
 playing this any more than that. If you're like me, and were bored with the games you owned, I'd 
 either rent this, borrow it, or find it in your local bargain basement bin... BLUE LIGHT SPECIAL!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HyperMetaDragon
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 23, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Ever wondered what it would be like to be stranded on an island, searching for a damsel in distress, 
 or to be a 25-foot tall gorilla who pits himself against dinosaurs? Look no further.
  
  Peter Jackson's King Kong has an interesting concept of what it should be played like, but unfortunately, 
 it doesn't. For one thing, this game's title ends with "The Official Game Of The Movie", but the 
 game is almost completely different from the movie (i. e. when Kong is in New York, he breaks out 
 and is not even inside a stadium, but rather, outside) . To add, most parts of the game can become 
 repetitive after a while, such as the Kong fights. 
  
  The things that stand out in this game are probably the graphics. Standing on a cliff and staring 
 at a jungle strenching miles is quite breathtaking, as well as character models and creatures. 
 The audio is not the best, but it is definitely not bad, either. Controls can easily be adapted 
 to, but one thing that wasn't added was changing controls.
  
  In conclusion, King Kong is a great renter, perfect for those boring summer days with nothing to 
 do, but it could have been greater, if it wasn't rushed for the Xbox 360's launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost_Warrior
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 23, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  First of all don't buy this game, its not worth it. Rent it, enjoy it and beat it. Get the easy 
 1000 achievement points. King Kong is worth playing, its fun and adds many challenges along the 
 way but once you finish the game, theres nothing else to do and you probably won't want to go through 
 it again.
  
  You play as either Jack (not Jack Black) or Kong. Playing as Jack is first person and playing as 
 Kong is 3rd. You'll play as Jack through most of the game though. The first person controls aren't 
 your typical fps controls. It'll take couple minutes to get used to. You'll go through the jungle 
 trying to save Anne while being attacked by dinosaurs, giant bats and bugs. You might find yourself 
 stuck a few places during the game but you should be able to figure them out. When playing as Kong 
 there isn't much room for error, when flying from tree-top to tree-top you won't find yourself 
 missing a branch. As Kong you fight the same things that Jack does but besides the V-Rex they don't 
 pose any threat to you.
  
  The graphics are pretty good in some spots. Skull island looks fantastic. The lighting effects 
 are also very good. Only problem are the character models. They are a little downgraded from the 
 rest of the game and besides Jack Black all the other characters don't look anything like the actors 
 that played them in the movie.
  
  Overall I enjoyed the game and think you should give it a try. Even if you don't like it, finish 
 it anyways if you want a 1000 gamer points. If the game had other game types it would be more enjoyable 
 but once you beat the short story mode theres nothing else to do. I wish that the New York levels 
 had been longer, you spend 96% of the game on Skull Island. Other than that, it was a fun game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dajumbles
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay itself was immersive and always upbeat. The idea of throwing spears into the dinosaur 
 was innovative not to mention fun. The combination of no HED and not having your gun always lifted 
 in front of you made you feel like you were in the movie as Jack Driscoll. I didn't like the way 
 they did the story in the game as much as the movie. The extras make the relatively easy game more 
 challenging as you try to conserve on spears and bullets used to gain more points. The graphics 
 leave a lot to be desired, seeing as it is on a nextgen console, but what can you expect from a 
 movie game? Playing as Kong made you get a sense of largeness like your really were the king. All 
 in all this game was great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidey008
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  King Kong is one of the only games that is based off of a movie that is worth playing. Peter Jackson's 
 direction in this game can be felt to a tee.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who wants to participate in thrilling adventure. If you are 
 a fan of the movie or Peter Jackson's work, then give this game a try.
  
  The game allows you to play as Kong or Jack. The controls for Kong are 3rd person. Playing as Jack 
 will give you a third person view.
  
  It's not a run and gun game, so if you are used to fast paced FPS then you may not want to play 
 this game.
  
  Overall, it is a easy, but fun game expereience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  The game is beautiful. Lots of amazing animals & scenery that fill every corner you turn. This 
 game is really short. I mean, short as in you could beat it in one sitting. One major downside 
 is that it has glitches in some scripted events. I ran into a couple issues where charachters disappeared 
 or needed fire pits were not present. I restarted the level and it was fixed. The sound is amazing, 
 your crew will warn you about the direction of approaching monsters. The graphics are awesome, 
 maybe not the best on the 360, but still great looking. Most "movie to game" video games are some 
 of the worst games I have ever played, but King Kong is wonderful!. This game looks beautiful and 
 any King Kong fan that plays video games would fall in love with it. The game include most of the 
 scenes from the from new King Kong movie but some of the scenes are different, just like any other 
 "movie to game" games. I recomend this game to any one how loved the new or old movies!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmc123456
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 15, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is an easy adventure game that took me about a half week to beat this game absolutley 
 was a waste of my time. It was my first 360 game and the worst game in my collection. Graphically 
 the game didn't push any boundaries condsidering it's a next gen game. As far as the gameplay goes 
 it was o. k the shooting was kind of fun but u ussualy have almost no ammo and I like shooters so 
 that was a let down although throwing spears into dinsaurs was kinda fun. the sound was o. k. The 
 single player was too short and easy. Since this game is single player and the singler player sucks 
 except maybe the extras u can unlocks but that will only take half a week to unlock. word of advice 
 rent it beat the game get gamerscore points and bring it back to the rental place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 15, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game. I haven't played through the entire thing yet, but the graphics are great, 
 gameplay is fun and innovative, and very thrilling, the storyline is great. I love that there is 
 no on screen display with a health and ammo meter and inventory, etc. It makes the game a lot more 
 realistic, and really puts you into the game. The first person mode feels like you're actually 
 there. It's difficult to play, and the dinosaurs and bugs and beasts can be quite scary to fight, 
 but that just makes the game a lot more fun. I haven't had a chance to play as Kong yet, but I 
 imagine that's just as fun as, if not more fun than, playing as Jack. I do love this game though. 
 The only thing I don't like about it is the lip-syncing (it looks pretty crappy) , but everything 
 else int he game is great. I like that you have to follow sounds too, rather than having a map 
 and an arrow that tell you which direction you're facing and which direction to go.
  Anyway, I'm really excited to play the rest of the game. I may actually be a loser and call in 
 sick to work today just so I can play it, though I don't really feel that great! LOL. But everyone 
 who likes adventure shooters/thrillers should definately buy this game because it's great fun and 
 all that one would expect it to be and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exocel
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 13, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  thisll be a short one, you play as jack and king kong, no HUD just two hits and your dead, with 
 call of duty health restore , your task is to survive the perils the island has before you.
  this entails fighting creatures and lighting fires, nothing to special but damn entertaining, the 
 voice overs and graphics are impressive but the voice movement and the speech is so out of synch 
 its like an old spoof of a kung fu movie.
  its easy and a bit short but enjoyable from start to finish with no slow down routes were its easy 
 to get lost.
  
  its a fantastic launch title and the best movie tie in yet but aside from being inlcuded in a deal 
 its not worth the money it costs seperately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrahfZilla
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  I will be honest; I bought King Kong for the achievement points. I didn't have a lot of them in 
 my profile and I wanted to have a quick boost, so I immediately searched for King Kong as I knew 
 it was one of the easiest source of achievement points on the Xbox 360, and I was right! Or rather, 
 they were right, they as in the people who played it before me and mentioned how short and easy 
 the game was.
  
  The story of the game follows the story of the movie of the same name (well, except without the 
 Peter Jackson part) , and Im guessing that by now pretty much everyone knows the King Kong story 
 so Ill skip that part. What I will say though is that the game follows the story TO THE LETTER, 
 and really it's just plain too much. You feel like you're in a rollercoaster ride and that your 
 actions have no effect, that you could be watching this if you were not playing it. 
  
  Aside from that the gameplay is standard FPS fare, except that by default you have no aiming cursor, 
 no health bar and no bullet count. You can enable bullets and the cursor in the menu but not the 
 health bar and the reason for that is because you don't have any health in the game. If you get 
 hit once by an enemy, your view will change to a sort of blood red and the world will sort of spin 
 around you, and if you get hit again you die. So the trick is to not get hit once. It's far easier 
 than it sounds trust me, and if you do get hit it's easy to run away most of the times. Now some 
 do like that system but personally Im used to having a HUD and I activated as many things as I 
 could to make me feel at home. But at least they tried to immerse you as much as they could.
  
  The graphics are pretty amazing., there are a lot of amazing landscapes and sunsets. You could 
 say that this game is style over substance and you'd probably be right but it is a very pretty 
 game.
  
  The sound is also pretty good. The voice actors of the movie are all there (I think) to reprise 
 their characters and they sound great. The sound in the game is also very loud, everytime I heard 
 Kong growl my room literally shook which is great. The music can also come in pretty loud when 
 something happens so they were really aiming for that movie theatre feel and they nailed it.
  
  The value in the game is either low or high depending on how you see it. As Ive said before, 
 I bought the game for the achievements and on that front it delivered. It was short and easy and 
 it gave me a thousand points. Awesome right? But then, the game is short and easy, so if you don't 
 care about the achievement points this game will be a terrible value to you, but if you do care 
 then this game becomes a pretty good value especially since it's one of the cheapest 360 game right 
 now, I got it for 20$ and Im sure that later down the road the price is going to be even lower 
 than that.
  
  This game isn't a memorable one, but I didn't buy it to get that kind of experience. I bought it 
 to get points and I got them, so Im satisfied. If you're after points, you will be too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ortan13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 10, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I think that King Kng was one of the funnest games I've ever played and maybe ever will play. Although 
 it took me less than three days to complete I still go back to my favorite levels and kill dinosaurs 
 left and right. There were alot of levels but it didn't take to long to complete. The graphics 
 were perfect like most of the other xbox 360 games. I think that they could of made the graphics 
 better on the very last level in New York City for the cars driving around. I've beat this game 
 more times than I can even count but it never gets old at all. In conclusion this is why I think 
 King Kong almost deserves a perfect score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Japanese_Jade
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 8, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  The story starts you off in a boat heading for Skull Island to shoot a movie. Not just any movie, 
 a movie that has everything it needs to be a thriller. So legend is told Skull Island has all the 
 elements of a scary enviornment with Monsters, Crazy inhabitants, etc. So, Jack (Thats you) and 
 Hayes, as body gaurds have to take the Director (And the Camera Man) and the main Star, Ann, to 
 shoot the movie. While shooting the movie, you encounter giant scropions, Crabs, the whole shebang. 
 Things basicly are looking pretty bad. 
  
  Peter Jackson's King Kong Game was a nicely made game. Its not excellent though. The lip synching 
 with the Character and the Voice was poor as an example. Not many people would appritiate this 
 game because its a game based on a movie, the movie itself is very old, and the graphics don't 
 match up to other good titles for the Xbox 360. I strongly must say King Kong is not a game worth 
 buying. It lasts only 4 hours if you play it through straight and it has no replay value unless 
 you want to beat it again for the extras. If you hated the jungle, then your bound to stop playing 
 it. The best way to play this game is to rent it. This game is an easy 1000 Gamerscore. All you 
 have to do is play through the story and the points are yours. Sounds easy for you GS Freaks huh? 
 Not really. Skull Island has some Repetative Monsters, Glitches that will freeze you Xbox 360, 
 and I-Don't-Know-Where-to-Go Moments. 
  
  In the game. You will encounter someone bugs like when Kong picks up Ann, his hand look like it 
 went through her. And when shes "sits" on his shoulder, she looks like shes part of him. Ubisoft 
 didn't work on this 360 title as hard as the other developers worked on theres. Since this game 
 is out for every single system including all handhelds, I guess the budget got low when it game 
 to making this game more revolutionized for the 360.
  
  Overall, Peter Jackson's King Kong was an okay game. It could you help but it was a fun experience. 
 Peter Jackson's King Kong gets a 7.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyeCupid
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jul 3, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  What the hell was that? Nough' said.
  
  Calm down, I am only kidding. I'll deliver a quality review unlike someone who is not capable of 
 delivering a quality game. Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie makes for 
 one of the longest titles ever, but ironically gives us one of the shortest gameplay experiences 
 ever. However, that isn't necessarily a bad thing since the game blows and you just can't wait 
 for this game to end. The only reason you would want to play this is for the gamerpoints which 
 are so easy to accumulate, an infant could do it.
  
  The gameplay is unbelievably boring. You will enter an area, light a stick on fire, burn down a 
 bush, then walk on to the next area. Rinse, repeat, yady yady yada. Throw in a dinosaur here and 
 there, put it on a disc, slap on a case, and looks like you got yourself a game. I feel like Ubisoft 
 is in debt to me for allowing me to play this game. I seriously should have gotten paid to play 
 that or just gotten a free shirt or something, because play that game was the farthest thing from 
 fun I can think of. I would have scored the gameplay in the negatives if I could, but I wasn't 
 allowed to. That is why I had to deduct points from the graphics and sound department to make up 
 for it. Yes, I know, that wasn't fair right? Well, it wasn't fair for my 360 to have this game 
 shoved inside of it and waste a perfectly good rental. Too bad sound and graphics department.
 
  
  The graphics are honestly are good. Not bad, not great. Just goooood. Character models look good 
 enough to distinguish who they are, but aren't good enough to look anywhere near lifelike. However, 
 environments repeat very often and things will start looking identical which isn't good. This warrants 
 a 6.
  
  The sound department is decent. It doesn't do anything bad, but it doesn't give me the feeling 
 that I am actually in the jungle, miles away from humanity. This deserves a 6 as well.
  
  The value is terrible. For $60 you recieve a pathetic excuse for a video game that will last you 
 just a couple of hours. To add to the rut, you will also get a nice case of buyer's remorse. A 
 few unlockables are present, but after playing this game there is no way you will ever want to 
 go back do something else with it. A terrible, terrible value is within this package.
  
  Overall, Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie is great. It's great in the 
 sense that it carries on the legacy that all movie games will blow. This game strengthens the theory 
 that there is no reason to even look at a game that was developed based on a licensed movie. So, 
 this game actually can free up your time in the future which is definitely a plus. However, this 
 video game is so bad it shouldn't even be called a video game. Video games are supposed to be fun, 
 and this is the farthest thing from fun you could get. Stay clear of this title and your wallet 
 will thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 2, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  This game was a total let down. First of all it skips some major parts of the movie and changes 
 others. Then then game only had two characters to play as the guy and King Kong, and King was the 
 most fun to use but you only get to be him four or five times. Plus, those were the shortest levels. 
 Then the game is way to long, even though it is really easy so you get through it fast, there was 
 no need to replace the parts they left out with newer bad ones. Which shouldn't even take you more 
 than two days to beat. The only good thing this game is for is to get the achievments. So if you 
 want to play King Kong even after this review, DO NOT buy it, if you must then just RENT it. Because 
 I bought it and traded it in with another game for Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashy_the_second
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 27, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  King Kongs menacing mug shot on the cover of Peter Jacksons King Kong: The Official Game of the 
 Movie (what a terribly messy title) certainly stood out amongst the covers of the other games on 
 the Xbox 360. His sharp white fangs immediately grabbed my attention, and his angry eyes did a 
 great job of pumping me up for the disc he was so preciously guarding. I was really excited when 
 I got the game home; anticipating ripping and tearing through the jungle like our gigantic simian 
 friend did in his movie. I imagined myself as Kong, running at a blistering speed through his densely 
 packed jungle home, vaulting over any objects standing in my way and destroying any enemy that 
 dared challenge my superiority. 
  
  Then I put the game in my system and found out that I was stuck playing as the puny, weak screenwriter 
 Jack Driscoll. I had read a few reviews of the game before I purchased it that admitted a large 
 chunk of the game was played as Jack, but I still felt disappointed and cheated that the majority 
 of King Kong took place through the eyes of someone other than the big giant ape. All that excitement 
 I had disappeared as I walked around as Jack, and I was left feeling a little dejected. Instead 
 of ripping apart dinosaurs and wandering through the jungle, I spent most of my time aiming and 
 tossing spears at giant bugs. 
  
  During the levels where you arent playing as King Kong, (which comprise far too much of this rarely 
 enjoyable, overhyped exercise in tedium) , your time will be spent burning bushes and finding levers 
 to open doors. Basically, you have to search through an area to find some hundred year old piece 
 of wood so you can jam it into a pole that spins around and opens doors. Whats really annoying 
 about this is that its blatantly obvious that Jack could take the spears he's constantly stuck 
 wielding and jam them into the hole, avoiding all that extra, pointless work. Unfortunately, the 
 makers of this failed King Kong experience decided that it would be more enjoyable to force players 
 through an unending series of inane tasks instead of embracing common sense. These tasks would 
 have been fine in moderation, and maybe even a little interesting if they were spread out between 
 other puzzles, but the "burn the grass, find the lever, open the door" puzzle crops up so frequently 
 that it gets boring really early on and doesn't stop until the game is over.
  
  Occasionally, Jack will get the opportunity to fight fearsome predators, like terrifying dinosaurs, 
 but most of his time will be shooting his guns and tossing his spears at giant, irritating centipedes 
 that have overrun the island. These centipedes are not only annoying, but theyre also marred by 
 incredibly poor animations that really make you wonder if any work was done "360ing" the graphics 
 of this game. For some reason, they look incredibly twitchy, and their body parts seem disconnected 
 as they wiggle around the ground. And when you finally do get to fight dinosaurs, youre frequently 
 fighting an infinite amount of them. When this happens, you arent supposed to fight them. Instead, 
 you're supposed to run away from them or lure them away from some point you need to get to. If 
 you manage to bring one down, another one will pop up in his place. 
  
  Even worse, as you attack these miserable enemies, you're subjected to an incredibly disappointing 
 graphics engine. First, the Xbox 360 version of this game looks nearly identical to the Xbox version 
 of the game, which is a major shame. While the texturing is solid for the most part, the actual 
 environments arent very diverse, and youll find yourself trudging through caves, tunnels, and 
 foliage that look just the same as the last cave, tunnel, and foliage that you were forced to wade 
 through. The water effects are absolutely abysmal. There are no ripples as your character (or 
 any character for that matter) swims through the water. The only impressive thing this engine manages 
 to pull off is a few decent lighting effects, but this is negated by an unacceptably poor draw 
 distance. 
  
  This is really next generation stuff here.
  
  When you do get the rare opportunity to play as King Kong, the game feels even more restrictive 
 and linear than it does when youre playing as Jack. There are fewer moronic puzzles (which is 
 a good thing) when youre the big ape, but you have no freedom of movement at all. You can jump, 
 but only when the game lets you. You can pick up stuff and throw it, but only if the game sets 
 it up for you. You can climb up walls, but only if there are vines in specific places. When youre 
 controlling the Kong on the ground, every environment feels too small and the camera angle is often 
 unhelpful. Even still, smashing around as Kong (while a pain in the ass at times) can be satisfying. 
 Theres nothing like taking his giant fists and tossing villagers and dinosaurs all over in every 
 direction.
  
  There are even a few good levels when you play as Jack. One particular sequence sees Jack and his 
 party floating on a raft through rough rapids as two dinosaurs close in on either side. This scene 
 was intense, and involved no bush burning or lever hunting. The voice acting, though sparse, is 
 also pretty good and right from the big-screen counterparts mouths. Even better than that, the 
 game is short, and each level gets progressively shorter as the game goes on. This is easily the 
 best feature of Peter Jacksons King Kong. Its over in a very short amount of time, and then you 
 can get it out of your system and be done with it, unless you want to unlock extra content, a desire 
 I certainly wasn't left with.
  
  I beat Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie that was a Remake of the Original 
 Movie, then promptly returned it. This game would have been a lot better if it wasnt plagued by 
 so many poor design decisions. Imagine a free-roaming King Kong game, with a main plot line that 
 you can ignore as you run through the jungle, beating the piss out of dinosaurs with tree trunks 
 and rocks. That would have been awesome. Instead, we were given this six to eight hour snooze fest. 
 Maybe I was a victim of my own expectations, but either way, I didnt enjoy this game at all, and 
 I suggest that you avoid it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barbierian205
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 27, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  King Kong's gameplay consists of levels in which you play as either screenwriter Jack or Oversized 
 Gorilla King Kong. It is split up about 70-30 between Jack and Kong, respectively. No matter how 
 you slice it though, this game is linear to the point of boredom. Youre always just going from 
 point A to point B and killing anything that moves along the way. There are some light puzzle solving 
 elements, but nothing that actually requires thought to solve. You use both guns and spears, but 
 none of the weapons are particularly satisfying. Also, the story manages to completely mess up 
 any kind of plot line the movie layed down. Seriously, since when does the Boat Captain have a 
 freakin' plane?!?!? Unsatisfying gameplay and uninspired story are two tastes that taste worse 
 together.
  
  Graphics: 
  For a game on Xbox 360, King Kong does not impress. Textures range from bland to downright ugly. 
 Character models are deformed and creepy looking. Heck, Perfect Dark Zero looks good next to this 
 game. The dinosaurs and creatures look decent, but thats like saying a group of people consisting 
 of 49 hoboes and 1 model looks good overall.
  
  Sound:
  This games high point is the sound. Dinosaurs sound reasonably fierce and real, and Kongs roar 
 is convincing and fearsome. The gun sounds on the other hand, are feeble sounding at best. Overall, 
 I couldnt expect much more than what I got in the sound department. 
  
  Value: 
  Clocking in at 7 hours for me, Im glad I only borrowed King Kong from my friend. If you must play 
 this game, rent it or borrow it.
  
  Overall, King Kong tries to be a good game, it just falls victim to bad level design and a short 
 and crappy plot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X3oNR3g1z
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 24, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  King Kong is the easiest game to beat in the world! If you want some fast gamer point rent this 
 game and in 4 hours of playtime you'll have 1000 more gamerpoints. The game is kind of fun, but 
 is too easy to beat. Also this game is a little glitchly at time, like some times a person like 
 Timmy may get sutck and won't move and then you have to load the game back to your last save. It 
 sucks. Aslo MAKE SURE YOU ALWAYS SAVE YOUR GAME AFTER EVERY LEVEL. Because if you don't and your 
 XBOX 360 frezzes then you'll have to restart from the last save and if you've never save before 
 than you'll have to start all over from the first level (I learn this the hard way so trust me 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak1991
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 13, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Peter Jackson's King Kong has relatively decent gameplay. The controls are pretty easy 
 to pick up right away. The no HUD touch really makes it feel like your watching a movie, rather 
 than holding a controller in your hand playing a game. 
  
  Graphics: This game's graphics are not exactly what I think of as next-gen, but you can definitely 
 see the small differences between the current-gen systems and the Xbox 360. 
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is nothing short of extraordinary. The dinosaurs sound so realistic, 
 as do all the creatures and other sounds within the game. The sound of this game fully deserves 
 a 10!
  
  Value: This game does not have much replay value, seeing as you can get all the achievements on 
 your first time through. Also there are no difficulty settings, so as you play, the difficulty 
 adjusts to the gamer. As disappointing as that sounds the game is still great, because you will 
 catch yourself going back through the games many chapters to gain more score on each level to unlock 
 the games numerous unlockables such as an alternate ending. 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: In my opinion this game is an excellent movie game that should not be missed by 
 any action/adventure gamer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkRemembered
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 1, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I recently wrote a GameSpot review for the PSP version of King Kong, which I gave a 7.5. No doubt, 
 and to no one's surprise, the Xbox 360 version is much better. It features solid gameplay reminiscent 
 of the 2005 film remake, excellent voice acting, and relatively good graphics in most parts.
  
  The gameplay is solid, and certainly original. For most of the game, you play as Jack Driscoll, 
 the screenwriter that falls in love with Ann Darrow. For this, you assume a first-person perspective. 
 The controls are different, somewhat like Resident Evil 4 in the fact that you hold the L trigger 
 to ready your weapon, then press the R trigger to fire. This is a fun twist considering the fact 
 that consoles are over-populated by trigger-happy, simplistic shooters that are all about seemingly 
 infinite ammo and big explosions. King Kong is more about conserving ammunition and figuring out 
 the best tactic for getting past the horrible creatures that populate Skull Island. That brings 
 me to another topic: the monsters of the island. There are not as many as would have been appreciated 
 (you'll encounter more than your fair share of "megapedes" and giant crabs, and you'll not fight 
 enough V-rexes and venatosauruses) , but the numerous options of how you kill them keep combat interesting. 
 Traps and bait are key for your survival, and several notable levels provide a hefty amount of 
 challenge. 
  
  Of course, don't forget about the King of Skull Island himself, Kong. You don't get to step into 
 the shoes (?) of the giant monkey until you completed about a third of the game (sadly, one-third 
 of this game is equal to a mere two hours) , and you only experience a handful of exciting levels 
 as Kong, but it is certainly the most exhilarating, fun portion of the game. For this you take 
 on a third-person view, and the controls resemble those of a fighting game, in that the most effective 
 and fun way to fight V-rexes and smaller foes is to button mash. This is not necessarily a bad 
 thing, but if you're not a fan of that fighting style, this part of the game will not be fun. The 
 camera is actually very good, surprisingly, especially considering you have no control over it. 
 The responsive controls and high-octane combat make these few levels of the game a real treat.
 
  
  The graphics are, overall, pretty nice. Environments look realistic, and the fire effects are beautiful. 
 The animations of Kong are incredible. The creature and character models, however, are frequently 
 bland and uninteresting, almost resembling a PS2 game from 2001 or 2002. The collision detection, 
 especially in cutscenes (many of them involving Kong) is terrible, and this affects the immersion 
 of the game. Overall, however, at least while you're playing the game and not staring at Ann Darrow, 
 the graphics are solid, and the lighting effects... wow! Only the Xbox 360 could handle this realism. 
 
  
  The sound is phenomenal! Full voice acting from the major stars in the film is to die for, especially 
 when the characters interact with each other. The realistic, sometimes frightening sound effects 
 are only enhanced by surround sound, and are incredibly lifelike. The score, mainly prominent in 
 action-packed scenarios and Kong levels, is straight from the film, and it is spectacular -- the 
 best part of the sound department. This is the truly flawless part of the game.
  
  When the game was released back in November, it cost $49.99 for the current consoles and $59.99 
 for the Xbox 360 version. Since then, several price drops have occurred, and the current system 
 versions run $19.99 to $29.99, while the Xbox 360 is a more expensive $39.99. It really is up to 
 you to decide which version you get. Of course, with the 360 game, you get better graphics and 
 somewhat enhanced sound, and of course Achievements that are unlocked simply by progressing through 
 the game, but it really depends on how much money you're willing to spend and on what system you 
 prefer to play.
  
  Overall, Peter Jackson's King Kong is a fun game, though sadly it only lasts for about six hours. 
 There are a fair number of unlockables, some of them movie-related, and even an alternate ending 
 if you invest a few extra hours into replaying some if the levels. For fans of the film, and people 
 who love somewhat deeper gameplay experiences, will enjoy the game. It is worthy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eunicom
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 21, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  The story is very linear which is to be expected of a movie-based game. You don't have much option 
 as to how to beat a certain scenario. You don't even know how to go up and down a ladder much less 
 jump in place. 
  
  It only takes minutes to learn the controls. I found it a little weird that you have to hold the 
 left trigger to aim your weapon. But it's understandable since it's faster to run or walk without 
 your weapon drawn.
  
  Anyway, it's somewhat okay as a shooting action/adventure game. But don't waste your money to buy 
 it. Just rent it for the weekend or for a couple days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan3669
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 19, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I saddly dont dislike this game nor like this game. It was a good adaptaion but was not that great 
 in game play. The graghics were the best for that time and it was fun for the first half an hour 
 but then things go down hill from there. the weapons were lame and didnot look or sound real. the 
 creatures on the island were very repetitive in their movements. The best part was playing as kong. 
 Being able to just unleash massive carnage was a riot. But playing as the people was boring an 
 repetitive. The animals did however sound good but the gamplay was very repetitive and got boring 
 very quickly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief1303
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 15, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is the easiest game to beat in the world! If you want some fast gamer point rent this 
 game and in 4 hours of playtime you'll have 1000 more gamerpoints. The game is kind of fun, but 
 is too easy to beat. Also this game is a little glitchly at time, like some times a person like 
 Timmy may get sutck and won't move and then you have to load the game back to your last save. It 
 sucks. Aslo MAKE SURE YOU ALWAYS SAVE YOUR GAME AFTER EVERY LEVEL. Because if you don't and your 
 XBOX 360 frezzes then you'll have to restart from the last save and if you've never save before 
 than you'll have to start all over from the first level (I learn this the hard way so trust me) .
 
  
  Overall its worth renting and that's it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asianman_82
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 9, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Most "movie to game" video games are some of the worst games I have ever played, but King Kong 
 is wonderful!. This game looks beautiful and any King Kong fan that plays video games would fall 
 in love with it. The game include most of the scenes from the from new King Kong movie but some 
 of the scenes are different, just like any other "movie to game" games.
  In this game you can play as the main character Jack and also as King Kong. You cannot choose who 
 you want to be, it happens with the events of the movie, so if you expect to be Kong right away 
 you will be disapointed because you have to wait untill you get far enough into the game. After 
 you finish the game a nice feature they have is that you can select scenes so if you liked a certain 
 part of the game you can play it again without having to play through the whole game another time.
 
  The game is easy to learn how to play because it has basic controls that most games share and 
 anything new is shown to you through a tutorial. There are two tutorials one for controlling Jack, 
 and one for controlling Kong. The tutorials are simple and easy to understand which makes the gameplay 
 less frustrating.
  The gameplay is new and innovative. There is no aiming reticle for the first person mode, where 
 you play as Jack. To shoot guns you just aim towards the middle of the screen and shoot. The game 
 tries to stop you from relying only on guns, and tries to get you to rely on spears and dinosaur 
 bones to defend yourself from the hoards of Skull Island creatures constantly attacking you. You 
 also play as Kong. This part of the game is in a third person camera. As Kong you can do many things 
 that will make your testosterone levels skyrocket, such as break a V-Rex's neck or back or even 
 biting heads off of flying dinosaurs. He is easy to control and playing as Kong is simply one of 
 the best features in the game.
  Sometimes playing as Jack you will come up against puzzles, most of them are repetitive but can 
 get pretty frustrating because solving them gets harder and harder each time the puzzle pops up. 
 Other than the puzzles this game is pretty easy and straightforward, except for a few difficult 
 parts that can get frustrating.
  This game also has many extras that are unlocked by playing the game again which earns you points. 
 Many things will change how many points you earn after each section, such as how many creatures 
 you killed, if your friends were injured, or even how long you take.
  In short... Great graphics, great story, but way too short.
  (Product of a member of the Hall 
 Of The Scribes Union) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demon75
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 14, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  King Kong is one of the most immersive FPS's I have ever played. All elements come together to 
 put you onto Skull Island. The sound is amazing, your crew will warn you about the direction of 
 approaching monsters. The graphics are awesome, maybe not the best on the 360, but still great 
 looking. The presentation adds to the realism by not giving you a HUD. The game also occasionally 
 switches to 3rd person allowing you to take over as Kong. It's a nice break from the Jack Driscoll 
 led 1st person view. Kong's actions can feel like a repetitive button masher but you won't care 
 because you'll be in awe at the sense of size and speed you feel during his stages of running and 
 jumping thru the jungle. 
  
  One major downside is that it has glitches in some scripted events. I ran into a couple issues 
 where charachters disappeared or needed fire pits were not present. I restarted the level and it 
 was fixed.
  
  You may want to rent this game because it is very short, or maybe wait for it drop to bargain price. 
 Just be sure to play it at some point, especially if you want a break from sci-fi first person 
 titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grave_rob
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 12, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  I would strongly urge anyone reading this NOT to buy KONG. No matter how huge of a fan you are 
 of the film.... however, if you own a 360: you owe it to yourself to RENT this game. Here's why:
 
  
  THE GOOD: The game is beautiful. Lots of amazing animals & scenery that fill every corner you turn. 
 It really looks like Skull Island. Sounds is great (especially if you have a rad system) . The "mix-it-up" 
 gameplay adds a good amount of variety to the game. Not just the fact that you can play as man 
 - or KONG, but the FPS segments are not your standard "get key to pass through this door, kill 
 enemies, etc" nonsense. There's some puzzles & use of your environment. I also liked the atypical 
 way the game is in widescreen with no hub (no crosshairs, health bar, ammo #, etc)
  
  THE BAD: This game is SHORT. I mean, short as in you could beat it in one sitting, easy. Even with 
 the added bonus of playing as two very different characters the game gets extremely repetitive. 
 When you're playing Adrian Brodie's character chances are you're trying to find fire. & when you're 
 KONG you're button mashing like a madman. I should also mention my biggest complaint about KONG 
 is having to hear Jack Black's final line from the movie, again in the game... man that guy gets 
 on my nerves.
  
  In conclusion everyone should RENT kong. Tt's a great way to spend a rainy day inside. However, 
 BUYING it would be a complete waste of money as the game is short & offers pretty much NO replay 
 value whatsoever. Still it's something that shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_fat_bum
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  well i dont really know how to put this. this is a good game but also a bad game. the goods: well 
 the sounds is very good. i like the king kong effects and when ur about to die, it has like a heart 
 beat and its all red and slow mo. the gameplay is also very well done. very simple yet complex. 
 especially for king kong!
  The bads: the graphics aint that good at all. it seems like imn bak on the xbox. i was really pissed 
 that there was no health bar. i didn't know how much im dieing or living cause there is no fing 
 healthbar! i also hate the fact that ur jack most of the time. for goodness sake its a game about 
 king kong, not jack! 
  over all this game seems bad, but i recommend it for big monster fighting gamers, but be warned, 
 there is not a lot of monster fighting! 
  i didnt really spend a lot of time because my brothers didnt want it so ya. . . ENJOY : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 11, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  This should have never even been made. I mean honestly this has to be the poorest excuse for a 
 game ever concieved. This is supposed to be an FPS, but you can't even see your gun until you pull 
 it out. There's no HUD at all, and two hits from anything and your dead. While it's very simple 
 to play through, it should be given away for free instead of costing $60. The movie sucked and 
 the game couldn't have been any worse if it tried. Peter Jackson needs understand that his movie 
 was terrible and the game was broken. I mean he probably has spent 5 times what he made soley in 
 advertising. Don't even bother with this unless you need a fast 800 GS. It really only takes about 
 20 minutes to get 800GS off of this game if you know what you're doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 11, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  As being one of the first 360 games released this is not a bad game at all. Stunning visuals, sound 
 effects and music score all add up but they need a finishing touch... and thats the gameplay. After 
 playing King kong for about a month i realised it had potential to make it a hit... though did 
 get repetitive. The occasional burning of bushes, annoying scarce amount of ammo (Though realistic 
 if stranded on an island) , running from the odd dinosaur and dying a couple of time seems what 
 i expected from first looks of the game. Though the game was short. They tried to give the game 
 a bit more of a movie by allowing you to play the role as Jack who is the lead actor in the film! 
 Though if you had just heard about the game you would have thought straight away of Peter Jacksons 
 previous 3rd person action game LOTR but no this is completely different (ish) . When you get to 
 play as Kong all the LOTR game memories come rushing back as you play the beast in 3rd person. 
 This was quite annoying as you could occasionally go off frame and completely lose the plot of 
 where your going! The human bits personally i thing is better as you get to fully interact with 
 your environment!
  
  overall this game is great with the odd occasional toughie! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroidmaniac88
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 10, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  King Kong is a FPS, but you also get to play as kong himself. The game is very short, it only took 
 me around 6 hours to finish it. The bad thing is that there really is much of a reason to go back 
 and play it through again. So replayablilty is very low. The gameplay is goodenough. Youll have 
 tommy guns, pistols, sniper rifles, and shotguns. If you dont have ammo left you can also throw 
 speres and bones. You will run out of ammo, as they only give you a very restricted number of rounds. 
 Playing as Kong is fun and very simple. There really isnt much room for error, except if you let 
 a big v-rex eat her. This game ends very short , so its hard to really care about Jack or Ann or 
 Jack Blacks character. This game is worth the rent, thats what I did. But if youd rather own it, 
 wait until you can find it in a bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  Ok, where to start This is a FPS that pretty much tries to cash in on two things: a movie license 
 and an early xbox 360 release. Unfortunately you can tell they are trying to do this because of 
 the lack content, graphical quality, and options, both in the start up menu and what your character 
 is capable of.
  Ok Ill break that down a bit. The graphics are mediocre at best. Some creatures look cool, but 
 in general everything looks dark, too dark. When you can see the environments, they all look pretty 
 much the same, not much variety.
  Sound is pretty good, but oddly annoying at times
  Gameplay is OK, but nothing special. The dark graphics actually hurt the gameplay as you can sometimes 
 not see where your NPCs went off to or where you are supposed to go. The weapons are kind of annoying, 
 especially how often youre fighting with just a spear. The entire aiming system seems regressive, 
 and quite frankly is not only not next gen, its not even living up to last gen. Youre character 
 also seems really limited in what he can do: he can pretty much just run and shoot. Theres a lack 
 of jumping and climbing and a complete lack of interaction with the environment. All those things 
 seem very regressive to me; certainly not up to the standards of next gen, even if it is an early 
 xbox360 game.
  The main problem with the gameplay is this: its just not fun to play. It gets boring VERY fast. 
 After about 1 hour I was ready to return this game. Its not because its buggy or anything like 
 that, its just because not a whole lot is happening gameplay wise. Just a big yawn fest. Oh well.
 
  The story is, well, the movie. Enough said, if you liked the movie you'll like the game story.
 
  Overall its an OK game, not good, not horrible. Worth buying? No, not even close. Its barely 
 worth renting. Id rent it. After five days I pretty much guarantee you wont want to play this 
 game ever again. Again, its not a horrible game. Its just that its really regressive and feels 
 like youre on rails the entire game. Theres no sense of immersion or effort on the part of the 
 developers. Rent it; dont buy it unless it costs less to buy than rent. I finished the game in 
 half a day. There's barely any content in this game. And what's there isn't all that great
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This hame has it's ups and downs just like any other game. However, there are some seriously tense 
 moments in the game that make it worth a rental until the completion of the game is accomplished. 
 You have to be truly a fan of the genre, the movie, and kong himself to purchase this game. If 
 you only qualify in some, not all, of the listed categories, then rent the game first before you 
 even think about buying the game.
  
  The highlights of the game are obviously the parts where you play as kong and seriously wail on 
 some t rexes, bats, and raptors. The most exciting parts that you will play while assuming the 
 role of Jack in the game are the parts where you are being chased by the t rexes. This is by far 
 the most heart pounding part of the game and is one that should be relived over and over again. 
 
  
  Despite the highlights mentioned above, the longest titled game on the 360 lineup is still one 
 that should be tested before completely enthralled in this experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 4, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  1st of all... it somewhat follows the movie. The action is more envolved in here... and there is 
 alot more action in this one. I have to say I enjoyed this more than I enjoyed the movie. It was 
 not that long of a gaming experience... but it was good enough to say I owned it. If you paid the 
 60 dollar tag from the start... I can not say the 360 visuals were the best it could get... it is 
 ok... but if you pay the current 40 dollar tag... yea its better now. The game looks pretty good... but 
 to me.. it is not a nex-gen step up. When I think of nex-gen I was pure visual realism... that is 
 what we are supposed to be in stepping into the new world of this XBOX??? isn't??? The game looks 
 good... but there could have been a better step up in visuals. The targeting on this game is to 
 easy... and the controls are not that great. The story is on the lines of the movie, but have a 
 few things left out... you kinda have to go on guesses if you have not seen the movie. The game 
 is a good buy for a collection though. UBISOFT did a good job to bring the action to a 1st person 
 shooter type bringing... its not to bad... if you can get it less than $40 dollars... it is a sure 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soulreavercross
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is one of the rear gems that do the movie-game translation well. Following in the footsteps 
 of The Lord of The Rings series, this game breaks the curse of game-movie license and brings to 
 you an experience you will never forget.
  
  Graphically, this game is amazing. I was utterly amazed with the level of details in this game. 
 Few games look this well on the PS2, Game Cube or X-Box, pushing the graphical capabilities of 
 the console to its limits. Being one of the first great games on the X-Box 360, this game also 
 looks amazing, however you would expect a little more out of the X-Box 360, nevertheless, the detailed 
 graphics and awesome lighting effects, makes this title stand out strong.
  
  The game is both a First Person Adventure and a Third Person Action. You play as man in the First 
 Person Adventure parts and you play as Kong in the Third Person Action. Both modes are merged together 
 within the storyline so you cant choose who you want to play as and when. 
  
  While playing as man, you will have to overcome various obstacles and puzzles in the game, many 
 of the puzzles include finding handles to turn and open doors or finding fire to burn some bushes 
 blocking your path. While playing as man, it gives you a real survival feeling because ammo is 
 rear to find and you will often have to pick up and throw at enemies, sharp bones or spears in 
 order to conserve your supply. The overall graphics, being so great only adds more to your overall 
 unique experience
  
  While playing as Kong, you will mainly have some platform jumping, which is really easy to do, 
 and mainly fight of dinosaurs and the human savages of the island and destroy their villages as 
 you pass through. Kongs adventure isnt as long as mans.
  
  In both modes whenever you are injured badly, the screen turns read, all you have to do is stop 
 or avoid taking damage and you health will recharge itself. There are no health packs in this game. 
 Saving can be done at anywhere in the game however you will sometimes start at the beginning of 
 the chapter of somewhere in the middle. The chapters for each mode arent long to complete. Some 
 of them are as short as ten minutes or as long as half an hour. Luckily whenever you die, you start 
 not to far from where you died from. There is no jumping in the while playing as man therefore 
 theres no platform jumping. This game is single player only, theres no multiplayer mode, some 
 unlockables and short.
  
  The major flaw of this game is that its too short. A weekend rental and you will finish this game 
 so I would not recommend buying it unless you wish to go after all the unlockables. I would recommend 
 you play this game one way or the other because it is like an experience like no other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g33zer
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is a fairly decent game, mixing action adventure with first person shooter can be a good 
 thing whilst in this title it is hard to get to grips with. The buttons are weird holding down 
 left trigger to aim does not seem right. This title is a great game for gamerscore whores as you 
 could complete it within eight hours, and each of the achievemets get completed within the main 
 story.. The graphics are clean but sometimes grainy and too dark, outside on a HDTV looks stunning. 
 Hardcore gamers will bore easily, try if you like movie/game conversions. The extras and different 
 game ending is something new but feels like it is just put the to prolong the experience. The game 
 could have been so much more but sadly the developers couldn't live upto a great movie. This feels 
 like the same old movie game tie-in. I would not buy this title but rent it as it offeran all round 
 mediocre experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomisimon
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  A medium length game, strong plot, and follows the movie rather well, challenging in places but 
 noting that cant be overcome with a bit of practice. With inovative adaptation of difficulty to 
 suit the way you play.
  
  A good game for increasing your gamerscore with the points being given for things done in the game 
 any way as opposed to the desriptions which makes them sound a little more challenging then they 
 are in reality.
  
  small learning curve required to be able to aim without the aid of a rectile and the lack of HUD 
 but nothing major.
  
  best played in wide screen with a slightly higher then usual contrast due to the dark sections 
 in the games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littleplaya319
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  The game is fun with good graphics but it to short and has terrible replay value, and value. This 
 game is a game that after beating you'll forget about it in about a week and never hardly rememer 
 it. It has good gameplay but there is one thing I find stupid. Whenever you get attacked it has 
 this stupid hail mary church quire whatever music playing and the screens goes almost red so you 
 basically have to spray and pray while listening to women singing it's pretty stupid. I would recommend 
 this game for a rental, buy it and you wasted some valuable money that you could have used to get 
 someting a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 2, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  This game is awful. Peter Jackson's King Kong the official game of the movie is s long of a title 
 it wil make your tounge twist. This game is soooo straightforward it makes you wonder what kind 
 of island are you on. You are surrounded by 3 compplete idiots who don't do anything but just ask 
 for your help. There is no aiming reticule so that makes it hard to aim prcisely when it is needed. 
 You also have no health or ammo meter so this makes it even harder. And when you do get hurt this 
 weird music plays and the screen turns red so you can't see thus allowing yourself to get hurt 
 even more. The story is stupid and completely ripped from the movie. At least in other movie games 
 like spiderman 1 and 2 they actually added other enemies from the comics and changed the plot a 
 bit. This is awful and lasts about as long as the movie. But on the positive side you get 1000 
 gamerscore points for beating the game. So if you really want the points suck it up and just blow 
 through it. If not go spend your $1.50 on some gum. Because that is the overall worth of this game.
 
  
  Graphics: Probably the only good thing about this game if you have the xbox360.
  
  Sound: annoying teammates screaming for help
  
  Replayabiltity: 0 nothing take your points 
 and leave
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittengrr666
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 2, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  OK. It's fun to be chased by V-Rexs. It was interesting to see Kong. It was
  
  Ahh screw it. The game was interesting until I saw the movie. Then the game was linear, slow and 
 annoying. No surprises.
  
  There was no suspension of disbelief. You are practically herded through one set piece to another. 
 It is repetitive. It was frustrating, and most annoyingly you cant even JUMP.
  
  Imagine walking around, being able to see where you can get to, but having to walk about to find 
 the stair because you cant JUMP. You cant CLIMB. In this day and age, it is pathetic.
  
  Even worse is the darkness. This doesnt make it atmospheric it makes it annoying. You cant see 
 anything, and when you turn the brightness up what you see isnt worth it.
  
  However the most evil thing of all was how easy it was. Please tell you that youre going to be 
 renting this, not buying it
  
  Leave this one alone, even if they did get the cast to provide the voices.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 27, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  The Good: you can play as king kong which is really huge and awesome and he's very strong as well. 
 and you got fantastic graphics everything from the lightning the shadows the textures the graphics 
 is just very good, and a hudless mode which is both good and realistic, but at the same time not 
 very good.
  
  The Bad: as i said the hudless mode is not so good but still nothing that effects me much, and 
 it does have some design issues but those doesn't effects me.
  
  this game is not an amazing, revolutianory game that blew me away but still a great game because 
 i've seen the movie and then i understand everything better, and you can play as king kong and 
 more stuff is good with this game and i recommend to see the movie first and then play the game!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZianGama
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 25, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is OK if you only have minute to play it here and there but if you plan on renting this 
 game and beating in one night then you basically just wasted 6 bucks, but if you have 5 minutes 
 here and there you will enjoy this game for it is fun but way to short but please by all means 
 go rent it it is definantly worth it and it is also pretty easy to get the hang of so it's not 
 like it's confusing or anything but if you truly want an epic FPS experience on the 360 go rent 
 Perfect Dark Zero! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCrazy9025
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 21, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Good game, though it is quite short and after you beat the game you'll probably play it for a few 
 more hours. Although i like the way the put it seems like you playing a movie, great graphics, very 
 fun to move kong though I wish they can give you more moves to fight, moving jack is fun great fighting 
 dinosaurs, scorpions, bats etc. Fun game to play but I don't recommened it to people who spend hours 
 of playing you'll beat it quick if you play games once in a while and want to try something new 
 this is the perfect game for you. So far this is one of the best movie games, why can't all games 
 based on movies be this good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 7
Date: May 19, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Its probably not a good idea to play this game if you havent seen the movie. This game does an 
 admirable job of showing Peter Jacksons remake of the Kong legacy through the eyes of Jack Driscoll, 
 the screenwriter for Carl Denhams newest movie picture. This picture will be shot entirely on 
 location at the mysterious Skull Island. Of course, no band of adventurers can go anywhere without 
 something disastrous happens, and so it should come as no surprise that the movie crew gets stranded 
 on this remote island. The inhabitants of this island arent friendly by any stretch of the imagination, 
 and its not long before theyre out to sacrifice the entire party. While running away from the 
 Skull Islanders, Jack and his friends must battle the local fauna, particularly the bats and millipedes 
 intent on chomping them to bits. If that werent enough, theyll also have to match wits against 
 a gigantic V-Rex and a 25-foot gorilla. (Psst, that would be Kong) As the game progresses, youll 
 also be able to control King Kong during a handful of sequences.
  
  Thats the gist of the game, so how does it play? The Jack Driscoll sections unfold like a first-person 
 shooter with some minor puzzle solving thrown into the mix. Youll navigate your way through the 
 treacherous jungle, occasionally having to find levers to open doors or set fire to the thick brush 
 in order to proceed. Youll be armed with a small variety of 1920-style weaponry: a pistol, shotgun, 
 rifle, and tommy gun, but for the majority of the time, youll have to scavenge your weaponry. 
 Luckily, the natives have left plenty of spears and sharp bones around in their efforts to kill 
 you. Thankfully, you wont be going on your journey alone. Youll often have members of the film 
 crew with you, and they arent about to wander in this jungle unarmed (and theyre often able to 
 peel your enemies right off you, so theyre handy to keep around) . The HUD is amazingly uncluttered. 
 Theres no health bar or inventory displayed, creating a very immersive experience. When Jack (or 
 Kong) takes damage, the screen will turn various shades of red, depending on how close to death 
 they are. No need to search out health packs, though. Simply pausing a moment to catch your breath 
 will often heal your injuries. During the Kong segments, the view switches to third-person, and 
 the game takes on more of a platforming approach. Youll swing your way from tree to tree, climb 
 up viney walls, and wreck havoc to those gentle creatures you encounter along the way.
  
  Graphically, the game has some real shining moments, and some glaringly bad faults. The jungle 
 sequences are truly magnificent, and its easy to get lost just wandering along the narrow paths. 
 The monsters look truly horrific, from the creepy crawlies to the massive dinos, and the character 
 models look surprisingly real. The New York sequence however, looks just plain nasty. I really 
 felt that whole segment just got slapped together. Other than that, theres a couple graphic mapping 
 issues, but those pop up only on the rare occasion.
  
  The sound for Kong is top notch. The music gets rampant as the creatures attack, the voice acting 
 is on target, and all of the weapons have a real feeling to them. The only real complaint is 
 that sometimes the characters dialogue can get repetitive, or just plain wrong. Your party members 
 have a tendency to shout out warnings and advice to you as you move about, and theres several 
 times where someone has shouted out to me, Behind you! when in reality there was a scavenger 
 leaping down in front of us. And then theres the vague, Thats one of them down, that Carl Denham 
 offers up quite often, along with, Youre in the shot, Jack! 
  
  Unfortunately, the game doesnt offer a whole lot of play time. Its no trouble to get through 
 your first time in six hours, and while a scoring mode gets unlocked after youve gone through 
 it once, theres little reason to go back through the game again (unless youre really eager to 
 get that alternate ending)
  
  The game isnt horrible, but its not really a lot of fun, either. Playing as Kong is certainly 
 fun . . . the first time, but after that it just seems to be the same run through the jungle, 
 beat stuff up kind of experience, and the final segment in New York is downright appalling. King 
 Kong may be worth a rental, but its definitely not a title Id recommend owning.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 18, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  From the start you play as Jack Driscoll on Skull Island. The island is big a beautiful, and full 
 of wonder. You will learn fast that you are not alone on this island, as monster bugs and dinosaurs 
 will come after you. Jack can only use what little ammo he as and spears to defend himself and 
 for reasons never explained must also find levers to open gates. This is just a normal FPS with 
 a little puzzle solving in the mix. It's ok you really fear for your life when a T-rex is starring 
 right back at you.
  
  This will change once you get control of Kong, the real meat of the game. Kong is strong, fast and 
 can beat the crap out of anything that tries to attack him. I wish there where more stages as Kong 
 but you will have the most fun as Kong. Mad at the T-rex for giving you a hard time as Jack? Guess 
 what? Time for a little pay back as Kong and break open it jaw.
  
  You have had lots of time to see the movie so don't be afraid of spoilers, and there are lots of 
 things in the game that Peter Jackson wanted but didn't have time to put in the movie. So think 
 of it as a "King Kong plus". 
  
  It pulls you into it's world and you will want to finish it. The extra stage/ending is worth seeing. 
 So if you love the movie and are a big fan of Kong, give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepechidoone
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 17, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  the first time I played King Kong, i never thought this game would be good, but the graphics are 
 maybe just the same as the original xbox, because i really don't see any difference...
  
  I was exited when I played it, but 1 day after I finished it and with all the extras... this game 
 also is soooooo easy! you can beat it in 1 day maximum 2 days including all extras, but what made 
 me happy was the gameplay, it is innovative and easy to control Jack and kong. aslo, another thing 
 that I liked, is that i gives you a lot of points and achievements are really easy, so it can recompense 
 all the things in this game failures.
  
  SO in general this game made it good for being a launch title for X360
  
  peace out dudes! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oilwater8
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 16, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok so the game might be a little short but its sure sweet. The graphics look good wheter 360 or 
 not and the gameplay is awesome.
  
  Your main obstacles in the game will be dinosaurs of which you CANNOT kill, thorbushes, and lever-turners. 
 It can get repetitive but I hadn't lost interest once when i was playing the game. 
  
  There is gunplay in the game but if your anything like me spears are very fun to use. The main 
 weapons in the game are bladed-spears bone-spears sniper rifles shotguns tommy guns and pistols, 
 use your hands does basically nothing, it seems the punch is more of a knifing without a knife.
 
  
  Sound I thought immensly stood out i loved the roaring of kong coming through my speakers and the 
 voice acting aint half bad either, the effects of guns blood and creatures is awesome too.
  
  The tilt in this game is great i nearly picked it up immeadiately and knew everything to do.
 
  
  value isn't great I reccomend you rent it instead you can beat it in at least 5hrs.
  
  Overall this game is a huge entertainment... for a few hours until it ends, ubruptly.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CriticalDamage
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Kong is now roaring and pounding his chest on the mighty Xbox 360!
  
  The game accurately follows the movie. First you play as Jack, who's ship and film crew has wrecked 
 on a suspitious island covered in fog and fear, Argued apon if it even existed. Once ashore, you're 
 dropped right into the experience. You run around with other crew members, opening gates, gathering 
 dead and wounded, and trying to contact the ships captain, Inglehorn. When you meet face-to-face 
 with the creatures of Skull Island, Hayes gives you a Luger Handgun and you go into battle! You'll 
 fight to survive for several missions. 
  
  Then you'll be put in the roll of Kong, a tall, enormous gorilla exiled by the island natives. 
 Most of you Kong missions will be to save Anne. PLAYING AS KONG IS KING! You can jump between huge 
 walls, knock down big doors, and kick some serious DINOSAUR ASS! There will be times where you 
 have to go against 2-3 V-Rexes at a time. Kong will also fight many mighty creatures of Skill Island. 
 You will jump between the roles of Jack and Kong til the game is over. 
  
  Graphics are great on the Xbox 360. Sound is suberb. Gameplay is top-notch (like when you get hurt 
 real badly, your vision will be beating red, you'll hear your cries in pain, while sad opera music 
 plays. Totally puts you in on the emotion level.) Jack Black and Niomi Campbell reprise their roles 
 in the video game verison of King Kong. 
  
  Game isn't that long, about 5-6 hours (If you're an achievement addict, EASY POINTS!!!) . But otherwise 
 from its short length, King Kong is a great game. If you are a fan of the Peter Jackson movie, 
 or a action/strategy person, you will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerZer0
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 10, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  King Kong shows to me the 360 power it really brings out the graphics in the game and I don't have 
 and a hd tv so you can only imagine how it would look on hd I think its a buy I rented it I liked 
 it and I bought it.. its kind of short though.. some people may want something longer.. the average 
 gamer could probably beat it in 10 hours.. for a hardcore gamer Id say about 7 I still like it and 
 Id recommend it to anyone who's thinking of buying it its a great game.. but rent it first to make 
 sure its in your interest.. me as a gamer I always rent before buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magc_82
Rating: 6
Date: May 5, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  With such a mouthful of a title, "Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Offical Game Of The Movie", you'd 
 expect a mouthful of a game that closely follows the storyline set forth in the movie, right?
 
  
  Wrong on both counts. This game is fairly short, easily under the eight hour mark. (It took me 
 seven, but thats with a dinner break.) And it follows very little of the storyline from the movie, 
 however, this does prove to be one of the more interesting aspects of the game, seeing how it differs, 
 and how they tie in the events in the game with key events in the movie.
  
  I enjoyed playing as Jack Driscoll more than playing as Kong. Playing as Kong seemed to be more 
 of a buttonmasher of an excuse to get Kong into the game somehow. When you play as Jack, its almost 
 Resident Evilish, with you needing to conserve ammo, use your surrondings as weapons (see that 
 pile of bones, they make good spears) , and even had some good sequences of intense action. Unfortunately, 
 between Kong and Driscoll, there's not enough of it. The interweaving between Kong and Driscoll 
 is interesting and well done, however.
  
  The achievement points can be gained by simply beating the game once, however, the game does have 
 some special features you can unlock by beating it again, and by using a code you recieve in the 
 game on the website.
  
  Unfortunately, this makes two X360 games I've reviewed that make better rentals than purchases. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boarding4ever
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 5, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  i mostly rented this game for the quick achievments. it only takes about 6 and a half hours to 
 beat. The graphics in this game are okay but the environments can look very good a some points. 
 Playing as kong is awsome but is way to short. The shooting is easy and not that fun. A good rent 
 and easy achievments. this game would have been better if a little more thought had been put into 
 the story line the creators chose for it. The AI also isn't that smart and can easly be beaten 
 especially when your higher than they are because they just run and are easy targets. The best 
 part has to be playing as kong
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 3.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  This game fails to do anything the movie has done the movie was revolutionary and this game is 
 crap. I borrowed it from a friend and beat this game in 3 hours i got a 1000 points for beating 
 the game this game and games like this have screwed the gamerpoint system. The fps stuff is crap 
 the only part i had some fun was playing as kong and you don't get to play with him most of the 
 game.
  
  I can only recomend this game if you can stomach this to get achievements and make sure you rent 
 the game if you are an extreme king kong fanatic then get this game that is the only reason i would 
 ever recomend to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Col-Ancient
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 27, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Ok I bought this game solely on the fact that there was no copies of CoD2 left and I was dying 
 to FINALLY play my Xbox 360 so I bought King Kong. Little did I know I would end up preparing to 
 sell it for a 4th of the price I paid for it. 
  
  Ok the game takes about 6-10 hours to beat depending on your gamer skills. 
  The graphics and 
 sound arn't bad though. At times it is challanging but it is VERY easy at best throughout most 
 of the game. After you beat it and get the achievements you wonder "Why did I ever buy this?". 
 After you beat the game there is nothing left to do but play it over and over again. Great for 
 a one time thing but nothing anywhere near fun after that.
  
  Rent it first then decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BFGbearer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Compelling action scenes make up for the easiness of this game. Despite a few hard levels this 
 game can be finished in a matter of days. Kong battles should be harder and longer. Some of the 
 levels get very repetitive. The gun selection is ok. Graphics are surprisingly good despite a few 
 glitches. I found myself in the same situation every level, trying to find fire to burn down bushes, 
 then trying to find a stick (I don't know why they would want to hide a stick) to open the door. 
 Best level would have to be the whole New York scene with Kong. Swatting down airplanes if fun.... 
 until you die.... I give this movie a B+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinjennison
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 26, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 8.0 
  This game is awarded an 8/10 for gameplay more for the excellent job it does at immersing the player 
 in the game, than for its technical gameplay merits. There is no dual wielding, vehicles, melee 
 attacking (at least in the FPS part of the game) or any of the exciting things that are starting 
 to become staples in all the new popular FPS titles. Hell, there isn't even a reticule! But that's 
 where the fun starts. 
  
  When playing King Kong, you needn't concern yourself with a reticule, health bar, ammo count or 
 anything else you might be used to seeing on your heads up display in an FPS. You have no HUD at 
 all! This does wonders for the intensity and occasional scare factor the game delivers. Since the 
 player is spending no time lining up his crosshair for the kill, the game offers quick and thrilling 
 encounters with enemies. An example might be you frantically running away and shooting at a massive 
 T-rex, or quickly turning and firing at a Pterodactyl that is suddenly swooping in your path. Although 
 it's very simple gameplay, it's done well and is arguably the most enjoyable aspect of the game. 
 
  
  About 30% of the game is not an FPS, as you take control of Kong himself and unleash destruction 
 on everything in your path. This is as fun as it sounds AT FIRST, but quickly grows tiresome as 
 you hammer the same couple buttons to kill the same few enemies and complete jumps where you have 
 very little control over where you are jumping. 
  
  There is also a puzzle-solving element to King Kong, but much like the Kong levels, it is intersting 
 at first and quickly grows repetitive as the game designers either decided to use similar puzzles 
 over and over out of laziness or simply ran out of development time (the latter being more likely) . 
 
  
  Graphics 8.0 
  Discounting the benefits gained from an HD display, the graphics in the xbox 360 version of King 
 Kong are still an improvement over what is offered on the other platforms. These improvements include 
 but are not limited to the lighting, geometry, textures, fire effects and the hair that covers 
 King Kong. On an HD display this is an impressive looking game in many ways, although some things 
 (like the character's faces) do suffer from the "multiplatform effect". Something that should be 
 mentioned, this is a very dark game and will be hard to see on certain displays unless you adjust 
 the brightness, and that can lead to a washed out image. It seems to look best on LCD type screens 
 as they are generally very bright. 
  
  Sound: 8.5 
  The game performs strongly in the aural department as well, offering excellent voice-acting from 
 the actual cast of the movie. The sound effects are also above average, sporting some very convincing 
 jungle sounds which are excellent at immersing the player in the game when combined with the no-HUD 
 game design. The heart pounding and heavy breathing you will hear when low on health does an admirable 
 job of keeping you on the edge of your seat. The full orchestral score is always setting the right 
 mood and is top-quality and reminiscent of the music heard in the movie. 
  
  Lasting Appeal 3.0 
  It would be very hard to convince anyone of the lasting appeal that King 
 Kong offers, because there is next to none. You can unlock some odd things like playing the game 
 as a mirror image or playing with weird artistic filters applied to the graphics but none of this 
 is what players are looking for. There isn't even multiple difficulty levels to try! You can tell 
 the development team was running out of time or something as the city level at the end of the game 
 wasn't nearly as well done as the jungle levels. It just felt empty. 
  
  Achievements 3.0 
  The achievements are as weak as the replay value. Play through the game once, 
 and you have them all. They have strange names though, which at least makes it not overtly obvious 
 that they are just awarded for completing levels. 
  
  + Very immersive 
  + Successfully captures the spirit of the film 
  
  - No replay value 
  - No multiplayer 
 
  
  King Kong is clearly just offering a single player experience, and does a good job with what little 
 it offers. However, if a game is only going to offer a single player experience there needs to 
 be a lot more than 5-7 hours of it. 
  
  Final Score (Not an Average) 
  7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechosenone827
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie is a really good game for the Xbox 360. 
 Those who have not played this game are really missing out on an enjoyable gaming experience. I 
 watched the movie and did not like it, but I really liked this game. The graphics look very good, 
 the rocks and environments are very detailed and the characters look pretty good too, you can tell 
 it looks just a little bit better than the original Xbox version. The sounds are very good, and 
 the voice acting is good, even though the characters lips don't move very much. The game play is 
 very good, it plays like a first person shooter with guns and you also get to throw spears and 
 fire-lit spears to turn things on fire. The game play of the Kong levels is good as well, but there 
 are not enough levels to play as Kong. The levels are very short, there are some levels that require 
 you to just run to the other side of the screen less than 1 minute without shooting anything. As 
 I mentioned earlier, I did not like the movie, but I really liked this game. King Kong is a really 
 good game that does a great job of re-telling the story of the movie with good game play, voice 
 acting, and game play. I would not recommend that you buy this game because it is really short, 
 but I will recommend that you give it a rental because it is a really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmycanuck
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 18, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie does something that no game before has 
 accomplished - it reproduces the intensity and pacing of it's source perfectly while creating a 
 fully immersive gameworld filled with all the trappings that make a game great. Solid first person 
 combat, ammo conservation, environmental puzzles - it's all there, and it never feels out of place.
 
  
  Of course, no great success comes without great sacrifice, and despite this being a fantastic game 
 that everyone should play once, Kong suffers from a fatal flaw - time. At most this game will take 
 you 7 or so hours to complete, and offers little to no replay value. Although in many ways, the 
 game's length is as much it's strength as it is it's weakness. Keeping things short ensures solid 
 pacing. You can easily complete the game in one sitting as the story unfolds in such a compelling 
 manner that you won't want to put down the controller. Had the game been lengthened artificially, 
 it may have seriously dampened the experience. 
  
  The gameplay itself is rock solid, and if you happen to play the XBox 360 version you'll be treated 
 to some of the best graphics available at launch. Just make sure to give this one a rent or wait 
 for a significant price drop. As great as this title is, 7 hours of gameplay and no replay value 
 just doesn't justify a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is a fun Action adventure game. Its a lot better on the Xbox 360 for its great graphics, 
 but lets get onto the review.
  
  King Kong was made for peopole who liked the movie and for people to have fun. Although levels 
 can be short, its still fun to go around and shoot up dinosaurs.
  
  The voice acting is pretty clear, the guns sound pretty good too. The animal sounds sound thrilling 
 like the movie too.
  
  Overall, this game is worth playing, but once u beat it u'll probably not play it for a while or 
 ever again because its old once you blow through it. But check out King Kong, for people who like 
 shooters and beat 'em ups.
  
  8.4 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kutmen55
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  well, it is a cool game. you get to play as both Kong and I think the dude's name is Jack but i 
 dont remember ( in real life i have not met one person named Jack by the way) . Anyway, i enjoyed 
 playing as both but being a dude seemed a little cooler. Being Kong sounds cool and all but you 
 have very limited rules and he doesnt look all that great and it seems the developers did the most 
 they could do to put the least amount of real movie clips which in this case is 1 at the beginning. 
 Just when it starts to get fun BAM its over. rent it or waste 50 bucks... i think thats how much 
 it costs now. Good day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffdog_65
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I expected King Kong to be a lot worse. Gameplay is fairly good, but the graphics arent quite next 
 gen. Sound is surprisingly good but i dont think it would be worth the $60.00 price tag. One thing 
 about this game though. The back of the case says 1-2 players. But there is only single player 
 story mode. There is no xbox live or multiplayer of any sort. When u play as Kong, the game pretty 
 much becomes a button masher, but its still better than playing as man. This game u can get into, 
 but once u've beaten it, its not really worth playing again. The achievements for it are very easy. 
 I wuld much rather play this game than sit in Mark's class teaching me Geometry. This game is pretty 
 good, but i dont suggest buying it. Rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tina661
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  If your a casual gamer looking for a game that will hold your interest and want to rack up some 
 XBL gamer points than this is the game for you. The game has easy achievments that can be attained 
 just by playing the game and does not have a complicated control scheme. The graphics are done 
 well and game play is pretty straight forward. Most of the puzzles can be figured out after a few 
 attempts and you dont have to worry about getting lost in the levels. Surprisingly the AI in the 
 game is fairly good. You dont have to constantly worry about your fellow adventurers getting themselves 
 killed every 5 seconds. However, thats not to say that this game doesnt have negative aspects. 
 The game is unbelieevably short. I completed it in less than 8 hrs over a span of 1 1/2 days. Wouldve 
 been a complete let down if I had bought the game. Wish there was more Kong levels. Over all definatly 
 rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-0ne
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  Summary:
  + Highly immersive
  + Brilliant voice acting and music score.
  + One of the best Movie-games to date.
  - Very short
  - Graphics are good but not exactly 'Next-Gen'
 
  
  Peter Jacksons King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie has got to be one of the most ridiculous 
 and unnecessary names for a game ever, so for the rest of this review I will refer to it simply 
 as King Kong.
  
  So, on with the review: As you all know this game is based on the award-winning film King Kong, 
 directed by the almighty Peter Jackson (Lord of the Rings Trilogy) . Luckily, Ubisoft had Peter 
 play a big part in the game and it shows. From the tension of being a powerless human armed with 
 nothing more than a spear and some bones, to being the king of the jungle and being all powerful, 
 it all feels truly epic and cinematic.
  
  The voice acting is great, using the real actors for voice-overs and each line is delivered expertly 
 well. The music score is top-notch aswell fitting in perfectly with the situations at hand.
  
  There is no HUD (heads up display) in this game which also adds to the immersion, instead you 
 have to rely on your eye for aiming weapons, and if you get hit the screen will go red around the 
 edge and you can hear loud heart beats, then if you get hit once more while in this state you're 
 done for!
  
  There is an alternative ending that you get for completing the game 100% I won't spoil anything 
 for you but it is definately worth the extra playthrough.
  
  But it's not all good, King Kong is an extremely short game and will only take about 6-8 hours 
 to breeze through, so it is recommended that you rent it. Also the graphics are nice but are not 
 quite on par with alot of the 360's other games.
  
  All-in-all this is a thrilling, immersive, tense and original game well worthy of an 8.5 score
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: treyskillz
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  Like I said before pimpin' King Kong or Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Offcial Game of the Movie 
 for XBOX360... (man thats a long title) is a good game worth a rental. I know what you might think 
 its "a movie game, so it sucks...", you'd be wrong abut this game. 
  
  King Kong has a good story, good graphics, and good sound, but after you beat it, the game has 
 no replay value. Also is a very short game, and is not worth $60, so I suggest going to your local 
 Blockbuster (or wannabe Blockbuster) and pick this up. Trust me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 13, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  King Kong is a pretty amazing game with great graphics, sound, and gameplay. The only problem is 
 that it is pretty short. I'd say about 6-7 hours of gameplay if you're an experienced gamer. Anyway, 
 it's just like the movie: People find island, girl gets captured, girl gets sacraficed to a giant 
 gorilla, giant gorilla grows to like her, girl gets to like giant gorilla, blah... blah... blah... 
 Your role in the game is to get to the girl (her name's Ann) and rescue her. There's some very 
 stunning graphics to be found in this game. VERY STUNNING!!! The music, sound effects, and voice 
 talents are also quite amazing. The gameplay is great, because you can play as both the hunter 
 (Jack) , and the massive gorilla known as King Kong. With all of these things mixed together, a 
 perfect game could have been made. Sadly the game falls short... literally!!! Still, a great game 
 to rent on a weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carbogo
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 4, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I just played tis game again and beat it after watching the movie on DVD. I really played it beacuse 
 it was good for an easy 1000 added to my Gamerscore.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  This game is nicely paced with a fair amout of checkpoints similar to the Call of Duty Series, 
 this way you are not repeatedly doing the same thing over and over and over. I felt that the pacing 
 was fair, I was eagerly waiting to use Kong for the first time.
  
  The game looks like a first person game from most of the screens. Somehow I feel tha the camera 
 is a bit crowded and wish I saw more on the sides, especiallyin teh caves where I always seem to 
 lose my bearings...
  
  The puzzles in the Jack missions are all pretty sweet, just enough to get you thinking without 
 pulling our hair out. The Kong missions are more traversing through the jungle and mainly wrestling 
 mechanics for fighting the dinos and bats, the puzzles were not a big part of the Kong missions.
 
  
  Some "missions" felt like all I did was walk from point A to point B just so I caould hear some 
 voice overs, then I would load the next. there are over 30 "missions" when I first saw that I was 
 surprised, after a few "mission" I understood why there were so many, the levels are short for 
 many missions...
  
  GRAPHICS
  The world textures are pretty nice, I was actually surprised at how nice everything felt. Even 
 though the general feeling I had was, "too dark" I bumped up my TV's brightness to play. 
  
  I'm not too crazy about the character models, I guess I was hopeing for fully rezed up characters, 
 Ann's dress texture/shader was so flat (kinda nit picky - but it bothered me since it was a flesh 
 color) . I was also disappointed on Kong's face, I was expecting more polys to get more definition/emotion 
 out of the face.
  
  SOUND
  I'm not a a big sound buff, but I did play in 5.1 and didn't really notice any particlar cues coming 
 from my back speajers to hint that something may be behind me... Maybe I was too in to the game...
 
  
  VALUE
  I think this game should bea $30 - $40 game at this point the DVD is out its a first gen game. 
 There is very little replay value. I actually personally consider this a rental or a borrow from 
 a buddy game. It's part of my collection just cause it was a first Gen game.
  
  TILT
  So I love the idea I can play as Kong or Jack, but knowing 
  ---SPOLIER ---
  
  ... but knowing 
 that Kong will eventually die (hey some people may not know) kinda made me wonder how the game 
 was going to end... I wish there were a way we could change the outcome or at the very least prolong 
 the inevitable...
  
  ---END SPOILER ---
  I wish that they were actually seperate perspectives on the same maps with different goals. Imagine 
 if the 360 recorded you (kinda like ghosts in Mario Cart games do) as Kong fighting off dinos, 
 and then you play as jack next where you are escaping the "monsters" in the same fight where you 
 were just Kong...
  
  Overall I think this is a great game for a weekend or to boost your morale if you haven't beaten 
 a game in a while (like me) ... Heck give the game a try if you need an extra 1000 points on your 
 360... This is a decent game for a port. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kierlack15
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Overall, this game has a lot of potential. The layout is pretty good. You start off as Jack, and 
 are sailing to Skull Island to shoot your friend Carl's movie. Moving throughout the game is smooth, 
 and while on Skull Island you will fight as both Jack and King Kong himself, as well as using your 
 brains to overcome some puzzles.
  
  When playing as Jack no health bar or ammo bar will be evident. Also a crosshair is basically nonexistent. 
 By doing this the player is given a more real sense and allows for more scenery to be seen. Jack's 
 point of view is a first person shooter type in a way. You will fight both with guns and javelin-spear 
 type weapons.
  
  When playing as Kong you will be given no weapons but your own two fists. In my opinion playing 
 as Kong is the best part of this game. His movements while swinging feel real and truly give you 
 the sense of his massive size. Kong's fight scenes include some really cool effects from short 
 slow-motion trips to going into a fury and becoming even more powerful.
  
  The graphics on Skull Island are astounding, and can be closely related to the hills and trees 
 of The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion. In the city, however, the graphics are just not up to par. 
 
  
  Basically, as I said, this game has a lot of potential. The levels themselves are very linear and 
 leave practically no room to explore Skull Island to any extent. The game is also extremely predictable, 
 and leaves no suspense for the player. There is only one method of difficulty and although there 
 are puzzles to overcome, they tend to be repetitive and get old fast. There are unlockables that 
 relate to the movie as well as some other things for hardcore players to achieve, but for most 
 players I believe this will have no replay value and will mostly be played to get an easy 1000 
 gamerpoints. All in all, it is just an above average movie game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grae530
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  King Kong starts by you Jack landing on Skull Island the home of King Kong. The island is full 
 of surprises and tons of different enemies that you will have to fight off, either as Kong or Jack. 
 There are large insects, giant crabs, bat flying things, dinosaurs, V-Rexs, Raptors, Scorpions, 
 and more. All of these are in your way in trying to save Ann from Kong. The game generally follows 
 the movie, but there are a few differences that you will quickly see. For instance most of the 
 game consist of burning thorn bushes that are in your way, and finding wooden keys that unlock 
 doors. Constantly you will be on the hunt for these items, and you will make it a routine thing 
 throughout the game. You can throw spears and pick up guns and ammo through the game. You will 
 quickly discover that when you are given a shotgun or a sniper rifle that something bad will be 
 coming up soon. But the game isnt all about blasting your way through it with a shotgun. The game 
 gives you a very limited amount of ammo and you will mainly have to rely on throwing and stabbing 
 your enemies with spears and bones. 
  
  The game does look fantastic, or at least the levels that are on Skull Island look fantastic. The 
 graphics in New York look unfinished and very poor. The game play in the city is also very plain 
 and boring. Its like the developers of this game put all their effort into making skull island 
 and did nothing for the city which leads to a very disappointing and predictable ending. The game 
 does have a feel that you are moving through a movie. There are no health bars or ammo bars on 
 the screen. The whole screen is blank letting you take in all the amazing sights. The graphics 
 are a lot better on the 360 than the Xbox. Other than the graphics the 360 and Xbox game are the 
 same.
  
  The Extras in this game are for those that are perfectionists. Those few people that want to beat 
 the game with a perfect score. The game will score you when you go back the second time to beat 
 a level. It will score you on a variety of things that you do in the game. This does make the game 
 a lot more challenging. With the points you earn you are able to unlock some extras that are related 
 to the game and the movie.
  
  The controls of Kong are awkward and sort of weird at first but after awhile you do get use to 
 it. He isnt really hard at all to control, and it is fun to smash up stuff and throw things around.
 
  
  The game does force you down one path that leads to a very unexplorable feel. As soon as Kong starts 
 getting hard its over. If this game was only longer I would give it a better score. Although you 
 will be able to bet Kong fairly quickly, it does have some very impressive scenes and is definitely 
 worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukewind
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  King Kong is a game that was obviously put together very quickly as there is no replay value and 
 the game is very short but all that aside ubisoft put together a really good FPS expierience.
 
  
  Kong is your standard FPS, You shoot you run, You shoot You run, but they do a good job mixing 
 up the gameplay with puzzles and the segments that you play as Kong can be very enjoyable.
  
  The Graphcs in the game are very well done. There are a few minor glitches but you won't notice 
 them unless you look for them. 
  
  I would recommend this game as a definite play but rent it do not buy as playing through it once 
 will satisfy.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crisisinlondon1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 2, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  You've seen a lot of crappy movie to game transitions, Catwoman, Fantastic Four, etc. How would 
 you fancy if I offered you a good one? King Kong is a first person/ third person adventure that 
 puts you in Jack's shoes and Kong's big hairy ape feet. When you first start the game you'll notice 
 there is no hud, this only adds to the experience. Yo have no health bar but you won't even miss 
 it at all. Your screen will simply flash red when you are hurt. The game's graphics are beautiful 
 and all the beasties look authentic. The gameplay as Jack breaks down to about 60 percent shooter, 
 and 40 percent puzzle. The puzzles are thin and usually easy but they still manage to add to the 
 gameplay. When you first see V Rex you'll be amazed at how well they make you feel small. You will 
 also play as Kong some of the time. Kong has simple, yet brutal moves and slick controls. The lack 
 of a HUD sometimes makes you feel like your watching a movie. King Kongs best strong point is its 
 sound. The voice acting is beautiful and the chatter keeps the game moving. The only major complaint 
 I have for King Kong is that it will only last you a few hours and doesn't offer much reason to 
 come back except a few unlockables. Overall King Kong is a must play on any console and you won't 
 be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redviper2321
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 31, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  King Kong the Movie was an immersive, beautiful movie. It had good acting, good looks, and wonderful 
 plot. And with a good movie comes a game, usually a mediocre game. But this is not the case with 
 King Kong the Game. It was an great game. Awesome graphics, great sound in 5:1, and no HUD made 
 you feel that you were Jack or Kong. As Jack, you would play the same level over and over and over 
 and over and over. The same "Go from point A to point B", "Get the lever", or "Burn the bushes" 
 got repetitive quickly. Playing as Kong was very fun, but the game needed more time as him. This 
 was a shot game though, breezing through it in 8 hours and leaving you with no replay value other 
 than to bash in some Rexes. Overall, it was a stunning game, but short and repetitive. I give it 
 a 8.2 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterles
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  i beat this game. i did.. i really did. i played through the whole game. ummm the game has two 
 parts. for 90% of the game you are jack. as jack, you are in a first person view. the first person 
 has no crossire except when using a sniper rifle, so shooting is pretty much "point anywhere close 
 to the target and you'll probally hit something" its pretty gay. then the other part of the game 
 you are kong. as kong it is pretty fun, but probally its only fun because the fps part is so gay 
 and not fun. remember. i beat the whole game. i did it. the game semi reminds me of shadow of rome. 
 shadow of rome has awesome 3rd person fighting, but super gay stealf parts. but king kong is nowhere 
 as good as shadow of rome. king kong is gay. but i beat it, and that is the most important part. 
 me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphawolf102
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I thank god i rented this game and never bought it first of all. But the one thing the game does 
 have going for it is that it has no hud at all. But compared to the Xbox version that i played 
 the game wasn't much different the only thing is the graphics. You play as Jack Discral and King 
 Kong one is FPS and one is 3rd person. One would rather use a gun the other his mighty fist of 
 fury. You play through most of the game as Jack Discral. YOu fight and fend off dinos and you usaully 
 have to find a stick for opening the doors right now i cant think of the sticks. So in my final 
 call for this short review i say no. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timmitop
Rating: 2.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  I rented this game because I had read other reviews saying it was a blast, but short. Getting some 
 easy achievement points on the way was a plus as well. Renting this game was a BIG MISTAKE!
  I started playing it, and it was pretty fun. Aside from all the glitches I encountered. The game 
 would freeze on the loading screens between levels and I would have to turn my 360 off and restart, 
 reverting me back to my previous save, resulting in playing levels over and over. There were also 
 many instances when a scripting error occurred at the end of a level, and the level wouldn't end 
 because a certain person wouldn't do what they were supposed to do to end the level. On a certain 
 level entitled "Free!", Ann is supposed to jump off a cliff onto a raft. After about 4 or 5 tries, 
 I got her to do it, then the raft just floated off the river into space and the level wouldn't 
 end.
  Then I used the unlock levels cheat just so I could get the rest of the points. There was no dialogue 
 or music on the following levels, not to mention the levels I needed to beat WOULDN'T END! I know 
 what you are thinking, and no, there weren't any scratches or marks on the disc.
  Ok, the game has good graphics- when it works. Don't waste your time on this game. Just don't.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kotor_Forever
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 27, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  With a relatively short storyline that rushes you down a single narrow path, Kong is a surprisingly 
 good game. The Kong bits are HIGHLY replayable. The first person bits are good, but may be boring 
 for action fans 
  *coughs* Halo Fans *coughs*
  For people who like adventure games, or related genres, this will be a good game. The graphics 
 are some of the best I have seen in a long time. You can toggle the crosshairs on/off. There is 
 even an online scoring system that lets you see just how good you are. But there is no multiplayer. 
 Not a huge problem, but a little annoying. Just make sure you are willing to spend $60 on a game 
 you may only play once in a couple months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Peter Jackson's King Kong is a truly thrilling videogame experience you'll remember for a long, 
 long time afterward. That said, the game itself is rather short. As the GameSpot critic duly noted, 
 you can probably blow though the entire first/third person perspective campaign in ten hours or 
 under - for those more experienced players.
  
  The first thing to note about the Xbox 360 version (I have had the chance to see all versions of 
 the game running) is that this is the best version of it available anywhere. The visuals are the 
 sharpest (and also in full HD - no other version can boast the same) and they also happen to be 
 the smoothest in terms of framerate and overall performance. The lighting and texture work here, 
 though not fully "next generation" are certainly impressive and at times, spectacular. 
  
  Just as impressive is the game's audio. Jack's breathing intensifies during those times you'll 
 dive for cover (a nice realistic element that is also used to gauge the character's health) , and 
 ambient sounds are both richly detailed and sound utterly fantastic in Dolby Digital 5.1, and most 
 especially when the volume is turned way up high. 
  
  As previously mentioned, the game has two modes for those unfamiliar with the concept on offer 
 here - a first person perspective for the majority of play and a third person perspective when 
 you control King Kong. Sadly, the Kong elements are not as plentiful as they perhaps should have 
 been, but Jack's quest never gets boring or repetitive, so there is no complaint being made here, 
 just an observation.
  
  King Kong is a brilliant, thrilling and simply fantastic game, and the Xbox 360 version looks, 
 sounds and integrates (via the Achievements system and Xbox Live Marketplace) better than any other 
 version out there. If you are going to buy any copy of this game and you have a 360, the slightly 
 higher price tag is well worth it. If you already own a copy on a previous generation console or 
 the PC, then you'll not need to bother unless you are obsessed about collecting every single version 
 of a game. In short, this is the best game based on a movie ever made - 'nuff said.
  
  Overall Score:
  
  8.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespotcrazy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  So I just got done playing King Kong, and I am overall satisfied with how it played out, but there 
 are some things that I think that should of been done to make this more of an explosive game.
 
  
  Pros
  -Sound is awesome, King Kong never sounded so scary
  -Enviroments look nice
  -Follows the movie storyline very well
  
  Cons
  -Very Repetitive
  -Character models are 
 downright cheesy
  -Very short.. about 5 hours of gameplay
  
  Replay Value
  Very Low
  
  Overall:
  I think this is one of the best rental titles you can get. You play it beat.. and 
 you liked it... but its not a game that you are going to come back scambling to play like Oblivion 
 or Ghost recon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doa_luver
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  ok well not the best game in the world, but it wuz pretty good considering its a movie. usually 
 movies that get turned into games suck! lol. but i thot it wuz good. 
  
  gameplay: the story mostly stays tru 2 the movie. of course they coultnt make it exaclty the same 
 so ya noe. ( i actually have this game on xbox, not xbxo 360 btu i couldnt find it on xbox here 
 so im jus writing a reiview 4 the 360) i liked how u could have extras 2 save king kong! thats 
 cool! (is that on the 360?)
  
  graphics: well the graphics coulda been better........... thats all there is 2 say. they weren't 
 the worst graphics ever but when ppl were talkin and stuff their mouths didnt even go wit wat they 
 were sayin! thats jus laziness! they coulda dun a better job wit that! but overall, it looked ok. 
 
  
  sound: sound wuz really good! thats all i gotta say! lol
  
  theres no xbox live 4 this so i cant review on that! lol
  
  i would say if u didnt like the 
 movie, then dont buy it! if u liked the movie only a lil bit, then rent. if u really liked the 
 movie and jus cant get enuff, then buy it and enjoy! lol! overall, i thot it wuz good, and one 
 of the best games that turned into a movie! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockin_Gemini
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry but for some reason I dont want this game. It seems wack and even though I heard the 
 movie was extremely good yet long, I STILL dont want it. At first i wanted this to play on my psp, 
 but since thats been stolen i dont even want this game anymore! It just seems soooo wack. I mean 
 first off, i HATE playing in first person, i gotta be able to play where i can see the character 
 not see through the EYES of the character. It is just so annoying to play in 1st character! so 
 like i said, i dont want this game and i advise you not to get it either. If you're cool, you wont 
 get this! The peer pressure isnt working? Damn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigmick07
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This game was just fun. The graphics are great and i never get bored with it. The sound is ok, 
 and just the overall feel of the game is great. Now everyone out there you don't have to feel guilty 
 about playing around as a big giant gorilla because this game rocks! The action in this game is 
 also great, i could fight all day long. Some of the fighting moves you can pull of are also quite 
 fun and it does eventually repeat itself but at first the fighting is great. If you are jut looking 
 for a beat um up type of game this game is great for u. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evian
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  This game shocked me, it's an extremely successful conversion from movie to game, from the instant 
 action and realistic graphics to playing as kong tearing through the jungle and kicking the crap 
 out of a T-rex (or their version of one) . The graphics I think are at their best on rocks or slippery 
 stones on the floor, they just look so real; My favourite aspect of the game is playing as Jack 
 on the levels including large dinosaurs or raptors, running through the long grass being chased 
 by some damn fast creatures really phsyches you up and lets you feel involved in the game.
  The gameplay isn't confusing at all (as Jack) and is almost too simple but when your changing between 
 Jack and Kong you won't notice this because Kong is superb and makes up for Jack, the sound is 
 what makes kong feel so huge and strong when he smacks an enemy or lauches himself on a surface; 
 and his movements are very 'chimp' like and fluid.
  As you progress through the game you meet new and different creatures which helps the pace of the 
 game, and though it's relatively short; you'll enjoy replaying the game. But the last few levels 
 set in New York aren't quite as good as they could've been, though It does stick close to the storyline 
 of the movie and little things like Jack Black doing the voice for his character (at least I think 
 he does, if not you won't be able to tell the difference) makes it a bit more enjoyable. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzima
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  This game is so overrated u have no idea!!!! The graphic is like: meh... the gameplay: worst!!! 
 innovation lacks heavily, as for the longevity (inexistent) . Rent it ONLY if you are a big fan 
 of the movie, cus the game got a lot of issues. Starting from the graphic (sometimes its so dark 
 u dont know where you are, literrally) , to the gameplay (highly boring) , there are no strong points 
 for this title.
  The only decent moments were the ones where you can use Kong: but thats not barely enough to make 
 this a good game. Not even playable for a launch title: it should not be in your collection, your 
 other games will be embarassed in having such a scrappy relative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewmgreendawg
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Running through the jungle you leap across a wall, down too the stone floor, back too a branch, 
 down to the floor. You pound on your chest and unless a savage beating upon extinct insects and 
 dinosaurs.... for 10 minutes.....
  
  Most of the game has you playing as the main character jack and it's a damn shame. While playing 
 as Jack the gameplay is basically a primative shooter... no pun intended.... with little excitement 
 aside from a big crab or a herd of brontasauras. The visuals are very nice indeed but the gameplay 
 needs a little work. The best part about the game, unarguably, is playing as Kong... smashing, killing, 
 running rampant. Sadly, this is short lived. The kong sequences only last a few minutes each. The 
 gameplay as kong is amazing.... it's just like your watching a movie except your mashing buttons 
 and ripping dino jaws yourself. 
  
  Anyways....
  
  Rent this, it's worth the rental. Just don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OdinDragoonX
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  I was able to beat this game in 5 days, so this game is no real chore, taking less then 10 hours 
 for even some slow players. The environment is beuatiful and the voice acting is taken straight 
 from the movie.
  
  At first the possibilies seem endless, you can grab spears, throw them, catch them on fire, pick 
 up bugs, but then you realize, that is pretty much it. Even though spears seem pointless to be 
 used as weapons cause of the guns, using them conserves ammo. Ammo, since it is not unlimited, 
 slows the game down a bit for people to kind of soak it in, but not by much, because ammo is not 
 a problem in the game.
  
  While the game IS in FPS, it should fall more under the Metroid Prime catagory of FPA (First Person 
 Adventure) , because of this, there is no crosshairs (unless zoomed in with sniper) . Sometimes throwing 
 spears can get frusterating when you keep missing your target.
  
  Strategy was added to the game, but after looking back at it, it still is pretty linear. When a 
 creature dies, depending on where you are at, other creatures around you will eat the corpse, distracting 
 them. This idea is also used in throwing food to lure enemies away. Only a few times in the game 
 is baiting an enemy required, other then that, it slows you down.
  
  The best part of the game is playing as Kong. Swinging around almost movie like with very cool 
 camera angles is very entertaining. However, Kong has about 5 moves, and even though you dont play 
 as Kong even close to as much as you play Jack, the fighting gets repetative. Much like God of 
 War, he will have special ways to kill certain enemies, but other then that, your looking at the 
 same attacks over and over again. It's a game your whole family could watch you play, and be amazed, 
 but after 5 minuts would bore themselves to tears.
  
  Overall the game is excellent, but it has virtually no replay value. While it DOES say 2 player, 
 it must be a typo cause there is no such thing. There are no collectables in the game, all the 
 achievements are unlocked simpily by going through the game, so the only possible reason to play 
 the levels again is for points to get bonus content. An easy rental, but the price is a little 
 steep for this game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: del_rogeo
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Film licenses frequently end up as wasted opportunities when it comes to games. Remember the game 
 version of The Crow? Of course you don't. That's because it was awful to the point of being offensive. 
 Ever since ET it has been expected that 'games-of-films' will be uninspired cash-ins. However, 
 the odd title does arrive that turns this trend on its head; Goldeneye and Die Hard Trilogy being 
 the most obvious examples. King Kong should have been one of them, and to a certain extent it is, 
 but it's also nowhere near as good as it could (and should) have been.
  
  You'll probably know by now that the majority of the game is played in first person as you make 
 your way around skull island, killing many-a-dino along the way. However, by far the most potential 
 lies in the ability to play as Kong himself at several stages of the game. And before you ask, 
 yes you can control the oversized ape as he rampages through New York. And no, it isn't anywhere 
 near as fun as it sounds.
  
  The first person adventure is generally sound, although the constant 'burn the brambles' puzzles 
 made me want to gouge my eyes out with a spoon by the time I'd hit the fifty-trillionth one. Seriously, 
 the only real puzzles in the game are either finding a lever to open a door, burning brambles, 
 hiding from dinosaurs (who seem incapable of climbing stairs) or a combination of all three. Nevertheless, 
 everything else is at least enjoyable, especially the sections involving the V-Rex.
  
  The graphics range from unbelievably beautiful to downright hideous. Lighting and rain effects 
 are amazing, but much of the vegetation that litters the island looks horrific. Overall the visuals 
 are acceptable on 360 (due to a significant improvement over other systems) but they aren't up 
 to the standard I expect from my new next-gen console. 
  
  Sound is pretty much spot-on, with great music and effects throughout. Enough said about that.
 
  
  In terms of whether Kong is worth the asking price, you have to ask yourself whether 6 hours of 
 entertaining (although never especially stunning) gameplay is worth 50. And that is essentially 
 the main problem with this game; it's frequently enjoyable, but generally underwhelming. Could 
 have been so much better, but also had the potential to be awful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmjm
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Unique Gameplay + Easy 1000 Achievement Points = Great Rental. I say this becuse unless you are 
 just dying to own it then you should rent it. I bought it at Gamestop on Friday and returned it 
 Saturday and got Madden 06 instead.
  
  The gameplay itself is very fun and unique. The standout feature in my mind being the lack of any 
 health / ammo display and no targeting reticule. It certainly does help really bring you into the 
 world of Skull Island. Each level is very immersive, the graphics are fantastic. 
  
  The sections where you play as Kong are good fun. Theres nothing better than ripping a T-Rex apart 
 with a massive angry gorilla.
  
  The combat engine for Kong is realitively easy. I was hoping for a bit more like Incredible Hulk: 
 Ultimate Destruction. 
  
  If you are playing only for the achievement points then you will be happy to know that you get 
 all the points available by just beating the game.
  
  I would definately reccomend this game as a rental only, because of the game's length, but it is 
 extremely fun and satisfying for the 7 hours you will be playing it. Again, if you are a die hard 
 Kong fan then buy it..... the game sticks with the movie so well that it is amazing how well they 
 put it together.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackHawk2599
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  Rented this game at blockbuster and beat it the same day i rented it. Ya it's that short. Gameplay 
 is very linear and straight forward, but the game still has its moments, like being chased by the 
 games "V-Rex". Graphics are good, but not as good as games like PGR3 and GRAW, but are a lot better 
 than the Xbox, PS2, and Gamecube version. The sound would be very mediocre if it wasn't for the 
 great voice acting. My problems with the voice acting though is that if it's not in a cutscene 
 it can get very repetious. The saying "more bang for your buck" does not apply to this game, its 
 short and theres no reason to go through it twice. If you want to get this game, rent it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbeamsrv
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  Peter Jackson's King Kong is probably the best game based on a movie ever. The graphics are unbelievable 
 on the XBOX 360, although I haven't played any of the other versions. There is also a good mixture 
 of play between Jack and Kong, although the Kong parts tend to be much shorter even though they 
 are a blast. I have two complaints about the game: first, like most other reviewers, the city part 
 of the game is way too short; second, the game itself is short. Overall, though, the game is definitely 
 worth playing. I bought it, but most people would probably say to rent it. I haven't played it 
 much since I beat it, so I think renting is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rye96
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 16, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I think Kong is a must play for the 360. Being Kong and raging against T Rex's and other wild beasts 
 on my 62" DLP in High Def was phenomenal. This was a very intense game at times. I liked the real 
 actors playing the roles for the game and the fact that Peter Jackson was so involved. I played 
 Beyond Good and Evil last year in anticipation of Kong. Both games had unique storylines and levels 
 and immersed you in the games. Kong had great sound with thunderous roars and screeches. I also 
 liked throwing the fiery spears and bones (which surprisingly packed a nice punch) . A nicely packaged 
 game, but a little short. Also, NYC was a little disappointing at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e-pro
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  I only rented this game, and im kind of thankful for that. So i'll give ya'll the low-down.
  
  As a first-person adventure game, King Kong is solid. It has great graphics and a smooth presentation. 
 For the most part, it keeps you interested enough to play for a while. Although there is nothing 
 amazing about this game, it has a few good moments (playing as Kong, running from the T-rex) . 
 
  
  The puzzle-solving aspect is rather weak, usually consisting of running around looking for something. 
 So dont expect too much of a challenge there, just more of a pointless frustration. And the characters 
 you roll around with are annoying as hell.
  
  All in all, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowofamn1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 8, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  The movie King Kong is great, and the game capture most of the exciting part of the movie. The 
 game basically walk you through the eye catching scene of King Kong, from entering the island to 
 meeting Kong and getting out etc. 
  
  Gameplay is great and really give alot of handicap to the players, aiming with guns doesnt need 
 to have to be exact, there is no cross to aim you just have to be in the ball park. Also there 
 is reuseable weapon which makes game easy.
  
  Graphic is great in the xbox, but i have the ps2 which also isnt too bad. The grass and some of 
 the bush can be improve but overall its great.
  
  Sounds are great and not just only the guns but the enemy which are also well done. Voice acting 
 is also good.
  
  Overall its a great game but the cons is its too short, and too easy. Its possible to complete 
 this game in one day or two for average player. I suggest to wait until its price drop or rent 
 it instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raging_Cajun
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  Just amazing... The graphics (while propably not on par with the likes of PDZ or CoD2) are amazing. 
 The jungle itself is just so lifelike and intimidating, the lighting is beautiful and the entire 
 artistic touch on each and every level is astounding. The only thing that could have used some 
 touching up are the character models (except for Kong, the big guy is as good as ever) , for example 
 Ann isn't as pretty as Naomi ;) 
  The Music in Kong is also exceptional. Very fitting and keeps in line with the movie nicely. There's 
 nothing quite like running from a pair of V-Rexes and hearing the featured music to get your adrenaline 
 pumping. Voice acting is also nice. Naomi Watts, Adrien Brody and Jack Black all do a helluva job, 
 without going overboard.
  The gameplay is perhaps the best part of Kong. More of a first person action adventure than a conventional 
 shooter, Kong is in its own small way, truly groundbreaking. I especially like the fact that no 
 HUD is present and you must rely on Jack to give you voice clues like how much ammo you have etc. 
 And the scarcity of firearms really adds intensity. I literally and physically exhausted myself 
 more than once playing this game :D
  I have no major gripes about this game, other than that at a few places the AI pathfinding is a 
 bit dumb. While many complain this is too short, I have still had a blast playing it and recommend 
 it to anyone, be it a fan of Kong or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXboxgamer73
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 3, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  King Kong for the Xbox 360 is a pretty decent game. Having seen the movie (which is amazing by 
 the way) , I had high hopes that the game would follow in the same path. While the game does this 
 pretty accurately, there a number of things that prevent it from ever becoming a really great experience.
 
  ===========================================================
  GAMEPLAY: King Kong attempts to give you a very cinematic feel while playing. There is no HUD or 
 map or anything, just you and the vastness of Skull Island. Fortunatley, this is done pretty masterfully, 
 since everything in the game is covenient enough to not require a HUD. The game is very linear, 
 switching you between Jack and Kong every so often as you make your forward journey across Skull 
 Island. After a few hours, the gameplay starts to wear thin though. You will feel like all you 
 do is open doors and throws spears at birds and other dinasours. The puzzles are insanely easy, 
 either requring you to find a lever or burn some grass to move on to the next section. While there 
 are a few very tense and exciting moments in King Kong, you will often feel like you are doing 
 the same thing over and over again. On a side note, Kongs controls are fairly clunky, and he doesn't 
 seem to respond to button presses very well.
  ===========================================================
  GRAPHICS: King Kong is a pretty 
 good looking game, most notably when played in HD. The environments have plenty of detail and the 
 character models are O. K at best. Everything animates smoothly, but there are times when characters 
 appear to get stuck on things, or their AI has them running into random directions for no apparent 
 reason. The problem here though, is that, just like the gameplay, the graphics begin to lack variety. 
 Once you swim across a river, explore a cave, and pass through some jungle brush, you've pretty 
 much seen everything. While this may not bother some, it definitely makes later levels seem like 
 recycled material, and when things are constantly looking the same, you'll lose the sense of excitement 
 when you think something totally new is around the next corner... and it turns out there never is.
 
  ===========================================================
  Sound: The sound is probably one of the best parts of King Kong. There is such a mass amount of 
 character chatter, that you will always get the sense that your teamates are actually teamates, 
 not just useless computer controlled bots. This great sound helps drive the game a long way, and 
 very often adds to the intensity of certain situations. When you become injured, you go into kind 
 of a red eye mode like Call of Duty 2, except in King Kong, you get a very well done musical piece 
 and subdued environmental effects to make it sound like your on the verge of death. It is hard 
 to explain, but you will understand if you decide to play it.
  ===========================================================
  VALUE: King Kong is fairly short, 
 however, it becomes old within that short amount of time. There are some unlockables after beating 
 the game, however, none of them are really worth your time.
  ===========================================================
  TILT: King Kong is a good game, 
 although it is linear and fairly repetitive. While it may not be worth buying, it certainly is 
 a good weekend rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game O-- *pants*. Please, can I just say this game as 'King 
 Kong'? Well, this game, called King Kong, like I said, sn't the best game around for the Xbox 360, 
 but it's a very good try, and most movie ti-ins are crap. This is actually quite realistic in some 
 cases. You can complete this game in only six minutes, but there is more.
  
  The landscapes in Pet... I mean King Kong are beautifuly created with some technology around to 
 spice it up. You can play as an ape. Or a man. Simple? Ehem, this game is part FPS and part smash-'em-up. 
 This has some beautiful things in the game as well. The first person shooter idea sounds dated, 
 but actually, it's the only movie tie-in I know that has this.
  
  Despite it's value, you'll play this for quite a long and enjoyable time, or a. k. a, have a happily 
 ever after. (Magdi, get on with it! Some fairy-telling like you did years ago! And I know you didn't 
 do it!) Ooops. wrong line.
  
  The game is king kool with some super balance. This game grows on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 3, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  The first thing that you will notice when you start to play this game is the lack of any on-screen 
 health bars, ammo meters in fact anything. It gives this game a real feeling that you are actually 
 there, in the thick of it, fighting for your life amongst giant apes and dinosaurs. In short, it 
 is like playing through the movie!
  
  The developers have done a fantastic job with this game, it is a beautifully drawn world with huge 
 monsters and well scripted encounters. Plenty of voice acting adds to the feeling of reality and 
 all put together, this is one awesome game which really shows just what the 360 can do.
  
  It also covers a lot of genres as well, giving something for everyone to enjoy. From FPS to 3rd 
 person action adventure and even a puzzle or two just to spice things up.
  
  But there is one thing that lets it down, content. You can, if you sit down and concentrate, work 
 your way through this game from start to finish in around 15 hours. Granted it does mean an easy 
 1000 gamerpoints but once you have finished it and completed all the unlockables, you will probably 
 not come back to it again.
  
  I wouldn't let that stop you having a go at it though, maybe rent it first and see what you think. 
 I personally loved it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta339
Rating: 3.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  King kong for the xbox360 is a good looking game but. It is very short and you really dont get 
 to play with king kong alot you play must of the game with humans. The olny thing good about this 
 game is the grahpic and the sound that the olny reason i can see anyone buying this bull shi* so 
 dont even buy this shi* olny if you want to see 3D king kong and want you ears to bust after listening 
 to 3 mins of this shi* its not worth it so dont buy this CRAP save you $50 and buy any thing better 
 then this KING KONG SHI*. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenSr
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 5:14 am PT
Review:  Yep I've been caught ! When the announcement of Peter Jacksons, King Kong for 360 was coming out 
 , I had know intent of purchasing it! Friends asked me about it and I made jokes likesounds 
 like a lot of monkeying around" : ) due to the need for a new game, I took a chance and purchased 
 King Kong yesterday. Man am i surprised ! Though that this game would just hold me over till this 
 March's 360 releases, but it has done a little more. I couldn't stop playing : ) My wife came and 
 sat with me, she wanted to see the talk about Great Ape. Which was able to show her in the Kong 
 scene. When I asked her if she wanted to mess with the ape, she saidNo way I'm clinching my 
 fist watching you!" Graphics are really cool, followed with a lot of neat stuff as far as the prehistoric 
 creatures. Like the 1st person shooter view of Jack, and very surprise with the 3rd person (gorilla 
 as said) of Kong. Both are pretty easy to catch on, even for me not being a 3rd person gamer. So 
 Kong took a little more work ,but got the hang of it (HaHa) after a couple of swings. King Kong 
 has caught my imagination, wandering through the jungles wondering what's next, fair fast play 
 and apparent that this game is going to be to short and I'll be stuck hanging around : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormmaster
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is really fun. it looks amazing, theres some grapihcs issues though that keep the game 
 from being a 10 in graphics. The game is really short, and it would of been cool to see co-op, 
 but its fun. in my opinion playing as jack (the main charcater) is more fun than playing as kong. 
 there are parts from the movie in the game, but i wish it had more like the brontosauros chase. 
 fighting T-rex is exciting as jack, but as kong its pretty easy. as kong, all you do is button 
 mash. though some parts as kong are cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  Well i beat the game in 3 days , just playing it like 2 hours a day , and it was fun. Unfortunatly 
 you play more in first person than playing as kong. 
  
  Also , when you are kong you always have to worry about the little character not dying instead 
 of just bashing bad guys. The enviroments get repetitive after awhile. Guns are scarce so most 
 of the times your throwing spears at enemies. There are blood-rushing moments when your running 
 from dinosours and stuff and i think that add's lots of fun to the game. There is a fire system 
 that you can light your spear on fire and then throw it into grass or other objects and light them 
 on fire. 
  
  There is also a food chain in the game. You can pick up small creatures with your spear and throw 
 them to distract other large animals. Like if i shoot down a bat the t-rex will go eat it and i 
 can get away. Or if there are tons of bats i can throw a tiny creature on a spear and they will 
 be distracted by it. 
  
  The most fun you have with kong is at the end of the game , but the ending is so quick and dumb 
 it makes you feel like you've wasted your time. But it was a fun ride , don't buy it but rent it 
 and beat it quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_Kaliaver
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  King Kong: the game offical game of the movie. Right there you might think its bad because well 
 its a movie game. But you might be suprised this one is acually good.
  
  Other than its rather shortness i beat in in 3 days of 2 hours each, so its about 6 hours if you 
 play for the score afterwards. Besides that and the story not super close to the story but still 
 close (they had to fill those boring parts with Kong with you being Driscol) .
  
  This game puts you in the action with you having to be Driscol trying to recue Ann from Kong and 
 with the occasional running from V-Rex's and other monsters. Also as Kong fighting V-Rexs and giant 
 bats plus a giant snake.
  
  Being Driscol you will play in 1st person (shooter somewhat) , so you will use rifles, pistols, 
 machine guns, spears, and bone spears, oh yes dont forget the shotgun. You will have to chase Kong 
 and solve puzzles (not very hard mainly find this lever but to get to it burn this area of grass) 
 But there will be some intense action either it being protecting your party or just blasting monsters 
 or even shooting V-Rexs in the face (you can't kill them as Driscol)
  
  As Kong you won't really have weapons other than grabbing the monsters off your back or the ones 
 you kill. You will those be able to go in Fury (or some mode that makes you hurt by more) but don't 
 try everytime you are him for sometimes you need to fend off Ann from V-Rexs and you don't have 
 the time. The most fun parts will be as Kong (which is the least played part) but with running 
 on walls and swinging to killing tiny people and breaking the jaws of V-Rexs which you can again 
 to score points after you beat the game to unlock bonuses.
  
  If you have seen the movie you will see it doesnt go exactly and if you havent i won't spoil it 
 but playing this game won't show you any movie clips except the movie trailer right at the beginning. 
 It will spoil the movie but if you don't know the story that is a tid sad.
  
  All in all though its a good game, pretty short, so i will say rent it and if you like it enough 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanleyHandyman
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  King Kong is a good game if your looking for an adventure game.
  
  Gameplay
  Good: Fighting as King Kong is awesome, playing as jack is fun too.
  Bad: Not that many time 
 you get to fight as King Kong
  
  Graphics
  Good: Beautifully crafted charechters look like the people they are trying to portray
  Bad: Fire 
 doesn't look that great in this game, some weapons look sloppy
  
  Sound
  Good: Voice acting and FX are excellent
  Bad: Background music wasn't that great
  
  Value
 
  Really short story you'll be able to fly through. The only real reason to replay is to get the 
 extras, but the requirements for these aren't that hard either.
  
  Overall
  If your looking for an adventure game or liked the movie King Kong you should definatly rent this 
 game. I say rent because you'll probably beat the game within that time and won't find much else 
 to do with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auralxtc
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 23, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I definitely wouldnt say this game is great. It is worth playing through once though... 
  
  The graphics are pretty good. Not outstanding, but definitely better than a lot of the games that 
 are out there. They are still a bit geometric, which i thought we were going to get away from in 
 the next gen of gaming consoles, but it is definitely a step in the right direction. The animations 
 in this game, especially when you are playing as Kong, are excellent. Kong moves very fluidly and 
 all his attacks look really cool. 
  
  The sound is one of the best aspects of this game IMO. If you have a decent surround sound system, 
 this game will give it a workout. My sub kept pumpin' from all the shotgun blasts and from big 
 baddies romping around. The voice acting is very good, and if someone is talking to you the sound 
 corresponds with their position to your character on your surround sound. 
  
  The controls are simplistic. you use 2 buttons for most of the game. The onscreen help comes on 
 whenever you need to do something out of the ordinary. 
  
  Probably the best aspect of this game is the ease of getting its gamer points. all you have to 
 do is play through the game which will take about 15 hours if you take your time. (but you definitely 
 could do it quicker)
  
  I definitely wouldnt say that this game has much replay value. It gives its gamerpoints up no matter 
 what... even if you use the cheat codes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradoxliar
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  Thankfully I didn't have to pay for this game (rental or purchase) because a friend of mine owns 
 it and so he lent it to me. 
  
  Even though I gave this game a low rating it does have some great elements:
  
  - The voice 
 acting is great because they actually got the stars from the movie to do the acting. This helps 
 to make the game more immersive.
  - The mixture between FPS and action game that is created by playing as both Jack and Kong is a 
 nice change of pace.
  - If you care about Achievement Points then this game is great because you get 1000 points just 
 by finishing the game, which should only take you about 6 hours.
  
  There are quite a few problem with this game:
  - It only takes about 6 hours to finish. That 
 makes this game okay for a rental, but I never want to pay 50 or 60 bucks for a game that lasts 
 6 hours, with very minimal replay value. They do try to add replay value by allowing you to play 
 through to achieve a "high score" after you've finished it the first time. It's kind of like trying 
 to get a better time on a track in a racing game, except this isn't a racing game.
  - There are some glitches in the game. They only occurred while I was playing as Kong. What would 
 happen is I'd fall of something and instead of dying i'd fall "through" the island and just kind 
 of hover below it. I'd have to shut the system off and restart at the last save point. This is 
 kind of lame.
  - Both elements of game play (Jack and Kong) are really repetitive. With Kong the fighting ultimately 
 amounts to pounding one button and then once the enemy is injured doing a "finishing" move. This 
 is cool the first few times you do it, but it gets boring. Gameplay with Jack is boring because 
 there is nothing new.
  - Some of the levels are so short that you begin to wonder why they didn't just do it as an ingame 
 video. I'm going to give an example, but this example might be a spoiler for anyone who lives under 
 a rock and doesn't know how the "King Kong" story ends: At the end of the game you're required 
 to guide Kong up the Empire State building. This takes about 20 seconds. Then in the next level, 
 planes fly around Kong shooting at him until he falls. You control Kong here, but it's hard to 
 see why.
  
  This game would be a great rental for someone who has a spend 6 hours without any friends around. 
 If you rent it and really love it and can see your self playing through again and again, then go 
 and spend the 50 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killa178
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  Guys i got to tell you, this game is off the hook. Is a spectacular game. Am telling you is just 
 too good for not having this game. You get to kill dinasaurs, big dinasaurs, and some other weird 
 insects. Also you can use sticks and other tools or whatever you called it and guns. When you having 
 a stick you can burn it up and then throw it to the grass and the grass will burn up, and i don't 
 mean like San Andreas that when you make a fire it dissapears in a while. No no. It stays there 
 and kills everyone or anything that it is there. So that means the gameplay is awesome. The graphics 
 of this game are really really good, They couldn't be any better. Also the sounds were also good 
 because the sound off this game is perfect. I think that everybody who owns a x-box 360 should 
 get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luc11044
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 2, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  It's very difficult for me to criticize King Kong. The reason I say this is because, we get tons 
 of movie based games that are terrible at everything. Peter Jackson's King Kong has nice visuals, 
 a great soundtrack combined with great voice acting and outstanding sound effects. My major issue 
 with this title is the repetitive and sometimes boring gameplay... not to mention that anyone can 
 easily breeze through it in about 6-7 hours.
  
  King Kong boasts some pretty nice graphics for the 360... my only problem is the lack of variety 
 in the environments. For most of the game you are stuck on an island that looks pretty much the 
 same from level to level (with some exceptions) . It fits well with the story but I cant help to 
 think that there could have been more than just the trees and caverns we see for most of the game.
 
  
  The animation is outstanding. The characters look so real. Anyone would recognize Jack Black right 
 away even if they didn't know he was in the movie. The facial animations for the characters are 
 really well done as well. The most impressive of all is the animation of all the living creatures 
 on the island. Kong, the T-Rex, the annoying centipedes and other creatures really bring the island 
 to life. A real treat for the eyes...
  
  The final stages where you find yourself in New York, is a major disappointment. Not only does 
 it feel rushed, but you can hardly notice a difference running with Kong from street to street. 
 This could have been the best ending of any movie based video game. Yet, there are surprisingly 
 hardly any citizens in New Yorkthe buildings all look the same and the action is lame and slow. 
 To me, the ending feels very much uninspired.
  
  On the upside, youll find that the water effects are pretty nice, the trees look real and the 
 lighting effects are very well detailed. Once you set fire to some bushes, youll be in awe of 
 how incredible it looks. The animation of all the creatures and animals is perfect. Ill never 
 forget the first time I played in the Brontosaurus level and practically stared at them walking 
 by me (for several minutes) , just because I felt like I was there at that moment. A memorable video 
 game moment
  
  The audio is the best aspect of this game. The orchestral music is on pace with the action. If 
 the moment is tense and scarythe music sets the mood for it. Kong also sports some of the best 
 sound effects Ive heard in a while. The guns, the creature sounds, the water and environment effects 
 are top notch. The first time you hear a King Kong roar while pounding on his chest while the whole 
 earth moves around you, is really well made. Lets not forget the T-Rex and other dinosaurs that 
 attack you with their original scream, howl or roar.
  
  Lets not forget the voice acting There was a very close collaboration between Ubisoft and Peter 
 Jackson in ensuring that the game was as close to the movie as possible. This is why the main actors 
 lent their voices to make this title authentic to the movie. The most recognizable voice is that 
 of Jack Black who does an amazing job in making the adventure believable. 
  
  The control for King Kong is split in terms of responsiveness. When you control the human beings 
 stuck on the island, I find the control responds accurately. Handling the guns is pretty easyaiming 
 with one button and firing with the other, actually works pretty well. However, it certain situations, 
 its not so realistic. For example, when youre wading in high waters, you see your character holding 
 his gun in the air but its impossible for him to aim or shoot. The ideal in this situation would 
 be for the aiming to be more restricted and difficult in this situation. On a more positive note, 
 I really enjoyed the aiming process for throwing spears and bones. The idea of pressing a button 
 and having your finger pointing where the spear is going to land is a neat idea. Isnt that how 
 javelin throwers do it?
  
  I find that when you control the massive gorilla, it feels artificial, unnatural and sometimes, 
 it just doesnt feel that youre performing all the moves you want to do. I feel that there was 
 so much potential in combat using King Kong and yet, my expectations were not met. The battles 
 were spectacular but all you end up doing are pretty much the same moves over and over again.
 
  
  My major issues with Peter Jacksons King Kong is the repetitive and boring puzzle solving that 
 you are asked to do while controlling Jack. At first I thought, hey, this is coolI get to burn 
 bushes in order to kill creatures or even open a passageand the fire effects look amazing! You 
 also learn quickly to take a spear, jab into a spider, slug or giant fly, in order to throw the 
 spear and attract bigger creature to it in order for you to make an escape. Most of the time spent 
 is solving these puzzles or the quest for the mighty wooden spike which can open the door to the 
 next section. These puzzles or quests would be fun if they would happen once or twiceit ends up 
 that you might need to do these half a dozen times each in order to progress in the game. It got 
 old really, really fast.
  
  These mundane puzzles, the uninspired New York level and the quick 6 hours to finish Kong are all 
 reasons why I cant recommend it as a purchase. After finishing Kong, I dont feel like going back 
 to play it over again. Theres no multiplayer (no game should be without it) , and the game itself 
 isnt good enough to go back and play it all over again. I have level skipped to see the memorable 
 Brontosaurus sequence or to have the two T-Rexes chase me in the raft. Even with the production 
 values being so good, the core gameplay is just not that much fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spindler01
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  This is the most commonly traded in Xbox 360 title in the UK. And its easy to see why. This game 
 is far from next-gen, it's unbelievable.
  
  The gameplay is just your basic first person shooter, except without the HUD. This isn't such a 
 bad thing, it gives it a distinctice style from other games. Also the idea of the use of fire is 
 interesting, if a bit shallow. Playing as Kong is kool at first, but wears very thin as he has 
 5 or 6 moves.
  You'll feel like you're repeating yourself on this island after a few hours, which is bad.
  Graphically, 
 some elements are quite good. But, the game is made for HDTV. It simply looks too dark, like it's 
 night time all the time. And when it actually is night time, it's pitch black. Water and character 
 effects are solid though.
  Voice acting is pretty good, with everyone sounding realistic, especially Jack Black.
  The gameplay 
 really lets this game down, and should only be bought if you really are a fanatic of the movie.
 
  
  + Original Idea
  + Cinematic feel
  + Good Voice Acting
  
  - Shallow Gameplay
  - Bad storyline
  - No lasting value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody4890
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  i was dissapointed with king kong. with all the hype it got, i thought it would be fantastic, and 
 it was the first few levels. but after a while, it gets old. fast.
  
  Graphics- Ubisoft could have got so much more out of the 360s raw power. the graphics have many 
 glitches in them, for example your gun going through walls, bits of wood falling through kong ect. 
 not up to standard.
  
  Sound- again, so much more could have been done. the voice acting from the actors in the film dosent 
 save it. if your going to turn it up, at least have surround sound. or turn it down. your choice.
 
  
  Gameplay- the shooting sections are repetetive and boring, with hardly any location changes at 
 all. and kongs sections are good, but there arent enough of them, and they are sometimes very fiddly.
 
  
  Value- i finished it in two days, so i would rent it first before shelling out 50. i was uninpressed 
 with the length. this will get boring very quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecrous
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  It was one of the longest games i have ever played it has like 50 levels even though they are short 
 they become difficult especcialy after you start to get pumbled by the people. O by the way those 
 people are invinsible!!!!! well sort of. In the early levels they are invisible. For example i 
 shot one peson with a sniper rifle in the head 10 times and it didn't do squat to him. But then 
 you become king kong and totally knock the crap out of them. another thing that makes me mad is 
 that we always have to protect the stupid AI no matter what they never protect you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBRM
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is indeed a big surprise for the XBOX 360. I have heard mixed reactions on this one, 
 but what really makes this game stand out in everyone's mind is it visual excellence. The jungle 
 looks real, and so do the enemies Jack and Kong have to take down along their journey. King Kong 
 is not a very long game plus it is really only at its best only when you play as Kong. The only 
 thing this game didn't do well was incorperate all the 360 could have made this game. There is 
 no multiplayer, no real downloadable content, and the only thing the game offers is the story mode. 
 King Kong is what makes this game decent, for the 6 or 7 levels you are actually Kong. Though, 
 Kong only has a select few moves, snapping V-Rex's and weaving your way through the jungle is a 
 new experience. Overall "The Official Game of the Movie: King Kong" lacks in substance it is still 
 a stand out for the XBOX 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webby1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  To say most Movie to Games dont go to well. This is actually done very well. A story thats pretty 
 easy and simple to follow, great looking graphics, awesome sound effects make a great experience 
 thats worth playing. I personally didnt get this game straight away as I normally might, as I didnt 
 think I would really be interested, however this is easy to reccomend to everyone.
  
  You get to play as both Jack, and Kong. 
  As playing as Jack on probably most of the game you 
 will be in a first person view. There are quite a lot of interactive objects to pick up and either 
 stab/throw/shoot depending on what you picked up. With some simple and pretty easy gameplay it 
 is still real fun. With some atmospheric moments it really builds a great feeling while out in 
 the Jungle. You can get quite a few weapons, ranging from Shotguns, Snipers, Pistols, Spears and 
 even bones from dead dinosaurs. The spears and bones can also be set on fire to burn away long 
 grass thats in your way or help you kill some dinosaurs easier.
  When playing as Kong you will be in a 3rd Person view. This seems to be too easy, but still great 
 fun. You will be doing some action fighting as well as some very simple adventuring. Its very easy 
 to get from one place to the other as Kong, you simply run up to something and press X and when 
 Kong gets to the end of whatever it is hes running on you press X again. This does ruin it a little 
 as its very simple for the most part but its still great fun. Fighting when playing as Kong isnt 
 really complex however again it is still great fun. You can do some moves from either Punchs, Grabs 
 and other moves thats mixed together. 
  Its well presented and easy to pick up, but in some cases things can get a little bit more difficult 
 but you shouldnt really get stuck.
  
  The game looks amazing and sounds amazing too. Just some of the effects from either the shadows 
 or anything else looks great. The water rippling and fire looks well done also. The player models 
 are also done pretty well and are done very good for the dinosaurs.
  
  Unfortunately the game only lasts around 6 hours or so. And there isnt really much to do afterwards. 
 Unless you just want to play through it again.
  
  Its simple easy to pick up gameplay is still really enjoyable so its definetly worth checking out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeTer__GriFFin
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game it was great. Fun game play, awesome graphics, and good 
 plot. However. This game did not hold up to my initial reaction. The first time you play as Kong, 
 you get to beat up a V-rex. It seemed like playing as kong was going to be the best part of the 
 game. I was wrong. The thrill i got playing as kong was quickly annihalated after i realized what 
 essentialy all i was doing while playing him is escort missions. Escort missions arnt fun, and 
 the worst part is, even fighting while playing as kong isnt fun. Wow was that disappointing. The 
 upside to this game is playing as god knows his name, uhhh. Jack. This was pretty ok. The weapons 
 were there, the sticks to throw were there, and GASP they even stuck in some "puzzles". Ill give 
 you an example of a puzzle. Thorn bushs blocking your path. Find fire, light stick on fire, set 
 thorns on fire, wait for fire to go out. yep thats pretty much it. Ok there are two major things 
 in this game that were unforgivable. The enemy ai is actually really good, i was wowed. On the 
 other hand, the creators decided to give your "team mates" an IQ equivalent to a banana. I think 
 the most frustrating time ive had with the teamates is when i heard my character jack say stay 
 here to this other dude, and the other dude says all right, runs out to a dinosaur and get pulverized. 
 WTF.. THis made me mad. Another time is when i went through an entire section to get fire to bring 
 to thorns, and when i lit it up, one of my teamates ran into the fire and died. I had to do the 
 entire mission over again. The other major issue i had was the brightness. I think my retinas are 
 permenantly damaged from looking at the screen in this game, there is absolutely no brightness 
 adjustment settings at all. I was practically blinded.
  The game was overall ok at best and the satisfaction i got out of beating this games was only the 
 1000 gamer achievement points you get for beating it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceReject
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  King Kong hits the Cinema & Xbox360 he certainly gives a good show in the movie but is he king 
 of the jungle in the game.....
  
  I have never ever liked games which come from films. There is something about them which I find 
 tacky. They are almost nearlly everytime "rushed" and the graphics poor. They are just a few of 
 the reasons why I stay clear of them. But this time I decided to give Kong a go and heres what 
 I thought
  
  As soon as I saw the menu of this game I thought to myself.... oh no biggest mistake of my life!!! 
 CHEAP CHEAP CHEAP! But then I thought, better carry on because these 360 games don't come cheap! 
 I'm glad I did
  
  I have to admit the graphics are really very rather good! I was quite suprised, I mean normally 
 game developers don't really change the game that much for the different platforms, but this time 
 you could see they had tried for the new console. 
  
  As I started the game I was immediately taken to a cut scene from the movie (NO SUPRISE THERE...... 
 just wondering if I have to wait 20 mins for it to finish so I can start playing........ oh yes 
 I do!) Ok after that long wait and i shouldn't complain because I did love the movie, BUT I did 
 want to immediately start playing as KING KONG!!!! HUH!? Whats This??? Who am I? i'm that scriptwriter 
 "Jack Driscoll" from the movie you know the one... the man who looks like alistair mcgowan - lol 
 anyway. This is quite unexpected....!? But hey i'm likeing it!
  
  So I play as jack Driscoll and have just entered the island.... i'm surrounded by the other characters 
 Carl Denham (Jack Black) , Ann Darrow and Hayes. Now the controls are quite easy, if you are a 
 master at Halo, then these controls will suit you - exactly the same in terms of moving and turning 
 etc.
  
  The main aims in the game is just to follow the other characters, kill the enemies, find something 
 to open a door - easy . The start bits are a bit boring as its quite easy.... but it gets harder 
 as you go through each level. Some levels remind you of the movie but others you wonder, where 
 did they get this from??? After a while you do realise that the game gets repetitive. But when 
 ur just about to admit to yourself that its pointless playing anymore you encounter a great bit 
 in the game like a huge V-Rex dinosaur..... these bits are v. tense as there is no way of killing 
 them you just have to run, and the sound only adds to the tension. The soundtrack is amazing and 
 the heavy breathing from your character is really cool. These are all great but still wheres King 
 Kong!?!?!?! Anyway as you carry on through the game you end up doing v. much the same thing.... 
 lighting spears, finding keys to open doors, killing the same old enemies... etc 
  
  Weaponary wise as already stated you have a variety of weapons incl.
  
  pistol
  shotgun
 
  sniper rifle
  spears
  & my personal fav. MACHINE GUN!
  
  Enemies also include
  
  Ventosaurus
  Mefapede (ANNOYINGGG!!!)
  Giant Crab
  V-Rex
  
  ok away from the whole playing 
 Jack Driscoll thing whats it like playing kong? When you eventually end up playing kong its lots 
 o fun! Kong has some pretty nifty moves. You can climb walls and swing on branches etc But killing 
 enemies is the best bit! my personal fav. Jaw-break finish!
  
  You don't get to play kong as much as you do Jack, but both roles are fun. But playing kong is 
 probably the best bit in the game!!! Definitely something you should look forward to. The end bit 
 of the game is legendary.... I think you know what happens but to be kong in that classic moment 
 is what this games all about!
  
  Ok so to round up, it may get repetitive but there is always something around the corner to make 
 you want to keep playing. I'd say the game developers have tried to keep the game as near to the 
 movie as possible, but of course they are going to have to add loads in, so quite a lot of it will 
 be new to you. IMO it's probably the best ever movie game ever.... ! sorry LOTR!!!
  
  Would I recommend buying it hmmmmm yes if your a fan of the movie but no if your expecting something 
 amazingly something spectacular.
  
  King Kong did live upto expectations and is deffo top banana!!!
  Go ape for this game, its the 
 best movie game ever..... ; ) ok i'll stop with the silly comments now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jared_Vegeta
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 16, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Given the success that games based on movies often get, you might be surprised to find a pretty 
 good game here. For starters, you play as Jack and King Kong from the movie. The game basically 
 takes through the entire movie. You will switch from playing in first person view Jack to third 
 person Kong. The majority of the game is played as Jack though. The game play is pretty solid. 
 The aiming is pretty simple and using the spears are effective also. Kong plays great, although 
 he is limited to a pretty small arsenal of attacks. The voice acting and sound in the game are 
 great. The roles of the characters are played by their film counter parts, so you could expect 
 them to be good. The sound that the V-rex let out, as well as all the other nasty inhabitants of 
 Skull Island, really immerses you into the game. The graphics in the game may not seem to be too 
 great, but when you add in the art direction and different levels, the game comes out looking great. 
 Its hard to explain, but without some of the effects in the game, it would not look next gen at 
 all. But they managed to pull it off quite nicely. One of the things that really stands out and 
 makes this game great is how immersive it is. It really nails the presentation and makes you feel 
 like your Jack. You also get to experience cool things like being chased by v-rex and such things. 
 They really managed to pull these things off really good. On the downside, the playing as Jack 
 does get pretty repetitive. You'll find yourself fighting the same old enemies with the same old 
 weapons, over and over. The only thing that helps to break this up are the awesome sequences, such 
 as getting chased by Kong. As for playing as Kong, it is done very well. As mentioned, he could 
 use a few more attacks and such, but playing as him feels solid and fun. Also, while playing as 
 Kong, the game looks just as cinematic as it does when playing as Jack. It will almost look like 
 your watching a cut scene when Kong will just be standing there. Then you'll realize that you are 
 controlling him. So they also nailed the presentation on playing as Kong as well. One thing I will 
 say is that while playing as Jack, I encountered some annoying fights. It is created by when you 
 get hurt the screen starts flashing. This makes it really hard to see things, such as the enemies 
 that are still attacking you, and will often result in death. The game runs at around 8 hours long. 
 In all, the game creates a very cinematic feel with good controls and an excellent presentation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 14, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  King Kong is one of the best, if not the best, movie games of the year. When i played through, 
 there were moments when I would just stand there and look off into the distance. The artistic nature 
 of this game is so beautiful, that sometimes the only thing you can do is just stare at it. Another 
 thing I liked was that you got a pretty good variety in gameplay. I didnt really feel a repitition 
 in gameplay. You get to play as Kong and Jack. When you play as Kong you feel this amazing sense 
 of power. You actually feel like you could go outside and climb a huge tree or beat the crap out 
 of a V-Rex. There were only a couple of things I didnt like about the game. First of all, there 
 were a couple of small glitches that I found. Second of all it was kinda short, especially the 
 last level. Overall I would highly recommend this awesome title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pribylbr
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the best movie videogame ever created. All the hype that it got was definitley 
 worth it. The graphics are amazing especially if you have an HDTV. The sound is out of this world. 
 It is a very innovative game because you dont always have a gun, most of the time you have a spear 
 or something of that nature. You can actually light the spears on fire and burn things or just 
 throw it at an enemy. When you play as King Kong you will probably have an orgasm! Playing as Kong 
 is so much fun you're going to want to do it all day. There is no online play, but there are leaderboards. 
 If you earn enough points you can unlock the secret special ending. Once you beat it there really 
 isn't any replay value. It is a must rent... do not waste the cash! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sh3mta3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 8, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  This was the first game I played on our 360, so I was eager to see what the fuss was about. The 
 visuals were great and it was a lot of fun to play, but it was simply too short. I wanted much 
 more time as Kong. He was by far the best part of the game and I often repeated the levels where 
 he was featured. The NYC level was over too quickly and felt as if the programmers ran out of time. 
 I noticed some glitches maneuvering Kong up cliffs/buildings, but that could have just been my 
 controller. It was great to hear the real actor's voices in the game, especially Jack Black. Overall, 
 I enjoyed the video game far more than the actual movie, but unfortunately that's really not saying 
 much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angelodivita
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  I greatly enjoyed King Kong in the theaters. I thought the visual effects were incredible and the 
 story was told very well. I don't think I could bring myself to say that the game was so captivating. 
 So allow me to go over the good ... the bad ... and the downright ugly (see other reviews for a 
 theme to my posts) . :-p
  
  The Good:
  - They obviously put a great amount of effort into the game. I was very impressed with many of 
 the aspects of the game. 
  - The AI is very well done, and the other members of your party play a big role in the completion 
 of the game.
  - I remember when I first tried the demo, I thought I was still watching a cutscene, but when I 
 touched the controller I realized it was the actual gameplay. Great graphics!
  - I think a lot of it made sense and tied together. Sure it is based upon the movie, but they had 
 to think between the lines.
  - You get to play as Kong! (however, see below)
  
  The Bad:
  - Repetetive enemies and actions. Grab the spear or bone ... throw the spear or bone 
 ... take that ... uh oh ... another enemy ... grab the spear or bone ... throw the spear or bone 
 ... take that ... uh oh ....
  - Low replay value, although the game does include a certain hook involving a points system. 
 
  - The mission-based "scenes" involving playing as Kong are repetetive also. Grab the girl ... 
 set her down ... X ... X ... X ... X ... X ... X ... X ... now press X really fast and hard to 
 finish the enemy off ... roar.
  - Not-very-exciting ending "scenes". It's like the climax was reached in the middle of the game 
 somewhere and they just said "okay ... you get it now ... we'll let you have a break."
  
  The Downright Ugly:
  - I made the mistake of looking at the lips moving while they were talking. 
 They appeared to be saying "wah wah wah wah wah wah wah wah." Horrible mouth-to-voice synchronization. 
 On a plus side, I don't know that I can think of much else to add to the "Downright Ugly" category. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgfreak
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I like what I see so far [i am renting it] and well the whole idea of the game is great I feel 
 it is too repetitive to consider this as a block-buster. Some dumb dialog that was taken strait 
 from the movie [i think] . Hard controls to work with in frantic fights. For example the right trigger 
 is used for Firing weapons picking up weapons and punching, while the B button is only used to 
 figure out how much ammo you have. These retarted controls are overlooked by reviewers because 
 the work but not in the right way. My score is rather generous and well if you think you would 
 like playing as Kong [which I have] then you should rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Hero1991
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  Peter Jacksons King Kong The Official Game Of The Movie is a good game but is too short for any 
 normal gamers standards. The graphics of this game are quite good but do not show off what the 
 XBOX 360 can really do. The sound in this game is a strong aspect for this game because they use 
 original voices and sound effects from the film Peter Jacksons King Kong. The gameplay is split 
 into 2 styles, the first style of gameplay is the first peron view and the second style of play 
 is the third peron view levels with Kong himself. The first person levels are good but are nothing 
 compared to Kongs third person view levels, Kongs third person view levels really do blow your 
 mind, the graphics are great and it really does feel like you are playing with the great king. 
 The value of the game is a bit too short like I said earlier but there is a few unlockables which 
 will force you to go back and play the levels again to earn score. Overall I personally think the 
 game is alright, nice style of play and a heart capturing story will keep you playing for hours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: najman28
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 2, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I rented King Kong from GameFly this past week and finished it in 2 days. Probably took around 
 7 hours to complete.
  
  The gameplay itself is very fun and unique. The standout feature in my mind being the lack of any 
 health / ammo display and no targeting reticule. It certainly does help really bring you into the 
 world of Skull Island. 
  
  The monsters are very well designed and there will be quite a few situations that make you jump.
 
  
  The sections where you play as Kong are good fun. Theres nothing better than ripping a T-Rex apart 
 with a massive angry gorilla.
  
  If you are an achievement addict like myself, King Kong is an EASY way to rack up a quick 1000. 
 There is nothing required achievement-wise outside of completing the game.
  
  I would definately reccomend this game as a rental only, because of the game's length, but it is 
 extremely fun and satisfying for the 7 hours you will be playing it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesseandnikki
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 1, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is not only made by Ubisoft (a given that it's good) , but it has everything other movie-to-game 
 games don't have. 
  
  Graphics
  Even the graphics for the Xbox were good, but the 360 makes use of next-gen power in this version. 
 King Kong looks more like a battlehardened silverback gorilla, with scars and actual silver fur 
 on his back. The textures are a lot more realistic and the characters look amazing... all except 
 for Anne. She looks nothing like Naomi Watts in this version, however she did in the Xbox version.
 
  
  Gameplay
  Everything about the game is immersive. Limiting firepower and not making this game a FPS dinosaur 
 hunt has a lot to do with the way the game plays out. You have to use skill and knowledge to get 
 past some obstacle in the game, like fighting an invincible V-rex. Playing as King Kong is most 
 rewarding, even more so because playing him in the game is rare, so when you finally DO get to 
 play him, it's more of a gift than just another level.
  
  Sound
  Sound is also immersive, the roars of all the monsters and the little noise that the bugs make 
 make you feel like you're on a lost island with big dinosaurs, giant bugs, and a giant ape. 
  
  Overall
  This game may have a selective audience. If you loved the movie and love video games, 
 then buy this. If you like the movie and love video games, rent it. If you don't fit the above 
 categories, rent it. A lot of people don't like movie-to-game games or vise versa, so this is automatically 
 for a select audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arre_87
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 1, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the best movie games ever made. 
  
  The graphics were very good. While being chased by a "V-Rex" or beating the crap out of one you 
 just want to stand still and watch the amazing environments. I actually tried it once, but the 
 next thing I knew I was stuck in the V-Rex's mouth. 
  
  The sound effects has to be the best I have ever experienced in a game. You notice every single 
 detail from the rain flowing down the rocks to the bridge creaking quietly. My body just starts 
 to shiver every time the V-Rex or Kong roars. 
  
  The game is very short. I actually finished it on 1 evening. It takes about 6-7 hours to finish 
 it but I can promise you that if you like King Kong in entirety, those hours will be among the 
 best hours you've experienced in any video game in your entire life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdesign
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Granted King Kong came out just in time for the actual movie, making the game feel somewhat slapped 
 together just in the nick of time.
  And granted the textures they used on King Kong (the ape) look somewhat silly and out-dated.
 
  And need I say more about the camera movement when playing Kong.... or lack there of. I wish I 
 could control Kong like I could control Jack.
  On a Good note though, the game does have a fun side to it. The game is very fast paced and exciting 
 at times. The amount of action works great, especially when hand-in-hand with the storyline.
  Now everybody knows basically where the story is going and how it will end, but the game-makers 
 did a fairly good job of condensing the main points of interest from the movie and incorporating 
 them into the game.
  The game also uses dialogue from the actual actors from the movie and this makes the game seem 
 more real... with the exception of the characters constantly repeating lines all the time throughout 
 the game.
  Lastly there are 2 other great elements to this game.... the lighting fx and the water/water reflection. 
 I feel a good amount of time was put into making these look as real as possible and the animators 
 did a great job in doing so. Finally.... all in all... I recommend this game, not only for some easy 
 achievement points, but to just sit back and have a fun little/quick adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S3-Solid_Snake
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 30, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  King Kong - What a game, I really did enjoy this game, Even tho it was a little short. But Worth 
 the money 
  
  The graphics at first dont seem like Next Gen and could of been done on the XBOX but theres little 
 things that really do make this game next gen, You wont need a HDTV to make the game great but 
 it does help.
  
  I really enjoyed playing as King Kong killing V-Rexes I just wish you played as Kong a little more 
 often and not so late in the game, 
  Maybe new Camra angles could of been used with Kong as sometimes the camra gets blocked by Walls 
 or other Objects. 
  
  The movie was great but i enjoyed the game much more, 
  Even tho the ending was very short, and didn't really seem all that great, I wish I could be throwing 
 more planes about and maybe making it a differnt experince
  
  The Points system is really cool, which you can replay the game and get unlockables, such as Black 
 and White camra, Art Work, and other cool little things which i'll let you find out when you buy 
 and complete the game a few times
  
  Easy For Gamerscore: Theres a Total of 1000 Gamerpoints to be rewarded and lets put it this way, 
 it wont take u more than 6hours to get, but its not bout the gamerpoints its a great game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaded4Life
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  When you first pop in the King Kong disk you are treated with Hollywood quality sound. These excellent 
 tracks stay with you for the rest of the game, and add a lot to the overall feel of the game. While 
 the graphics are stunning they look the same as the Xbox versions, but in high def. This is not 
 a bad thing though because the game still looks gorgeous. With two different types of gameplay, 
 either first person shooter as Jack, or third person action/adventure as Kong, you have a lot to 
 choose from. The game does sway from the movies path in a lot of places, but this just adds to 
 the games length, and for me is a better story than the movie. If you like Peter Jackson, or are 
 a fan of good games, pick this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MACMALLEON
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 28, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  PROS: Peter Jackson was wise to get this Beyond Good and Evil developer to create this game, great 
 quality and awesome presentation. As Jack, you run around Skull Island with some other peeps trying 
 to find Ann who was offered as a sacrafice and taken by the mighty Kong by the natives of the island. 
 Playing as Jack you have no health bar, no ammo count, cross hairs with your gun. You see through 
 the Eyes of the Character as if you were really there. Playing KONG IS AWESOME!!!!! While in 3rd 
 person playing kong you get the feel as if your are a freakin BEAST!! Beating up V-Rex, flying 
 from vines to walls is loads of fun. Probly the best part of the game!
  
  CONS: 6 Hours at the most of gameplay. You dont play Kong Enough. The final level in New York is 
 probly the best part of the game. To bad its only 20 minuits at most of gameplay! Unlock content 
 feels as if they were headed in the right direction. In first person mode you walk through a Musium 
 of Concept art a other stuff. The musium is about 1000 square feet.... No fun!
  
  BUY OR GAMEFLY: Gamefly. com it. If you buy it.... you will play it for 6 to 7 hours and do everything 
 you can in the game.... then it will collect dust! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoo3
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 27, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  i just breezed through the game known as King Kong for the 360. it's not a terribly challenging 
 game, although it did keep me entertained. it wasn't great graphics or some really cool weapons 
 that kept me in the game. i spent my time playing the game because of the storyline (even though 
 most of us know what will happen to kong) and solid gameplay.
  
  the poor graphics may have turned many people off. i have to admit that for a game on the 360, 
 it looked pretty bad. kong's hair was really rough, the fire didn't llok very good, some of the 
 ground textures were pretty low res and the clip maps on some of the plants were really bad. and 
 there were other things that could have been better, but there's no need to talk about all of that. 
 on the other hand, there were bits and pieces here and there that looked good. the volumetric lighting 
 looked softer and more realistic than most of the other games i've played on the 360. the wet rocks 
 looked pretty cool, especially as the light would change across their surfaces. and i loved the 
 way the light came through the clouds. that was pretty nice.
  
  i still haven't seen peter jackson's king kong to this day (january 28th) . so playing through the 
 game came with its surprises. i don't know, maybe the game even strays from jackson's movie to 
 give gamers something a little different. but i was fully aware what was going to happen to kong. 
 anyways, as i was playing i really felt like i was part of the movie. a very easy movie, but none-the-less 
 a part of it. the voice acting was decent, which reminds me... i thought this game had some great 
 surround sound, especially when the rocks would fall around me. the one thing i would change, unless 
 it's in the movie, everyone kept saying something similar to this throughout the entire game, "we've 
 got to get out of this nightmare." the whole game... once was enough.
  
  i thought the gameplay was pretty solid. they gave you several different ways to fight the enemies 
 and they worked. you could either throw spears or bones if you were playing as jack, or if you 
 had the ammo you could shoot the enemies. and because ammo is so limited in the game, you have 
 to plan how you will use it, much like resident evil 4. there will be no rambo style gunfighting 
 in king kong for any of you who might be wondering. kong's controls are very basic also. you don't 
 have to be a combo master to control kong. the little furry guy responds to your simple commands. 
 i think the most important thing about the simple controls is that they allow you to remain in 
 the game. you don't have to stop and think about what button does what.
  
  the only complaint i have about the game was the loss of my game save due to a freeze up. the game 
 froze and i had to restart the 360. when i got back to the menu, there was nothing to load. i had 
 to replay about 2 hours of the game. i also had a glitch where one of the water creatures bit my 
 leg off and it was floating around. weird, huh? i'll try and put that picture up soon. maybe i'll 
 start a blog and put it in there.
  
  creating a game based on a movie is never easy, there is a tight deadline that has to be met so 
 corners are cut. those guys and girls at ubi soft released this game on multi-platforms. so, naturally 
 that is why the 360 version looks like an xbox version. but the guys at ubi soft worked hard to 
 get this game done. and it might be one of the best or the best game based on a movie.
  
  to close, i just want to say that i just got an easy 1000 achievement points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warfighter101
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 27, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that this game is actually really good. It is probably a game that people 
 say they will probably try it one day, that's what I said. It is highly addictive, has great graphics, 
 fun and scary moments, and great controls. On the other hand, it is kind of repetitive and the 
 rampage in New York when you are playing Kong is pretty short and lame. There is also no multiplayer 
 for continuing fun. Surprisingly spears are the best and most fun weapons in the game. They take 
 some time to master, but they are awesome. When I was running from the the V-Rex, I was actually 
 really nervous and scared. This game is the best at making one's palms sweat an enormous amount. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scott2emu
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 26, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Throughout the course of Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie i was awed by 
 the beautiful visuals, great music, and solid... uh... FPS ing... yeah that sounds good. The voiceovers 
 are very well done and while your moments as Jack are great, your time as Kong are twice as great. 
 I enjoyed my time with Kong up until the end when the game rushed an un-climactic ending. An ending 
 that left a sower taste in my mouth to a game that I enjoyed quite a bit. While the game isn't 
 difficult by any means it was still something that the hardcore gamer can get into. The dinosaur 
 AI was pretty good but I found myself easily getting by the giant bat's or whatever they were. 
 I also liked it used fire as a big part of the gameplay, although i wish you could've done a little 
 more with it... but that ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgreenawald
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 26, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  This game was one that I was eagerly awaiting. It does grab your attention when the game begins, 
 and then when you get to play Kong, wow look out. The game play is pretty good, graphics are great, 
 and Kong couldn't be funner. Playing as the human figure is a little different because you are 
 at the bottom of the foodchain, however when you play Kong, that toally switches... This game offered 
 me difficulty at times, great gameplay, and entertaining characters... I would recommend this game 
 to anyone who likes this type of game and who is ready to survive at both ends of natures food 
 chain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 3, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  It wasnt airplanes, it was beauty killed the beast. Those are the famous lines said at the end 
 of King Kong which describe how the beauty of a woman can cause the downfall of even the biggest 
 of animals. Ironically however, the lush beauty and sense of wonder you see in King Kong is amazing 
 overextends the amount of flair and value that King Kong performs.
  
  In a sense, Peter Jacksons King Kong: Official Game of the Movie is a great movie-based game, 
 on all standards. It has amazing all star power, superb game making skills, and one of the best 
 developers in the business working on the game. It shows. King Kong, which is how I am going to 
 mention the title, since the name of the game is so ridiculously long, its a wonder as to how 
 Ubisoft agreed to it. Putting the name aside, King Kong offers an intense ride form start tonear 
 finish. The entire game will leave you wanting more, but when you finally reach that epic battle 
 scene atop the Empire State Building, you wish you hadnt gone though the entire game just for 
 that moment.
  
  King Kong follows the story of the movie it is based on almost exact. Despite some minor differences, 
 like going into locales around Skull Island that were not shown in the film, the game does an extraordinary 
 job of capturing the essence and valor of the film. Peter Jackson helped lend his directing skills 
 to the game, and by doing so, he helped capture a sense of mood and action that have not been seen 
 in gaming for a while. The basic story behind King Kong is that movie producer Jack Denham, voiced 
 and looks exactly like Jack Black, is on the verge of making a dynamite film, so he takes his entire 
 production team to a lost island known as Skull Island, where Time has forgotten. This definitely 
 has the making of a great game already, based upon the atmosphere. Once arriving on the island, 
 the movies star actress, Ann, is taken prisoner from a 25 foot ape, known as Kong. Its up to 
 her love, writer Jack Driscoll to rescue her.
  
  Throughout the entire game you will control Jack Driscoll. I admit, the thought of controlling 
 Adrian Brody throughout an entire game certainly was not number one on my top ten list, but just 
 like I was mistaken with Vin Diesel in Riddick, Brody kicks ass. Sure, it may not BE him, but its 
 his character who is the adventurous, heroine type, and you will like him for that. One of the 
 great aspects of the King Kong is the fighting and gameplay, which is unique in its own right. 
 There is no HUB in the game, so players will have to be knowingly aware at all time to know how 
 much ammo and health they have left. Health shouldnt be a problem to most people, as if you get 
 hit by an enemy, the entire screen turns red and you start to move slow, kind of a warning ass 
 if to say Back up now or you will be killed. Basically, two direct hits (or bites) on you in 
 a span of seconds will kill you. 
  
  Thats where the action comes in. Firepower is very scarce in the game, and you will find yourself 
 using a gun only on basically intense situations, like when you are outnumbered or facing a bigger 
 threat. Any character who accompanies you in the game probably has a weapon you can borrow, simply 
 by talking to them and they will gladly hand it over to you. However, once that time comes when 
 you run out of ammo, and you will, you can use any of the debris strewn throughout the level to 
 help fight. On every path, locale, etc on Skull Island, there are spears, bones, and sharp objects 
 you can use to throw at enemies. This works out in a fantastic way, as you can always pick up your 
 spear once you lodge it into your enemy, and use it again for more throwing action. However, just 
 like in common life, too many throw, and your spear will break, causing you to find another one. 
 Action will alternate between Jack and Kong. The Kong levels are very fun to play, especially since 
 you get to battle T-Rex and lots of little things trying to get you. These are definitely some 
 of the better levels in the game, but are very few. Its a shame considering the main character 
 of Kong gets foreshadowed by Adrian Brody.
  
  Most of the enemies in the game can be killed by one precise spear throw. The game has auto-aiming 
 on by default, so whether you are shooting or throwing, you will 97% of the time hit your suggested 
 target. This will normally be a huge letdown in other games, but with the lack of a HUB, it offers 
 a different change of pace, and makes you think about your attacks, cause if you miss the spear 
 throw, well, lets just say you dont want to be empty handed in the jungle.
  
  The assortments of enemies in King Kong are extraordinary too. You have your assortment of creepy 
 bugs, such as centipedes, spiders, dragonflies, as well as your meat eaters, crocodiles, and yesdinosaurs. 
 However, each one is bigger than you, which makes for the fast paced action of never knowing where 
 the creatures are coming from, and always having to be on the defensive.
  
  Graphically King Kong is amazing. Never have I seen a game look this good on any system. Some may 
 say I am being too forward with my liking, but after hearing about the power of the next gen and 
 having yet to be impressed, well color me impressed. I dont know what color that is, but I expect 
 it to be close to Magenta. Anyways, everything in the game looks glorious, from the brush you run 
 through, which sways in the wind, to the weapons you are holding, the strings on the spears move 
 when you walk. Everything looks so glorious, you often find yourself at times stopping to get a 
 better sense of the surroundings. But the one part of the game that makes you just lose muscle 
 functions in your jaw, is when you finally see the Brontosaurus herd. Never have I been more amazed 
 by a games looks that I simply stared at the screen for minutes. The way they move, look, and 
 sound is almost lifelike. The fire effects in the game are better than any Vie seen in the gaming, 
 and you will no doubt be impressed with it too. But although the Jungle is a center of remarkable 
 beauty and sensuous glory, NYC, which is the ultimate end to the game, looks bland and poorly planned. 
 Every street in the game looks identical, and except for the climax in which you start your climb 
 atop the Empire State Building, nothing in the city can be remembered, or is worth noting for that 
 matter. The sound in the game is worth noting as well. The music comes straight from the film, 
 and every action scene is followed by an intense orchestral sound. Even the moments when you find 
 yourself alone and are trying to find you way, the music plays the right music at the appropriate 
 time. 
  
  All of this is well and good, except for the lackluster ending and the minor consistencies throughout 
 the game. I am not a Kong buff, but after seeing the movie two times I was under the impression 
 that the Island natives worshipped Kong. So how come there are numerous levels where they are trying 
 to kill him? If thats worship, well dont ever worship me. Also, how do all of the characters 
 know their way around the island almost by the back of their hands. Many times I saw the other 
 characters just running their way through the jungle like they have lived there all their lives, 
 and also performing intense acrobatic maneuvers I know they could never accomplish on their wildest 
 days. The end battle is still the major downfall of the game. You would think the most memorable 
 scene in King Kong, or in movie history in general would have been something to be desired, but 
 it isnt. Its truly a major letdown, and Im certain with a bit more work, it could have been 
 one of the best endings to any game.
  
  Kong is definitely a game that should be played by anyone who has a mild interest in the subject 
 matter. It is an action game to its fullest, and with the jaw-dropping graphics, anyone will be 
 impressed by its beauty. Even despite the minor consistencies and the lackluster final battle, 
 King Kong is definitely one of the best movie based games in history. As stated before the immense 
 beauty overshadowed the game, and it wasnt airplanes, it was beauty killed the beast.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargasm666
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  We all know to be weary of games to movies or movies to games but King Kong got it right (for once) . 
 Unlike a lot of people who saw the movie, I really enjoyed it and it made me want to play the game. 
 I mean, I have a 360 and dont have many games to choose from so why not?
  
  Boy was I surprised when I started playing this one. I expected it to be a bit on the lame side 
 but after reading a number of reviews, they all seemed to say there was just something really cool 
 about this game. They were right!
  
  The game play is solid and flows very nicely. The graphics are very nice and show a lot of detail 
 (especially when its raining) . The sheer scale of the game (when playing as Jack) really does 
 make you feel like an insignificant spec. Some of the battles and situations you run into are EPIC 
 an all levels. The sections involving the rexes are truly what games are meant to be. I cannot 
 remember the last time I was playing a game and felt truly tense and almost shaking. I wont go 
 into to much detail for those who havent played it but let me just say that the times you have 
 to turn your back on the rex to run away are some of the most tense times I have experienced in 
 a game.
  
  Not much needs to be said about the Kong sections other then tap Y really fast and feel like a 
 bad***. These sections RULE!
  
  Im sure everyone that plays games will find plenty to enjoy out of this game. Sadly though, it 
 is NOT long at all so is best suited as a rental.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 24, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Well, everyone else says this is a great and revolutionary movie game, I personally think this 
 game is just annoying. In its attempt to be so realistic like the movie, there is no hud, which 
 is a blessing and a curse at the same time. The guns, are all way underpowered, and hardly do near 
 the damage they should, making the game extremely difficult and frustrating. Constantly you'll 
 find yourself redoing many of the levels, and they're only fun the first time through. While its 
 a far leap from the other horrible movie games, this isn't anything so spectacular that it deserves 
 even a rent. Save yourself the time and leave this piece of crap in the box, especially for $60. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynasty3patriot
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 24, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is a great game. It is only a movie video game. It is pretty much the only good movie game. The 
 shooting controls for Jack are simple. I played this version with the XBOX so i had to hold both 
 triggers to shoot. It took a while but i got used to it. The graphics are just amazing in this game. The 
 wepons are good. You have Jack sometimes repideitly say how many magazines he has on back up. The 
 story is short but exciting and satisfying. The last level is really short. It lasts like two minutes 
 long. You don't get to cause as much havoc as you would think you would. The kong sequences are great. But 
 they are short. This is a great first person shooter/3rd person fighting game. Its on all of the 
 consoles and all of them play great with this game. If you like fighters and shooters you should 
 definitly chek this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordTyphon
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 23, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Well, we all have our opinions about Peter Jackson's attempt at a movie classic. Some believe the 
 movie was spectacular, others thought the move was lackluster. The same could be said for the game, 
 attempted by Michel Ancel of Beyond Good and Evil fame. I must admit, I was greatly underwhelmed 
 by this title, here's why.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The game falls short in this department. You follow a very generic formula of exploration-puzzle 
 solve-kill and after several "chapters" of this you soon must find reasons to go further and since 
 we all know how the story ends, it often boils down to the lust for easy achievement points. The 
 level design is horrible, often either giving you the ability to walk only a very linear straight 
 line, or giving you just enough freedom to not find that damned missing piece of lumber to open 
 all those mysteriously shut doors. Honestly, this reminds me of the resident evil franchise when 
 it first hit its infancy. How many doors must be shut, how often must you burn down brush in your 
 path, and how often must you run in circles looking for that missing link? The game simply underachieves 
 in almost all of its gameplay elements, especially all those load screens. We are in next gen. 
 territory, right? Ancel must have forgot that we've advanced beyond load screens. One last thing, 
 who the ---- uses water to slow you down long enough to get through cheesy dialogue or past a pre-concieved 
 action sequences.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are good, but not great. For one, you will constantly stare at an unusually shiny 
 gameworld full of eyeball scorching glares from a rock to the glossy hide of a dinosaur. Also, 
 the game is very dark, often resorting in having to turn up the contrast of your television set. 
 I found myself lost on several occasions simply because I could see a bloody thing. On a good note, 
 the textures are some of the best in any launch title to date. You really feel like each rock is 
 unique, each tree special.
  
  SOUND:
  The sound is about average. Typically, the game does well making you feel like your in the jungle. 
 The outlaying ambience gives you everything from chirping birds to babbling natives and the constant 
 roar of the giant inhabitants of skull island. But, to be honest, I cannot remember much of the 
 sounds that occured in my experience with this title and thus must determine that nothing stood 
 out simple because the sounds were average. Oh, one thing to note is the horrible sound that Kong 
 makes. The speakers sound like they are shredding when he roars. It sounds like a sound clip of 
 maybe 48kps not 192kps.
  
  VALUE:
  I can sum this up quickly. Play through once, remember nothing noteworthy, and think, "Wow.... okay 
 that was a waste of 6 hours" which is about how long the average gamer will play to beat the title. 
 You'll play, get your 1000 achievement points and wish you had simply rented the title. Which is 
 my suggestion. Nothing here but a linear walkthrough where your hand is held the whole way.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: 
  -NONE-
  
  ACHIEVEMENTS:
  The achievents are simple. You are rewarded 
 1000 achievement points for doing things like using the "food chain". This basically boils down 
 to beating the linear game any way you want and still manage to get the points for things you may 
 or may not have actually done. Simply put, beat the game, get a 1000 points. Difficulty: Very Easy.
 
  
  CONCLUSION:
  Michel Ancel manages to make himself look like a half-rate designer from some unknown company with 
 this title. The gameplay is lacking any depth, the sound is forgetable, the graphics are hit and 
 miss, and the overall experience is simply uninspiring. At the very least, rent the game and get 
 a 1000 achievment points easily. Oh, and why is it that no one in the game seems to be able to 
 clear a 2 foot jump? Just a thought.
  
  THE TRUTH:
  Rent the game, get a 1000 achievement points, and forget you ever wasted your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 23, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about the XBox 360 and PS3 supporting HDTV, I started saving up my money. I eventually 
 blew all the money I had saved and financed a very nice Samsung HD 42" Plasma. When I got my 360 
 at launch and played Call of Duty and Perfect Dark, I was just amazed at the quality of the system 
 and what its capabilities were. Then I got Peter Jacksons King Kong..........
  
  What the hell man!!! I mean the gameplay is great and the story sticks with the movie quite well, 
 but the graphics look like my 360 had eaten bad shellfish and chucked it up all over the screen! 
 I mean the faces look like leper patients, when Jack is pushing the stick to open the gates, his 
 arms look like he's been on Survivor way too long and needs to eat. Not to mention when they talk 
 it looks like an old dubbed Godzilla movie. What makes it worse, I played the demo on a regular 
 box television and it actually looked better!
  
  I love the 360, and the game is fun to play, but I just hope that whatever shortcuts the game developers 
 used to get this game out around the movie don't make the same mistake they did with this one. 
 Oh well, a lot of you guys might disagree with me, but I feel that they could have done much better 
 with the game, had they taken more time with the small details that give next gen games that "eye 
 candy".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: narcolepticshee
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 22, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  I got this game because in the local Game shop, it was going on for sale for 20 (approx. $35) 
 when you bought an xbox 360, so i decided to pick it up and see what it was like. Boy am i impressed. 
 The graphics are absolutely awesome and the gameplay is fun, but slightly repetitive. The man sections 
 are good but extremely samey with beautiful graphics and the kong sections are insanely fun with 
 extreme graphics, but there few kong sections compared to the man sections. The game acts more 
 like an interactive movie than a game, due to the fact that the developers have decided to get 
 rid of ammo counters, health bar etc. But to stop you wondering how much ammo you have left, a 
 tap of the 'B' button makes your character say out loud how many magazines/bullets you have left, 
 which i think is a great feature. Even if you think you won't like the game, then the achievements 
 in itself is a reason to buy/rent it. There are 1000 points worth, and to get them, you pretty 
 much just ahve to play through the game..... once. There also isn't much replayability, in that 
 once you complete it, you won't really want to come back to it. The fact that there's no online 
 mode doesn't help it.
  
  Overall a great single-player game that gets slightly repetitive around the 75% complete mark
 
  
  Better Than: Kameo
  Worse Than: Perfect Dark Zero 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassoonrules27
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is everything you would expect from a movie game and a slice of pie. You start off on 
 a small, rocking rowboat on your way to... bum bum bah... Skull Island. The graphics are instantly 
 impressive, except that when huge rocks fall into the water, nothing happens... anyways, when you 
 "land" on the island, you get knocked unconscious and Miss Ann Darrow helps you up. You follow 
 a path to a large door, when you are assaulted by obnoxious crabs. Mr. Haynes, the African-American 
 in your party, gives you a gun and you get to pwn the little crabs. But when you kill some baby 
 crabs, the momma crab gets pissed and comes looking for you. You have to fend off this mighty crab 
 while Mr. Haynes and Carl Denham open the aforementioned door. The action excels from there, from 
 throwing spears with bugs on them to lure predators away from you to burning down bushes to get 
 to a new objective. The environment is fairly interactive with you, so you can usually devise plans 
 based on your situation easier. Should you "run and gun", snipe with spears and a rifle (if you 
 have it) , or capture a small bug, throw it in a pile of brush, and burn the brush to the ground? 
 The choice is yours, which makes the game fun and challenging. The crux of the game is played as 
 Jack, but the true greatness comes when you play as Kong himself. Kong basically kicks everything's 
 a**, then kicks it again. Kong is strong, fast, and can jump and run on walls like the Prince from 
 PoP. So as to not ruin the game's many fun and movie-based levels, I won't go into any more details 
 about the game levels themselves.
  Kong is a very short game, making it not worth a purchase, but definitely worth a rent. It supports 
 some cool extras, and an extremely hard to earn alternate ending level. It took me about 10 hours 
 over the course of 3 days to beat, so I'm glad I just rented it. You will be too. 
  Kong's lack of a multiplayer is its demise. The game has just a wee bit of replay value.
  Kong 
 is a great game for any Xbox 360 owners. You will be happy to see the genius and potential that 
 360 games will have to build upon in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dukeboy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This is really one of the best games I have ever played. The graphics and the detail are totaly 
 amazing. They are the best graphics I have ever seen.
  The characters may not look the best, but everything else is incredible. The gameplay is the best 
 though. It is fun, thrilling and can sometimes really get your heart going. Like when you are getting 
 chased by huge dinosaurs and other creatures you get so freaked out. Like you can be running from 
 a t-rex
  (or in this game they are called v-rexes) and you will look behind you and his giant mouth will 
 be right in your face. When you are getting chased by one of those things you will probably poop 
 your pants. It is really awseome to use all of these different weapons and be able to pick up alot 
 of things to use as weapons. It is also a game that makes you think and use your head. There are 
 alot of parts where you have to look for stuff to open a door or you may have to find a fire somewhere 
 to burn some thorn bushes in your way. But the best part is playing as kong. It is so fun to smash 
 skulls and beat the heck out of big dinosaurs and even native people. This game is truly a masterpiece. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtifulguitar
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  King Kong has some of the best gameplay to offer on the X360 yet. The game is a straight up action 
 game in first person. You can grab spears, bones, and sticks and use them to throw at enemies, 
 or sometims you get guns (like pistols, shotguns, and sniper rifles) from crates that you can use. 
 There are no on-screen icons, so everything is used by judgement (like health meter, crosshairs, 
 etc) . You just got to know! It made the game feel more realistic.
  
  Graphics:
  The backgrounds, such as the rocks, trees, and sky looked amazing, however, the character models 
 and water weren't impressive at all. This version still looks way better than the other consoles 
 versions though.
  
  Sound:
  The jungles noices and the echo effects and distance distinction is amazing.
  
  Replay:
  
 The game is fairly short (about 6-7 hours) and hardly has any replay value. But the time you spend 
 with it is epic.
  
  Overall:
  King Kong is one of the better 360 games from the launch. I recommend anyone who has a 360 to play 
 it. It was made by Michael Ansel, one of the best game developers, and he has easily made King 
 Kong the best movie-based game ever concieved. I definately say you should rent it, at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGFINE
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 18, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  1 thing I don't like about this game is that when you start off, there no HUD so sometimes I'll 
 sit there for like 5 minutes not realising that I'm playing... The kong levels are fun... Even 
 if your garbage at controlling him, he still looks cool... Neat little fighting senerios with V-Rex's, 
 nice story, & if you've seen the movie, you can tell they changed quite a bit for the game... But 
 this game isent much of a first person shooter though, more of a spear thrower... But overall the 
 game is worth the buy... & after you beat the game, you can play throught the levels for score... 
 & you get like 250, 000 & you get a Kong Lives ending! & of course the Gamerscore! basically beat 
 the game for 1000! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody998
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  King Kong
  
  King Kong is the official licensed video game of the movie which is true to the storyline of the 
 remake of the film which came out just recently. It plays as an action game where you can play 
 either Man or Kong , for the most part of the game you play as Man which is kind of a downside 
 as its great fun when playing as Kong.
  
  The game is pretty disappointing on the Xbox 360 as it can easily compare to the version of the 
 game for the older consoles graphical wise , so if you are considering getting this as your first 
 game dont get it. It looks very bad graphically and doesnt help by making Skull Island a horrible 
 murky jungle that really looks bad. But the game succeeds in creating a realistic environment and 
 making you want to take all the detail in and there is a lot of detail to take in. Most of the 
 game is graphically bad but Kong does look pretty impressive and the camera angles help create 
 a movie like feel.
  
  But the game does have great sound. Of course it can only be enjoyed to the fullest if you have 
 a decent 5.1 surround sound set up to your TV to truly enjoy what the game has to offer. There 
 is impressive voice acting from the cast of the film also which a really cool feature is. From 
 the weather effects to opposing creatures just ahead to the running water of streams and rivers 
 the sound really does help the game come alive to a certain extent and in a way makes up for the 
 disappointing graphics.
  For most of the game you play as Man and your time is spent running around like a first person 
 action game where you have the basic weapons such as pistols rifles and a spear. You can also set 
 things on fire such as tall grass which can distract enemies and also set them on fire which is 
 fun and breaks up the repetitive action that can be found a lot of the time as playing man. As 
 Kong you get to run around and basically smash things and kill dinosaurs. You only get a small 
 number of moves which is disappointing but you do get cool Killer moves which can be used to finish 
 off your opponent in numerous different ways like breaking their necks.
  
  The game however is only roughly about 6 or 7 hours long which can actually be slightly disappointing 
 as it makes it easy to complete it in one day. In fact a little too easy. The game gives off a 
 feeling of being too fast paced and action packed, it gets you thinking just slow down at time 
 to time. And there are not enough chapters and it gets topped off with a disappointing end level. 
 At first you think cool! I get to go to New York as Kong! But then the Man you have been playing 
 as throughout the game just disappears and you never see him again which stuck me as a bit odd. 
 Also as Kong you get attacked by Police cars which you can bash out of the way and throw against 
 tall buildings. But you start to feel you cant cause enough carnage and mayhem as you want to 
 in the city. And yes Kong does die at the end which leaves me feeling sorry for him after they 
 took him from his home and captured and killed him.
  
  Anyway the game has a few good bits in it but if you are thinking of getting this one as your first 
 Xbox 360 game, just dont do it as it will disappoint and is too short as well which makes matters 
 worse. Disappointing graphics , sound and gameplay to match this is one that you should avoid.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is a short game. The graphics are so/so (not 360 graphics) , and the gameplay is pretty 
 fun. However, it gets old fast. You can probably beat it in 6 hours TOPS. There is a really frustrating 
 part where you are over lava and no matter what you do you burn and just don't buy this game. You 
 aim weapons by pointing them in the general direction of the same dinosaur over and over.
  
  The worst part about this game is the people. They are always screaming "Jack!!! Help me!". 
 It gets super annoying, super fast. It could annoy anyone.
  
  Don't get me wrong, King Kong is fun to play for an hour or two, maybe a little more... with the 
 volume on mute and your favorite music on instead. This game is hard to describe because it has 
 potential, but it just doesn't satisfy. The wierd thing is i recommend you rent it because it is 
 fun. I just can't justify buying this game.
  
  People, just trust me on this one. Rent it. I wouldn't even buy it for $20.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypto138
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Like I said, this is the best movie game ever. You start the game on a boat, rowing toward Skull 
 Island. But here, all you can really do is look around. But even though it starts off pretty slow 
 for a while, soon, it'll get far more exciting. Because soon, you'll have to fight off creatures 
 from giant megapedes, to bat-things, and even dinosaurs. Big friggin' dinosaurs. Mostly, this game 
 is a first-person shooter, but that's not all. Because a King Kong game wouldn't be great without 
 King Kong. There will be several times throughout the game where you play as the mighty Kong. But 
 playing as Kong isn't as fun as you would think, but it doesn't stray too far from expectations. 
 But whether you're playing as Jack or Kong, the controls are simple, and easy to pick up. And the 
 graphics in this game are some of the best I've ever seen. At least until you reach New York. Most 
 would think that playing as Kong in New York would be the best part of the game, but really, it's 
 probably the worst. You can't cause near as much destruction as we all hoped. And the graphics 
 got noticeably worse. It's almost scary to spend most of the game on Skull Island, where every 
 little thing is rich and detailed, and then go to New York, where all the places you go look the 
 same. And one other I didn't like about the end was the cop cars. Everytime a cop car gets near 
 you, it changes the camera angle, making it hard to remember where you were going. Overall, besides 
 the end part, I have to say this game was truly an amazing, worth-while experience. But sadly, 
 the game is too short, and I doubt anyone wants to spend $50 on a game that, if they wanted to, 
 could go through in a day. So I strongly recommend renting this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 14, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  If you like First Person Shooters and your tired of all the World War II games than take a shot 
 at King Kong.
  If you haven't seen the film yet, thats ok, because its just like the Titanic the Big Beast goes 
 down at the end. (oops sorry if I spoiled anything)
  
  The movie is a Definite DVD rental, but you could play the game now and experience what the characters 
 in the film went through on Skull Island. From the Beginning the game hits it off with action. 
 There are a couple of slow moments in the game but most of the time your running for all sorts 
 of creatures, Indian Island habitants and dinosaurs. 
  
  There are some really great memorable scenes you get to play through and some great cinematic action 
 sequences that are really fun.
  
  Take my advice and rent this one, you'll have it finished in 6-7 hours but you will be left with 
 a great gaming experience and thats what its all about, baby.
  
  Thanks for reading my review on this game, Please check out my others.
  Love you all 
  -Crim
 
  
  This game is Only good on the PC or Xbox 360, all the other platforms DO NOT deliver what was intended 
 for what Peter Jackson had visioned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videohead20
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 14, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  What a game! This was a game that really caught my eye before launch day. Yet in the end I think 
 it fell a little short.
  
  First for the good things about Kong. The graphics just blew me away. The lighting and detail were 
 beyond any I had seen to that moment. The story was ok because it didnt follow the movie totaly ( 
 It wasnt a spoiler) and it had a few cool twists in it. The game play was really simple for having 
 no HUD or croos hairs. Fighting was fun as Jack because it was intense at a good amout of the areas. 
 Fighting as kong totally rocked. I was always looking forward to being kong because of the fighting 
 and destruction all who stood in your way.
  
  Now for the bad. I was disapointed with the fact that you played kong very little. Playing as jack 
 got old quick. there wernt any really thinking involved to his part either. It was all very straight 
 forward. Also the loading time and the amount of times it had to load mad me want to pull out my 
 hair. If I have to hear that really bad scream one more time I will have to kill all who sit by 
 me.
  
  I did like this game but just not enough to suggest a buy. So, keep the monkey at the zoo and just 
 give it one good rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3snake
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 13, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  King Kong was a great movie, but the game is not all it is to be. Gameplay and graphics are ok, 
 but not next-gen. Sound is wonderful, it is best thing in the game. I did not like the controls 
 in this game. How can I put this in a nice way, the game is not all it can be. Also when your playing 
 the big ape, the camera can get f#! ked up which gets me mad. the big problem with this game, like 
 all movie games, IT IS TOO SHORT! Fans of King Kong might want to rent it. Everyone else will say 
 this is a rip off and stay away from this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davahsa
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 13, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  King Kong was fun for me because my niece and nephew got hell-a scared just watching me play it. 
 Playing as Kong looked cool but the controles were too rudamentary for me. I stoped playing about 
 50% way through when my partner would not open up a door for me. What gives? I encountered several 
 glitches in this game but this crap would not let me continue! I loved the movie and got the game 
 and was kind-a enjoying it but what I did play was too shallow for me. I would have gave the sound 
 a better score but the sweet sounds that were there did not sync up with what was on screen and 
 sometimes there were no sounds for things like gigantic splashes of water. The graphics are not 
 next-gen and are very repetative. Reviewers that rated this game good are obviously suffering from 
 some sort of brain damage. If you like games that are broke or want to scare a child then rent 
 it. Buy at your own risk... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: southvike22
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Peter Jackson's King Kong is based on his upcoming movie titled," Peter Jackson's King Kong". Throughout 
 most of the game, you'll play as Jack, (NOT JACK BLACK) the character played by Adrian Brody. The 
 other times, you'll aslo play as, the one and only, King Kong. What and how does this game separate 
 from the others? Three things, (1) there's no health bar, so the only way to know if you're character 
 is dying is when your TV screen turns red, but if you stay in hiding, eventually the screen will 
 turn back to normal. (2) a great movie-turn-game, unlike many movies that make games out of it, 
 they're HORRIBLE!!!!, but Peter Jackson's King Kong is probably the ONLY movie-turn-game that doesn't 
 blow. (3) When playing as Kong, it's a huge feel into the that you're this gigantic ape that can 
 crush almost anything that's in your path. 
  
  However, there are two downfalls that makes a huge disappointment. For starters, the game's EXTREMELY 
 SHORT. The most time you can beat the game in 6 to 7 hours. Yes, it's that short. And secondly, 
 some of the character animations don't look as sharp as it would look like on its systems. 
  
  Overall, the game's a great as the movie, but we wish the gameplay would've lasted a lot longer, 
 like 15 to 20 hours longer. Nevertheless, this game is a blast, and you'll enjoy much of it, even 
 if it's short. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyber_sonix
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is a good solid title for the Xbox 360. It is the first game I rented for it (rented.. 
 for I am too poor to buy a game yet) and I wasn't too blown away by the graphics because I know 
 the 360 can do so much more then shown on KK. The graphics are very good, and it is understandable 
 they are not utilizing the 360s power becase kong is a port.
  
  The sound is really the only thing that I would say is outstanding about it. The controls are simple, 
 as is the gameplay. Dont get me wrong, I played kong for hours and hours. ITs simple fun that keeps 
 you going. Some games I think are just too complicated. But, somtimes thats nice if they pull it 
 off. With kong, I feel they wanted it to be a simple shooter/fighter and they pulled it off nicely. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doggonemess
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  Everybody keeps giving this game glowing reviews, and it makes me wonder what gamers are looking 
 for in games now. I found this game to be boring and tedious. The opening sequence was well done, 
 and the graphics are fairly good, but the gameplay is just monotonous.
  
  After the opening sequence, you are armed, and then thrown in to some fights. With some bugs. Okay, 
 fine, kill the bugs and continue on... to kill some more bugs. Then push on a big bamboo pole to 
 open a door. Then kill some more bugs, then the next bamboo pole doesn't have a stick to push on, 
 oh there it is, on the ground a few feet away. Insert pole, open door, kill some more bugs. And 
 so on, and so forth.
  
  I'm not trying to be sarcastic here, but this isn't a quality gameplay experience. I have to admit 
 that I did not make it to the end where you get to play as Kong, but given the tedium leading up 
 to that part, is the rest of the game really worth it?
  
  Also, on a technical standpoint, given the power of the XBOX 360, I expected some better visuals, 
 and didn't really think much of the character models. And as another reviewer noted, the actions 
 of the director with his camera are just silly given that there are giant bugs attacking the group 
 every 30 feet.
  
  After some amazing progress in the movie to game field (Chronicles of Riddick being the best example) 
 we get this uninspired drivel to drown in. Here's hoping the movie is a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer_Of_SeeD
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  The wait is over. The movie has come. The audiences reactions were positive. And the much anticipated 
 video game of this inevitable blockbuster has been released to the masses.
  I know that Peter Jacksons King Kong has been out for over a month, and yes, the game has to 
 have the acclaimed directors name at the beginning, (so as to not confuse it with all the OTHER 
 Kong games being released this holiday season) , but it kills me as a reviewer to have to play a 
 game based on a film that I had yet to see. Well, I have seen the film and am glad to say that 
 though it isnt a direct adaptation of the film, Peter Jacksons King Kong (or PJs KK) delivers. 
 
  
  The only faults of the game are the direct contributions that the film brings to the scenario. 
 The grand spectacle that is a giant twenty-five foot tall gorilla is overshadowed by horrific oversized 
 bugs and the thought to be extinct dinosaurs. Jack Blacks character, Carl Denham, after witnessing 
 these rare creatures would still rather take home a giant monkey rather than, say, a Brachiosaur. 
 Not the most lucrative choice, in this reviewers humble opinion.
  
  But enough of my rant on the films storyline, onto the review of PJs KK!
  
  Gameplay
  
 
  The game plays as if watching a film. As a result, traditional elements to the style and control 
 of video games were left to the wayside in order to add to the cinematic experience. With the anticipation 
 of the title of timeless classic surrounding the movie, its a pleasant addition, or rather, 
 subtraction.
  
  The game does not utilize any form of Heads Up Display (or HUD) , meaning that there are no life 
 gauges, no ammo trackers and no button designations displayed on the screen during gameplay. Most 
 button actions are presented whenever necessary, but as the game progresses, it is expected of 
 the gamer to remember the functions of the buttons.
  
  You find yourself playing primarily as the human, screenwriter-turned-adventurer Jack Driscoll, 
 (though can anyone in the motion picture industry really be considered human?) , as you risk life 
 and limb, along with the lives and limbs of your fellow shipmates, to find the kidnapped Ann.
 
  
  
  
  As Jack, you have to utilize the surroundings of Skull Island to continue your journey, and due 
 to the limited supply of ammunition, (unfortunately there are only a few boxes of supplies left 
 along the path thanks to an overhead bi-plane) , you must find other items to use to defend yourself 
 against creepy crawlies. You sometime must use discarded native spears or sharp bony remains of 
 animals to ward off enemies to conserve bullets. These resources are also essential to figuring 
 out puzzles to essentially avoid confrontation.
  
  At one point, you finally get the opportunity, albeit a short one, to play as the man, or rather, 
 the ape himself. Instead of a first person perspective, the designers chose to use this opportunity 
 to play from a 3rd person perspective. (The monkey is the selling point of the game. IF he cannot 
 be seen, whats the point?) . This way, one can watch the blend of carnage and grace as Kong swings 
 from tree to tree, smashing any enemies that get in his way.
  
  The weaponry you get to pick from is quite tasty as well. Dual pistols, assault rifles, SMGs, 
 and some heavier weaponry give you a very nice arsenal. You can swap on the fly if you find yourself 
 running out of ammo. Be careful though, I did find myself accidentally picking up weapons I didnt 
 like. That cause some very tough battles, so watch out for that. All the weapons have secondary 
 and even some tertiary functions that add some very cool extras. Night vision, zoomed scopes, IFF, 
 and silenced weapons help you choose your style of combat. 
  
  Graphics
  
  This game was released over many platforms, including being a launch title for the brand spanking 
 new Xbox 360. Playing the 360 version, I found the textures to be incredibly smooth. Though the 
 layouts of the lush jungle are impressive, you quickly come to the realization that the game is 
 dark and those layouts are hard to actually see. They are so dark that the threats of the jungle 
 are not always present until its too late. This ominous feeling that the drab areas achieve makes 
 the game much more frightening (and I would dare to say, much more exciting) than the movie itself. 
 Every blade of grass, every stone slab could be hiding a predator, waiting to pounce on you.
  
  The character models, for the humans at least, seem to have been on the end of the designers 
 priority list. Though we can see that it is Jack Blacks mug on Carl Denheim, the animation is 
 choppy. Because of this, I get the feeling that the game was not made with the intention of utilizing 
 the full potential of the 360, but rather instead to get the game out to as many people over as 
 many platforms as possible. As a result, I found myself unimpressed with the character models of 
 the human characters, thinking that they were designed with as little processing power as possible 
 so they could work on the older PS2 or Gamecube. The creatures that you encounter, such as dinosaurs, 
 gigantic centipedes, and of course, Kong himself, seem to have had the most attention to detail. 
 They move like dinosaurs (or at least, how they did in JP, not to be confused with PJ) , and the 
 lumbering Kong, though he may move slowly, has great strength behind him.
  
  
  
  Sound
  
  The music cues are a nice touch whenever something is about to happen on screen. However, 
 for the most part, the dark and dreary atmosphere of Skull Island makes the gamer dread these foreboding 
 cues. Its a perfect blend of over-the-top, edge-of-your-seat music that sets the mood perfectly.
 
  
  In the voice-over department, we have some tremendous voice acting from Jack Black, playing the 
 eccentric, yet persevering film director Carl Denheim. You can tell Black was having fun with this, 
 sometimes spouting lines that are clich video game antidotes a bit over-the-top. Adrian Brodys 
 monotonous expressions left something to be desired, but were not that intrusive to the flow of 
 the story.
  
  Depth and Fun Factor
  
  The game has the ability to literally scare the living daylights out of you. For those who are 
 unfamiliar with the movie, this game is not a direct representation of what occurs on screen. It 
 was nice to go into the game, thinking you know how things would unfold, only to be sideswiped 
 by a giant scorpion when playing as Jack.
  
  I would hope many would get a kick out of being the mighty Kong, and the temptation would push 
 gamers to strive to continue to play until they get the miniscule opportunity as the ape. Replay 
 value, therefore, looks to be definitely high. The tension and sheer want of getting to your objective, 
 coupled with the vast landscape of Skull Island would pressure you to go back and give the game 
 another try, now only at your own pace.
  
  Overall Comment
  
  PJs KK gives a great gaming experience. Its a good game. I would go so far to say its a great 
 game that can be picked up and played by anyone. who doesnt have a heart condition. If you know 
 of the inhabitants of the island going into the game, be prepared to have some fun riding on the 
 backs of the developers pretentiousness. The developers knew they were working on a hit game, 
 based on a soon-to-be hit movie, but and the knowledge of what they had to offer only pushed them 
 to make a very interesting gaming experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blah56
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  I'll break it down how Gamespot does
  
  The Good-beatiful visuals, fantastic sound (including the voice acting) , and the segments inbetween 
 playing as Jack and Kong are both Awsome, but playing as Kong is better because Jack's more like 
 a survival horror game, but it depends if your a fan of survival horror.
  
  The Bad-Occasional bugs, freezing, like gamespot said-not enough Kong segments, only six hours 
 long.
  
  Overall this game is a fantastic , for some though I'd rent it first- but if you're a very Hardcore 
 Gamer like me, buy it, but if you're a casual gamer-rent it, I give it a 9.1
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woodmeister2003
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Truth be told, the game is fun in some areas. There are levels that are challenging but not hard. 
 On the other hand, there are levels that are extremely easy, and others that are near impossible. 
 The acheivements is very poorly done, considering that you get all of them in the process of beating 
 the game. They are pretty much giving away 1000 points. There are constant graphical errors and 
 the game just doesnt look good at all on standard definition televisions. The game is too short, 
 and it leaves you unsatisfied. No extra features compared to the XBOX version. I do not recomment 
 this game to anyone that enjoys action and excitement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  The Really cool thing about this game is that there is no HUD but thats also a bad thing but not 
 that much. The kong parts in the game, i gotta say kinda suck becase the controlls are a pain in 
 neck and he dides to fast for a big dude, the first person is SO FREAKING REVOLUTIONARY and repetitve 
 at the same time! its KINDA fun going back and playing a level knowing what to do because some 
 levels took me like an hour to figure out what to do...
  
  So if you like puzzel solving and first person survival games check it out. oh ya and the grapgics 
 are pretty good too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: General_me
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  King Kong
  
  this game is called "King Kong" not "Jack and Kong" playing as jack is fun in some levels like 
 when your chased by V-rexs and running under the brontosaruses but thats it entirely repetive boring 
 puzzles. then you play as kong a complete power house this is just amazing to play the camera makes 
 it feel like a movie and if you have soround sound this will be amazing. the levels are difficult 
 as kong but jack its to easy. it is a pain to play as jack the only reason i wanted to play as 
 jack is to play as kong i found myself actually falling asleep while playing as jack.
  When you get hit enough the screen will turn red and some cool music will go on this was on of 
 my favorite parts of the game. this game only takes about 8 hours to beat and about 45 minutes 
 youll play as kong.
  
  my suggestions you wanted a repetive first person game buy this you like the movie buy this you 
 want to play as kong alot rent it if none dont even think about it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty0123
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  The game its self keeps you wanting more but unfortunatly after you finish it it hasnt got that 
 same feel to it. Dont get me wrong this game is really good and i think that are enough kong missions 
 in it but too many would just make it feel repeatative wouldnt it? I still cant believe they put 
 an alternative ending which really made me annoyed because it was so rubish the normal ending was 
 just fine thanks. The graphics are amazing when you play through and when you finish you can have 
 it in black and white just like the old film. But one thing really stood out in this, the way when 
 some thing bit you once you got hurt and if you got bitten again you died which would happen in 
 real life. If you have seen the film then you might as well play the game. its trully amazing but 
 it doesnt last you that long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterandbeer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard that they were making a King Kong game based on the movie I thought it was going 
 to be another crappy movie game which is the movie game stereotype nowadays. Then i did some research 
 and saw the pictures and then i started to think otherwise. Then the demo came out that i played 
 at my local Target. And it was awesome and very fun. The graphics are awesome the controls are 
 awesome and of corse the story is awesome. The Jack first-person missions are fun except that there 
 is a lot of things that you have to do over and over again but i didnt mind because there were 
 lots of cool things to look at. The King Kong missions were the most fun parts in the whole game. 
 You get to snap the jaws of the t-rex's and punch little velocorapter type dinosaurs it was loads 
 of fun. It may be sort of short but still worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rinker03
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed this "nex-gen" game alot. With Christmas I recieved xbox 360 and bought my surround sound 
 system. This game took advantage of the surround sound wonderfully, and of the HDTV. When I first 
 started playing I found myself sitting idle waiting for a cutscene to end however it already did. 
 This is the best looking game I've seen to date.. including PC. Some of the machanics were not fresh 
 however it did branch off of the traditional first person games.
  Graphics & Sound: As I said it will make the most of any home theater.
  Gameplay: Easy to pick 
 up and play.. With a good set-up this game is the first in a while that has gotten my heart thumping 
 running from 10 story dinos... Very intense.
  
  Regards,
  MadMule
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xanton101
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  
  this game is brill you start on a boat in the middle of a storm crash and the adventure starts 
 there as you ann hayes and carl strugle to stay alive against giant bats that look like they have 
 beed draged out of a horor film and slaped in the middle of a game. but the game hasnt even started 
 until you play kong because is your not kiling v-rex's your throwing cars about in the big apple. 
 so if you just got your xbox 360 and want a game for it buy kong. why you may ask. because it grabs 
 you by the scruff of the neck and chucks you into one of the most fast paced and pulse pounding 
 adventure games ive ever played. and ive played a few. 
  so dont just sit here get your coat on buy the game and lock and load jack driscoll and save ann. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo_zeke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  No hud is most likilly the thing you'll notice This to lots of people sound like it would suck 
 but it dosent . There are some down sides to it at the start of a level usally would make methinck 
 it was a cut seane. It's not and you end up dying. just imagine this. Is my game broken Oh s**t 
 I got killed in 2 hits. That another thing most of the time when you get into a fight you can die 
 in 2 or 3 hits depends of the monster. And its to short . But the alternete ending in the games 
 worth it (f. y. i you have to unlock it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatam
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  The good!
  The game plays good and sounds really good in surround sound. The game looks alright in HD but 
 you can see where it was a port of the current generation versions. Fun to play.
  
  The bad!
  King kong is not the best looking 360 game as you can probable tell, the game is short 
 and no multiplayer to even speak of. But is defintily worth a rent but not to buy.
  
  If you are a fan of the king kong movies or just like a game that you will chill back and enjoy 
 for a couple of hours, then this is a game to rent but not to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HookedOnFable
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  King Kong delivers a great experience. With a First Person Shooter basis through most of the game 
 and an occasional Kong fighting and swinging mode. These are definitely the best parts even though 
 they can get a little repetitive. The FPS parts of the game get as realistic as possible. With 
 no HUD or crosshairs (though you can turn the crosshairs on) it makes for a very challenging experience, 
 but never enough to make you through your controller down. 
  The graphics and sound are both incredible. The facial expressions on the characters and the voice 
 acting are top-notch. 
  
  The story follows about the same as the movie. The game overall isn't very long, but you will want 
 to finish it. If you're looking for gamerpoints you'll get 1000 for finishing the game. King Kong 
 also features and alternative ending with a different type of gameplay involved. For many King 
 Kong may only be worth a rent, but its an experience not to be missed!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Oogie
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:12 pm PT
Review:  This game has awsome graphics when the dinasours were in the rain it made them more realistic but 
 there is one part in the game that I hate when your a beginner and you keep getting eaten by the 
 dinasours the red screen comes up and your like dang it how could I let that happen the game is 
 one of the best monster games since Godzilla destroy all monsters melee its not diffucult but still 
 what do I know I've only started for the first 20 hours I dindn't even have the game when I first 
 started I played on the demo at stores even thou it still is one of the best graphic games so far 
 and if it's to hard use cheats I havent and you shouldn't on a great game like this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyro185
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 31, 2005 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Great game it has good graphics and it's surprisingly fun. Though the game goes by kinda fast and 
 your left wanting more to do. The game is open ended and unique and for a movie game it's well 
 made. I wish they would have added in some more gameplay and made more testruns of the game though 
 because during certain parts of the game things get caught or frozen as they do on most consoles 
 but other than that it is a hard game to critic (spell) . If you want a good first person shooter 
 on the Xbox 360 that has original gameplay then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hotsauce850
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 12:30 pm PT
Review:  The games graphics are amazing, especially the t-rex. The scene from the movie with the brontosaurus' 
 is in the game, and it is exhilirating. The game may be short to some people, but to and average, 
 non-hardcore gamer, it is long enough to fulfill its 60 dollars. Peter Jackson put as much into 
 the game as he did the movies, and even got the actors to do voiceovers. Jack Black won a video 
 game award for his role in it. Playing as king kong is epic. When you bring a t-rex down and snap 
 its jaw, it's the highlight of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pappasfurs
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is way too long. It just keeps going and going, when you finally complete the game, what 
 the hell is there to do, there is no on-line play, and no multi-player. The movie was horrible 
 and now the game is even worse. There are only four weapons in the game and they all suck. And 
 what is with the constant ammo shortage, if you run out of ammo you are screwed because you cannot 
 kill anything by hitting with your gun. The only positive points in this game are the graphics 
 I have to admit they are crazy, but that does not make the game. So I am sorry to tell you Peter 
 Jackson, your movie was bad and so is the game, all the money you spent on King Kong was a complete 
 and total waste. If you are thinking of playing this game I would rent it, or if you did not like 
 the movie, you will not like the game. Overall the game play is not the best, the graphics are 
 crazy, but the game is way too long and repetitive, so I give it a 5.9 out of 10. Make sure you 
 see the movie first because there are cut scenes from the movie that give it away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanepoopsicle
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:43 pm PT
Review:  This game thankfully is not as long as the movie. The gameplay is good, yet smewhat strange. I 
 have it for xbox 360, and you have to hold triggers, and click sticks and all kinds of stuff just 
 to shoot a gun. I have to admit, throwing spears at dinosours is pretty sweet. Overall, this game 
 is alright while it lasts.
  What constantly frustrated me was the field of vision. It is really small, and you can't see anything.
 
  Since I am quite a pyro, I enjoyed lighting spears on fire, then poking bushes then watching the 
 BURN BABY BURN!!!! haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leroysavage
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 5:16 am PT
Review:  After hearing and reading all of the "BEFORE XBOX 360" Release Notes on KONG, I deciided to remove 
 my reservation because I heard the game was "So Short." Thankfully, my family didn't listen and 
 I got this for XMAS anyway. KING KONG is my 1st XBOX 360 Experience and it didn't disappoint in 
 any way.
  Fantastic Graphics, and Sound. Amazing Gameplay and interesting puzzles made this one of the "Better 
 gaming experiences" that I've had. 
  
  With a nice TV and 5.1 Surround Sound, this is one of those games what you need to put down after 
 30 minutes of gameplay just ot get your heart re-started.
  
  Nice Job Peter Jackson. You Rule the MOVIES this XMAS, and you did a great "Game" based on your 
 film. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: planetsimpson
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:37 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is very underappreciated. The gamespot review stated that it was too short however i 
 thought it was just the rigth length. This game does a great job of making it feel like a real 
 cineamatic presentation (you feel like your in the movie on some epic quest!) You Play as jack 
 and kong who are both really fun. as kong you go about destroying everything in your path and as 
 jack your job is to survive on the island, solving simple puzzles and being resourceful. The graphics 
 look stunning on the 360! fire looks particulary amazing and you'll see alot of it in the game. 
 Also the sound is some of the best i've ever heard in a game, the music is tense and atmospheric, 
 and the sounds from the different monsters sound great (if your have surrond sound it sounds simply 
 amazing) . The main campaign is quite long and will take you a good amount of time if you don't 
 rush through it. There however is no multiplayer. 
  In general Kong is a very fun action adventure game that should be at least rented if not owned. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdeath31
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Kong is a very immersive and interesting game. From the awsome environments to the realistic characters, 
 Kong is a rollercoaster ride of a life time. The game puts you in control of Jack most of the time 
 and as Jack you will shoot, throw spears, and light fires to survive. There is multiple puzzles 
 that require the player to light thorns that are blocking the way on fire. This gets kinda dumb 
 because the player is left wondering: why not cut the thorns down instead of going on a mad fire 
 hunt through the savage forest? That aside the games puzzles are intellegent and keep the game 
 from being a plain old shooter in the jungle against dinosuars. The real fun happens when the player 
 gets to play as King Kong himself. The huge ape controls very easily. The only problem with the 
 Kong segments is that you will always be saving Ann the damsil in distress. I know that's how it 
 is in the theatre but seriously it can get really tedious trying to wrestle T-Rexes (or V-Rexes 
 as Peter Jackson so eliquently put it) and save Ann from sudden death. The combat in the game is 
 fun but simple (with Kong) . With Jack you will constantly pick up spears and fight off raptors 
 and it is pretty anoying sometimes but for the most part playing as Jack is awsome and the way 
 you interact with the other players in the game makes for an immersive feel to the game. The main 
 set back to the game is the short length of the game but the game is interesting enough that the 
 player may beat the game multiple times. Overall this is one of the best single player games on 
 the market and if you are a fan of the film chances are you will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpinarab
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:26 pm PT
Review:  how do you play 2 players on king kong it say you could on the back
  
  
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GromHellskream4
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:12 pm PT
Review:  At first when i saw a commercial for this game i didnt think much of it but when my parents bought 
 me it for Xmas i had to check it out. It starts out easy enuff, if uve seen the movie you know 
 who all the characters r and thier personialities. You are Jack Drisco, a playwriter that falls 
 in love wit Anne (aka the girl that Kong likes) . When you start you are quickly given a pistol and 
 no ammo count you shoot ur way through a few scorpion/crab/bug things and find out that there IS 
 an ammo count and you only have 4 magazines left. There is no icons or health meters on your view. 
 You check your ammo by pressin a button and the voice of Jack tellin you how much you have. I like 
 this feature very much because it makes the gameplay more immersive and makes you feel like you 
 are really in the island. When you get hurt your screen becomes slightly redish and your heart 
 pounds in your ears, As you get hurt more things become darker and harder to see. It actually makes 
 you believe you are dying and loosing life.
  Now to one of my favorite parts..... playing as KING KONG!!!!! With King Kong you feel invincible, 
 whether your throwing a bat into another bat or craking a T-Rex's jaw to the breaking point, you 
 always feel in control. With King Kong everything is so much more open because you can climb on 
 walls and jump higher and stuff like that. You can roar and that sum how makes you increbible powerful 
 and you can kill things alot quicker. You can also do so many cool fighting moves. 
  This game does come with it's set of problems tho. For one thing it is very easy, your ammo count 
 is very low, and it always seems like you doing the same thing in a different scenario. such as 
 you always have to kill bats to get T-Rex's attention, and you always are the one that has to ward 
 him off of your pals. If thiers one thing this game could use tho its definatley a 2-player mode. 
 like 2 king kongs fight eachotehr or sumting i dunno.
  Sound is decent and Graphics are pretty cool. this game is a cool game that has a lot of cool stuff 
 but i'd wait until it becomes $20 or so 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Finiarel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I have King Kong for the 360 and its great. Im sure the story is the same on all systems but the 
 graphics are absolutely stunning on this version. Even though King Kong is pretty short and relatively 
 easy it doesnt take away from the game. It even gets a little creepy sometimes when a dinosaur 
 or bug jumps out at you. Peter Jackson and Ubi-Soft did an awesome job on King Kong allowing both 
 third and first person. If you are a fan of first person shooters and action/adventure games go 
 out and buy this right now ..... or atleast rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnmetcalf
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 9:42 am PT
Review:  First off I would like to say that as far as fun factor goes King Kong is very addictive. I find 
 myself saying show me something else.
  
  The Visauals I find are pretty nice; especially with the creatures on the island. The people on 
 the other hand could use some work. The thing that irritates me the most is when the characters 
 speak but their mouth does not match the words. It kinda makes you feel like a bad Japanese movie. 
 The other thing that I have a problem with is the wall textures are not that flashy
  
  The sound is really good. I like the fact that the actors in the movie share their voices for the 
 game adds that little something extra.
  
  All in all Kong is a good game. A few improvements here and there and it could have been an excellent 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtfulnick
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2005 8:29 pm PT
Review:  The feelings i got from playing this game was, one O My god did i just see that, and O my god why 
 im I still playing this game. The intensity of the fights with the raptors and for that matter 
 any enemy in this game is just amazing. But because most of the time your a human if you make one 
 mistake YOU WILL DIE a vicious death. You do get guns in this game but only about 5 shotgun shells 
 each time you find a shotgun. 30 shots for a handgun. The ammo is very slim in this game but i 
 think you would expect that and for the most part all you need is alot of spears. But id much rather 
 fight a T-Rex or Raptor with a shotgun rather then a flaming spear or just a normal wooden spear.
 
  
  I cant say much about the part of playing as Kong for the part that I havent beaten the part with 
 the human yet. Im sorry i just got the game recently 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butterbong
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I wont type too much but this game was great. Many people say that there wasnt enough times you 
 play as Kong but the human combat is what i loved most, who doesnt want to throw yourself at a 
 dinosour twice your size shoving a spear into its head while blasting two others with a shot gun?
 
  
  The sound bits were a bit fuzzy sometimes but that didnt happen enough to really bother me, graphics 
 were solid and gamplay rocked. A definite buy for thoughs who dont have too many games, even if 
 you do have alot of games I say buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 2:02 pm PT
Review:  The first-person action adventure/third-person gorilla beat-'em-up combo genre has been born in 
 Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie. As the long-winded title suggests, this 
 is the game based on the upcoming retelling of the 1933 film by the Academy Award-winning director 
 of the Lord of the Rings trilogy. King Kong feels more like a stand-alone product than a handy 
 cash-in for the license, however. This game blends the aforementioned first-person action sequences 
 with its third-person (or should it be third-gorilla?) components remarkably well, as you traverse 
 the perils of Skull Island as both screenwriter Jack Driscoll and the 800-pound gorilla himself, 
 King Kong. It also helps that both components, on their own standing, can be a great deal of fun 
 when the game is at its best -- which, fortunately, is the majority of the time. Unfortunately, even 
 the majority of the time isn't very long in the case of King Kong, a game that won't take you more 
 than a single afternoon to beat. But that afternoon will be well spent. 
  
  The story of King Kong opens with filmmaker Carl Denham (voiced by the always-entertaining Jack 
 Black) in a fit of desperation. A film studio is about to can his next project, so it's going to 
 take something drastic to get things back on track. Along with his screenwriter, Jack (played by 
 the soft-spoken Adrien Brody) , and struggling actress Ann Darrow (played wonderfully by Naomi Watts) , 
 Carl procures a ship to take him and his misfit film crew to the mysterious Skull Island, a supposedly 
 abandoned home of a lost civilization. Why exactly he goes to all this trouble just to film a movie 
 isn't really explained in the game. In fact, most of the early story exposition is told briefly 
 via the first half of the movie trailer you've likely seen in theaters already. Obviously it would 
 seem that there is more to all this, but you won't get to find out about it until you go see the 
 movie in a few weeks. By the same token, because the movie isn't out yet, we can't tell you how 
 much of the story King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie might spoil for you. If you're the 
 type that absolutely wants to be surprised, you might want to wait a few weeks before grabbing 
 this game. 
  
  The game itself picks up right as the ship reaches the gloomy island. You open your eyes to see 
 the world through the perspective of Jack, just as he's being lowered in a rowboat, along with 
 Denham, Ann, and a pair of sailors, to set forth for the shore. It's stormy waters, and sure enough, 
 things go awry when large chunks of rock begin plummeting into the sea, right near your boat. You 
 wake up on the beach, with the almost angelic Ann standing over you. You're marooned, confused, 
 and wondering what those horrible, beastly shrieks are that are coming from further within the 
 island. All this happens before you even pick up a weapon, and you'll honestly spend the first 
 10 minutes or so of the game just looking around, taking in the scenery and gaining your bearings. 
 
  
  In fact, you'll probably do a lot of sight-seeing in King Kong, partially due to the excellent 
 graphics (which we'll get to later) , and also because there isn't anything on the screen to distract 
 you from the enemies and scenery in front of you. There's no heads-up display of any kind. You 
 gauge how much health you have via a screen effect that flashes the screen red when you're injured. 
 When in such a state, you need to get away from the action briefly to heal up. If you take another 
 major blow while things are still flashing, you'll die. Ammo is kept track of via verbal cues from 
 Jack. Every time you reload, he says out loud if he's got enough ammo, or if he's starting to run 
 dry. It's a great system, really. You won't ever feel like you're missing a HUD, since these subtle 
 methods of information really keep you in the loop. 
  
  You can only hold one gun at a time, though you can pocket weapons in favor of pointier instruments 
 of death, like discarded bones of fallen creatures and spears that have been left lying about. 
 You will need to toss said weapon before you can pull your gun again, however (which does make 
 sense, given the limited carrying ability of Jack) . The game goes out of its way to make its ammo 
 pickups seem completely sensible, too. The captain of the ship flies around the island in a seaplane, 
 dropping crates full of guns for you to pick up here and there, while he looks for a decent place 
 to land. Spears and bones are left in areas that seem to make perfect sense for the scenery. And 
 apart from bones, ammo isn't unlimited. If you find a cache of three spears, then that's all you 
 get to use (though you can reuse spears over and over again if you need to) . You also only get 
 a certain amount of ammo per gun, and once you're dry, you'll need to improvise. It's great though, 
 because the game always seems to leave enough other weapons around to give you just enough to beat 
 off whatever threats are coming your way. If you're cautious and jump between spears and guns on 
 a measured basis, you'll never feel like you're hopelessly outgunned. 
  
  Whether you're chucking spears, pumping shotguns, or letting loose barrages of bullets with a tommy 
 gun, the combat during Jack's sections of King Kong are always satisfying. The weapons all pack 
 a good punch, and it's surprisingly easy to hit your targets. There's no targeting reticle turned 
 on by default, but you don't need one. So long as you're aiming in the direction of an enemy, you're 
 likely to hit it. It's not that the game is completely holding your hand, it's just making it so 
 it doesn't have to clutter the interface with a precise reticle, and that's a great touch. 
  
  It also helps that the monsters you'll encounter on Skull Island are unbelievably ferocious. 
 Everything that lives on this island is like a bigger, significantly mutated version of an animal 
 that was highly dangerous and unpleasantly tempered to begin with. Angry dinosaurs, 10-foot-long 
 millipedes, hordes of giant scorpions, and bats that look more like massive gargoyles are just 
 some of the horrific beasts that inhabit this hellacious place, and they don't much care for the 
 fact that you're on their turf. They're smart, too. They'll attack in packs and force you into 
 hiding spots and cover positions. And boy, do they like to bite. Some enemies can't even be killed 
 by puny humans, like the packs of Tyrannosaurus rexes that periodically pop up. The best you can 
 do when they show up is hope to distract them long enough with gunfire and spears to find a way 
 the hell out of there. It's tense, gripping stuff when you're running around like a madman, desperately 
 shooting at a T-Rex that's angrily growling at deafening volume, and it shows that this game has 
 more to it than just mindless shooting. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: n3oS7oRm
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 27, 2005 6:07 am PT
Review:  This game has beautiful backgrounds, and well developed creatures. The V-Rex is amazing to go up 
 against, and can be quite difficult if you are confused on how to get his attention. Playing as 
 kong to me was the most enjoyable part of the game. I love putting him in rage and having him go 
 nuts on the dinosaurs. And the breaking of the jaws come on thats simply brilliant. The smaller 
 weapons are pointless to use on the big dinosaurs however. The gameplay in this is solid, it's 
 very responsive and currently I haven't discovered any glitches. If your going to own this game 
 I strongly recommend having it on the X360, don't settle for anything less, because it has no justice 
 on other systems :) This does have some added replay value getting to see the alternate ending 
 is a must so I'll definately play through this again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CuddlesTheBunny
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2005 7:26 pm PT
Review:  What can be cooler than playing as the big ape himself? I mean hes got the girl, got the muscles, 
 and hair all over. Hes a man. The best part of this game would just be fighting dinosaurs and other 
 enemies. But most of it is played through the eyes of Jack. This isn't bad, but its not as cool 
 as playing as Kong. Jack does the same old thing over and over again, with different situations 
 arising. All he does is shoot monsters and dinosaurs, find a spear, light it on fire, burn some 
 bushes. And lets not forget finding a stick to wedge in a pole, to open a door. The game does get 
 intense at times, when your running from the V-Rex (Yes its a V not T) or distracting it. Overall 
 this game has its ups and downs but try not to buy it unless your a King Kong fanatic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muzzster_14
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 11:22 am PT
Review:  As one of the lucky ones to own one of the new xbox 360 obivously I have been none stop playing 
 it since santa came down my chimney with it. So King Kong. Well this game is well, average. I have 
 not yet seen the film but the game makes it easy to follow the story. Although this game is on 
 the most powerful console of its time, Ubisoft have not used the 360 to their full advantage and 
 the graphics do not excite me at all. To be honest this game did not strike me when I began playing 
 it and now I am almost half way through it I still has not gave me the WOW factor.
  
  In King Kong you start of on a boat just on the coast of Skull Island. Jack, the main character 
 in the story is on the rowing boat which goes to land. Of course something wrong would happen, 
 in this games case high, destructive waves force the rowing boats to crash into the rocks. This 
 leaves one man dead and jack unconcious. Eventually you are captured by indians who then use you 
 snd your companion as a sacrafice to King Kong. Luckily you manage to escape although you are chased 
 by an angry mob. 
  
  Throughout the game I have many critisms. One of these is carl gets his hand bitten off by an angry 
 dinosaur but 2 seconds later he is running about filming. 
  
  Well all in all I have to say this is not the greatest game for the xbox 360 to start off with 
 but i suppose things can only get better for the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninja_ferrit
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 1:59 am PT
Review:  This game is, at best, pretty fun. It is by no means a revolutionary game, but it is a surprisingly 
 good movie game, it is also surprisingly short... unfortunatley, because just as you get into the 
 game it seems to end, with not much replay value at all. However it is a darn fun game, and very 
 atmospheric! If you are not sure of this game, renting may be a good idea!
  The kong fights are fun, it's just a shame there are not more of them, the FPS shooting scenes 
 are decent too, but the real fun is being kong! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 24, 2005 6:15 am PT
Review:  This is one of the titles that I picked up on 360 launch day (along with madden) . AS such I decided 
 to wait until I played a few more games to review it, to compare it to other next-gen games.
  Graphically, very nice. The intro wasn't anything special but as you are walking around, you notice 
 a lot of the little things around.
  Gameplay was nice, despite all the pretty package it is a fps. I'm not a big fps fan but it was 
 still a nice game. The areas where you got to play as kong were a blast, just run around and mass 
 destruction.
  Sounds were great, from the huffing and puffing of your character to the roars of kong. Lots of 
 nice ambient noises and it kept you into the game,.
  Over all a great game, but quite short. If it was longer, it could be GOTY. If you are a powergamer, 
 rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 4:34 pm PT
Review:  As we all know the King Kong Movie is making millions and millions of dollars... King Kong The Game 
 lives up to the movie... In some ways the game has it's flaws! There is lots and lots of glitches 
 that can be very frustrating... The game on regular consoles such as PS2 and Xbox have horrible 
 graphics! On Xbox 360 the graphics look better but not really good! The gameplay however is fun 
 and addicting in a way. If your play it through for a couple hours you will figure out it is really 
 short... The game has couple of guns and alot of sticks to throw at enemies.. Also when you beat 
 the game you still have extras left... This game might be good but it still needs it's improvements! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hot7_7
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 9:25 am PT
Review: Six hours of gameplay; the whole new york section at the end is very brief, and not all that 
 great; not an awful lot of challenge, save for some very specific sequences; not enough parts where 
 you play as kong."
  
  THE GAME IS CALLED KING KONG AND YOU DONT GET TOO PLAY AS HIM FOR LONG.
  
  THATS WHAT I CALL 
 A GAMING IRONY.
  
  Besides, for the price you pay for this game, its like 10$ an hour, and that is way too much for 
 something that I think was really boring anyways to start with.
  
  Kong fights badly, really really badly. Very repetitive movements in battle. Its offly lame as 
 a game anyways.
  
  On the other hand, if you are a fan, you will love this game.
  
  But fans, even if it was a piece of crap game, which its not far from it, you would still like 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2005 10:56 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is... CRAZY. There is nothing on the screen except for what your doing so thers no health 
 bar or anything, its a full canvas of enviorment. Every time i unpause it, it takes a sec to remember 
 its a game and not a movie. The graphics arent mindblowing but are better then anything out there. 
 AND THE SOUND! If you dont piss your pants when a dino roars in your face, your not human. I love 
 the survival aspects of it. Minimuim guns, mostly spears and dino bones. Sometimes you feal like 
 your on skull island with jack black and Adrian brody its that real! I really like it reccomend 
 this for someone wanting a great 360 game. A+ 9.4/10 Two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysteralex
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2005 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This is what I like to call a classy game. This licensed product based on a movie did not have 
 to be this refreshing an experience.
  
  To tell the truth, this game takes a very basic, almost static approach to the first-person experience. 
 There are moments within this game where its design is obvious and even plodding. There is a limited 
 list of weapons, enemy creatures, and tasks that you have to do over and over again as you progress 
 through the game. Also, there were lapses where I felt fatigue setting in fast, and I needed to 
 take a break from playing this game. Nothing in this game is more profound than the fact that there 
 is no heads-up display to observe while playing as Kong or Jack Driscol. But it is within that 
 one instance where the game begins to penetrate something purer than most FPS titles in 2005. The 
 nuance of this game is as straight-forward as nuance comes: its a simple case of must get to 
 the end of the level. There are no special tasks or sequences that stand out as mind-blowing that 
 you may remember from the next. What remains constant is the intensity and sheer entertainment 
 this game provides. Although, this entertainment amounts to a short span and is limited in its 
 scope, understanding that this is a game based on a movie helps to counter the fleeting feeling 
 this game may give some players. This is a game that is honest in its intentions, visceral in its 
 presentation, and surreal in its simplicity. 
  
  How can a game this basic be this much fun to pick up and play for moments at a time?
  
  Keep 
 in mind that while the first-person sequences are the main focus and reason for my praise, the 
 third person Kong sequences are at the focal point of my criticism. Quite frankly, the game itself 
 could do without them, but as articles to go along with the film, they are appropriately brief 
 exercises in character development. As video game sequences, theyre limited in scope and even 
 more plodding than the first-person sequences tend to be. They feature strange collision-detection 
 problems and slow-to-respond controls for Kong. As stunning as their presentations may be at times, 
 the fact that Kong is so lumbering, and so unresponsive, the immersion factor that the first-person 
 sequences bare is nowhere to be found. As quickly as they come, thats as fast as they go, so theyre 
 not too big a deal. If the mechanics for the first-person sequences ape those of refined titles 
 like Half-Life or Halo, the Kong sequences ape Prince of Persia: Sands of Time for Dummies, if 
 you catch my drift.
  
  Speaking of the graphics, they blur the line between blandly-realized and refined to perfection. 
 Nothing truly looks ugly besides a few of the character models for the enemies. The locales appear 
 lush and serene, yet dark and very, very dangerous. Skull Island is teeming with life and the fauna 
 of the land are in constant view, even if its not trying to make a meal of you. Attempt to wade 
 your way through a series of tall grass blades and youll be greeted with a huge swarm of non-aggressive 
 mosquitoes. Winged beasts fly in the background. Carnivorous dinos feast on the carcasses of the 
 fallen -- whether friend, foe, or from the same species. This is a real jungle youll find yourself 
 in the middle of, even if this is only a video game representation of one. You can almost feel 
 the steam and smell the stench of the environments. The immersion factor of the first-person sequences 
 is conveyed in high-fashion. Although, the graphics themselves can be seen as a step or two behind 
 the times, its all forgivable if you find yourself swept up in this games first-person presentation, 
 which is easy enough to do. As Ive said before, the Kong sequences pale in comparison, yet are 
 entertaining enough in a run-of-the-mill way, but if approached as character developing scenes, 
 they are serviceable. Theyre mostly here to expose players to Kongs pursuits, escapes, and protecting 
 of Ann Darrow. The sounds are adequate enough. Ive played through this game on the original X-Box 
 and Im currently playing it on the X-Box 360. The graphical differences are minimal, unless you 
 count the extra textures on everything from the characters to the environments on the 360. The 
 360 version is also darker for some reason (on my TV screen, at least) , but that also gives the 
 game an extra sense of immersion in my view. As far as my ears can tell, the sounds are exactly 
 alike -- Ditto for the ease of the games simple, intuitive controls.
  
  There are occasional technical hiccups in which scripted events stall the games engine, forcing 
 you to start over (rare) . And there are also the instances of fatigue I mentioned previously. This 
 is a game you may want to run straight through once you begin playing, an act which may lead to 
 literal frustration with the simplicity of its presentation. If you do pick this game up, dont 
 fall victim to your will to complete another gamesavor every moment this game gives you, especially 
 during the first-person sequences. It is in how you approach this game as a part of the spectacle 
 of Peter Jacksons revision of King Kong where you may find the most entertainment value. Take 
 a break from this game if you ever do get around to playing and completing it. After a while, come 
 back to it the way you would a good DVD; this game is made to be enjoyed by those who appreciate 
 video game/motion picture synergy, just like the Chronicles of Riddick game for X-Box and PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 17, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Although short King Kong definitley deserves a look. The graphics are impressive and the lighting 
 is incredible, but there are some glitches that just kill the moment. I mean your completely engulfed 
 in the game and a v-rex walks through a wall. The sound is nothing short of a masterpiece. Kongs 
 scream is deafening. You might need to change your pants after you hear a v-rex scream for the 
 first time. So basically you go to skull island to make a movie. All Hell breaks loose and people 
 die. You are a guy named Jack. You are trying to get off the island and find Anne , who Kong took. 
 In the middle of this you get to play as Kong. This is one of the most intense gaming experiences 
 I've ever had. This is a really nice change of pace. My favorite part is when you come across a 
 v-rex for the first time and need to distract him while you're buddies open a door. Then you have 
 to run to cover while he chases you. Dying isn't impossible but as long as you take cover when 
 you get hit it's really hard to die. This game isn't the greatest but definitley is a must buy 
 for all 360 owners.
  
  THE GOOD: Graphics, Sound, Lighting, Playing as Kong
  
  THE BAD: Glitches, Stupid Puzzles, Confusing Maps, Running out of Ammo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jace7o2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:42 pm PT
Review:  ok so i was wanderin around sears waitin for my mom to do her shopping right. so i see that they 
 have an xbox360 system set up on a sweet tv, and after thinkin hard on whether i should try out 
 this "foreign" system i settled on justifyin by sayin i wanted to see how good it looks on an HD 
 TV...... two words.......... HOLY $%^&!!!! i was blown away by the presentation in this game, the 
 graphics are so good and ethereal i dont even want to play it on ps2 (*sniff* yea i jus said that 
 *sniff*) , the atmosphere in the game is jus so WOW! i felt a lil bit of deja vu from my re4 days, 
 thats how good it is, the sound is incredible, the music score jus helps add to the dark screepy 
 tone this game has, and the roaring of the T-rex is so loud and convincing that it had me goin 
 "GOD DAMN!!!" and the ppl around me "check out this fool....." but still its worth makin an a$$ 
 of myself in public, the gameplay is VERY good in regards to most licensed games, the lack of an 
 interface makes it unique and the action with the monsters is well developed, appropriate for a 
 game like this, and TENSE!!! i was jumpin up and down making a fool of myself once again, now im 
 writing this review even tho i dont have a 360 or plan on gettin one, but this was the system thru 
 which i had my virgin experience with this incredible game, and sadly the increase in graphical 
 quality makes it superior to its current gen counterparts and makes me afraid that my experience 
 just wont be the same as the one with that 360 at sears *sniff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ferratus
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2005 6:17 pm PT
Review:  When I picked up my 360 at launch, I had several games I wanted to play such as PGR3 and Kameo, 
 but Kong was not part of my list. After reading the review on Gamespot, I decided to give the game 
 a try and I can't tell you how much I enjoyed this game.
  
  For the most part, it's a first person shooter. Now, FPS on consoles are... well, not ideal control-wise 
 and I was expecting to have some problems with this but the thing with Kong is that it might be 
 an FPS, but it doesn't feel like one. 
  
  Let me explain.
  
  First, the 360 version of that game looks spectacular and sound spectacular. The biggest reason 
 for this game's success though is the way the game is played. First, there's no HUD at all on the 
 screen. You are fully emerged into the game and for the most part, you have very limited (usually 
 not enough to be comfortable) ammos and you need to rely on ... well, spears and dinosaurs bones. 
 Throughout the "Jack" part of the game, there's a feeling of emergency that makes the game that 
 much better.
  
  About 10-15% of the time, the game switches from a FPS played from Jack's perspective to a 3rd 
 person action game played from Kong's perspective. These levels are very well done and usually 
 quite easy. You get to fight really big T-rexes for example and other beasties that you can't handle 
 as a human.
  
  The athmosphere of the game is responsible for a lot of the reason why this is such a good game. 
 It's hard to describe, but the game works really well and you should at least rent it to try it 
 out.
  
  Not everything is perfect though. First, the game is "short". Some people say it's a 5-6 hours 
 game, but I'd say it's more like 7-9 if you take the time to really enjoy it. There's not a whole 
 lot of replay value either. You can restart the game to get a score on each level to unlock some 
 extras, but overall the extras are not very good. Some of the extras require you to go to their 
 (flash) web site which doesn't work very well. In order to unlock those extras, you need to type 
 a needlessly long case-sensative code and I certainly hope that's not something games will require 
 in the future. It's tedious and completly useless.
  
  Overall, I think it's a very good game. If you are a good gamer, you can probably finish this one 
 in one day, so renting it might be a good option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 10:26 am PT
Review:  Who would have thought a game that lacks conventional game elements could be so fun.
  
  Pros-This game is like playing a movie. No heads up display, no crosshairs, and no health somehow 
 make for a very rich and cinematic experience. You hit B and Jack tells you how much ammo you have, 
 which is very fresh and a clean new way of doing things. The other charectors you roam around with 
 are life like, and react to situations as well as each other. I've never played a game quite like 
 this, and the experience is very fresh. 
  
  Cons- You never have enough ammo. ***UPDATE*** I recently found some new problems with this game. 
 My B button function, doesn't work, at all. I don't know why. When I replay "Sacrifice", Jack Black 
 doesn't untie me. I have a SD TV, and parts of the game are TOO DARK to see. I'm currently stuck 
 in a water tunnel that I can't see in. Since I can't see, I can't get out. At first this game seems 
 glitch free, now... I'm docking it points. This may be a defect on my copy of the game, but it 
 still make me very angry. 
  
  Final Word- Kong rocks, and is a very different experience then other 360 FPSs. I would actually 
 recommend this over Criminal Origins, if it wans't for the glitches I'm having. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExquisiteGaming
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  + Diverse gameplay keeps you on the edge of your seat all the way through
  + Slick controls
  + Great sound, really captures the overall feel of skull island
  + Huge lush 
 environments and highly detailed creatures
  
  Cons
  - Game is rather short, lasting only about 8 hours
  - Playing as kong doesn't last long and is 
 very frusterating
  - A few minor gameplay glitches 
  
  Overall
  I really enjoyed my time spent with King Kong. Mainly because I really thought it was going to 
 suck like most other movie based games. But the overall game experience was a total shocker. I 
 was really blown away by how well the game played and how intellegent the actual gameplay was. 
 The adventure may not last long but you will definitely get your money's worth with this title. 
 I haven't had this much fun in a FPS adventure game in along time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReviewWriter
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 1:15 am PT
Review:  This definitely wasnt a launch game I was looking forward to getting.
  Before playing I figured theyve hyped it up too much just because the movie is coming out. I was 
 actually surprised to find a solid movie based game. 
  
  The Graphics are not the best but theyre okay, and the game play makes sense, an example is you 
 can only carry two things at a time like a spear and a gun, and you can also light fire to your 
 spear, I found that innovative.
  And a lot of people say you dont play as Kong a lot but once you pass the beginning you play as 
 Kong quite a bit, and another complaint is its too short, but its a movie based game, how long 
 can it possibly be?
  
  This game is also updated from the PS2 and Xbox version, its a good game, so if you dont buy 
 it, rent it, basically just play it somehow. 
  
  Now the reason I really wrote the review is to tell you about the glitches, which are hilarious. 
 First Ill say that the first time I played the game there was no glitches, straight quality game 
 play, but then it was my friends turn to pass the game. 
  The first and best glitch was when it was time to get jimmy off the island, the plane was there 
 and my friend killed all the dinosaurs etc. Jimmy is then suppose to get on the plane to go back 
 home but for some odd reason he decided to stay, he didnt go on the plane, he just kept talking 
 but not moving, so my friend had to restart the level. 
  And just today we decided to replay it and when we first encountered the V-rex he went to follow 
 Anns voice and tried to jump over the ledge and got stuck and proceeded to shake, it was funny. 
 
  
  Enough of the technical difficulties, but now I will do something I dont normally share but I 
 will start cause its a good idea now that 360 supports custom soundtracks every time!
  
  My King Kong Soundtrack:
  
  1. Jungle Boogie- Kool and the Gang
  2. Welcome to the jungle- 
 Guns N Roses
  3. I just cant wait to be king- lion king soundtrack 
  4. Circle of life- Lion king soundtrack
  5. Hakuna Matata- Lion King Soundtrack
  6. In the jungle- 
 (the lion sleeps tonight) I dont know the artist but, you know the song.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingMyro
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 8, 2005 7:53 am PT
Review:  Well let me be the first to say i had my doubts. Movie licenced game. Actually developed for the 
 ps2 and xbox (its a port) . Short playtime. I had heard all of these things and wasnt sure. I have 
 finally bought it, played it through, and I have to say King Kong and it is the most
  cinematic, just totally immersive game ive ever
  played. 
  It is the first game I have ever 
 played where
  the characters semm totally alive and aware. I mean
  instead of generic comments they actually comment and
  react according to whats going on, and 
 honestly I dont
  even think ive heard a comment repeat yet and im on
  hour 10. 
  No health meter (you get hit the screen goes
  red, the music changes, you slow way down, and 
 you
  better find cover immediately or your t rex bait on
  the next hit) . No ammo meter, you hit a button and
  your character makes a comment like, 2 clips 
 left, 1
  in the chamber, or something like that. You primarilly
  use spears, which is so well implemented. Its awesome
  pinning a centipede to a tree, or nailing 
 a raptor
  only to see it slump down, stumble under its own
  weight, regain its footing, and then come after you
  again twice as enraged. And the spears stay 
 in the
  beasts as well.
  I had great fun once standing atop a
  very high cliff, with a full rack of spears handy,
  turning a huge T Rex into a dino porcupine, 
 while he
  roared and snapped at me :) .And thats the next
  awesome thing. The models for the beasts are
  astounding. I mean the T Rexes are bump mapped,
 
  beautiful, and animated so well it really feels like
  Juarssic Park. Its awe inspiring. And KONG! Oh my god.
  He looks, and reacts exactly like he 
 should. I mean
  hes scarred up, hairy, just totally realistic, but the
  way he animates is the most impressive. He roars,
  grunts, and moves so fluidly. Youll just have 
 to see
  what I mean when you play it, but lemme just say
  battling T Rexes WWE style is freakin sweet!
  The leves are georgous and really show off what 
 the 360 can do. The jungles are lush, the ruins are decrepit, the whole island just looks kind 
 of scenic and frightening at the same time and really sets the mood.
  By far though what I really loved the most was just how it really, truly makes you feel like you 
 are IN some epic adventure. What the characters say may be scripted (although they actually change 
 the phrasing on multiple playthroughs, they apparently have a few different similar comments for 
 any given situation) , and the off the cuff remarks are usually so appropriate. I slay a raptor, 
 Jack Black (Carl) exclaims "whew hoo! Jack the dinosaur killer!" or something like that. Someone 
 yells "LOOK!", you glance over and here comes a dinosaur leaping out of the brush at your throat. 
 It can darmaticly build the tension, which this game has plenty of.
  This game is thrilling throughout as well. Edge of your seat 90 percent of the time. This is the 
 closest you will get to "being there". I loved this game and hope developers take quite a few notes, 
 this is how its done!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JetStreak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 7, 2005 6:46 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing King Kong - I didn't realize that the cutscene was over when I started to 
 walk around.. Then it suddenly hit me - those astonishing graphics were actually the game!!!
  
  This game is going to be extremely short - I do suggest that you rent it first. Simply because 
 you WILL be able to beat it within one day.
  
  Other than that, it is an amusement park ride - it keeps you entertained, and never really becomes 
 repetitive. 
  
  This may just have the best graphics of any other 360 game that I have played. I'm going to say 
 that it's a 'must play'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubino
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2005 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Everything about this game was great, except one thing. It... was... too... short! It almost makes 
 me want to cry how short the Kong/New York portions of the game were, because those were probably 
 the most fun parts of the game. Although the game was short, it was sooo sweet. The graphics are 
 almost photographic quality, and the voice acting was superb. The gameplay itself was almost like 
 watching a movie, especially if you left the targeting crosshairs off. All things considered, this 
 is probably one of my favorite titles for the 360. If games already look this good, then what will 
 they look like 1-2 years down the road? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2005 10:11 am PT
Review:  Rarely are games based on movies good, with the exception of Chronicles of Riddick, so thats where 
 this game comes in to support Riddick. King Kong really gets you into the feeling that you are 
 running to survive through Skull Island. The graphics are good, however they are not next gen standards. 
 But where the game stands out is in the gameplay and the sound. As I said, the gameplay really 
 puts you into Jack's shoes (who you play as the most) as well as Kong's. You will be running and 
 hiding, as well as spearing raptors like a pro. Though its oh so satisfying to spear raptors as 
 well as giant centipedes, the game actually puts you on the edge of your seat and scares the hell 
 outta you as you look for the nearest shelter to hide from the T-rex's trying to eat you. The best 
 part of this game is definately when you play as Kong. He has so much emotion in his face and displays 
 a great amount of strength. It truly makes Kong shine when he rips a T-Rex's jaws apart. The game 
 is definately worth picking up, and the movie hasn't even arrived yet and I'm already getting the 
 jiff of the movie from the game, and I'll tell you, its badass. Kong makes movie games have a glitter 
 of hope in their sad eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 7, 2005 8:24 am PT
Review:  I would like to start this review by saying that I'm usually a sucker for licensed games like this. 
 If I like the material, I'm usually more apt to try the game just to see if I can get any enjoyment 
 out of it because I'm a fan. I was kinda thinking that would be the case with King Kong... but boy, 
 was I wrong.
  The game starts off with a clip from the actual movie, which sets a great stage for the game since 
 the characters use the same voice actors and they actually do look pretty realistic even up close. 
 After this you are on a boat to Skull Island and get tossed around in a storm, getting separated 
 from some of your crew. You play most of the game as Jack Driscoll, but you'll be accompanied by 
 some of the other main characters throughout a lot of it. While most AI characters in games are 
 pretty dumb and more of a hassle, I was pleasantly surprised at how cognitive they can be. They 
 came to my aid several times in the game, and there were only a few spots where I ran into trouble 
 because I had to protect them.
  Obviously, anyone that has seen screenshots of the game knows how fantastic the game looks. The 
 environments are lush and believable. The characters and enemies are all done fairly well and Kong 
 looks almost like he jumped right out of the movie. Speaking of Kong... The highlights of the game 
 are obviously the levels where you play as him. The Jack levels are usually pretty good, but what 
 makes this game shine are the Kong levels. Although I had played the demo before I played the actual 
 game, I was still worried that the controls would be really dumbed down for Kong. Well, I was partially 
 right; the controls aren't brain busters, but they don't need to be. They worked. Not only that, 
 but they made it fun to play. In fact, the controls as Jack worked really well once you get used 
 to what to do. It's too bad that of all the Kong levels (of which there are only a handful) the 
 longest are only about 15-30 minutes long. At least it is a very exciting 30 minutes.
  The level design is fairly straightforward, and there were only 2 parts in the entire game where 
 I was stuck on where to go/what to do next. The puzzles were all pretty straightforward and that 
 is a good thing... I didn't want to solve puzzles, I wanted to kill V-Rexes as Kong. You'll find 
 lots of bone-spears which are lifesavers since ammo is not a common thing. There are times when 
 you'll want to conserve ammo, but have to be REALLY good at aiming those spears. There were several 
 moments of sheer panic when ammo was low and there were no spears in sight. Luckily, the game paces 
 ammo and spears accordingly.
  Unfortunately, the game is over all too quickly. The last 2 levels are pretty lame too. Considering 
 how well they captured Kong in the jungle, they pretty much totally whiffed Kong in New York. It 
 doesn't do the game any justice and it isn't the most pleasant way to remember the ending of the 
 game. Luckily, however, you can go back and play all your favorite Kong missions once you beat 
 it. There are some secrets to be unlocked, but the games website tells you what they are (save 
 the last one) so it isn't a terrible incentive to want to get them all.
  Despite being one of the most fun games I've played in a while (not to mention the BEST movie-licensed 
 game I've ever played) King Kong is too short an experience to give it the OK to buy... It's definitely 
 a renter. At least you'll have a good weekend where you're glued to your TV and 360 playing this 
 great game that's over just all too quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iverson915
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 6, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Peter Jackson's king Kong is a good game which definitely deserves a rental but might not be the 
 game you want to spend 50-60 dollars (depending on which version you buy) of that hard earned lawn 
 mowing money you got over the summer but is worth the 5 or 6 bucks to rent it and you'll probably 
 get the same amount of time spent with it because of its short single player game. the game starts 
 with jack (the main character who you play) and Carl Dedham on there way to skull island to film 
 a movie, this island is supposed to be home to this ancient civilization so any ways you basically 
 are running through this jungle with all these strange monsters running around that are pretty 
 unique and intestine while getting more film opening doors and crossing rickety bridges and even 
 play as Kong for small portions of the game witch are some of the funniest parts of the game but 
 also are some of the strangest parts cause the game is trying to make this game into a movie it 
 just doesn't work that good with the weird camera angles during the Kong sequences where sometimes 
 i couldn't see where the enieme was what gets frustrating but this game is beautiful on any platform 
 especially the 360 as you could of guessed and another cool thing about the game is that there 
 is no interface on the screen no cross hairs no ammo indicator and no health bar which is cool 
 but its been done before but one of the cool things is if you want to find out how much ammo you 
 have left all you have to do is press a button and jack says how many mags you have for example 
 jack might say 2 magazines on back up. ubisoft is going for a movie style with this game with the 
 no interface the weird camera angles and for the most part succeeds especially on the xbox 360 
 the graphics are very good on the xbox 360 and it just adds to the movie feel of the game i would 
 recommend this game as a rental and only to buy it if you are looking for a something to show off 
 your 360 that is if yours still works.
  
  8.1
  by: mark rossello 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killerjoe17
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:06 am PT
Review:  The storyline is also voiced by the film's primary cast, and voiced very well. Each actor has put 
 earnest effort into ensuring their silver screen characters remain as personal as possible. For 
 us, the devotion to immersion and inclusion of the fiction's actual talent is plain terrific. But 
 then we've always wanted a good tale! We're suckers for it, being human and all. 
  
  Stories are why we read books, watch television, frequent theaters, and sit around campfires. Why 
 can't they also be why we play games? We want adventures, characters, people, success in the face 
 of adversity, accomplishment despite strife... We don't watch TV for the best use of lighting, 
 nor do we read entire series of fiction for proper semicolon placement. So thank goodness! Game 
 developers are finally realizing just how powerful well told stories can be in games. Ubisoft is 
 telling us a story. In Kong there are no carelessly strung together clips of cutscenes crammed 
 in for the sake of being crammed in. King Kong also doesn't feature random gameplay the 8-bit generation 
 convinced us all we needed. It's a game designed to tell a story and because of that it's thrilling 
 -- it makes us believe. 
  
  King Kong's focused design instills us with real hope. It tells us gaming can become more than 
 a mere collection of workable mechanics and deliver entertainment above and beyond the way we press 
 buttons. Kong's application of source material is exactly what makes the game so good. Ubisoft 
 took a premise, some art, some voice and some music and then very wisely created a world and a 
 type of gameplay that did not compromise the tale. 
  
  Of course, the gameplay itself has thus far rocked, too. 
  
  After starting aboard a few longboats 
 and rowing between the perilous cliffs that make one of Skull Island's treacherous coastlines, 
 we were immediately thrown into a series of first-person survival scenarios that had us running 
 and dodging a variety of local beasts like mutated millipedes, raptors, scorpions and harpy-like 
 bat creatures. 
  
  The first-person component of King Kong features a great deal of scripted sequences designed to 
 funnel players into impossible circumstances, like fending off raptors with a spear. The man vs. 
 the island motif is especially overwhelming and the atmospheric music, amazing ambient noises and 
 vicious wildlife all help give King Kong's first-person segments an especially vivid, terrifying 
 quality. 
  
  All that abruptly changes, however, once players meet and greet Kong. That's when the action switches 
 to the behemoth's viewpoint and the tale proceeds from the predator's eyes, not the prey's. As 
 Kong, players effortlessly leap around Skull Island and battle a number of other monstrous beasts, 
 such as the V-Rex and enormous bat matriarch. Kong lumbers about and powers through his foes by 
 crushing, pounding, beating and ripping them apart with brute strength alone. 
  
  The stark contrast between frightening first-person gameplay and empowering third-person action 
 provides King Kong with a great deal of diversity and helps keep the experience fresh. Just when 
 spearing raptors gets tiring, Kong shows up and we get to hunt and snap dinosaur backs. It's really 
 great. 
  
  And now that we've finally had a chance to see just how well King Kong has been put together, we're 
 eagerly anticipating enjoying this tale multiple times.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IloveGodcards
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the worst game I have ever played. The game play is the worst I have seen yet. 
 The graphics were not the ones I was expecting. I was expecting way better graphics. Not even in 
 a High def t. v. does it look good. If you are going to buy this game, I personally recommend to 
 not buy it. See what I did was rent it from this special store. But in the end, what ever you do 
 is not to buy this game. The game I do recommend is Call of duty 2, now that is a asome game. Another 
 game you should get is Dead or alive 4, which is going to come out like in a week, I suggest you 
 go and reserve it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mako468
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 5, 2005 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I played Peter Jackson's King Kong for the xbox on a demo by "Xbox Magizine" and i thought the 
 game was fabouls. The graphis were surperb as well as the sound. This made it feel as thought you 
 were inside the game and made the game really hard to stop playing. The fighting as King Kong the 
 counter oves were awsome and the finishing moves were nerve racking. When being cashed it was like 
 you really were running for your life and was amazing. The only problem was that at this one point 
 while being chased I ran into a hard part distracting a T-rex but in a couple tries I got past 
 and wen't to beat the level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rezlow
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 6:05 am PT
Review:  With the exception of the last level, this game was a real joy.
  
  Playing as King Kong is fun, if not a little too simple. This may also explain why you spend so 
 little game time as the big guy - no challenge.
  
  There were one or two tricky parts to make you stumble, but the games checkpoint system is so forgiving, 
 you'll only have to save when you plan to turn the game off. Which doesn't happen often, as you 
 could probably get through to the end in 5 to 6 hours.
  
  An excellent weekend rental, but maybe not the best for buying. I'm not sure if you could call 
 the game a spoiler for the movie, but from what I remember of the original King Kong, this game 
 follows the story pretty tightly. (Good thing, bad thing? Depends on how hyped you were about the 
 movie, I guess.)
  
  Even though it was short, more movie-games should be taken this seriously (and fun) . Good job, 
 Ubisoft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconEye_basic
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I liked the game. Great graphics, fun gameplay, quick and easy 1000 Xbox 360 
 Gamer Points, and easy enough to finish in one day (5 - 6 hours) . That's also the negative side 
 too, it's over quickly and the extras did nothing to encourage another run through.
  
  Everyone else has said it, so I will too. Playing as Kong rocks! But his scenes seem extra short 
 and too few.
  
  With the exception of the last level (which totally sucked and broke the feeling of the game) , 
 the game was an utter joy to play and watch. My real gripe in all of the this is I no longer feel 
 any need to go see the movie now (not that we haven't all seen King Kong... and if you haven't: 
 For Shame! You, yes you. You'd better see this one!) .
  
  Best advice I can give? Rent it first, if you truely love it, pick up a copy for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaveJ009
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 4, 2005 3:31 pm PT
Review:  I will be honest when I say that I never even played a minute of the King Kong game when my roommate 
 rented it. But, then again, I didn't have to. Simply put, this game is gorgeous. The look and feel 
 of this dark, dismal jungle was extremely fun to watch.
  At first, I was put off by the lack of display or really anything that I usually expect from FPS. 
 No automap? No cubersome display of weapons and remaining ammo? No.... gasp!.... health meter? What 
 the......?
  But, after watching the game being played, I realized that these things were largely unneccessary. 
 It is obvious that the programmers wanted to go for a more immersive experience in the game, and 
 it shows. To me, this was more than a graphical adventure than a game. Think back to the Myst days, 
 but with a heck of a lot more action.
  And yes, this game has lots of action. In one memorable scene, 4 people-sized snacks ran like crazy 
 to avoid a hungry T-Rex. As the beastie roared a very lifelike (saying that, I have never heard 
 one for real, but you know...) and blood-curdling roar to voice it's displeasure, the screen went 
 fuzzy and dim in a great display of sound and image. You could almost feel the hair on year head 
 getting blasted back from the fury this Thunder Lizard voiced. Oh, and you could almost smell the 
 brimming shorts of the main character. I mean to say, it was a very interesting effect, and added 
 to the adreneline feel of that particular level.
  And adreneline is the name of the game. Here's another FPS first: Many enemies can't be killed! 
 Not like in the  sort of innvicibility, 
 but rather a unique way. Ammuntion is extremely limited in this game. Don't expect giant bat-creatures 
 and allosaurs to drop ammo clips when killed. For 80% of the game, you will wield the simplest 
 of weapons: the spear. That's right, a sharpened piece of stone lashed to a stick. Sometimes, it's 
 just a stick (as the head CAN and WILL break off!) , or the rib of a dead animal. How's that for 
 high-tech? An animal that weighs several tons won't be stopped by a spear, or a few bullets. In 
 response, the game forces the player to make intelligent decisions on how to approach puzzles. 
 If you can't kill the monster guarding the object you need, can you lead him away with a treat 
 or a feint? It's an interesting development.
  Then there's Kong. What is there to say about Kong? He's huge, loud, and a blast to watch. Kong 
 battles an amazing array of huge enemies that beg the question: What are they putting in the water 
 on Skull Island? In one chapter, the game pits you (as Kong) against three hungry Tyranosauruses. 
 As a "finishing move", Kong grabs the jaws of the huge beasties and keeps pulling until.... well, 
 let's just say there is a satisfying CRACK at the end..... just too cool.
  Overall, I enjoyed just watching the game being played. It was a rather short game, only about 
 5-6 hours long. Maybe, I can get a chance to play it before it has to go back to the rental store..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MobySSX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 30, 2005 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Alright, most of the Graphics on these next gen starters disappoint me, so I'm going to give this 
 one a break. OK Framerate. I personally could not get past the opening of the door on the Human 
 Campaign. (I lasted about 3 minutes) This is a very hard game!
  
  While I don't know too much else about this game I can say that it looks like something I would 
 want. It's very simple (A Movie Game) where the Theme doesn't ever seem to change at all. That 
 can sometimes be a good thing. King Kong is in my book the 3rd best release title for the Xbox 
 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Monkdawg91
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 30, 2005 9:17 am PT
Review:  Who would'nt want to pound the **** out of prehistoric beasts or survive the freaky skull island? I 
 certaintly would. Thankfully this is a very solid game.
  
  The gameplay is pretty sweet. Like I said before as Kong you can kick the living crap out of annoying 
 dinosaurs. And the fps play as Jack is awesome. I love tossing spears into a rex'es fat ***!
  
  The graphics are pretty good for the current gen consoles but great for the 360.
  
  The 
 sound is phenominal. The sounds of the jungle are really creepy and sweet sounding. Kong and other 
 beasts sound awesome when they roar.
  
  One thing that I am bitter with is that this [along with most other 360 games] is 60.00! Dang that 
 sucks
  
  This a great movie game as well as a great game at its own. If you have 60 bg'ns, then go buy this 
 for the 360. It is also worth it for the other consoles for 49.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss00
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 6:51 am PT
Review:  The game looks pretty cool until you get to play it. The most entertaining parts in the game is 
 when you get to play as king kong and this doesn't happen a whole lot. You mostly get to run around 
 with some guy killing dinosaurs and other crappy creatures. The gun play is not to entertaining 
 either it is like most games with a not completley there look on the gun model. Not to mention 
 the lack of variety in the guns. If you are going to spend 85% of the game as a human with guns 
 make the guns interesting. In other words don't get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BL1NDS1DE
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 30, 2005 2:57 am PT
Review:  Peter Jackson's King Kong looks to be a remake that may surpass the original films quality, something 
 that is rarely done. Peter previously directed the Lord of the Rings films which had game adaptions 
 made by Electronic Arts. While the LOTR games were decent fun, and looked GREAT, they lacked substance, 
 and therefore, Peter Jackson has decided to let UbiSoft take a hack at creating King Kong. Michel 
 Ancel, creator of the wonderful Rayman series, and more notably the wonderful, Beyond Good and 
 Evil. King Kong has the making of something great, and in some cases succedes, but overall is lacking 
 what makes it a good or even great game.
  
  First of all, let me address the games length, which is painfully short. I'm not a fan of games 
 that are extended just for the sake of extending them, but this is at the most a 5 to 6 hour experience, 
 with little incentive for replaying missions. When you are done you can replay missions for points 
 and therefore unlock various extras, but the game's not really that good, so it's not worth it. 
 I can't help but feel that a bit more time could have been taken to make this a 10 hour game or 
 so, and thus made it a bit more rewarding and fully fleshed out.
  
  Gameplay wise, King Kong is hit or miss. There are some sections that are brilliant, and some that 
 are tedious and boring. You'll find yourself repeatedly doing the same thing to solve puzzles, 
 such as burning brush OVER AND OVER, and finding poles to open gates. The gunplay is great, but 
 with a limited selection of ammo, you'll find yourself throwing spears at your enemies far more 
 than you will kill them with guns. The Kong sections are the most ingenious and exciting, but they 
 are at the most 25 percent of the overall experience therefore, they leave you wanting more. Playing 
 as Kong is a blast, as you feel you are in complete control of the massive ape, ripping V-rexes 
 in half and swinging from vines across the beautifully rendered jungle.
  
  Graphically King Kong is a beautiful game for the most part. The lighting is wonderfully done as 
 are most of the textures. The enviroments are by far the most compelling part of the graphics. 
 The character models are decent, but lacking up close. Fire in King Kong is just ugly however, 
 and should look much better on a next gen machine.
  
  The sound is wonderfully implemented and will totally immerse you in the experience, and is by 
 far the best aspect of King Kong. All the actors from the film provide voice acting that is wonderfully 
 done, and the enviroment sounds and gunfire is spot on.
  
  Overall King Kong is a decent game, but not worth a purchase. You can rent this and beat it in 
 a day or so, and have all the fun you will have with it. There is a feel that this could be something 
 great, but it's just not that much fun and somewhat disappointing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rat-Bastard
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 29, 2005 5:34 am PT
Review:  Of the 4 games I bought at the launch of 360, this is my favorite. It opens up with scenes from 
 the movie, filling you in on who's who, where you are going and why, then tosses you into the game 
 with quick tutorials on how things work.
  
  Being resourceful is the name of the game in King Kong. You don't wan't to waste your ammo on the 
 smaller inhabitants if you don't have to. Keep an eye out for spears left out, or picking up a 
 sharp bone from a nearby pile and impaling the local megapedes. Your first encounter with the massive 
 V-Rex is intense and when you get to play as Kong you get a nice shift of feeling helpless to total 
 dominance.
  
  Unlike most first person games, the interface isn't cluttered with health and ammo bars, maps, 
 compasses etc. Its straight up first person. Want to know how much ammo you got? Click the button 
 and Jack verbally tells you. It's something that I hope catches on because it really made it feel 
 like more than just a game.
  
  The graphics are great environmentally, the character models themselves are a little disappointing, 
 but with the 360 you just have high expectations. I'm still enjoying this game, I hear its short, 
 which is unfortunate, but if you are looking for a good adventure, this game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oreo1029
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  king kong is a really sweet game. you can be jack or king kong. jack is fun to be you have a gun 
 or spears. king kong is really fun to be. when your king kong you fight through the jungle and 
 beat up dinasours. jack you can shoot dinasours and throw fire spears at them. The graphics are 
 really good. I really do recomend this game to you. Its not like gay final fantasy. Warning it 
 is highly addictive. The graphics are excellent. If your a really goood gamer then this will be 
 no problem for you. It will be a piece of cake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kazaganti
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:19 pm PT
Review:  
  
  I have to say playing this on the Xbox 360 made my 5,000 dollar top of the line PC demo look bad 
 lol. i think this game is a must have for any King Kong movie fan . if only they can do a Godzilla 
 vs King Kong game like this it would own. 
  
  ok here it goes my first review.
  
  Gameplay i gave it a 8 because everyonce and awhile its alittle hard to move with the angles of 
 the camera view but not offten enough to really affect game play i'm just picky . 
  
  Graphics i give a 10 omg this game looks great when your in a dark cave or in a bright lighted 
 area it really shows what a next gen game should look like and they will only get better as time 
 goes on. running it at 720p HD was amazing
  
  Sound i give it a 10 it is just scary when you hear the Mighty Ape beating his chest and roaring 
 . alot of good sound effects in this one and if you have suround sound its only better.
  
  Value i give this game a 9 only because replay value the story will not change. but hey it still 
 is a great game and man if they could just make other movie games as good as this .
  
  Reviewer' Tilt i give it a 10 It hits right on the money for bringing you King Kong at his full 
 glory as far as Graphics and Sound and i'm sure its dead on following of the movie with added creatures 
 for your killing pleasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyhiii
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:34 am PT
Review:  I think it is a good game but it could have been a great game if the New York part would have been 
 longer. Identification with the character is difficult because Jack miracously disappears in New 
 York. The Game could have been more emotional at the end. It almost seems to have been finished 
 in a rush when it come to its end. Having this said it is still an abobe average game and by far 
 the best movie licensed game I have seen so far and it is still great fun to play. The only real 
 shortcoming is that it is too short and could have paid more attention to the identification with 
 the characters to the end. Otherwise Thumbs up it is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotokan_42
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 25, 2005 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Peter Jackson's King Kong is based on his upcoming movie titled," Peter Jackson's King Kong". Throughout 
 most of the game, you'll play as Jack, (NOT JACK BLACK) the character played by Adrian Brody. The 
 other times, you'll aslo play as, the one and only, King Kong. What and how does this game separate 
 from the others? Three things, (1) there's no health bar, so the only way to know if you're character 
 is dying is when your TV screen turns red, but if you stay in hiding, eventually the screen will 
 turn back to normal. (2) a great movie-turn-game, unlike many movies that make games out of it, 
 they're HORRIBLE!!!!, but Peter Jackson's King Kong is probably the ONLY movie-turn-game that doesn't 
 blow. (3) When playing as Kong, it's a huge feel into the that you're this gigantic ape that can 
 crush almost anything that's in your path. 
  
  However, there are two downfalls that makes a huge disappointment. For starters, the game's EXTREMELY 
 SHORT. The most time you can beat the game in 6 to 7 hours. Yes, it's that short. And secondly, 
 some of the character animations don't look as sharp as it would look like on its systems. 
  
  Overall, the game's a great as the movie, but we wish the gameplay would've lasted a lot longer, 
 like 15 to 20 hours longer. Nevertheless, this game is a blast, and you'll enjoy much of it, even 
 if it's short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jblze
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 25, 2005 9:27 pm PT
Review:  A Big game with Big result . 
  
  Is the least you can say with it..
  The main points this game brings to the table is its attention to detail. The graphics are just 
 amazing when your beating up t-rex's as king kong or beating gaint spiders as jack the graphics 
 are perfect no glitches at all. The voice overs also impressed me its superb its stepping up the 
 voice overs in a game majorly. 
  Down side..
  The game (when your playing as jack) stays in one view you which can be a good thing and bad thing 
 in some instences.
  No health bar .. there is no health bar in this game how would you know if youre about to die , 
 iam just asking for a health bar i might be picky its just me. 
  well over all it has soild A. I and programming and a game with a good story line that flows good 
 . so its gets an 8.3 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluefire33
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 8:09 am PT
Review:  King Kong was for me the Halo of the Next Generation. The graphics are superb and the gameplay 
 is amazing. The most unique part of the game is the lack of a HUD. This frees up your entire screen 
 for the action alone... And believe me, (I have a 50 inch plasma TV) it adds an incredible cinematic 
 feel to the game that has never been accomplished before. The entire game feels like an action 
 movie because of this, just what Peter Jackson was looking for, and I say they did it splendedly. 
 In addition to this, the game mechanics are amazing as well. Spears stick into soft surfaces (including 
 the creatures you fight) , tall grass catches on fire when exposed to an open flame, and the creatures 
 act realistically to the environment around them (if you skewer a smaller creature with a spear 
 and chuck the tasty kabob towards you enemies, they will dive for it and eat it. This is especially 
 convenient when you need to distract an enemy. Last but not least the soundscapes are amazing. 
 Rain patters on the ground, footsteps squelch in moist ground, and the V-Rex's roars will cause 
 you to lean back slightly in your chair. If your walking through a narrow cave and hear something 
 rustle, it will cause you to jump and look wildly around. This adds for a very creepy environment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozzychrono
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 25, 2005 7:48 am PT
Review:  Graphics: are fair, some of the backgrounds and scenes look really nice, King Kong looks very nice... Character 
 models look a little poor and some of the land and scene textures look like they could have passed 
 on the original XBox
  
  Gameplay: The game plays really smooth and flows nice, has a very realistic feel. Nothing clutters 
 up your screen which is really nice. The game is pretty much linear based so no problem getting 
 lost or figuring out where to go or do next. If your wanting a first person shooter.. this is not 
 it.. it is mostly adventure.. kinda like a linear Metroid Prime.
  
  Sound: This is where this game shines, the musical score fits perfect for the mood of the game, 
 sound effects and voice overs are at the best that I have ever heard in any game.. and when you 
 hear King Kong roar and beat his chest (especially with a 5,1 surround sound system) your mouth 
 just drops.
  
  The game is pretty short... so not really woth paying $59,99 for... but its definitely an adventure 
 worth playing through at least once... so renting it will probably be the better thing to so 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redrobodragon
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Look at the character's face and compair it with any other face u want i dont care. It seems as 
 if the face is flat. Now look at the guerilla, there arn't any details. In other words its seems 
 like the guerilla is copied from a year 200 pc game and pasted on the xbox360. The only cool thing 
 about this game that is amazing is the envirnment. It really takes you to that era. But still there 
 is almost no sunlight and when you think about it you see if there weren't any sunlight and it 
 was always cloudy then no plants would grow so its kinda weared. makes me feel sad when the weather 
 is cloudy. The quick actions of the animals are fast and make the game exiting but after a while 
 playing you get used to their actions and its like you can expect it. I played it in my frien'd 
 house, he kept telling me that i was just jellos! cuz i didnt have a 360, well all the 360 owners 
 how are happy might think the same for me but they know the truth themselves, this game suck no 
 matter on what consol it is. TOTAL RIP OFF. U know it so face it. Lol. I've never had either of 
 the consols so dont come telling me that im a ps3 fan. (Although its true!) And even if i am its 
 because the games on the ps3 are better. Sooner or later all the xbox 360 owners will realize that 
 they wasted alot of money, xbox 360 is like a modified version of Xbox. But ps3 is a whole new 
 consol totaly diffrent from the last one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerBear55
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2005 11:31 am PT
Review:  I must be getting really good at gaming, lol.
  
  I picked the game up (regular Xbox) on Tuesday afternoon, played for about 5 hours and finished 
 it the next day in about 4 more hours, for a grand total of 9-ish playing hours. Kinda dissapointing 
 that it was over so fast.
  
  Gameplay was a snap to pick up, and figure out what to do and where to go. It was all too easy 
 and short, albeit entertaining. The graphics were ok, not great, but good enough. (Would love to 
 have seen it on a 360, but I don't have one of those, surprise, surprise.) It was fun, but too 
 easy and too short. There are no difficulty choices, so what you get is what you get; a once-through 
 piece of cake.
  
  Going back through the "chapters" (available after finishing it) to amass points is about the most 
 fun. Also re-played a few of the more fun parts, but that's about it. It's ok, but certainly not 
 one of my favorite games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucky2492
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:57 am PT
Review:  This game will make you think, but not like Myst or those kind of games. Mostly, you will just 
 have to look around for stuff, lighting brush and grass on fire to clear a path, things like that. The 
 shooting is fairly fun, but remember, THIS IS NOT A FIRST PERSON SHOOTER! ammo is scarce and should 
 only be used when necessary. 
  
  The graphics of this game are truly amazing. At the beginning off the game I remember thinking 
 that I was in the middle of a cutscene, then I looked around and discovered that I was actually 
 playing the game. That Is another nice thing about this game. There are no cutscenes or HUD so 
 you really can get into the game. Sometimes you will find yourself stganding on the edge of a cliff 
 just admiring the environment.
  
  But where this game truly shines is the time you play as Kong. You really feel like your running, 
 swinging, and fighting as the huge ape yourself. The fighting scenes are amazing, and you don't 
 have to memorize a ton of complex moves to fight, as their are only a few attacks. The animations 
 for moving and fighting look so great and fluid, you don't really see pauses between them, and 
 as the camera angle looks very cinematic you feel like your watching a cut scene and just happen 
 to be pressing buttons
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haz_4x4
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 7:58 am PT
Review:  i have played it on the 360 as a demo and i think its just awesome especially the graphics the 
 gameplay of the game is just awesome and i am planning to get it for my xbox 360 as my first game 
 who could blame me as you get to play as kong and as the humans only 1 improvement i would make 
 for it which is just small is maybe have a big variety of guns and such
  overall i think this is a great game for the money and i advise that you should buy it as soon 
 as possible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake400
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 7:33 pm PT
Review:  im looking forward to this game it looks like a real action game i mean what could be better than 
 snapping a T-rex"s jaw u dont see that in the jarassic park movie ....... who agrees with me. anyway 
 ive played the demo and the gameplay is awsome and the grapics are good but not as good as doom 
 3 but they are still good the sound is also good it sounds like ur in a movie theater when u play 
 it.. it is also cool that u can play to modes of play king kong or as a human. in the demo when 
 u play as a human u can look at a the other guys face and it looks like jack black (cuz he is in 
 the movie) and i must say that they did a good job of animating him lol. i would see the movie 
 and rent the game befor buying it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_best
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2005 3:05 pm PT
Review:  yes , the king of mokeys is back!!! wow i can barely wait for the movie , the game is so good experience 
 ,it has a good looking ,the control response is amazing , n the battles and combos are a cool stuff 
 to enjoy so if the game is a god option to buy ,i cant wait for the movie ok we r not talkin' about 
 movies here it's a game review so you have to play kong it rocks believe me , the bad thing like 
 the gamespot review says is too short and play as a kong should be the main part of the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanzi
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 23, 2005 12:06 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the worst lanch/movie games that i have ever played in my life. the graphics and 
 sound on this game are amazing but it severely lacks in the gameplay department. the fighting controls 
 arent only sluggish but very bad. who wants to kill a trex by just tapping the b button a bajillion 
 times, the fighting controls need to be more in depth for the players who want to focus on the 
 kong aspect of the game. the developers of this game went the same route that the creators of the 
 first hulk game did, there are two sides of the game, the 
  fps/ steath side and the king kong hit the crap out of everything side. the kong side of the game 
 is only amusing for about half an hour so this is a game that you should definetely pass up when 
 going to buy your 360 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hondje89
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  King Kong is one of the most famous creature in the world. It all started with the that was in 
 the cinemas around the early 30's. Now, more then 70 years later, the Lord of the Rings director 
 is going to make a new re-make of the gigantic ape in a new movie. For what I've seen, King Kong 
 is going to be a superb movie, no doubt. 
  
  The video game of King Kong will be taking place on Skull Island and of course New York City. You'll 
 be playing as Jack, an actor that has been hired to play a movie on the island. You'll be busy saving 
 your crew and yourself all the time. And you'll be playing as King Kong, where you'll beat around 
 T-Rexes and look-a-like Velociraptors.
  
  The gameplay is superb. People might have thought it can be annoying without a HUD to guide you, 
 or to see how many ammo you have left in your clip. For Kong, there's no reason to have a HUD, 
 when you're about to die, the screen will get red and you'll hear heartbeats. The same goes for 
 Jack. You can throw spears and shoot the prehistoric creatures with guns. Instead of a HUD that 
 shows how many ammo you have left, you'll hear Jack screaming how many bullets you have left in 
 you clip. And, that's not much. The ammo is very limited, so shoot good, or you're out of ammo 
 in no time. But luckely the good old people on the island have plenty of spears on the island, 
 so sometimes it's muscle work for Jack.
  
  The graphics are overwhelming. The jungle is unbelieveble detailed with the vegitation and light 
 effects that go trough the leaves and trees. It can't get much more realistic than this. I can't 
 really describe how great it is, but the ones who ever played King Kong on the Xbox 360 know what 
 I'm talking about. I didn't gave it a 10/10 because at some points the characters are very undetailed, 
 and same goes for some dinosaurs and plants. 
  
  The sound is just perfect, it really is. While you'll be playing in the jungle, you'll hear all 
 around you flying insects and dinosaurs. And when you walk you'll hear cracking sounds of leaves 
 and sticks that are on the ground while you walk over it. Another great things are the sounds of 
 the T-Rexes, it really sounds like you're standing next to one while you're getting chased. Just 
 perfect.
  
  The past things were superb and perfect. But it sometimes has some minor problems. At some points, 
 the game will go slow cause of all the detail, and might freeze for a few seconds. This can be 
 irritating, but not that irritating enough to throw your controller to the floor, or against the 
 wall ( whatever you like to do ) . It's a great try of Ubisoft to leave the HUD away, but when you're 
 not looking and you're talking to someone you might overhear Jack when he screams how many bullets 
 you have left in your clip. This are just a few things that can be irritating, but still make it 
 good.
  
  Tilt. Overall King Kong is a superb game. It's hard and sometimes even very hard at some points. 
 But I really enjoyed playing it, and it's one of the best launch titles of the Xbox 360 and one 
 of the best movie based games ( the best according to me is the Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from 
 Butcherbay ) . So, even if you're not into adventure games, you really should play this game, no 
 matter who or what you are, it overwhelms you.
  
  Good points
  
  +Awesome graphics.
  +Nice warm jungle feeling.
  +No HUD for a change.
  +Dinosaurs!
  
  Bad points
  
  -Game 
 is too short.
  -No nice extra features.
  -King Kong might get hard to control.
  -Shouting about the ammo makes you wanna shout worse things back. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
