-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Phantasy Star Universe
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/rpg/phantasystariv/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Offers more of the same Phantasy Star Online-like gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Monthly fee seems completely ridiculous.
 gameplay can get very repetitive.
 easy for other players to abuse weaknesses in the game's party system.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  3, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 6.5, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 1,723 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sonic Team
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Oct 25, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Phantasy Star Universe almost immediately feels dated, and the monthly fee is way too steep to justify, 
 but at its core, it's still an enjoyable experience. 

  Well it certainly took them long enough, but Sega and Sonic Team have finally released a proper 
 sequel to one of the first online console games, Phantasy Star Online. Released on the Dreamcast 
 back in 2001, PSO was an action-focused role-playing game that allowed four players to join over 
 a dial-up connection and stomp through dungeons with guns and swords blazing. It was popular because 
 it was simple to understand but contained some real depth by offering a lot of weird, rare items 
 that had players replaying the same four worlds over and over again with the hope that they'd find 
 something crazy. It was also popular because it was free to play online. Updates were released 
 that never really caught on because they were marginal updates that didn't really bring much to 
 the game. They also never caught on because Sega started charging a monthly fee to play the game. 
 Phantasy Star Universe is a proper, built-from-the-ground-up sequel to PSO -- at least as far as 
 its gameplay is concerned. It has evolved a fair amount, but not to the extent that you'd call 
 it a modern game. Plus, the online isn't massively multiplayer in any sense of the word and comes 
 with a $9.99 per month fee. Fans of PSO will probably like it, but parts of it feel so ancient 
 that it's difficult to recommend to anyone else.  

          At this point, does anyone even remember Nei or anything else from the old Phantasy Star 
 role-playing games?     

  Regardless of how you play the game, Phantasy Star Universe is very straightforward. You set up 
 missions on a satellite space station or one of three planets in the area, which really changes 
 how the game looks and what creatures you'll face. The action remains the same: The game puts things 
 in front of you, and you need to kill those things with one of your many weapons. When you wipe 
 out every monster in an area, a keycard usually drops to let you open a locked gate and move on 
 to the next room. And in that room, you'll shoot or stab even more creatures. This all usually 
 ends with some sort of conflict with a larger boss monster, but none of the bosses in the game 
 are very difficult to fight. Everything unfolds in real time. In fact, there's actually no way 
 to pause the game, so you'll have to be careful about when you want to access your inventory. But 
 the game gives you quick access to six items and six sets of equipped weapons, so switching on 
 the fly or using items to heal yourself doesn't take much effort at all.  

  There are multiple types of weapons in the game, but the basic distinction is between guns, things 
 that stab, and wands or rods. Some of these items only require one hand to use, which lets you 
 keep one hand free for a pistol. You can hold down a button to switch between your main hand and 
 off-hand weapons, which lets you shoot things as you close in on them and finish them off with 
 a few swipes of your sword. But some weapon sets are two-handed, such as large, Final Fantasy-like 
 swords, dual one-handed swords, dual daggers, dual pistols, shotguns, and larger rifles. Unlike 
 Phantasy Star Online, each weapon doesn't have a light and heavy attack, so you won't just be limited 
 to throwing out shots from guns three at a time. Instead, you can purchase special items called 
 photon arts and attach them to your weapons. For things like the one-handed sword, you earn a more 
 powerful attack that can stagger or knock down an enemy, opening him up for some free hits. For 
 guns, you can purchase different elemental affinities. Ideally you'd like the element to run counter 
 to the type of enemy you're facing: fire creatures don't like ice, light creatures don't like dark, 
 and so on. But there's also a chance that fire bullets will set creatures ablaze, which will do 
 extra damage over time. Ice shots can freeze, light shots can confuse, and so on. Spells are attached 
 to rods, which can deal out damage or heal you and your associates. The catch is that all of these 
 photon arts drain the photon energy in your weapon, and it only recharges automatically when you 
 have it equipped. You can use items to replenish your supply more quickly. For example, most of 
 the guns charge back up pretty quickly. So you'll usually have your special attacks at your disposal, 
 but not so much that you can just abuse them constantly. And, not every character is able to use 
 every single weapon.  

          The story mode's structure is interesting, but some players will absolutely loathe its 
 anime style.     

  The three character classes all have different specialties. The hunter gets all the good melee 
 weaponry, the ranger is the best with guns, and the force can use the game's best spell, technics. 
 In addition to your character's level, you also level up in your current character class by completing 
 missions, which gets you access to higher ranked weapons in that class. If you want to switch things 
 around, you can change classes at any time. You'll keep your current class level, but you'll lose 
 the benefits of that class until you change back. The game's different races also have different 
 stats that make them better suited for one class or another. Humans are the well-rounded class 
 that can do it all, but they don't necessarily excel at anything. Newmans have pointy ears and 
 are best suited for the force class. Casts are the game's robots, and all that robotic brain stuff 
 makes them good at shooting things. And beasts are your up-close-and-dirty melee class, receiving 
 a bonus nanoblast attack at later levels.  

  The creatures you face in PSU aren't very bright, but at least they move a lot faster than PSO's 
 lumbering foes. Throughout the course of the game, you'll fight weird alien penguin-looking things, 
 small dragons, infected indigenous beasts, ancient relics that have come to life, and a multitude 
 of different robots and other angry machinery. The bosses in the game include larger, more devious 
 monsters, such as dragons, two-headed dragons, robots, and so on. And most of their attack patterns 
 are extremely predictable. Dodging enemy attacks is usually as simple as getting out of the way, 
 but you can usually interrupt enemies because many of them wind up for a second or two before they 
 attack. A couple of well-placed hits will usually knock them out of their attack animation. So 
 you'll be able to take on more and more groups of tougher enemies all by yourself as you get better 
 and better at facing foes and avoiding damage. During the early parts of the game, this will make 
 playing the online game by yourself a viable, if lonely, tactic.     

  There's a single-player story mode in Phantasy Star Universe that's broken up into 12 chapters 
 and will last somewhere around 20 hours. In this mode, you're forced to play as 17-year-old, hoverboard-lover, 
 Ethan Waber. Ethan hates authority until someone from the local security force, the Guardians, 
 helps him save his sister during an attack on the satellite colony where they live. The attackers 
 are a crazy alien infection known as the SEED, and their attacks on the satellite and the three 
 planets around it are increasing. Imbued with a newfound sense of justice, Ethan joins the Guardians, 
 quickly meets some sort of love interest and eventually saves the world. The single-player is really 
 a love-it-or-hate-it sort of thing because, in many ways, the game is structured and presented 
 like your average anime series. Each of the 12 chapters starts out with an animated FMV intro that 
 is the same every time, just like a TV show. Each chapter tends to resolve some sort of mission 
 or conflict at its conclusion and ends with another FMV that could just as easily serve as the 
 end credits because it shows each character that was involved in that chapter. To top things off, 
 they give you a cliff-hanger by showing you some bits of the next chapter, complete with an announcer 
 who says "coming up next on Phantasy Star Universe." The anime trappings of its presentation are 
 pervasive, right down to the game's hokey voice acting. Some people are going to get way into that, 
 and the way each chapter ends with a look at what's ahead is good at keeping you engaged and interested 
 in what's going to happen next. But if you can't get behind the way the story rolls out, you're 
 really going to hate it. Although the story mode is easy enough for you to try beating it without 
 dying once, it certainly doesn't help that the computer-controlled characters you team up with 
 offline are totally ineffective.  

          You can change classes as often as you'd like, so there's no reason not to try out everything. 
     

  The 360 version's achievement points are all locked up in the single-player game, where you'll 
 earn points for beating specific bosses. You'll never have to go out of your way to get them, and 
 for beating the game's final boss in both of its forms, you'll earn the final 400 points, giving 
 you the full thousand. Considering all of the different things you can do online and with the different 
 classes in the game, the achievements in Phantasy Star Universe are really lazy.  

  The long-term action is online. Much like Guild Wars, Phantasy Star Universe's online side is instanced, 
 so there are multiple versions of every common area. You're randomly dropped into one every time 
 you connect, though you can switch to different servers if you're looking for specific friends. 
 On the Xbox 360, the first two or three servers seem to remain fairly populated, but the rest are 
 absolute ghost towns. Also, you really don't get the impression that a lot of people are playing 
 the game online. But the common areas are really only there for commerce and grouping purposes. 
 Up to six players can be in a party, and once you start a mission, you'll never see anyone outside 
 of your party until the mission is complete and you head back to a common area. So don't mistake 
 this for a massively multiplayer game. It most definitely isn't one. That sort of makes the game's 
 monthly fee a little hard to swallow, especially when consider that other games of the same type 
 don't require a fee. On top of all that, the game doesn't even give you a 30-day trial to decide 
 if it's your thing or not. That's pretty weak.  

  The game is more open-ended online, but that's more from a lack of structure than anything else. 
 You can meet up at mission-start points or just jump into the mission menu to see if you can find 
 any open parties to join mid-mission. Most of the missions are really dry. You get a sentence or 
 so of text, then you're dumped in to go kill stuff. Playing with other players is nice, but playing 
 with strangers can lead to some annoying situations when it comes to item and experience distribution. 
 For some reason, the player who scores the final hit on a monster gets more experience than everyone 
 else. So you might run into players that hang back for most of a boss fight then get really aggressive 
 at the end, hoping to score that final hit. Or you might run into shady players who kick you out 
 of their game right before a boss dies to ensure that they get all of the loot, which appears after 
 the boss is defeated. The game offers rules for the distribution of both common and rare items, 
 but none of the options fix this problem. So you'll probably just want to play with friends to 
 be safe. Of course, convincing your friends to play a game with a seemingly unnecessary monthly 
 fee is an uphill battle.  

  The other benefits of online play include more active commerce. Each player has his own bedroom 
 area, and you can transform your room into a shop to sell items for whatever price you see fit. 
 The game has a pretty handy set of shop-searching tools, and there are already a bunch of useful 
 shops that are open and sell common items, which lower-level players would need for relatively 
 low prices. In addition to finding and buying items, you can also craft your own. Many of the items 
 that drop off of dead enemies or pop out of boxes when you bust them open are materials needed 
 to synthesize items. It's kind of an arduous process. For starters, you need a synthesis board 
 for the item you want to make, which serves as a blueprint. The board has a limited number of uses, 
 so you can't just buy one board and pump out the same item forever. You also need specific items 
 to create the item you want to make, which include wood, metal, photon energy, and plenty of other 
 things. Typically, the more exquisite the weapon or armor you're trying to make, the rarer the 
 items needed to make it. You need to insert the board and store all of the materials inside of 
 a friendly robot that lives in your room then set it to synthesize. After that, you need to wait. 
 Non-consumable items actually take time to craft, which is sort of crazy. Additionally, there's 
 a chance of failure in the process. You can feed items to your synthesis machine to help it grow 
 in level, which will make it better at synthesizing specific types of items. But based on how many 
 crafting materials you find when you're out adventuring, it seems like you'd be better off getting 
 into crafting rather than selling all of your materials.  

          It's a better game than PSO, but after five years, that alone isn't enough.     

  Visually, 
 PSU looks OK, but it doesn't really look like a modern game. While it gets by on the PlayStation 
 2, the Xbox 360 version doesn't look much better. It has plenty of jagged edges and a real lack 
 of variety when it comes to the environments. Additionally, the game slows down here and there, 
 particularly during large boss encounters, but it isn't limited to those cases. The interface is 
 similarly dated. Although it's an improvement over Phantasy Star Online, the fact that it's better 
 than a game released five years ago isn't an impressive or surprising feat. The game's audio is 
 decent, but if you consider the length of time you're likely to spend playing it, the music gets 
 very repetitive. So after 10 hours or so, you might just have to turn it off. Also, on surround-sound 
 setups, the menu noises blare out of the center channel much louder than any of the game's other 
 sound effects.  

  Although Sega has made claims about the game's post-release support with plenty of new missions 
 planned, the game still isn't dynamic enough to support a monthly fee. It's too bad because this 
 game can most definitely become addictive. But at its core, this is a six-player action role-playing 
 game that has repetitive worlds and repetitive combat. PSO fans will probably appreciate the game's 
 new setting and its somewhat streamlined gameplay, but those changes definitely don't make Phantasy 
 Star Universe a modern game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (139 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: greengir
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Ok, This game is hard to tell others to play. Even when i use to play it on my dream cast then 
 on to my gamecube then slowly to the xbox and the 360. See for some reason i like the look of this 
 game and so do my other friends that did play this game with me to try it out. after playing it 
 on the xbox after a month i just stop playing. 1 cheaters aka modders made the game less fun. Then 
 months later the xbox 360 came out with a new phantasy star i kept a good eye on the game and it 
 progress the trailer was very good looking in its own way. I know for a fact there is a group that 
 really loves these games and the group that really hates these games. For me it in the middle i 
 wish they would add more to it to make it better i know they could make this Online game better 
 and more interactive. Now im really happy on the 360 you could download the demo. So i did and 
 it was the same thing really nothing really change form the others ones i played online. Sure there 
 was new stuff like the story mode and new monster here and there. Mostly every one i knew that 
 tryed the game out said they think the story was better than whole online gameplay. The weapons 
 were kewl the starwars looking lightsaber were also kewl in fact that maybe the only good thing 
 i liked about it. Now i know im saying more bad things about this game than good but its true. 
 This game is not worth $15 a month now i will say this DOWNLOAD THE DEMO! it will debate the fact 
 if you are willing stay in the game and pay for it monthly. Now the other thing I did not like 
 in this game was the people that sit or run around spamming about hentai pics and cam on cam. All 
 in all i wish they change alot about this game cause the aspect of it is really kewl but yeah i 
 just gave you all reason why this game fails. 
  
  thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayer19888
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  awsome game to play. you can easily put in over 40 hours on it. very highly addictive game. never 
 tried online play cause i dont have a way to play it online yet but offline is awsome. cool moves. 
 almost like a t. v. show. each level are like scenes like t. v. shows. graphics are amazing. awsome 
 story line. keeps you wanting to play for hours and hours. i beat it but still play it all the 
 time. i like the different class of weapons. and love to see if i can fully upgrade each weapon 
 to the maximum. if you loved enchanted arms or marvel ultimate alliance youd really love this game. the 
 gameplay is really easy. the weapons are easy to use except for a few of them. awsome moves you 
 can learn. awsome game overall and worth to buy. ive put an easy 60 hours on it already. after 
 you beat it youll play it over and over forever. looking forward to playing phantasy star universe: 
 ambition illuminus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wywern271
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  This game seriously its not good, its only high addictive, the campaing sucks but there is its 
 MMORPG mode (that means Massive Multiplayer Olnine Role-Playing Game) it is updated every week 
 and you cant stop playing it anyway, in its campaing you play as Ethan Waber, a normal person of 
 the guardians colony that hate guardians a kind of soldiers that protect the guardians colony from 
 the SEED, some kind of monsters that attack th city and contaminate animals. Anyway, on online 
 mode you create your own character to play on free mode or a campaing mode you can choose on being 
 a beast (animal adn human) , cast (kind of robot) , newman (a new human) ; and human (i dont have 
 to explain that) everyone as different abilitties and some other things.
  I really dont recommend this game if you want to buy it its your problem 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameJunkieKyle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this: I haven't played muchof the single player that Phantasy Star Universe 
 has to offer, I stopped after a few hours when i realized that it sucked. But although I wouldn't 
 recommend the single player to anyone, the online multiplayer is where it's at.
  
  I can understand that the onlne isn't perfect, especially right after the game's launch, but the 
 new expansion pack that was released adds quite a bit to it, and also fixes some of the original 
 problems. Weapon upgrading has been fixed as well as more missions, items and classes added. 
 
  
  As far as Console MMO's go, PSU takes the cake. Unfortunatly, that isn't saying much. There are 
 many people who just can't seem to get into this game, but there are also people who absolutly 
 love it, some don't even know why. This game is really a hit or miss.
  
  I personally love the online MMO, and would say that it is worth the 10 bucks a month. I think 
 that Sonic Team has the potential to make a great console MMO with the next Phantasy Star game 
 if they fix the problems with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twiztid4evur
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  Phantasy Star Universe is a pretty crappy game, someone rented it for me because it was my birthday 
 gift, but i couldn't even finish the game or even play it for more then thirty minutes. The graphics 
 are crappy and the offline is terrible, the storyline is retarded and has horrible voice acting. 
 I really didn't find this fun the gameplay is alot like a rip-off of final fantasy but they messed 
 it up, and to play the online you have to pay like ten or fifteen bucks just to play it online 
 and you have to have an xbox live membership so it will cost you about twenty five dollars to play 
 this game a month, which you could be spending that money on something that is actually good instead 
 of this game. If you like action adventure games you might like Phantasy Star Universe, but i hardly 
 doubt it because it also gets very repative. If you do plan on getting this game you might want 
 to rent this game first if anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jka333
Rating: 6
Date: May 25, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  This is a good addition to any fan of PSO, but everyone else in the world could definitely do well 
 without it. There are so many ways it could have been better.
  
  Like for starters scratch the subscription fee! It actually seems like they have some nerve to 
 put a $10 a month fee on a game that isn't even very good. It's barely even an MMO, and the things 
 you do are so repetitive. 
  
  All you do in missions is go in a room, kill the slow stupid monsters, then go to the next room 
 that looks the same, and kill the same monsters again, and repeat until you reach the end or the 
 end boss, which is even less challenging.
  
  Doing these missions with other people is a little more fun, but also more frustrating. The person 
 who struck the enemy last gets the experience, and if your not careful, can also take the loot. 
 
  
  I've actually had some guy at the last boss make me sacrifice myself so that they could kick me 
 out of the party when the boss is almost dead, then they finish it off and get the loot. It sick-end 
 me, and from then on i was careful on who i travelled with.
  
  The single player isn't so bad, but the stuff you do is also repetitive and tedious. They are different 
 objectives, but you have to do the same things to accomplish those objectives. The cut-scenes are 
 pretty cool, if not cheesy. It makes it feel like a anime TV show, which isn't really a bad thing.
 
  
  The thing that bugs me the most about this game is the subscription fee. Of course I haven't paid 
 for it, because all that i did online was in the demo, but i have the game, and decided that it 
 isn't worth paying for it. The demo was enough for me to be honest, and it was actually kind of 
 annoying because i had to download a demo for a game i already had. Why dosn't it let you try it 
 first? That's pretty dumb.
  
  So why. I bought a 360, pay for internet, bought the game, and pay for xbox live, and they have 
 the nerve to ask for more?!? All of this already costs hundreds, if not thousands of dollers and 
 in the end the game isn't even worth it. 
  
  The best thing to do is get the demo if you want online. Your character gets deleted after awhile 
 (not sure how long i think its a couple weeks) , but you won't care because you have had enough 
 for awhile after about 1 or 2 days.
  If you want the single player then buy the game used, and have your fun. I personally think the 
 game isn't worth the full new price, so i that's why I bought it used.
  
  Once you try it, you'll understand what the rest of the game is like after about a half hour of 
 play time.
  
  Later
  - Jka333 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShmuperFromHell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Phantasy Star series since the days of the Dreamcast when Phantasy Star 
 Online Version 2 was the most played game in my collection, I used to unhook my phone without my 
 parents knowing and play online with people I met through the online community and I met a lot 
 of new friends and players which in my opinion is what an online game should be all about. But 
 PSO sometimes suffered from being repetitive at times, laggy in certain places and if you played 
 online you would get hack AT LEAST two or three times. So when I heard that they were making a 
 sequel (or spiritual sequel in some circumstances) I creamed my pants in utter excitement, this 
 gave Sega a chance to move the series onto the next gen consoles and to improve on PSO which was 
 already a great game, the game mainly focuses on the solo play game but the online game is also 
 included for once the player has finished the single player (unless they wish to play the online 
 game straight away, but in my view its best to start out playing the offline game to understand 
 how the game works) this was the first improvement from PSO, the offline was simply just 'offline' 
 and had no storyline or backdrop, in Phantasy Star Universe we are introduced to strong characters 
 who are easily likeable and fit well into the games storyline. Now onto the games storyline, at 
 the start I was really pulled into the storyline but at the end it falls flat on its face due to 
 many questions unanswered and topics not explained. Also if you're a Xenosaga fan like me and enjoy 
 lengthy cut scenes your going to have a disappointing feeling at the end, the game feels like it 
 has been cut short and leaves with you an unsatisfying feeling (For example and big spoiler, why 
 the heck does Magashi fuse himself with the SEED mother ship, and another example who the heck 
 is Magashi and why is he targeting Ethan and companions?) . This is one of the major drawbacks that 
 I feel really let down the rating of the game for me, I would probably play this one again but 
 not the story mode to avoid the bitterness I felt when I completed it.
  
  Onto the subject of completing the game, it will take you around 20  25 hours. Short huh? I thought 
 so too, compared to the average time I usually spend playing an RPG this is quite small and is 
 almost an entire sittings worth. If you're really focused and you're not wasting any time doing 
 the free missions or anything else this game might even take you less than 20 hours! Might be a 
 little harder but I expect it's playable. Onto the subject of difficulty, it was too easy, way 
 too easy. I think if you play about 4 or 5 free missions you are going to have no problem when 
 it comes to the final two bosses in this game, I would say personally the last two bosses were 
 the easiest to fight and really did not pay any real attention to a difficulty curve all the way 
 through the game, there were a few random times though where I would have a dark fireball (I don't 
 know what it's called) fly at me and I would be dead within 1 hit, once again not trying to insult 
 you Sega but did you test the difficulty on this game?
  
  Last but not least the graphics and game play; the graphics are pretty average, not amazing but 
 not bad. The Xbox360 version (which is what I played) is a basic port from the PS2 version but 
 with added achievements, the backgrounds and level design is amazing and a vast improvement over 
 Phantasy Star Online but alas the cut scenes and character models are a bit clippie and low resolution 
 in some places, and while I'm talking about the characters again the voice acting is DIRE, really 
 dire. I was really peeved that there was no option to swap the American dubbing for the original 
 Japanese voice, the voices just did not fit the characters and eventually got on my nerves.
  
  Lastly, the game play is similar in style to Phantasy Star Online; if you played PSO you'll 
 have no trouble using the controls in this game. In my opinion I would say the one aspect of the 
 game where Sega have greatly improved on since PSO is the controls, it feels a lot smoother, a 
 lot more fluent and is easier to use. Reading a previous user review I noticed some players have 
 complained about running around finding it hard to shoot enemies, if you read the manual or had 
 some knowledge on how to play you would know that by hold down the LB button you can lock onto 
 enemies making it a lot easier to shoot them, one great aspect of the game play which shines amongst 
 the rest is the implementation of duel wielding into the game, now the play can equip a handgun 
 and a saber at the same time which in my opinion is totally **** sweet, give it a little shootey, 
 give it a little slicey. Ho ho ho.
  
  I would say that if you've never played Phantasy Star Online or even any Phantasy Star game I would 
 possibly rent this before owning it, and if you do rent it make sure you give a little time before 
 judging the game completely and before you decide to take your character online and go guns blazing. 
 For a PSO veteran I would say get this game, it's a great game and a great improvement from PSO; 
 it may lack the appeal and instant addiction which the original had (mainly because to play online 
 you have to pay monthly, thanks Sega  __ ) but once you get going it really shines next to PSO 
 and is a game which its predecessor should be proud of.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneRippedGuy
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I started off immediatly by trying the demo, after 10 minutes of pointlessly running around i could 
 totally not figure out what to do. OKay maybe thats a mistake on my part, I decided to give it 
 one more shot and get a rental at blockbuster. So okay i tried the online one, why not ill try 
 a month for 14.99$ 
  i figured since its so expensive its gotta be good, and theres gotta be a lot of people playing 
 it. I created a female beast warrior for higher melee damage cause wow all this game is just run, 
 hit X pick up some worhless item. IGotto level 5, and let me tell you this was i dunno two hours 
 i was palying, i always created a hunter, and the shootng system is so terrible, because for one 
 there is no way to aim, you gotta run around like an idiot hoping that you are facing the direction 
 that the enemy is in. I mean for god's sake. Anyway thats when i created the melle class and it 
 wasnt too entertaining let me tell you. Standard hack and slash, with only one move, and it get's 
 really repetitive. And when i figured the level, i was ever more confusedthan ever. Why did i run 
 through and kill 200 enemies and navigate through this maze. There is no explanation. Only an offer 
 to continue to another exactly the same looking dungeon or return to town. And what the hell is 
 there to do in town? There is no quests, everyone looks alike and they all say the same nonsense, 
 and of course the game is a ghosttown, i say 1 or 2 people occasionly, and this is 4p. m or 6p. m 
 if i remember. Okay, so i see my monthly credit card bill now it's $16.94! I mean WOW not COOL.. 
 And yes i always tried the single player and after the cutscenes at the beginning it contantly 
 crashes at the same part. THANKS TO blockbuster, And from what i hear on other peoples reviews 
 the single player is not good at all, it's like PURE FMV SEQUENES and the allies AI is BOGUS. AND 
 WHO is that girl he falls in love with, (ethan) i mean is she FUGLY OR WHAT, i wanna slap her silly. 
 And this games got a bit too much japanese in it for me like its everywhere. (no offense) 
  But as u can see my interest in this game has severely dropped, and i hope to hear what other people 
 think and feel free to message me. Also what angers me is HOW DO I CANCEL MY SUBSCRIPTION???? I 
 LLOOKED ALL OVER THE MENUS . I MEAN WOW is this a trick??? 
  Sony i am so disappionted.... i rated it very hard cuz its very frustrating no dodge or aim system 
 no people to play with, very repetitive, useless item system and expensive monthly fee, outdated 
 graphics, uninteresting music and sound I mean what else? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skilo2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  PSU as most addicts refers to it, is a mediocre RPG. The game itself is way too short, it took 
 like 20 hours, and the last mission had a total of 20 fricking cut-scenes!!!!!!! I still enjoy 
 the game though, I used to play the demo alot. I used to be one of the best on the demo. The game 
 is really fun when you play with other players online. The game is also quit addicting when you 
 have played for awhile, you will be so addected to synthesising your own weapons and begging that 
 it will come out a good percentage. Once the weapon comes out a good percentage, the next thing 
 you will be hooked on is upgrading the weapon to make it even stronger. Other than weapons, there 
 is also armors and also room decorations. The game just lacks a longer story and more objectives, 
 but once you get into it, you'll be playing it for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColateralGamble
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  The story mode (singleplayer) is by no means amazing. I would only give the single player a 4 out 
 of ten. This game is made for online play if you are going to buy just for offline play dont bother 
 it would be a complete waste. 
  The multiplier is just a couple complication from getting a 10 out of 10 in my book. The only bad 
 things in this game our The text chat system is a little difficult to use, but the voice chat which 
 is used for all parties is the best of any game i have ever played. Also another thing that bugs 
 me is the slight lag in towns ( not personal lag, your charicter moves perfectly, but the movement 
 of other charicters viewed by your charicter is really jerky. This small problem doesnt effect 
 the game play at all it just bugs me. The multiplayer and missions are nothing short of just plain 
 fun and photon arts never get boring. The leveling system for both your character and your photon 
 art are hard enough to keep you going, but easy enough to be attained. The over 300 missions and 
 continual struggle to beat your old rank on each one along with the constant enemy change is more 
 than enough to keep you interested for months and months. The weopon system is also the best i 
 have ever seen. Upgrading weapons have and extreme risk every time. the process is to long to be 
 discussed here along with all the other amazing parts to this game, but if their is anything you 
 need to know just message me. This is my advice Buy phantasy star convince some of your friends 
 to do the same download the expansion and have some of the most fun that you have ever had on xbox 
 live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmreedy
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Phantasy Star Universe is a great game to start out with, but when you beat the story with bad 
 dialog (and for you people who make fun of SEGA's bad ANIME games, GUESS WHAT THEY THINK OF OUR 
 GAMES IN JAPAN!!! Hello? We think there games are bad and they think our games are okay. The dialog 
 for PSU is probably really good in Japanese. EVER THINK OF THAT?)
  
  Anyway, unless you have a lifetime supply of 10 dollar bills in your wallet, this game is not worth 
 a buy. Paying for 10 dollars a month is just pathetic and a huge waste. A more better price could 
 be 5 dollars a month or 2.50! Online does have a lot, but not much as a full MMORPG has. 
  
  The story is pretty good and worth a rentals time, and if you beat a pretty good amount of 
 time playing story, you should try EXTRA mode. It's like a free online without the online part. 
 EXTRA mode and Online mode are basically the same thing. You create your character, and giving 
 a small supply of weak weapons, armour, and some healing items to start. The only thing about online 
 is that some things you have NO IDEA how to do. (Unless you read the instruction manual) 
  
  Phantasy Star Universe is a good game, and the DLC is worth more time, and future DLC episodes 
 to come. I recommend renting it first. If you like it, buy it. But BE WARNED! You really need a 
 lifetime supply of 10 dollar bills or it's worth $1.00 on eBay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Before I continue with the review I just want to state that I never took the game online and only 
 played the single player campaign.
  
  
  Phantasy Star Universe's story is like most JRPGs. Some mysterious unhuman force is attacking the 
 world that the game takes place in. You have your standard zero to hero storyline where your character, 
 Ethan Waber, starts as a regular citizen of a space colony and eventually becomes a Guardian member 
 (some police force in the game) who eventually saves the world. Like most JRPGs, you'll have your 
 typical sidekicks, love interest, and a sworn enemy. The story has the same cliches that most JRPGs 
 have, cheesy dialogue, but it still is satisfying. 
  
  The campaign takes around 18-25 hours depending on the sidequests you do. And theres a whole massive 
 multiplayer online mode that'll add hours upon hours of gameplay. They just released downloadable 
 content and online achievements which will give players more incentive to go online.
  
  You can tell that the game is ported from the PS2 version. The graphics are incomparible to RPGs 
 like Oblivion, Eternal Sonata, and Lost Odyssey. The graphics really take away from game because 
 you feel like your playing an outdated game.
  
  The sound in the game is also subpar. Like most JRPGs, most characters have annoying voices and 
 will sometimes drive the average person crazy. Although, the voices are not as bad as characters 
 in Enchanted Arms, they are not good either. Other than the voices, the music is solid but does 
 not really stand out good. A great game will have some sort of orchestrated or licensed music that 
 will be stuck in your head. Unfortunately, PSU does not do this.
  
  The gameplay is unique. I have not played an RPG on the 360 that has played like this. I'm not 
 a huge RPG player but I found PSU to be easy to play. The game is fantastic for newcomers to RPGs. 
 The game is hack and slash. You'll mostly run up to enemies and press a button three times to do 
 a combo or press another button to do a special attack especially when fighting a boss or a group 
 of enemies. It's not complicated at all but hardcore RPG fans will most likely find it too easy.
 
  
  Personally, I bought the game for $9.99 used. It definitely met my expectations and was worth the 
 value that I payed for it. Achievement whores will definitely enjoy the game because you'll get 
 an easy 1000 points for 20 hours of work. 
  
  If you are huge RPG fan and are willing to pay more than 30 bucks for the game I'd suggest playing 
 Lost Odyssey or Eternal Sonata instead. If you see the game for cheap I would definitely recommend 
 playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 16, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  "Phantasy Star Universe" is the next installment in SEGA's long line of RPG's in the "Phantasy 
 Star" franchise, one that has gained a massive following over the years, particularly its Dreamcast 
 incarnation, "Phantasy Star Online" (which was released in 1991) . "Phantasy Star Universe" can 
 be played both online and off, with a single player storyline (around 15-30 hours in length depending 
 on your in-game decisions) an unlockable offline "free mode" (where you can create a character 
 and play without the confines of the main story) and a subscription based online mode, MMORPG style. 
 Plenty to sink your teeth into here then, but not without its flaws.
  
  Story Mode
  In Phantasy Star Universe's main story mode you take the role of "Ethan Warber" (pictured above 
 on the left) , who is your typical young, brash, so annoying you want to strangle him, character 
 that the Japanese still seem to labour under the delusion that all gamers want to play as! Ethan 
 teams up with a, fortunately, much more like-able cast of characters who cover everything from 
 octogenarians with expert martial art skills to midget animals with serious attitude. Ethan and 
 his teammates have to battle through various environments defeating hordes of monsters and obtaining 
 keys to progress. These bursts of action are split up with various cut-scenes, boss-fights and 
 space travel and take place over twelve in-game episodes. The episodes themselves are done like 
 an anime T. V series with each having an opening theme, the main episode (where you control Ethan) , 
 a closing theme and a next episode preview. Being an anime fan I found this aspect quite appealing, 
 and it does much to give the game a nice atmosphere and one that many people will enjoy.
  
  The games combat is pretty much a button bashing fest as monsters spawn around you in the games 
 world and you must defeat them. LOTS of them. The amount of enemies you defeat in this game verges 
 on ridiculous at times as wave after wave attack you and you smack them all down with your weapon 
 of choice. It's all very simple and relatively easy, yet at the same time it's fiendishly addictive. 
 With the addition of weapon upgrades, the ability to create your own weapons and special attacks 
 there is just enough depth to the combat here to make it remain fun through the main story.
  
  Indeed the main flaw to story mode lies not in the games actual game-play but rather the awful 
 (and I mean awful) teammate AI. Your friends are quite happy to stand around doing nothing but 
 spout irritating quips while you battle legions of monsters. On the rare occasion that they do 
 bother attacking they tend to miss or receive a swift death at the hands of your enemies.
  
  Story Mode of Phantasy Star Universe delivers an enjoyable experience that is a little rough 
 around the edges. The games story is relatively poor and clich, and the AI of your team-mates 
 is diabolical. However, SEGA have successfully overcome these two flaws to produce a single player 
 that is ultimately good fun to play. Something that many games these days often forget.
  
  Free Mode
  On completing Episode IV of the main game "Free Mode" becomes selectable. Yes you 
 can leave Mr. Warber behind and make a character yourself. You can be a robot, a cat-girl (or boy) , 
 a human or a big-eared super brainy elf-type thing! The characters are pleasingly customisable 
 so you can really make them look how you want and once that's done you can head out into the world 
 of Phantasy Star without the confines of the plot stopping you. Unfortunately that's about it. 
 Aside from the freedom to do things, this is pretty much the same as single player, except it never 
 ends. The teammate AI is still bad and there isn't really anything to work towards, making it certainly 
 the most boring mode in the game.
  
  On-line Mode 
  It's doubtless this is the main mode of Phantasy Star Universe. SEGA want you to subscribe to the 
 MMORPG side of things and spend lots more money on the title. This is Free Mode, except your teammates 
 (hopefully) have slightly better IQ's than the computer controlled players as they are human beings. 
 I haven't played it myself as quite frankly for the ridiculously high price SEGA are asking a simplistic 
 on-line game like this isn't worth your money. With the added level of player interaction it may 
 well be the best mode, but value for money this isn't.
  
  
  Phantasy Star Universe is a basic, simple RPG ideal for those new to the genre who want something 
 light but enjoyable to sink their teeth into. Hardcore RPG fans may still enjoy the experience 
 too as the game at it's core is genuinely enjoyable. If you don't require an epic plot or amazing 
 graphics to enjoy your RPG's then give this a whirl, its colourful, addictive nature should keep 
 you engrossed for some time.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanharn
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 3, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  PSU is not an MMORPG,
  It's just a fancy chat room. 
  I started playing in Aug 07. After giving the game a chance for 2 months i found it to be the most 
 pointless game EVER. The drop rate on S weapons is a joke and if u do find a good weapon the Mats 
 to make it cost more then the weapon is worth. The selection of clothing and items to customise 
 your character is pitiful. To charge people for this game is robbery 
  During my time an event came along, "Ahhhhhhhh, cool a change", I thought maybe I have been wrong 
 about this game. NOPE the 1UP cup was missions taken from the levels you have to do everyday and 
 from the off-line story. 
  Still i played the 1UP till the end. SEGA dragged it out for 5 weeks, At the end all you got was 
 a totally pointless Rappy costume and a weapon that only one class could use. So I stopped playing, 
 Why play a game like this when there's WOW or Guild wars.
  A while later my friend called me and said they are bring out a new expansion. Ambition of The 
 illuminius and a New event in the Guardians centrer. I decided to give it one more try . TOTAL 
 RIP OFF. first off SEGA said sorry on the forums for not adding over half the new content they 
 had promised and yet again the Event was just old lvls from the online and offline game. Cleverly 
 called The Hologram training program. I could go on for days about how poor this game is.
  But I'm sure you will see for yourself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zakum2
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 16, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I played the game online, and it was very easy to get a party together, and kill a lot of monsters. 
 The Single-Player mode is deep, but some of the voice acting is downright embarassing for others 
 to hear, not to mention some of the bad language hidden in the game. But, I can remember one major 
 flaw: when my brother was killing some online monsters, the game crashed out our 360, and gave 
 it the 3 RED LIGHTS OF DEATH!! We had to ship the hard drive in for about 3 weeks, then about 12 
 weeks for the console to be repaired. And no PvP combat.
  
  Good:
  -Multiplayer is easy to find some online friends
  -Single player is deep
  -The customization 
 options are great
  -With these many weapons, it feels like Diablo II on consoles
  
  Bad:
  -TOO MANY BUGS!
  -What the heck is with the monthly fee?!
  
  The game is good for 
 Diablo lovers or those new to hack-and-slash RPGs, but for those who hate either... eh, well, I'll 
 leave it up to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yogizilla
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  Phantasy Star made a strong showing on the Dreamcast a few years back. Back then, Phantasy Star 
 Online was truly break-through. Though the battle sequences got a bit repetitive at times, it was 
 a fun game to play and performance was smooth as can be. Sadly, today finds the MMORPG market quite 
 crowded so this project was doomed to begin with.
  
  While the game feels dated from the on-set, there are a few changes that Phantasy Star fans will 
 appreciate. Sadly, for the average person, the monthly sub doesn't seem justifiable. It just feels 
 like more of the same old stuff.
  
  I love the combination of high-tech abilities with mystical powers. The only other MMORPGs that 
 come close on that end are Final Fantasy and Anarchy Online. Like most other reviewers have said, 
 the game doesn't do much to the series to really feel like a new experience.
  
  Fortunately, there is an extensive online multiplayer demo on the XBox LIVE marketplace. Try it 
 out. The game is an acquired taste. It's hardly a bad game but it isn't particularly special. Then 
 again, all MMORPGs are looking alike right now.. Even World of Warcraft and WoW boasts the largest 
 user base right now. If you're looking for a more unconventional MMORPG, Phantasy Star is worth 
 looking at. For me, it's a guilty pleasure since I love the series (I played the games on Sega 
 Genesis and loved them) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephiroth_god
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  After obtaining the game about 1-2 weeks after it came out. I got home and played it right away. 
 I found that the graphic's didn't improve much from phantasy star ep 1 & 2 for the Xbox but did 
 improve a little especially in the cinematic. I also found the voice acting kind of lack certain 
 emotion at times and too much at others. Even though I was happy for the nice and rich story the 
 game portrayed and hoping for the future expansions to add on. I was most disappointed in the fact 
 that Sega didn't incorporate offline co-op or death-match type game like they did for ep 1&2 for 
 the Xbox. Even though there is a price to play online but never had the chance to yet. I believe 
 it would be just as fun online as Final Fantasy online. As far as the online play fee as I have 
 heard can be pretty expensive. I think the game could have done much better if the fee was more 
 affordable. I aslo love the whole new feel the skill and spell system has but i find it restricting 
 at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nitefalcon
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  The review by gamespot really sums it up. This game is nothing special. We've already seen everything 
 this game offers in old games. The presentation of the game is very anime like so fans of anime 
 may enjoy this game. I personally have never played any previous games in this series but that 
 is really irrevelant.
  
  First let me talk about the multiplayer. I have never played it. And i never will play it. The 
 game isnt very good to begin with, but the fact that you have to pay so many fees just to play 
 this online (xbox live + separate fee for this game!) makes it absolutely unworthy.
  
  Now the single player. You get all the xbox 360 achievements from single player, if your into that 
 kinda stuff. It follows a simple pattern of going through "chapters" where you meet people, etc. 
 The story is ok but not memorable or anything.
  
  The gameplay is really lacking. Basically its a very slow progressing '2 button mashing' game. 
 You have your basic attack with all different weapons. then you have another button for a "more 
 powerful" special attack. The gameplay is simple enough, but i find it very annoying when you want 
 to switch between weapons or just use items, its time consuming and unnecessary. There is no way 
 to pause either.
  
  So thats it. Not a very good game, but if you play a lot of games or like RPG's and want to try 
 one out for the 360, then give this game a try. Your better off spending time playing Oblivion 
 or something better though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  I actually like this game. Now that statement is coming from someone who doesn't often play straightforward 
 RPG's almost never. I'll usually play like shooter-rpg's or action adventure rpg and such. But 
 this game caught my eye because I played the original two episode game for the GC and I loved it. 
 This game's story and level design and such is well done and dungeon-like for your standard rpg, 
 but I have issues with things like voice-acting, Graphics and etc. The voice acting isn't the best 
 in the world and could've been done better and more professional-like. Also, the graphics is my 
 biggest thing because they took the Ps2 version and slapped in the 360 codes and such to run on 
 the 360 and nothing else. In my opinion, thats kind of lazy of them to do so because that shows 
 no effort in the game's development and thats pretty much a letdown. Finally, the monthly fee. 
 A lot of people complain about it and it kind of is bull to pay for it. We're paying $50 a year 
 for XBL and then we have to pay another $30 a month to play this game online. I just have to say, 
 RIP-OFF!!! In the end the game is good, but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highwind_017
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  i dont have much to say about PSU, but im highly disappointed that the online is Pay to play. if 
 you cant play this online (but you can play the demo online) dont buy it, please save your 10/15 
 and buy something worthy. if you can pay online. I guess thats were it counts.
  
  I enjoyed playing the online demo, and theres no more monthy wipes. but i wanted to see what the 
 story was about.
  
  Thought im not a Phantasy star fan, i wanted to try the real game.
  
  things i liked about psu
  
  * The huge ammount of weapons, from daggers to greatswords, 
 from spears to fists and handguns to lazer cannons.
  
  * Battle system is real time and not turn based. much better than FF12.
  
  * Being able to 
 make weapons/armor/items with the stuff you find.
  
  * The online demo, because its free but its not in the real game...
  
  Things i hated about 
 psu
  
  *Why cant you pause the game in story? (when its OFFLINE) , THAT is stupid.
  
  *Not alot of save points. i have a good ammount of time playing this but when your in a rush (for 
 example to go to bed) the next save point can sometimes be about 2 or 3 floors away in block b-1 
 or something.
  
  *Far too much money (or in this case "mesta") to quicky, it kinda ruins the fact its a RPG.
  
 
  *Monsters and npcs can be stupid (running into walls)
  
  *Party allies dont do **** sometimes. (are often lazy or keep being KO'ed)
  
  * Music often 
 repeats and repeats, it gets annoying at times...
  
  *The voice acting is BAD at some cases, Ethans voice actor is murder. (Ethan is ment to be 17/18 
 years old? His voice sounds like a 25 year old.)
  
  *The story is murder. i seen stuff coming. and the voice acting ruined the good parts.
  
  * 
 THE ONLINE IS P2P AND NOT F2P!!!
  
  I havent compleated it yet but i think this game is one of the examples of sega screwing up in 
 good games. If you want to try it yourself go ahead. i kinda feel riped off buying this. I was 
 hoping the online would be free by now. But no... If it was i would have given it more points but 
 with its lack of online (unless you do pay per month but im paying 40 a year just for XBL, i cant 
 be bothered paying another 5 on this game when i might not be able to play it half the time! )
 
  
  Thanks for reading, peace out. -Highwind 017 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dratis
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Now I know that they say pretty much all you can hit on in the Gamespot review but I wanted to 
 voice my opinion. Its a good game, but there are better. The single player to start off isn't bad. 
 The main problem I have with is the Soap Opera endings are annoying. Its not like I have to wait 
 until next week to play the next chapter. I'm gonna play it now and find out, if you want to tease 
 me with whats coming up use alittle something called foreshadowing. The story follows your normal 
 lines for an RPG teenage male isn't interested in fighting, something big happens to someone important 
 to him, he gets in the fight, meets girl, and proceeds to save the world. Blah Blah Blah. No big 
 surprises here. Though I bet most of the people who buy this game aren't gonna get it for the single 
 player.
  The multiplayer is fun but can be repetitive. The first problem I say with it is that unless you 
 can get a party its a hard transition between groups of levels. Like when I ended my first run 
 through the first 2 levels... the next ones where with lv10 enemies. I'm sorry but somethings up. 
 When they are twice my level and they come in groups of fours your not gonna be living long. If 
 you combine that with people who have no idea what their doing..... its gonna be a LONG day. And 
 to take in part the monsters. Why can they push each other? You step back a bit to dodge and then 
 that enemy does nothing but stand still and get pushed forward, so a move that should have missed 
 now hits. And on top of that the enemy just starts walking again, so some of your faster enemies 
 you can almost never get away from. I've also seen several times moves hit when there is no way 
 they should hit. When your standing behind an enemy and they attack forward it can't hit you behind 
 them, can't, I mean man that would be some reach if they could. Also the enemies that can fly up 
 high, why? I mean seriously you can still shoot them as if they were standing on the ground so 
 why bother? One minor thing about when your out fighting also is that the map glitchs sometimes 
 resulting in you being off what it says is actually there so if you get lost your SOL.
  
  When you manage to get back to town with all your items and stuff its not bad. You can just sell 
 everything the shops tend to be labeled well after a first run, color coordinated is good. But 
 where they are, god. Most of the time they are spread out that its a nice walk just to go and get 
 some armor after you buy a weapon. And if your in a new place, don't even think about actually 
 knowing where your going, cause you can't actually read any of the signs that are up. And lets 
 say that maybe you want to store something. You HAVE to go all the way back to your room, whether 
 you want to walk or just use one of those boxs to get back, its still that you have to leave your 
 party and leave everything your in to get into your room. You then have to store all your things 
 and if you want anything out of there you have to go all the way back to your room as well. If 
 nothing else they could like put a deposit box somewhere so you wouldn't have to go all the way 
 back. Though I do like that you actually get a room, but unless you have friends its pretty useless. 
 Chatting just like all console games is basically a Don't Do is situation. It takes so long to 
 peck out something on the in game keyboard. I mean you could buy the extra keyboard for your system, 
 but its probably $20 or something so just forget it. And as with Xbox Live you can almost never 
 understand what the people are saying. Also when in town the chat boxes. I wish there was a way 
 to turn them off, cause everytime I walk through town or checkpoint after I mission I feel like 
 I'm getting raped. There are so many people spamming that they are selling things about selling 
 glitched weapons or gift wrap "rare" weapons that I can't even see where I'm walking. And just 
 to add something else to that, where must not be any game moderators cause i've seen tons of people 
 spamming things about selling porn, WHY! I mean come on people, selling porn on a game sheesh. Well 
 at least on the Xbox Live service if you hate all those things and don't mind soloing everything 
 you can go to one of the empty servers.
  
  There is one good thing I think. I love the weapon systems, it makes it so much easier to be mage. 
 Cause if your willing to invest a decent amount of cash you can have basically more MP since you 
 can just buy another weapon and set all your spells to it as well. Though it would make it hard 
 to be a ranger since all of their weapons use PP just to attack normally. But then again they all 
 can use some melee weapons so if you want you can just have a melee weapon and not have to worry 
 about that. But I just think that the combo of the different types of weapons as well as there 
 being several with different stats. It allows for you to actually either put Power or your change 
 to hit first. And with the skills for the ranged weapons it makes ranged weapons very useful to 
 everyone. Though that brings up one thing. Why do all the melee weapons only have one skill to 
 each? But oh well, I do like the skills and spells and how they level with use.
  
  Personally even with all these things its not a bad game. The many little things through out the 
 game make it worth something. And while I wouldn't pay a monthly fee and Xbox Live fee. But without 
 that fee, like if it was free to play, I'd play it so... yeah. If you can get it free tok play alone 
 great, if not I'd only get this if your a fan of the series. So Like I said to stat off its a good 
 game, but not great. Fun but forgetable. And this coming from someone who played Phantasy Star 
 Online 1 & 2 and loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killiasxxx
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This game had a very good Idea. Ive played all the Phantasy Star games, they tried to change it 
 up from turned based to hack and slash. they did a good job on it, and the fact that you can put 
 a store in your room was a good Idea. Its adictive, and Ive heard about the fee problem but it 
 is a MMO so theyre going to have to make money off of it because. People still like it and the 
 only way its going to stay up and be updated is by geting payed. 
  I like MMO s alot, and phantasy Star is one of my favorites like FFX online. But this game puts 
 some good Ideas. But if you dont have Xboxlive dont get it the story was very bad. You can tell 
 they rushed it and focused on the online they should have just left it out. 
  
  So the gameplay is fun: HACK and Slash
  Graphics: not the best but there good better than some 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoungDragonx2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is an amazing game. There are so many things you can do and there are lots of weapons. 
 I personally like how you can create a shop and sell stuff and customize your own room. You also 
 have this robot in your room that you can give thing to that after a wile it will transform in 
 to different things. Also every class has its own power like beast can transform in to a big lion 
 and the robot race and call froth a tank and other things. Now for the bad part about this game 
 first it's the single player it is the most boring thing I have ever seen but the online makes 
 up for that but the in online game play there is something that brings it down too and its not 
 the game play but the monthly fee this really brings this game down to. I think that if they take 
 the monthly fee out it will great a better rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baurus_1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome MMORPG!! Multiplayer online is extremely good and very fun. One of the best 
 online RPGs I have ever played. Graphics are very good also. In my opinion, the gameplay is somewhat 
 like Diablo 2. I hope more MMORPGs like this come out for Xbox 360. Gameplay is really good. Some 
 of the monsters are really huge and cool looking. Combat is excellent, and the weapons in this 
 game are just totally awesome. I didn't know what to expect when I downloaded the multiplayer demo, 
 but it was so good I bought the game soon after I played the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strategizer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because I like the role-playing types of games. I may have rated this a little 
 high but in my opinion there is not much wrong with it. I'm not the critics though and it's only 
 my opinion. I just happen to like how you get a variety of weaponry and you can constanty upgrade 
 to win. The storyline plays quite nicely as well. The problems I see though are the graphics and 
 it gets too easy too quickly in my opinion. I think a little more detail could be involved and 
 it could be little more difficult. It may seem hard to some people and that's fine but I see it 
 easy. In fact the only boss battle I ever lost at was the second form of the final boss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowysea07
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 22, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  Its graphics wern't very good at all. I would expect much better graphics on a new system. The 
 freestyle fighting system was ok wish you didn't have to switch classes to use different weapons. 
 The story kinda sucked bad. You don't really get an explanation on how us humans came to the edge 
 of the galaxy to live inbetween 3 racist planets of snooty rich people thieves and stupid pmsing 
 robots. Some of the boss battles were cool except the end one it couldn't of been any easier. All 
 in all the game left an impression of being less than what it could of been. If you need to kill 
 some time go ahead and get it but otherwise its not very good. I'd expect graphics of this callibur 
 on the earlier ps2 games or gamecube. The fact that if you want ot play online you have to pay 
 is the most rediculous part. Hope they dont make a sequal DX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zacek1000
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I have played this games since some months ago, and it's amazing, I don't get tired of the missions, 
 meeting people, participating in community events, and leveling up my characters, it's a very fun 
 thing to do. The gameplay it's almost the same from the previous Phantasy Star games on Dreamcast 
 and GameCube, but now, you can strife, and you have more weapons and movements than ever. Also, 
 the customization level is very high, you won't find another player that looks like you... GUARANTEED!
 
  
  The only bad thing about the online gameplay is the fact that the money is very hard to earn... 
 so you should use very wisely your hard-earned meseta...
  
  And about the story mode, it's simply great. You won't to leave the game until the end of the story, 
 because the development character it's very good, at first, you won't believe it, but your will 
 end loving and apreciating your cast... Ethan Weber, Karen. Ryuga...
  
  All in all, a very good game, I recommend it widely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bosox4life32
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 17, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  This game is terrible. A lot of people want it because they had heard it is like world of warcraft. 
 I don't even like that game, but it is a good game. Anyway, this game isn't like WoW. It's a want-to-be. 
 It makes WoW look like jesus makes it. Maybe this game would be a decent game if it was in the 
 arcade or if it was 20 dollars, but it isn't. If you buy this game, I assure you you will be dissapointed 
 by its not only less than perfect (to say the least) gameplay, but it's graphics that look like 
 puke. Not a keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackStone2400
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  This game has its ups and downs like any other game. But by far, this is the best Phantasy Star 
 in the series. Better attack control (... well at least its better than the last games in the series) , 
 deeper story line, NPC usage on the battlefields, and tons of other stuff for you to get your hands 
 down on. But what this game really leaks, is some of its past features, like co/op up to 4 players 
 (in Free Mode, plus Online Mode) , trade with your co/op partners, summon great guardians to aid 
 you, and the ability to upgrade your little pod friend on the fly.
  
  Phantasy Star Universe ended up in my book, with a score of ( ( (7.5) ) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alfarjamie
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  My previous review was when i had not played much or online, Now that i have played online i have 
 changed my opinion.
  
  I believe the game is heavily under populated, it could do with more players although theres enough 
 anyway but just would be nice for more. Thats pretty much the only bad thing.
  
  The single player sucks but its ok for the story as you learn everything if you don't jump straight 
 online, if you jump straight online nothing will make sense to you, especially the battlefields 
 and monsters, but the story is quite long and entertaining. Just very time consuming on some levels 
 that will bore the hell out of you.
  
  The multiplayer is exceptional though.
  
  As its the only MMO of its kind, its more fast paced than PSO. (The previous title.)
  
  Its 
 more of a action game with mmorpg elements, this is the type of game i would play for a long long 
 time over and over. Because its so unique, there is no **** click and attack and wait like 3 minute 
 pressing 1 2 3 to use skills..
  
  There are really cool photon arts, they look stylish and do quite a lot of damage and level up 
 from using them, the game is best played with a controller, if your going to use keyboard then 
 you wont have a as fun time.
  
  The game is fast paced and requires some level of skill, and the new expansion coming is just going 
 to add more skill and fast paced action. As it will add attack timing bonus, counter attacking, 
 and quite a few other things.
  
  So basically all i got to say is the game is amazing for the multiplayer. Although in the expansion 
 or another expansion i would really like to see upgrades for your character, like upto level 200. 
 It will increase the game length and make you striving to be the best player. anyway 10/10 just 
 needs better graphics, which are getting added in the expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxCore117
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Phantasy Star Universe offers a unique MMORPG experience to gamers on the xbox 360, Playstation 
 2 and PC. Although the visuals were surprisingly poor for a next-gen console such as the xbox 360 
 and the game did not appear to have improved much from Sega's Phantasy Star Online, this game is 
 surprisingly fun and satisfying to play online. I would only suggest buying this game if you are 
 thinking about about playing it online, as the single player missions are very poor and unenjoyable. 
 To play network mode you must first purchase a guardian's license ($9.99 monthly fee) from the 
 xbox live marketplace. Once that is complete you are able to play with other players on xbox live 
 network mode. You must first create and customise your own avatar like any other MMORPG selecting 
 from 4 races (Human, Cast, Beast, Newman) and 3 classes (Hunter, Ranger, Force) . Now you are free 
 to go about your business online whether it's buying and selling weapons, armour and items or completing 
 missions with other gamers to increase your level and find new weapons and collect meseta, the 
 PSU currency. Once at level 20 races get a special ability (Nanoblast for Beasts and SUV Weapons 
 for Casts) . The missions online are all quite similar and repetitive although training up your 
 custom made character with other players in the universe is a fun and challenging experience that 
 in some ways makes up for the lack of next-gen visuals and the monthly fee. So overall a fun game 
 to play as an MMORPG but do not expect anything else from this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryuthekaizer1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  You play as ethan waber, brash, obnoxouis young male who just los this father in the battle of 
 the seed, as you proceed to linear line for a festival you encounter a dog lookalike character 
 who is one of the vooh brothers, and pretty soon they end up fighting because one of the brothers 
 stole ethan's sister's (lumina) meseta card, soon the entire guardians colony is ambushed by a bunch 
 of mean mutated farm animals if you liek called the SEED, soon you find yourselve going to various 
 diffrent planets, purchasing new weapons and armour on the way, There are 3 classes-hunter-ranger-force- 
 hunter can use all of the striking weapons at first hand, ranger as we all know get to use some 
 swords as well as guns, and force we all know uses technics eitherwise known as spells. The bosses 
 are actually quite simplistic but have some difficulty amoung them, during you missions you havbe 
 many swarms of enimes set in gropus of 2,3 and 5 which are all very dangerous if not careful, upon 
 the death of the monster as long as you hit them you get exp (experience points) , which add up 
 to your total level, the combat system, is basic and effective, it sets out as a hack and slach 
 shoot em up with magic combt, for stiking wepaons it goes back to the classic gameplay, which is 
 3 attack combinations, as well as having special PA (photon arts) attack which can be levelled 
 up to use less pp (powerpoints) and to become more powerfull and have a second combination, rager 
 guns are very simple their combat includes, staying at a distance from an enemy and shooting them 
 with either a grenade laucher, a laser cannon, rifle or shotgun, which proves quite effective if 
 you aren't confedint of getting close to the enemies as they are, quite strong alone but very vicious 
 in groups which often you and or your party will die quite easyly, upon death, its not a complete 
 bad thing you have a choice wether or not to go out of the missiona dn go back in it to try again 
 or stay in the feild and wait to one of your party heals you, the downside is that it loses your 
 S A or B ranks which effect your overall mission points and meseta rewards, and also you have to 
 pay 5000 meseta to purchase a scape doll to revive yourself upon death without losing your rank, 
 your mission points are added up to your calls experience for example: hunter-70 mission points 
 gained-level up to level 2.
  which makes your calsses hp (healthpoints) increase as well as your classes special bounes I. G. 
 atp or ata _attack pwer and attack accuracy) .
  
  overall phantasy star universe is a great littel game which will last you 40 hours to complete, 
 its a must have for casual gamers and rpg fans, but the combat system is very repetitive and gets 
 annoying at times! You get acheivements for every major boss you face, but thats all there is to 
 it, it doesn't suck you in, it gets boring quite fast, but if you can get addicted to it, it's 
 good fun.
  
  Graphics-7 last generation graphics that are bright and colourful but also smooth
  Sound-6 AGAINALAST 
 GENERATION, JUST A BUNCH OF BLEEPS, AND GOD AWFUL voice acting
  value- 10 Online is fantastic tilt-9 very fun game
  please rent this game and make your decision 
 first before purchasing you might regret it because this is NOT a game for everyone!
  
  9.0 overal score not an average.
  
  rate and enjoy this review
  
  Ryan Hill 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boywondereyed
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 19, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  What is it with Sega ? Why are they so bad at inovating ? Instead of coming up with new and oringal 
 ideas we get Sonic Mega Collection 4587 and a collection of old Sega megadrive games.
  
  So welcome to PSU - otherwise known as PSO 1.5 (or perhaps 1.3) .
  It's not a bad game but the 
 word dated is written through it like a stick of rock.
  
  The graphics, sound and gameplay give the impression they were imported from an old Dreamcast game.
 
  
  And on top of it all you have to pay &pound;6.99 to play online.
  
  PSO was one of my favourite all time games. But I just can't find the energy to play essentially 
 the same game all over again... and pay for it.
  
  Avoid ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razalord
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 4, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  Phantasy Star is not very impressive for the xbox 360 and lacks any NEXT - GEN features but at 
 its core it is still fun if you are a PSO fanatic.
  
  First of the graphics are a total inuslt to the consoles real capablities and it seems no effort 
 was made by SEGA to Spruce up the visuals as it looks exactly identical to the PS2 version, its 
 a real shame really because even the Gamecube version holds up to these kind of visuals!
  
  The gameplay is still the same old mindless button mashing throughout, but at least its the good 
 type because for some bizarre reason reason its actually quite fun for the most part but will eventually 
 wear thin and become fed up off really soon but at least there plenty of moves to choose from.
 
  
  The structure of the game is simple, you fly to a planet and slaughter lots and LOTS of monsters 
 and stuff, moving from one room to the next slaughtering guess what, MORE MONSTERS!
  
  The voice acting is awfull and the sound in the game is recycled from the last installment of Phantasy 
 Star.
  
  I was looking forward to this game and when i played it i was disapointed, but because im a FAN 
 of PSO there was something there for me to enjoy but to say the least, if you are not a Fan stay 
 clear of this game because its nothing new or exciting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Phantasy Star Universe is pretty fun. The graphics aren't great but niether were the graphics in 
 the previous game. I don't care about graphics anyway.
  
  Sense Phantasy Star Online it hasn't had "many" updates but it's still rediculesly addictive and 
 I can't stop playing.
  
  The controls are simple, X to attack and you can cycle threw other weapons or items while holding, 
 B.
  
  The story is ok. I mean, it's what you, de expect in a game that's kind of like anime. Anime is 
 weird.
  
  Sound is kinda crappy i guess but i like it. (can get repetitive i guess)
  
  It's a fun addictive game and I like it alot. But if you have Xboxlive you should be able to play 
 online. Not Xboxlive + a redicules fee.
  
  It's a good game so heres my final score.
  
  (gotta put 100 words so..... hiccups barn yards farms chiken shoes raaaashes treeeeenches wraches 
 wrenches? clues purple klams banjo kazooie??? urjdbdbf djfggi rohtt5489g g 59y8gdig ygedn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  What the hell has happened to 'Sonic Team'? They used to make great games. Ever since Sega left 
 the console making business, however, Sonic Team's games have gone down hill...... very quickly. 
 They have already destroyed the Sonic franchise beyond repair &amp; now look like they are trying 
 to do the same to the Phantasy Star games, as well.
  
  Phantasy Star Online for the Dreamcast (still my favorite console of all time) was one of the best 
 games...... ever...... in my opinion. It ushered in online gaming and was one of the most addicting 
 games I have ever played. I logged over 400 hours on that sucker, so I guess I better have thought 
 it was good. As expected, when Sega knew they had a hit on their hands they released a sequal . 
 PSO Episode 2 was a nice game as it added some new areas, features, etc. It wasn't a full-blown 
 sequal, but it was more of what we loved, nonetheless. The problem is that Sega got greedy and 
 started charging a $10 monthly fee to play the game online. Even at the height of my excitement 
 over the game, I wouldn't have paid $10 to play it each month and was insulted when Sega wanted 
 me to do so. Essentially, most people just stopped playing the game all together and I couldn't 
 blame them. Now greedy 'ole Sega is back again to try to scam you out of a monthy fee.
  
  This time, however, it's for a game that's incredibly dated, mind-numbing, repetitive, ugly, and 
 it sounds like crap. They even recycled that same annoying noise they used in PSO that you hear 
 while in the menus! This game is an insult. The graphics are lousy and would look lousy on the 
 PS2. As I mentioned, the sound &amp; voice acting are just as bad. The gameplay is the same as 
 it always was, for better or worse. Hack, slash, repeat. While some changes to how you access your 
 weapons is nice, the gameplay remains mostly unchanged. This kind of a game was fun all those many 
 years ago, but games have evolved over the years and now it's a boring button masher.
  
  Which leads me to the terrible single-player campaign. Here's the good news: you get 1000 gamerpoints 
 for beating the 20+ hr. game. Bad news? You actually have to play the damn thing. PSU is broken 
 up into 12 different episodes &amp; it's presented like a Japanese anime series. It's a neat idea, 
 but it grew old after awhile. What also grew old, REAL quick, was the terrible voice acting, lame 
 dialogue, horrible visuals, and repetitive gameplay. Honestly, I could only play one episode at 
 a time &amp; then I would have to take a break until the next day. When I tried to play two, I 
 felt like my head was going to explode. Yes, the game is THAT mind-numbing.
  
  The online portion fares much better, but like I said before....... it's got issues. If you still 
 like PSU's style of gameplay, which I can admit can get addicting at times, then you might dig 
 the game online. The main problem is that this game has no business charging you $10 to play it. 
 It's a blatent insult to gamers and Sega should know better. Being greedy is what got them into 
 the mess they are currently in. If you can justify paying $10 for this dated turd of a game because 
 you find the gameplay addicting, then by all means, give PSU a shot. I just couldn't get over the 
 fact that this game was an insult to fans of the original &amp; I have completely lost confidence 
 that Sonic Team even gives a rat's as$ anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tokanite
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 14, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Phantasy Star Online was one of my favorite games for the game cube. THe reason it was so excellent 
 is that it flawlessly connected off line game play with online game play, and allowed off line 
 multi player as well. All the types of game play in the game were CONNECTED as I previously stated 
 which allowed you to use one character, building him without lag or annoying players buzzing around 
 you and stealing your items. Also, you could enjoy multi player gameplay with your friends on a 
 simple offline split screen setup. Phantasy Star Universe takes all of these aspects and destroys 
 them, forcing you to follow the dreary and uninspired storyline (which is alot worse than the first 
 game's) . Also, the destroyed the town system, transforming everything you need in a nice compact 
 area to a huge overly elaborate system of planets that are a chore to traverse through. The game 
 takes a tiring amount of time to complete (single player) and give you no benefit other than achievement 
 points because all of the hard leveling work you do off line does NOT transfer to your online character. 
 All in all, PSU took what made PSO a good game and completely destroyed it. What a disappointment... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SorasGhost009
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 7, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  There are so many bad reviews for this game and it makes me mad to see how many people don't like 
 this game. I find it very fun and addictive and the people who do play are in love with it. I guess 
 it's just one of those games where you love it or hate it. Lol, I'll stop ranting on about how 
 a lot of people don't like the game and get to the review. I am the first one to admit that this 
 is DEFINITELY not the best game ever, but it does addict almost anyone who gives the online a shot. 
 Yes, yes it does cost $10 a month. Boo hoo. It's worth it. This game delivers mostly on the gameplay 
 and all the weapons, armor, and armor upgrades (hard power charge, me/quick, mega power, etc.) I 
 agree with the people who say the offline sucks. They are correct. It does suck but the achievements 
 for the 360 version are extremely easy. Just try and give this game a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xx51LLYR4BB1TxX
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 6, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  This game when you start it its very fun there 4 races to choose from and you get to customise 
 your charcetr how you want him/her to look in this one you get to cutomise your character alot 
 better its more detalied which makes it cool. Ther lobby in this game is really cool where you 
 start off its more like a mall which looks really cool. The gameplay of the game is very fun with 
 the onloine multiplayer and with tons of weapons it makes it really fun until the gameplay gets 
 too repetitive. What i mean by reptitve is that you need to keep doin g the same mission over and 
 over and over again to earn money and gain levels its fun but when you do it like 100 times you 
 get really tired of it and the game seems more like a drag then fun. Other than that the game is 
 vey nice with great weapons nice graphics nice music oh and this time the stroy line of the game 
 in story mode is actully a real story unlike the other phantasy stars since dreamcast. If your 
 a phantasy star fan this game if just right for you its fun just gets a little bit to repetitve 
 at times but other than that its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t-mac720
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  i love this game i got sooooo addicted to it that i turned down to go out with my friends just 
 to beat it the story is outstanding the whole shopping for weapon, armor, synthesis all that was 
 good and the online is even better u get to choose between beast the robot thing human or a wizard 
 each has its advantage but the beast kicks a$$ the achievments is easy as h3ll just beat the game 
 i made a mistake renting this game cause this a worth buying hope they make another one!!! oh and 
 gamespot i am dissapointed for u rating this game low and not a perfect and also all u ppl who 
 didnt like this game u guys dont know good games lol!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  A few years ago, when console gaming was still brand new, Sega and Sonic Team developed their long 
 running Phantasy Star franchise into a MMORPG. The result led to many advancements in console gaming, 
 and many took it by the horns. Improvements were made, but they slapped on a &pound;9.99 per month 
 price tag, and soon everyone abandoned it.
  
  With the sequel, there is bad news. Online play still has a price tag. This will no doubt put off 
 users, since Xbox Live already has a price tag for Gold Access. Thankfully, there is still an offline 
 mode, and this is where the review will be mostly based upon.
  
  The game is set on a star system, made of three planets and a space colony. There are now four 
 races, including Humans, CASTS (robots) , Newmans and Beasts. In the offline mode, you are Ethan 
 Waber, a Human. This gives the game potential for a story, but it does feel restricted, considering 
 the variety of classes and characters. The offline game is set out episodically, meaning you get 
 a chunk, then credits and then more game in a new chapter. It really does feel like an Anime in 
 that sense, but the successfulness of this is unclear. I'll leave the story up to you, since it's 
 pretty straight forward.
  
  The bulk of online/offline stuff lies within the system, and the system has changed a little. You 
 can change classes by going up to the Guardian Building and talking to the desk. The three classes 
 are Hunter, Force and Ranger, same as the last game, but you increase in rank on each one, by successfully 
 and efficiantly completing missions. You also can equip a variety of weapons. Thankfully, the weapons 
 each class can equip aren't limited to what one can use, but there are restrictions on the better 
 weapons for each class. This means that people can shoot and heal using their staff. This is achieved 
 through the games all new interface.
  
  As you traverse through the many planets, you can set many weapons to be used at the same time. 
 The one handed weapons can be used with another one, and you can switch between them at a press 
 of a button. Obviously two handed weapons can only be used one at a time, but tend to be more powerful. 
 There are no longer charged attacks or elemental attacks, but instead you can equip Photon Arts 
 , which are special techniques. These can vary between stylish moves for Hunter weapons, elemental 
 shots for Rangers, and Spells for Forces. All this costs Photon Energy, which is specific to the 
 weapon, rather than the character. Items can be set the same way as weapons, but have their own 
 slots. New are the Photon Chargers, which charge weapons, though weapons recharge while walking 
 around with them equipped as well.
  
  There are a variety of shops and facilities in the game as well, having generic Weapons, Armor 
 and Item shops, Synthesis shops to improve weaponry or make new ones using recipies (use the ingredients 
 you can obtain from each world to make each one) , Clothes shops to alter appearance and even a 
 genetic makeup shop to change appearance for other things. All of this costs money (Meseta) , which 
 is easy to come by.
  
  The game's world is fairly extensive, and its pretty easy to get lost without a map. Once you've 
 done a few of the chapters, it becomes easier to traverse through the worlds, which look quite 
 good, if a little dated. Numerous people appear on screen, but most disappear when approached. 
 This makes the game look more like a proper world, than just a collective of people.
  
  The monsters look good, but most act a little dumb. They're mostly faster than in PSO, and have 
 lots of different attacks, which adds to the strategy a little. The logic is, the smaller they 
 are, the easier to beat, but more of them there are. Another logic is the bigger they are, the 
 quicker they fall, and harder they hit. Other than this, the gameplay is mostly button bashing, 
 and locking on with the LB makes it easier.
  
  There are a variety of side missions to do, but most if not all involve the same as the other missions, 
 and ones that have been done before. The bosses are huge, and require a little more strategy, but 
 not too much more. The whole experience lasts around 20 hours and is pretty tedious gamewise. The 
 full 1000 Achievement points involve completing this mode, so there's no insentive to go online 
 really.
  
  Online I'm guessing to be almost the same as PSO's online mode, so it's rich in some contexts, 
 but fairly week in others. Still, its more fun than wandering around as a human with no fashion 
 sense! But with the &pound;9.99 per month price tag, its a bitter pill to swallow easily.
  
  PSU is better than PSO. But just because its better than its previous installment, doesn't 
 mean it is more fun. Sure there's more in-depth material to keep people going, but a monthly fee 
 for online mode, and a tedious and restrictive offline mode doesn't help the game's playing value. 
 You want a more in-depth MMORPG? Go play something else... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HGuardian92
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  It is most amazing to play! You can meet new many people as over 75 people in one server. It is 
 very good work together. it is great idea for Deaf/Hard of Hearing because they are able to communicate 
 to other with keyboard during Lobby and Mission! It is almost perfect anything for D/HH to play 
 but they were playing PSU in some days due to new other games. And also It has updates often as 
 they are up for it. I was often playing PSU, (P) hantasy (S) tar (U) niverse, because my deaf friends 
 were often playing PSU too. It has alot of fun to play and pick your friend on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  For the longest time, and even to this day, xbox owners have been missing out on one particular 
 genre: RPG. This trend unfortunately, at least in the 360's early years, continues. This is a joke 
 if you are looking for a next-gen rpg. I mean, I just wish if developers are not gonna take the 
 time to actually use the 360's power, don't even release the game on the system. Not only are the 
 graphics subpar, the gameplay is fairly boring, and the story has little to no personality. Almost 
 2 years into the 360's life cycle and there still isn't a must buy rpg for the system. Hopefuly, 
 that changes in 2007, but Phantasy Star Universe is not the beginning of that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macrules_640
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  Phantasy Star Universe is suppose to a follow up to PSO, but all I see is nothing more than a half 
 done sequel if you can call it a sequel. Now not all of PSU is bad there are some good things about 
 it. One of the first is a new single player campaign that gives us some characters with a 50 hour 
 plus story, but if you can get past the cheesy story than at its core this is an enhanced PSO engine 
 which works. One thing you will note on the 360 version is the way the graphics look like an Xbox 
 original game and the game doesn't even take advantage of the 360's graphics power. The music is 
 your standard pop techno and it is forgettable, but thanks to the 360's custom tracks you can cut 
 out the bad music. The monthly fee you have to pay for PSU is outrageous and even makes PSO: BB 
 look like a cheaper game. The multiplayer is the saving grace of this game, but if you are looking 
 for a good single player game don't get this game, look for something else. Maybe by the time they 
 release they expansion they might fix the problems of this game, but until then don't buy this 
 game just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BreakingPoint8
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Phantasy Star Online was a great hack and slash RPG for the DC, GC, and Xbox. I have spend countless 
 hours playing each version, and I can honestly say that I liked the Xbox version the most. The 
 voice chat was a huge plus, even though the voices would lag. So when I heard that Sega was working 
 on a new Phantasy Star game I was very excited. But, when it was finally released it felt like 
 they didn't even try to improve on the old system and make an open universe like they promised. 
 The voice acting in the single player had me racing for the mute button. It's the same generic 
 Japanese to English transition that most RPGs are pron to. The battle system is a copy and paste 
 of PSO. Which is very sad given the amount of time they had to polish this game. I honestly couldn't 
 even sit through the single player campaign. But to each his own I suppose, I will be waiting for 
 the Next Phantasy Star game to come along. Which at the moment doesn't seem like it will be coming 
 out in a very long time, since they're going to be releasing an expansion to PSU. If you want an 
 RPG/Hack and slash game for the Xbox360 I suggest waiting until Too Human is released this year. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 14, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  I know the story line can be a bit washy at times, but later on things start making sense and things 
 get exciting. Single player has it's downfalls like the CPUs don't really heal unless they are 
 from the focus class, but other wise this game was really good. The weapons are good looking and 
 the characters were made well done. The clothes are sometimes weird, but you will find a pair that 
 suits you. The big focus on this game was multiplayer. Even though there were no Achievement points 
 for online the game can be fun. The big part about online is working as a team. Sometimes you can 
 go out by yourself, but teamwork makes things easier. It costs like $5 for a Hunters License to 
 play online, but thats no big loss in your pocket eh? Creating your character is really cool. This 
 game is underappriciated by most people because the suck at it. It isnt such a bad game really. 
 Gamespot rated it a bit to low. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greekfreak223
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Player a many have played the game sin the Phantasy Star series, but in my opinion this is the 
 best of em' all. Many may disagree and many may agree with this obvious choice.
  
  One of the biggest problems that causes people to dislike this game is its tendency to be hard 
 to get into the game. It takes a few hours of hard work to make the game worth while playing. Many 
 people like to be able to start playing a game and have it be relatively easy for them to just 
 have fun. Whiole games that are easy to a point can be fun, but not with Phantasy Star. I can see 
 where the haters are coming from but the basis of the games is to challnge all the different aspects 
 of the mind. Calculation, response, patience, dexterity, reflex, and reasoning. Many games alike 
 have tried and failed.
  
  I cannot tell you to go buy this game because every gamer has their own playing style, and like 
 a certain type of game. All I can say is give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLordKain
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  I play this game all the time now for the last few weeks I've played it an hour a day. Like I've 
 had this game since it came out and completed it in 27:39. Now I always want to play it. Wish i 
 could play it on Xbox live. The first time i played through it i got A-Rank for all the story trials 
 this time I'm half way through Chapter 4 and have got all S-Ranks. My want to play it was brought 
 on by the announcement of the expansion Phantasy Star Universe: Ambition of the Illuminus. I can't 
 wait for the PSU: Ambition of the Illuminus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: segaraptor
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 27, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  Phantasy Star Universe has gotten a bad rap with the mainstream gaming press. But what was it they 
 were looking for in this game? They complained that it wasn't a big enough step forward from PSO 
 to be worth a look. After spending a good deal of time with the game, I totally disagree. PSU is 
 far smoother, far more playable, and far LESS monotonous than PSO. Switching among servers is seamless, 
 opening a shop and decorating your room is fun, and the atmosphere is wonderfully spacey.
  
  I understand the complaint about the graphics. They are not up to 360 standards. However, in 
 HD, it is quite beautiful and very easy on the eyes. The level of character design is pretty good, 
 although it could use more clothes, but they are apparently on the way with updates forthcoming. 
 I'm actually excited to see what new weapons I can acquire, what my partner machine is going to 
 look like, and what news areas I have yet to see. The Story Mode isn't great, but it's ok. And 
 I'd actually play it, but I can't get the idea out of my head that what I'm doing doesn't help 
 my online character at all every time I fire Story Mode up. The monthly fee is too much to ask, 
 I think, and Sega would have far more people playing the game if they didn't have to pay per month. 
 It was a hard decision for me to start paying, but I did.... and I'm glad I did. All in all, PSU 
 is worth it. Especially now that the price has come down to around $30 used. Snatch it up! I'd 
 like to see more people on there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poton
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 19, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Its a good game its just i don't think its meets an MMORPG's standards scale and content wise, 
 i don't mind paying 7.99 a month but can't help feeling let down by having to do the same mission 
 over and over again jsut to level up. They have adding things like rooms but they aren't really 
 amazing. The shop idea is good but i'm also not to keen on the search for shop system they should 
 of looked at the Everquest 2 broker system or done something more in depth but thats not the end 
 of the world i guess.
  
  Overall its an alright to play particually with friends, the single player feels more like a anime 
 series but i personally still enjoyed it. Just needs more content really particually if not more 
 variety at each level not reuse other content from lower levels and increase the monster level.
 
  
  Difficulty: Single players sometimes easy sometimes a little hard. Multiplayer is as hard as u 
 make it really depending on what level missions you choose.
  
  Learning Curve: Prettey basic gameplay for all classes but there are other small things like making 
 items and improving them that take little time to get your head around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Max-Th3-Noid
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 18, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  Positive: Has the classic Phantasy Star charm , bares some similarites to Final Fantasy XI or World 
 of Warcraft (some much better MMORPG's)
  
  Negative: Last-gen graphics , dated gameplay , complete lack of variety , not much effort put into 
 differentiating the offline mode from the online mode , shoddy camera and controls , not a very 
 large game area for an MMO , hardly anything to tempt you to level past level 5.
  
  On paper, expanding upon each aspect of the well-received Phantasy Star Online appears attractive, 
 yet a shoddy execution lacks the finely-tuned balance the game was known for. Worse yet, questionable 
 design robs players of both money and time. Viewed objectively, there's still some fun to be had 
 online, but the wasted potential serves as a constant reminder of what could have been. Phantasy 
 Star Universe is a fairly straightforward game as far as the gameplay goes. It is an action-RPG 
 where you are free to move around in battle and attack and use items however and whenever you want. 
 The weaponry at your disposal includes various types of guns as well as swords and pikes and other 
 melee weapons and all of them can be upgraded. A nice touch is how smooth and easy to use the menu 
 system is. You can queue weapons up to slots assigned to the B button, and switching weapons or 
 using items is as easy as pressing B and then using the D-pad to pick what you want. This is a 
 great system that allows you to have a weapon available for every situation, which keeps the game 
 moving at a very fast pace. Combat can get somewhat repetitive since you are usually just spamming 
 your standard and special melee attacks and throwing in a few shots from your guns here and there, 
 but there are a ton of enemies to fight so it still manages to be pretty enjoyable. The boss fights, 
 while not all that difficult, at least feel big and epic and are very impressive.
  Another aspect of the gameplay is that there are three classes to choose from as well as four races. 
 Each race is better at doing certain things, and each class gives you access to different weapons. 
 It is an interesting setup, and since you can switch your class at any time, you have the opportunity 
 to switch things up when it starts to get repetitive.
  
  The main attraction and long-term appeal of Phantasy Star Universe is the online multiplayer, but 
 there is also a single-player campaign that is extremely well put together and very fun. You play 
 as 17-year-old human, Ethan Waber, as he decides to join the Guardians security force and help 
 fight an infection of nasty aliens known as SEED. You meet up with new characters and can then 
 form teams to go out and tackle missions on the various planets in the local star system. The story 
 is surprisingly good, the characters are very likeable, and the overall story and mythology is 
 interesting. Youll be hooked. A nice touch is that the whole single-player game is presented like 
 an anime series. Each of the 12 chapters in the game is really like a 90-minute episode of your 
 favorite anime, complete with intro (with accompanying catchy music) , outro, and Next time on 
 Phantasy Star Universe teasers for the next episode. Within each chapter, there is a definite 
 beginning, middle, and end and it is all wrapped up with a lesson learned or a new revelation that 
 keeps you moving on to the next chapter. I have to admit that I absolutely love this stuff and 
 it really went a long way towards keeping me playing. The absolute dedication shown by the developers 
 to stick to this style and make it work so incredibly well is really something special. All of 
 the achievements are tied to the single-player game, and you can pick up an easy 1000 gamerpoints 
 here.
  
  (I would like to thank numerous source material sites for further information on aspects which 
 could not be explained due to a lack of time put into playing the game)
  
  So all in all, once you have reached level 5, there is really no reason to keep playing, as all 
 the buyable clothing is basically what you could have chosen for free in the create-a-character 
 section. With repetitive and flatout disjointed combat, PSU has some valid points, but fails to 
 execute them properly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guayolove
Rating: 2.7
Date: Apr 13, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  After having lost hours of sleep playing PSO with my friends, I expected PSU to be a worthy sequel. 
 And from what I saw months ago, I didn't doubt my assumptions. Now, not so much.
  
  The graphics are average at best. I have seen better though. The most annoying part, besides the 
 gameplay, is the chessy B-movie voice acting. My ears were probably bleeding about an hour into 
 the game. The gameplay is horrible. The enemy's A. I. is ok, but would it hurt your partners to 
 actually help you in battle for once? And everyone in the game runs soooo...... slow..... Seriously, 
 in a game where you're supposed to be saving the universe, couldn't the characters run a bit faster? 
 The repititive combat wears thin after about a couple of hours, as each weapon uses the same old 
 combo and has one (or two) special attacks that don't really help the cause. The plot is forgettable. 
 Sure. you're saving the universe, but the plot is so cliched, it's not even funny. Online is a 
 big letdown as it suffers from many of the offline game's problems. The game's only saving grace 
 is probably the music. I haveta say, there is some good music to be found in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: subrosian
Rating: 4.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  PSO was an amazing game - when it first released on the Dreamcast, people were playing FREE online 
 against each other. I jumped in the, but never got into the online gaming, enjoying the multiplayer 
 splitscreen with my friends.
  
  I later got seriously into PSO when I picked up the Gamecube version, all of my friends played, 
 and going over to each other's houses, memory card in hand, to play four player splitscreen was 
 a blast.
  
  Now? PSU gets rid of any type of offline multiplayer. The only way to interact with any other real 
 gamers is to pay an online fee. What's their excuse? On the PS2, Sega claimed the system was not 
 powerful enough to have splitscreen - fair enough, yet on the Xbox 360, a system vastly more powerful 
 than the PS2, the feature is still missing.
  
  The real fun of this game was always the hack-n-slash gameplay combined with building your character. 
 Designing your character, decking them out in unique armor and weapons, becoming more powerful 
 over time - it sounds like standard RPG fare, but the PSO made it addicting. PSU fails to create 
 the same incentive to do so. Sure you can get more powerful, but you can't show off your power 
 to friends, and the world is somewhat dull on your own.
  
  Frankly, I simply judge this game harshly for being worse than its predecessor ... PSO was a great 
 game, the single player was enjoyable if repetitive, but being able to play with your friends gave 
 you an incentive to keep grinding - PSU... the incentive is gone - and the single player storyline 
 is not enough of a trade-off to replace it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheesewind123
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  True, this game is amazingly fun to play, but the most fun part lies in the online play, just one 
 problem though, you have to pay monthly fee! i know! it's not fair! i mean, you already have to 
 pay for Xbox Live itself monthly, and now you have to pay to play the game online?! whats the point, 
 it's just going too far this time around! why do we have to pay for the game AND the thing we need 
 to fully anjoy the game?! plus the fact that everything on the game is exactly like the PS2 version! 
 why should we pay for something that doesn't need to be payed for elsewhere?! this just really 
 irritates me to no end! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willow18
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 20, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for the next World of Warcraft breaker game, this definately wont be it. What 
 Phantasy Star Universe DOES give you though is a decent offline story, but a grind-fest for online 
 play. Online mode is exactly like Phantasy Star Online Blue Burst. You pick a mission to do, you 
 go into an instance to fight the mobs, and when you're done, you collect your money and sell your 
 items. What do you do after that? You go right back in and do another one. Rinse and repeat until 
 your at the max level of 200. In online mode, you will run into single instance over and over to 
 finish a different objective. You CANNOT go in and finish multiple objectives, only the ones on 
 the conditions set. This got really boring, as I would walk into an area I just cleared just to 
 clear it again, and maybe go to the second or third level of the map, which looks exactly the same 
 as the first level, only with more mobs to kill. After doing this repetitive motion for 30+ hours 
 in offline mode, I wasn't willing to build up another character online in the same way. Whats worse 
 is in order to play online, you have to pay. You don't get a 30 day trial period to see if you 
 like it. Thankfully Microsoft has a demo version of the online mode you can play for free, and 
 I tried my online mode that way.
  The community I saw in the online version was very limited. You had a few characters that were 
 high level but weren't responding to tells for help, and those around my level had a serious issue 
 with not using their xbox communicator to speak. I don't know what it is with people playing online 
 MMOs and not wanting to use mics to talk, but would rather type. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjafeesh
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 16, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  For classifacation, I'd have to go for 2 things; Great multiplayer and Grows on you. Because even 
 if you don't like it at first (I didn't think much of it at first) , as you get further and further, 
 it leaves you with a desire to do more. Once you get halfway into the 2nd chapter, you see the 
 magic in this great game, from the moment you slay your first dragon, otherwise known as de ragon 
 in the game it really feels good. It can get a little repetitive but it makes up for that in XBOXLIVE 
 because it's even better when your all about the same level, good friends, and the 6 of you walk 
 into a dungeon and get ambushed by monsters... cos then thats when you whup ass and you kill like 
 10 of them and go up a level, it leaves you a desire for more, then you feel like the most powerful 
 person in the Phantasy Star ''Universe'' (geddit?) . Then theres stuff like making your own special 
 items like a sword but customised your way, then sell it in your very own shop. Only bad thing 
 is the monthly fee &pound;7.00/$10.00 but it's hardly expensive is it? I can't even name HALF the 
 stuff you can do cos it would take about 3 hours to write out! I don't know what most peoples problem 
 with this game is... I really like this game, and I'll be on it for about 5 months until I start 
 to lose intrest... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_Wiggin
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 14, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  I'll make this short and to the point. Single player is great if you: really enjoy anime, can stand 
 20-30 hours of moderately repeative gameplay, and don't care about XL downloadable content. The 
 game does boast an impressive variety of weapons to try, however, does give you a lot to do with 
 them. Melee weapons have a combo and two power moves. Ranged weapons have elemental bullets. Rod/Wand 
 gives you the power to wield technics (majik) that are varied from elements and effects. The game 
 is fairly easy and non-complicated. An average 13 year old can learn the game mechcanics in 10 
 minutes of unlocking them. That's right, you have to unlock things like the ability to buy costumes, 
 synthesis, and character customization. The character customization is in an extra mode that lets 
 you play the same stuff you already played.... minus storylines.
  I didn't even bother with the multiplayer mind you. I didn't feel like paying 10 bucks a month 
 for what Guild Wars and the like offer for free. I wouldn't have minded paying the fee if I had 
 a friend to join with me. The bugs and ways to exploit other players is too numerous and annoying 
 for me to go in blindly.
  Bottomline: Good core gameplay and story for SP. MP feels a bit lacking to even try right now. 
 Updates are promised but I'm not holding my breath. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasy_cheater
Rating: 3.3
Date: Mar 12, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This is for the single player version of the game. I couldnt play the online version cause lets 
 face it why the f*** would I want to pay a monthly fee for this game. I dont know if the beta 
 version would let me play for free but I figured since I played WOW a little bit why even bother 
 try this out when the answers obvious, WOWs way better.
  
  I rented this so I could get easy points but I had no idea this game was torture. This game is 
 so repetitive. Just about every mission starts off the same, the environments are extremely plain, 
 and the game play just has you mashing X and stringing the button Y at the end of your combos just 
 to do a stronger hit. The music sucks; Ive heard better music from Rpgs in the 16-bit era.
  
  Towards the end I ran into a little trouble cause some enemies kept doing the same moves over 
 and over but when I got to the last boss he was extremely easy for some reason. This game can get 
 extremely boring so it might be a good to rent something else thats easy for points. Like maybe 
 Cars or Bionicle Heros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinty69
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  The game is very dated and has a very boring feel to it. I never played a Phantasy game before. 
 I hope the first slew of games wasnt like this. Im very easy to please when it comes to games. 
 (check out all my other reviews) This game was just incredibly boring to me. This was a hack n 
 slash RPG done extremely wrong. Graphics are some of the worst next gen Ive seen. The only reason 
 that you can slide on the graphics is because of the colors and cartoonish characters. (the 720p 
 resolution is what helps the game look better than it does.) The battle system is terrible. It 
 feels like a chore to fight.... and you fight a lot. The only thing I liked about the battles system 
 was the ability to switch weapons on the fly. The learning curve is gigantic as well. It feels 
 like they just tossed me in and said have fun , but I did not have fun. Yeah and the girly movies..... please 
 make them stop. They are way to long and the voice acting hardly hits par. People say the story 
 is good, but I could care less about the story if everything else sucks. Do yourself a favor and 
 save your money. I never even made it to the online game. And that horrendous fee for online........ Im 
 over that already. The achievement points are the only reason I went to hell and back. Since I 
 bought the game at full price, that was the only way I could justify spending my cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCircleSleeps
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  The fighting style and the mission set up can get tedious after a while, with a play style that 
 can get so repetitive it could be compared to MMORPG's. Good for a few long play sessions, about 
 as long as it'll take to complete the game, but a lack of interesting post-game content/extras, 
 besides Extra Mode which lets you level up a custom character of any race and class, gives it a 
 short play-life. Pretty good story. Something that should definetly be checked out, but I suggest 
 renting it. If you have Game Fly like I do, it'll last you less than a week and it's definetly 
 a good filler if all the other games you want have a waiting list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rob_M_P
Rating: 1.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I picked up this game cause it looked alright and I was bored so I thought Why not? I discovered 
 the why not when i popped this littlle ugly into my 360. There was hardly any game play to start 
 with and that made the game impossibly slow... The controls were ok at best and the NPCs were annoying 
 to listen to. The combat was not exceptional at all and trying to use the gun was a joke. I killed 
 the first boss and called it quits. I took the game back to where i rented it and they let me exchange 
 it. The reason for the hard rating is because it was hard to keep on playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradox823
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  game-play: well the first time i played i admit i did not like it but after a while this game has 
 more to it that meets the eye. you get to travel to vast world battling creatures known as THE 
 SEED. you can costomize the way you dress during gameplay and now in this game you get to manage 
 your own party. cool new weapons you can dual a sword and a pistol if the enemies is far away just 
 use the pistol and if he is close slash him down with you blade. 8/10
  
  story: about creatures konwn as THE SEED and it is your job as a guardian to stop them
  
  Graphics: 
 not as good. Its changes during gameplay and during cut-scene
  
  not a bad game its worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrodd66
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 26, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Well it is very addictive, i played the demo for a totoal of 74 hours, i have the full versionn 
 now but dont have online due to the 9.99 a month. I sometimes find myself wandering planet upon 
 planet looking for what i need. i can spend 1/2 hour wnadering which grows on your patience and 
 makes you shut the game off for another time. Maybe ts just me but i dont think so. Otherwise the 
 game itself, when im not mindlessly wandering, the game is actuall very fun. there are an Extemely 
 wide span of different weapons like guns swords staffs (for magic spells) and you also get to use 
 some vehicles in story mode. Also there are some pretty intense boss battles fighting huge monsters, 
 from drangons with 2 heads to demons.
  
  the game is good for people who lilke fantasy fighting fiction. Not good for someone with no patience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballforeva
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I havent played a good rpg for while since Enchant arM, I was looking for something fresh and innovating, 
 cuz I was bored. Anyway, I chose PSU because it claims that it has great diversity concerning the 
 overall plot and system, I didnt really care if that was true or not, all I wanted was to free 
 my cage of boredom. In my opinion, PSU does indeed that great diversity, its futuristic environments, 
 combined with different races, are quite realistic and believable. PSU has a real time fighting 
 system rather than the strategic turn based system, which is good for me because Im better at the 
 real time fighting. Oh, and being the Achievement junkie that I am, I like the fact that PSU has 
 easy Achievements. Though thats not really the standpoint of the game itself, but it does provide 
 an incentive. I think the overall story is well done, a lot of rpg's are able to integrate the 
 storyline that matches the characters and environment, while still being able to captivate the 
 audience. PSU's storyline was somehow, I think, done better than what Ive played, maybe because 
 in PSU, you get to interact with people more, and you are constantly in a civilized and urbanized 
 environment, something which I like very much. One thing PSU can do more is the graphics and the 
 layout of the characters, I know that this game was also meant for PS2, but I didnt see any real 
 difference in the Xbox 360, they should smooth out the characters and make them actually move their 
 mouths during real time. A minor flaw though, nothing to really concern about. PSU is really worth 
 playing if you are looking for an rpg that will last you quite a bit, and be able to immerse yourself 
 in the universe of Phantasy Star Universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dleedude
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I like it. The Graphics arent good but the game makes up for those on whole. Music isnt very good 
 either. but game makes up for that. Only thing bad is 10 bux! i dont think my parents wold pay 
 that.... sadly i dont care! multiplayer beta should be sold for 70 bux itself for lifetime.. without 
 story mode. id buy it then! YAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAY it owns GEARS=\ i dont know what else to say so bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drumm3rdude
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 19, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  The main story line of PSU (Phantasy Star Universe) is actually quiet boring. Hearing Ethan talk 
 (the main character) can be funny at times. It almost seems like he has no emotion. The gameplay 
 itself is fun and it has tons more weapons, spells, and other features than the last Phantasy Star 
 Online. Upgrading the character is the best part. I have yet to play the online version because 
 of the cost. I believe that the 10 dollar a month fee is just too much for this game, and I don't 
 have money most of the time lol. From playing the online demo it was pretty fun, but unless your 
 a big fan of the game, I don't suggest actually paying the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: contaminated
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  Yeah So it has been a while since a new Phantasy star game as well as another one of my reviews 
 but here it is. Anyways back to the game there is a lackluster single player game that can clock 
 the aveage gamer at around 20 hours. It is a pretty lame story and although the graphics are not 
 appealing they are at least decent and tolerable. The showcase in this game is the online play 
 which is fun although it can be repetitive for some. Anyways the online aspect of the game has 
 a monthly fee but if you like sc-fi ad beat em up hack and slashers it is worth the fee. If you 
 don't like that genre then you shouldn't buy this game unless you want to get some achievments. 
 $10 a month is too steep to justify since it isn't a true mmo just one giant lobby. If you can 
 pay for it you can get addicted really easy this game can just do that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PelekotansDream
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 14, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  Sigh. What a shame, graphics are not amazing but they colourful, there are so many ways to make 
 your character unique. So many types of weapons etc. Basically there is variety, okay graphics 
 but terrible sound.
  
  But the problem lies with the monthly fee, this game is like Diablo 2 or Guild Wars, this game 
 is no where in the same league as FFXI or WOW.
  So why the monthly fee? There is no need, that is the answer, you buy this game and SEGA simply 
 wanna take more money away from you, simple as that and I would say do not fall for it.
  
  Single player is ok. That is all, just an ok, not good, not wonderful or amazing or even mildly 
 fun, it is just plain boring ok.
  
  Don't buy this game for online. You might enjoy the single player but to pay to play this online 
 when there is no need for SEGA to charge a monthly fee is basically getting robbed. Do yourself 
 a favour and just stay away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dalfiuss
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  The Phantasy Star series has been ongoing for quite some time now. The previous generation saw 
 the games move to a fully realized 3D world, with the combat taking a more action oriented role. 
 Universe is very similar to the Phantasy Star Online games in almost all regards.
  
  All of the time I spent with the game was in the single player campaign, it appears that the online 
 portion of the game could provide a significantly larger amount of enjoyment, but also requires 
 a monthly fee to access above and beyond the stand fees associated with Xbox Live.
  
  Visually the game is abysmal. While it was released on the previous generations platforms, that 
 does not excuse the lack of visual quality. All of the textures are muddy and lack detail; you 
 also end up seeing all of them quite a bit throughout the story. The only positive on the visuals 
 are the weapon models and particle effects on them. Some of the special moves do look quite nice.
 
  
  The sound in the game is another category that is lacking. The music is positively forgettable, 
 and the sound effects are bland.
  
  All of the systems within the game seem like they were dumbed down as much as possible. Combat 
 is basically the same from the beginning of the end and only very slightly is affected by which 
 type you chose to play. X is your universal attack button, and pressed a couple times will string 
 together a combo. If you are using a ranged weapon or magic X will simply fire the weapon or use 
 the magic bound to that key. Each weapon type has one special move associated with it (ranged weapons 
 have a couple) tied to the Y button. These special moves use the weapons PP and gain experience 
 as they are used. Levels for the special moves simply slightly increase the damage and accuracy 
 of the move or at 11 allows you to extend the special move with some more hits. The PP these moves 
 use can be regenerated while the weapon is equipped, recharged at special cubes, or charged through 
 using an item.
  
  The game is very linear, and while you can do some free missions aside from the main story line, 
 none of them are actually required. Beyond the linearity the game becomes very repetitive. You 
 will find yourself doing just about the exact same thing for every single one of the twelve chapters. 
 Hold the left bumper to lock onto an enemy, combo it to death, and proceed to the next enemy. When 
 you reach a boss you will dump all of your weapons PP into using the special moves on it until 
 it is defeated, and then continue to the next chapter.
  
  The single thing that breaks the simplicity mold that the game has is the equipment and item systems. 
 These can be rather deep, having you collect components and then have items made and powered up, 
 unfortunately you will most likely not use this at all throughout the single player story, it is 
 something that was included mainly for the online play. There are a wide variety of weapons and 
 armor you will end up using outside of the multiplayer, but again it seems the developers were 
 skimping visually, and a lot of the weapons share the exact same model.
  
  Everything said and done, this game can still be recommended for the sole fact that there is a 
 huge lack of anything RPG related on the 360 at the moment. In the future, this game will quickly 
 become forgotten, as there are many like it, and most of them end up doing things better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njdss4
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  I used to play PSO hardcore online. Doing run after run after run of TTF trying to get the next 
 level. Unfortunately, Sonic Team abandoned PSO and let it become a hacked and horrible place to 
 visit.
  
  Then, after years of waiting, PSU is finally released. This time around, there is actually an offline 
 story you can try to suffer through, but I wouldn't recommend it. Here's the cliche: Main character 
 and younger sister lost their parents, lived with their uncle, then the main character is thrown 
 into a war and has to take up the occupation that killed his father. Not very original, but tolerable. 
 The part that makes you suffer is the voice acting. I've watched some horrible anime in my days 
 with abysmal English voice actors, but this takes the cake. Imagine Hayden Christensen mixed with 
 Keanu Reeves and smeared with diarrhea. That's the voice acting. After the fifth chapter of the 
 game I started skipping every cutscene because I would cringe and feel nauseated listening to it.
 
  
  *swigs Pepto Bismol* Let's move onto the controls, they're marginally better than PSO, but not 
 by much. There is a lock on feature now that helps, and you don't have to time your swings to get 
 your combos. It's pretty much just button mashing. The biggest problem is spell casting and PP. 
 Every weapon has a PP gauge (photon power or points) . If it's a melee weapon, the bar is only drained 
 when you use a weapon ability you've bought or found. If it's a ranged weapon, it gets drained 
 every shot no matter what. And if it's a staff or rod (mage weapon) , you can't melee with it at 
 all, only cast spells. Not to mention that staves can only hold 2 spells and rods only 4. This 
 makes casting spells much harder because you have to keep switching weapons to cast what you need. 
 And also, weapons run out of PP very very fast and then you either have to waste a very expensive 
 item to replenish it's PP, or wait for it to slowly, slowly replenish itself. This made me immediately 
 choose to be a hunter because it's the only class that is good at regular melee attacks, the only 
 attack that doesn't drain PP. You can recharge all your PP in town for cheap, but it's a small 
 comfort when you run out of PP on your best weapon halfway through a level you can't quit. Makes 
 being a Ranger or Force extremely expensive and slow. Call it challenging if you will, but regular 
 ranged shots shouldn't cost PP and staves and rods should still have melee attacks.
  
  Next is the camera controls. The game is third person, but the camera is constantly facing up from 
 the ground at you instead of over your shoulder or at an angle above you. You can swing the camera 
 back to its default position behind you with the left bumper, but that will often cause the camera 
 to end up behind a tree, or a wall, or inside an enemy. Quick note, there are no telepipes this 
 time around. You can't just toss up a TP and go back to town to recharge your PP. Would have been 
 nice to have. Especially online.
  
  The online mode is just as thrown together and totally abandoned as PSO was. People still sit in 
 front of crowds of people and spam, spam, spam. Other run around asking to cyber with hot chicks, 
 or send them naked pictures, etc. It's a pretty lame place to be. It's hard to find anyone to play 
 with, too. Most of the time it's best to just go to the mission select screen and see who else 
 is doing a mission you'd like to do. If it's not locked, join it. Although, being able to communicate 
 through headsets is miles above typing out all your responses while trying to fight in PSO. Overall, 
 PSU is hardly what we old PSO fans were hoping for. Worth a rental at best, definitely not worth 
 a monthly payment if you're on PC. And XBox 360 owners, just get the demo if you want to see how 
 bad the online is, don't waste a Live subscription on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philhilluk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  For someone like me who didn't get around to trying Phantasy Star Online I only had third hand 
 experience from reading about it to go on. I peronally love a good story to play though so I bought 
 this for that very reason.
  
  I was not dissapointed, the story bounced along and the fighting remained both intensive and interesting 
 as your character developed gaining new weapons or moves from the huge choice available to you 
 to buy.
  
  With between 20-30 hours of story to play through, not including the many sub missions to try or 
 the countless hours shopping for clothing, weapons, decorations for your home as well as a very 
 well worked trade skill element where you are capable of making almost every item available, there 
 is plenty to keep you occupied without ever spending another penny to take this baby online.
  
  When you do venture online though, which you will if you complete the story and have enjoyed 
 it as much as I have, then the whole thing opens up into a much bigger experience.
  
  For a tiny extra &pound;7 ($10) a month you can enjoying playing with others from all around the 
 world, fighting together, shopping together, starting up your own business from your own home, 
 visiting other peoples houses and seeing how they have decorated before seeing what they have for 
 sale, and generally helping to keep this little universe safe from evil.
  
  The extra monthly fee is totally justified as you will amas a huge amount of things that need to 
 be kept safe on the servers at sega for you. You can have up to 4 characters as well for that small 
 fee so all the family can join in the fun. Sega also release new missions and events during the 
 month which all help to keep things interesting and new for subscribers.
  
  Forget what the people who didn't take the time to play past the demo say, give this a try, it 
 may not be for everyone but don't take anyone elses word for it, try it for yourself and see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilovealicea
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jan 22, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  After downloading the demo from live i wasnt expecting the game to be as bad as it is. The first 
 thing that strikes you is the basic customisation options, virtually every game avaliable for the 
 xbox 360 has better character options on PSU its as basic as choosing between about 5 haircuts 
 and 10 different outfits. Once your character has been made you venture out into a big room full 
 of people running around jumping up and down everywhere, the first thing you think is i'll go and 
 have a chat but thats were one of the main problems lie. starting a conversation is a tas in itself 
 with the keyboard being hidden in a mixture of buttons and when u finally find it it takes about 
 10 minutes just to say hello but by then the person has already ran off, why not just use the xbox 
 360 standard keyboard and use voice chat too it would have been so much easier. Once you have tried 
 and failed to get a party together its time to hit the dungeons. They are so outdated it is almost 
 unbelievable its like playing a game from 1996 just random room followed by another random room 
 filled with boring repetitive enimies the game simply is no fun. The thought of the poor people 
 paying money for this and a monthly subscription too, thats just ridiculas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anatobia
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 21, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Well it certainly took them long enough, but Sega and Sonic Team have finally released a proper 
 sequel to one of the first online console games, Phantasy Star Online. Released on the Dreamcast 
 back in 2001, PSO was an action-focused role-playing game that allowed four players to join over 
 a dial-up connection and stomp through dungeons with guns and swords blazing. It was popular because 
 it was simple to understand but contained some real depth by offering a lot of weird, rare items 
 that had players replaying the same four worlds over and over again with the hope that they'd find 
 something crazy. It was also popular because it was free to play online. Updates were released 
 that never really caught on because they were marginal updates that didn't really bring much to 
 the game. They also never caught on because Sega started charging a monthly fee to play the game. 
 Phantasy Star Universe is a proper, built-from-the-ground-up sequel to PSO -- at least as far as 
 its gameplay is concerned. It has evolved a fair amount, but not to the extent that you'd call 
 it a modern game. Plus, the online isn't massively multiplayer in any sense of the word and comes 
 with a $9.99 per month fee. Fans of PSO will probably like it, but parts of it feel so ancient 
 that it's difficult to recommend to anyone else. The music is horrible, the gameplay is the worst 
 I ever seen and the graphics are BAD. Don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurhamNC
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  In Story Mode, PSU is a pretty mediocre game, to be perfectly honest. It's action is repetitive, 
 it's delayed by long and tedious cut scenes, peppered with absurdly unlikable characters, and simply 
 doesn't meet the graphical standards of current gen. consoles. That said, if you're into them, 
 it's a fairly short route to 1000 achievement points. The real value of this game is its online 
 play -- put simply, it's game play is fun and addictive. Experience is much harder to come by, 
 and the process of earing gold, at least at first, is slow to the point of frustration. Here's 
 the thing: a lot of people play this game and most of them are fun to play with. The same repetitive 
 game play applies, but with the added social aspect and the addictive nature of character advancement 
 -- advancement of a character and type you choose (somewhat different from the Story Mode) -- the 
 result is a great game that really lasts. PSU, most people with point out, isn't a true MMO, but 
 for the moment it's the closest and best you'll find on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volpexpress
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 20, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  This a pretty addicting demo. You are able to create a character from any of the 4 races. they 
 are human, newman, cast, and beast. You can only level up to level 30 but even then, it is still 
 fun to play. You are able to do all the stuff that you could do if it was the real game (except 
 for the level thing) . You can even host a party or be in a party with other people that are playing 
 this demo. you can do a mission on your own or with your (or someone else's party) . It is pretty 
 difficult to make money because the monsters don't drop that much but the easiest way to do that 
 is to redo missions to reearn the money. a bad thing about missions is that if you get a rank of 
 B or below, you won't make any reward money. there are a few more things in the game, but if you 
 want to find them out then you will have to download the demo from Xbox 360 live marketplace and 
 play the game. so, what are you waiting for? go download the damn thing already and have a **** 
 of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XT-inc
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 19, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Look Im Not here to totally bash on this game just because I loved it half the time and loathed 
 it the rest. PSU is a pay to play MMO now my review is a bit short sided as Ive never played the 
 online outside of the great beta demo on XBLM............... Now The graphics are ok they are not 
 so horrible that I would complain its just 06-07' games have a much higher quality and it just 
 doesnt look all that next gen IMO. The gameplay is where this game lost me, I had a blast playing 
 the demo with my friend dispite the fact I got yelled at for 3 days for not paying 14.99 CAD to 
 get a one month to a 5 day rental, now I get suckered into likeing these games with the whole, 
 do map, get stuff, sell stuff, upgrade to look shiny, repeat ala diablo 2 and any other game. This 
 is no real MMO you get split off into 1 of 40 servers each with the same set of maps ect when your 
 party op to 6 does a mission you get seperated from everyone else and do the map and leave to another 
 lobby. The music was ok If I hated it I would remember but if I loved it I would really remember 
 it, it was just ok.
  
  The story comes out in that anime style of game where everything comes out like a tv show with 
 an opening to each chapter and a on the next episode at the end, you play as a hover boarder Ethan 
 Waber who becomes a guardian something he once hated after they save him and his sister and well 
 you hit the x button and kill things. Issues --- Pay to play. 14.99 a month for a MMO no ff11 is 
 an mmo you can tell by the ammount of space it needs psu is no mmo there are like 50 people on 
 a server not hundred.
  **sidenote -- you get NO trial period with this game none so to see if you like the online yeah 
 you pay for it then decide.
  
  gameplay -- after a while when it hits you that all you have been doing is picking up items and 
 mashing X for a few hours it gets old, I do not mind the ideals of who plays more gets more but 
 I want a mix of skill involved with the game, give us combos.
  
  If they ever decide to drop the ridiculous fee to play online I will be all over this game but 
 Im not going to be spending those fees in 2007 concidering that Crackdown, Bioshock, mass effect, 
 hl2, and all the other games coming out this year knowing that Im subscribed at 15 bucks a month 
 to the game that will never see the light of day again by midyear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemur543
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  The PSO game was one of my personal faves... I logged around 200 hours (On a single character) on 
 it and it never got old.
  Basically the game is Diablo gone Sc-Fi, the mass appeal is doing dungeons over and over just to 
 find that new weapon or piece of armor, and we ALL know how that feels... it makes it extremely 
 addicting.
  
  Like PSO, the graphics are sort of a step-down to the last gen, it has a great art style but the 
 graphics don't push the system to its limits. The story spans 12 missions, each with a few parts 
 which will stretch out to more than 40 hours.
  In addition to story mode, you can log onto X-Box live, which turns the game into an MMO. There 
 is a monthly fee, so if your willing to fish into your wallet for a little extra money on top of 
 X-Box live fees, you should probably subscribe. If you don't want to subscribe, how ever, you can 
 use 'extra mode', there is no split screen in the new Phantasy Star game, so you'll be grouping 
 with various NPCs.
  
  There is a new race in PSU, the beasts, which are sorta like animal-people hybrids, which are pretty 
 bad-ass. All classes from the old game have been melded into four RACES, meaning that you will 
 choose a race, with MANY, MANY, costume options and branch out to fit your own style.
  
  Alas, no person should overlook the cons of a game. First off, split-screen is GONE. No more late-night 
 marathon's with friends/spouses. You will have to sign on to Live, with an additional price of 
 $10 per month, which might be a little much to ask for.
  Another thing is, you will be FORCED to progress further in the story mode to unlock more missions, 
 and areas for the extra mode (sorta like online mode, except it's... offline.) which is still kind 
 of shallow.
  Voice acting seems a little cheesy, and labored, and the graphics don't earn the title of a full-blown 
 next-gen game.
  
  But the single-player is still fantastic, a new Photon Art system now replace the Power Attacks 
 in PSO, now you will have a gauge that will be consumed everytime you use your photon arts, which 
 will become more powerful and intricate as you progress in level.
  
  Even though a couple of aspects have been left out, alot of cool stuff has been put back in. PSO 
 fans, rejoice! Time to go next-gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stu1515
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  Played the Online Beta Demo thats just released on Live.
  
  Worst online game ever, its just afew citys with shops, It throws you into a game without telling 
 you anything.
  
  Its controlls feels strange as its hard to grasp hold of the buttons and chatting, been online 
 its hard to talk without a keyboard makes it slow and hard.
  
  The Beta demo offers nothing asfar as gameplay goes, the only combat i could find was a mission 
 where it was level 10+ 20+ and 30+ monsters, so i couldnt really do it because i was level 1,
 
  
  Its seemed like alot of other players were wandering aimlessly.
  
  I feel sorry for anyone who baught this game.
  
  This game feels like it was never ment to 
 be online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corb77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  i think the story is great this is the first phantasy star game i have played a bit of a let down 
 on the graphics but you can do with it the gameplay is a bit repetive at first but once you get 
 lots of guns and weapens its good but i thought the story is the best bit of the game and a great 
 ending so it is a good rpg but great ones will come so its up to you so itsso its up to you up 
 to you so its up to you so its up to you so its up to you so its uso its up to you p to you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_mage
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 11, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  I have not long finished playing the story mode. I found that whilst the overall story was good 
 the actual game play just felt like it was lacking that special something. Sure after killing hundreds 
 of creatures you can upgrade the specials you've had to buy, but that didn't feel enough like a 
 choice given that with enough time you can buy all the specials and upgrade them all to their max 
 anyway. Maybe i have just been spoiled by other games where there is more than one way to complete 
 objectives, or there are different outcomes to the game depending upon what you do. Then again 
 there is only so far you can take a game that then continues online after you finish the story 
 mode. if you don't play online then you may feel you are missing out on the end of a story, after 
 all when you but a game you expect to be able to see the story through to the end don't you or 
 is that just something stupid i though up? Maybe this game would be a lot better of you didn't 
 have to join the guardians at the start and could join the rogues for example. one more tiny thing 
 that bugged me when playing through the game was the cut scenes, a lot of good stuff there but 
 all of a sudden it would throw you back to an in-game scene where the speech bubbles are over peoples 
 heads with no actual voice overs, to me that seemed like a really cheap thing to do. Fun if you 
 want to play through the story mod but i definitely wouldn't pay to play the same thing online 
 when you could jut chop monsters up just as easily in extra mode, which is also extremely tedious 
 and pointless, you'll find it a lot more fulfilling to just play through story mode as a different 
 class. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenerhai
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 6, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  How this game ended up on the 360 is beyond me. This should have stayed on the ps2. The online 
 only xbox version had its charm as a remake of a dreamcast games of the same name, but Phantasy 
 Star Universe still not only plays like it did on dreamcast, but looks as well graphically.
  
  The games characters models are ugly and suffer from characters that still have boxed pointy 
 fingers and the usual cliched anime look. While some would disagree with me, I do think that the 
 game has a unique artistic aesthetic when it comes to characters clothes and styles as well as 
 better looking environments from previous instalments.
  
  Sound wise, well. . . lets just say that you might just be glad you have the 360 version cause 
 you can turn off the bland forgetable music and atrocious voice acting. Seriously, there's better 
 voice work in Dynasty Warriors games. And as well, the characters personalities are just as forgetable 
 and equally cheesy and annoying.
  
  Gameplay is the only thing that stands out in this game, which might be its only saving grace to 
 carry me through to the end. A solid action/RPG hybrid with a unique system that has you time your 
 button attacks for 3 hit combos. The wealth of weapons and weapons types, item synthesis, upgrading 
 weapons and armor. This game is all about battle, with its unique style and nostalgic enemies. 
 It's not a bad battle system at all despite braindead character archetypes.
  The game also comes with an offline story mode, in which pre-made characters act out a linear story. 
 But it's easily forgetable and sometimes dosn't make any sense at all and the game can be played 
 with out so much of a clue as to whats going on.
  Online, one gets to make their own specailly made personal avatar and has the charm of letting 
 you team up with friends over xbox live. The problem with that though, is that Sega seems to think 
 this game is an MMORPG with the likes of FF11 or World of Warcraft, and that couln't be farther 
 from the truth. The 10 bucks a month is not worth what this game offers, despite the addition of 
 downloadable content. If Guild Wars is free, then so to should PSU be. Sega may keep online characters 
 and game worlds on their servers, but 10 dollars just is not justified. Enjoy the free trial while 
 you can, but dont waste your money. Unless you have money you can spare, because the online mode 
 really isnt bad, just not worth the price tag.
  Last but not least I have to make mention of how the offline mode deals with in game convrersation 
 with NPCs. Most games, when not using spoken dialouge, uses boxes of text for you to read, phantasy 
 star uses comic book like text balloons with text that is so small, youll need a big screen or 
 a magnafying glass to read it. The same goes for all the games menus. You will get a migraine trying 
 to read what your looking at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranaky
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  I loved PSO when it first came out. It had a great set up and despite it's repitiveness, it was 
 a lot of fun. This game, however, is poorly put together. You have to wonder what they were doing 
 when they created this game.
  
  To start off, this game sounds superior to PSO in every way when you look at the stuff included 
 in the game. Faster gameplay, a story mode for those who liked the past Phantasy Star stories, 
 a new Partner Machine that would replace mags and could do item synthesis, and three planets you 
 could travel to. Unfortunately half of this stuff fails on many levels, where should I begin.
 
  
  Graphics
  
  Horrible, absolutely, horrible on the 360. Why would I want to pay $10 more for a game that looks 
 identical to the PS2 title? To its credit it does look better and smoother than PSO, but that's 
 about it. The monsters look bogged down and look more anime like than the realistic looking beasts 
 they had in PSO.
  
  They could've worked on the graphics for this version especially after seeing the graphics in Sonic.
 
  
  Story Mode
  
  The story follows a very predictable plot about a guy named Ethan who decides to join the GUARDIANS, 
 a group of heroes to destroy an alien race that threatens all three planets. Eventually you find 
 out that *gasp* an organization might be behind it. Yeah it's a rehash of PSO's storyline but more 
 stupid. Who cares about the characters either, most have very poor voice actors (especially Ethan's) 
 and make very stupid decisions. Most of the storyline is drawn out through text boxes even though 
 they clearly had room to put more VO on the 360. I think it's better that way though, because Ethan's 
 VA bothered me.
  
  Gameplay
  
  It's essentially the same as PSO only a bit faster paced. Instead of being frozen for a few seconds 
 after an attack, most characters can still run out of the way of the counter attack from an enemy. 
 The game consists of you and your party going around in an area and fighting many foes that appear 
 until the doors unlock and you repeat the same process. It's more fun when you have actual people 
 on your team than the no-brained AI controlled characters in the Story mode who just stand there 
 and attack like mindless brutes.
  
  The game consists of missions that try to have a plot but don't. This wouldn't be so bad if PSO 
 was the same way but I remember clearly that most missions did have somebody you had to save or 
 some real point to it other than go kill this and that. I haven't tried the online mode simply 
 because I don't want to play this ridiculously boring game online. If you want to save $9.99 a 
 month you can just play extra mode which emulates it somewhat like PSO did with Offline mode.
 
  
  The addition of two extra planets sounds good but it doesn't really work out too well because they 
 all seem bland and don't change things up except enemy types. Ragol, with it's four levels, was 
 much more fun.
  
  Difficulty
  
  For a Phantasy Star game, this is by far the easiest one I've played. Most of them had you leveling 
 up for hours while I was able to level up to 22 within 7 hours. I gained that same level after 
 playing around 20 hours on PSO. The enemies have been handicapped as well which can be good for 
 those new to the series but honestly I think it ruins the gameplay. In PSO, I felt as though I 
 accomplished a lot when I was able to walk through the Mines and kill things easily. Here it feels 
 like your doing the same amount of damage to the same beast that you were essentially doing at 
 level 5.
  
  Sound
  
  The music just isn't that great, it doesn't change in a level and it gets really repetitive. As 
 I mentioned before the VO aren't great at all. Half the time you want to just skip the cutscenes 
 because you already know what's going to happen. Okay, so not all the VO's are bad it mainly seems 
 to be the males that sound ridiculous.
  
  Overall
  
  A very big disappointment to me especially since I was excited to get this game. There is nothing 
 in this game that really kept me playing. I would suggest renting it like I did because then you 
 aren't wasting your money on something you thought would be good. If you do end up liking it, I 
 would suggest getting the PS2 version simply because it is the same game minus 10 bucks. You're 
 also given the opportunity to play with PC gamers who have this as well you just won't have voice 
 chat for online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joff5555
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 1, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  this game is great but it is letdown because you have already paid &pound;40 to &pound;50 for the 
 game and then you have to pay another &pound;7.00 a month to play live which is a bit of a rip 
 off but the story mode is great to play. I think Final Fantasy 11 is a better buy as the game price 
 reflects that of a monthly fee paying game. I don't mind paying a monthly fee as long as the game 
 isn't over priced and the fee is no more than &pound;5 a month. Why they feel the need to charge 
 to play when there are other great games you can play on live that do not cost anything. Gears 
 of War or Call of Duty or FEAR. All these games are great live so if i was you i would opt out 
 of buying this game because of this, if more people pay this price companies will continue to charge, 
 but if you don't then sooner or later they will have to drop the price of the fees or no fees at 
 all. For online fun, try guild wars on the PC it's free!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acalightsp33d
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok i play lots of rpgs eq2 wow etc and i must say this has the best graphics out of them all and 
 gameplay i like its different no more axes woo hoo here comes the light sabers and plasma rifles 
 they have cool downs and so it works i must admit when i first put it in i was a bit unsure and 
 im sure alot of people will be but keep playing it and enjoy it the story is sort of there on single 
 player your a 17 year old with a younger sister that you care for and your parents are dead and 
 you dont like guardians (wont say why as you can find out for your self when playing) but your 
 little sister gets trapped and you need to rescue her and your trying to find help and you find 
 a a guardian injured so he gives you transmitter gun and stuff and then you get to your sister 
 and rescue her and then you thank the guardians and want to become one so then you start as a trainee 
 and while on training you find that something bad is happening (not gonna spoil it for you) and 
 then you get more in to weapon upgrading buying armor etc..
  
  Multiplayer ok now first of all the multiplayer is better than the singer player only &pound;6.99 
 per month cheaper than wow etc i dont need to say a lot on this you do missions etc gain levels 
 like other rpgs you know the drill goes up to level 60 and rumors say its gonna be capped to 70 
 withing a month.
  
  heres the cut down on why i gave it 9.4
  
  gameplay is great compared to other mmorpgs its different really.
  
  graphics i aint comparing 
 them to gears of war im comparing them to other mmorpgs only fair way of doing it.
  
  sound battles or running around its not on a loop and there actually is audio not like some mmorpgs.
 
  
  Value easy worth it you have single player takes around 40 hours to complete and then you have 
 multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 26, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  GOOD- Brilliant, intresting story; feels like a propper anime TV show; colourful chrarctures; original 
 gameplay; FFXII for the 360; BAD- Trials?... c'mon!!; feels more like .hack than FFXII; defeat enemies 
 in one area to get to the other; last gen graphics
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  Phantasy Star Universe is a big hack and slash game, but its a good job i like hack and slash, 
 anyways Phantasy Star feels like a better version than .hack, so if you like .hack you'll love 
 this game, but if you dont like Final Fantay XII, than you'll hate this game, theres 100's of different 
 monsters to fight and many different allies at you aid, its pretty hard not to like this game, 
 specily the story, it works like a traditinal RPG gameplay but now you can run around and battle 
 monsters freely whilst gaining EXP and using items, lovly!!
  
  GRAPHICS-
  The graphics in this game is'nt realy good for the 360 standards, its realy last gen that could've 
 been great on the normal Xbox, the framerate is realy good, even through intense battles, but then 
 it does drop, a tinny bit though, the special effects a great too and charactures are very colourfull.
 
  
  SOUND-
  Now.... erm, the main charactures voice acting is terrible, the others are just fair, i dont think 
 Sonic Team can do great voice acting, but i do know one thing, they have superb music, i realy 
 like the music in this game, specialy the main theme tune which is terrific!
  
  OVERALL-
  The game is great, but if they made it less like .Hack and more like FFXII, then just could've 
 been easly just as good as FFVII, and probbebly got an 8.3.-8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud0830
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 20, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  A very good game in my eyes. This game has the perfect blend of action and character development. 
 This game takes you far away to place of many races with a deep and detailed story line this game 
 will keep you occupied for some time. Overall the story is great makes some sense and has a strange 
 sense of episodes like a show or something but I believe this to be a good game that is a great 
 edition to the 360 line up, not the greatest graphics but should be given a chance. Warning the 
 game does include a annoying little robot named Pete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  Phantasy Star Universe is the much awaited sequal to Sega's Phantasy Star Online, originally released 
 on the Dreamcast five years ago. This time around though Sega have added a single player offline 
 mode to balance out the online. But is the game worth it?
  
  The single player mode is split into 12 chapters much like a TV series, with opening and ending 
 theme songs for each chapter as well as a sneak preview of the next chapter. Though in total it 
 takes about 25 - 30 hours to finish.
  
  The main character for this saga is the 17 year old Ethan Waber, a young orphen brimming with hatred 
 for the local law enfocement known as the Guardians. While meeting his sister at the Guardians 
 colony, they are attacked by strange monsters known as the Seed. During this attack Ethan acknowledges 
 he isn't strong enough to protect those he loves, and decides to join the much hated Guardians.
 
  
  The story is cliched and cheesy at best, it has the love interest, the spikey haired teenager with 
 an unknown past saving the world, And much to my dismay, the dialogue and voice acting make the 
 story even worse to follow then it needed to be. Some of it was beyond the pain barrier.
  
  As for the way the game plays? at the start of each chapter you have a cutscene telling you a tid 
 bit of the story, meet up with some AI characters who, and lets face it, are as useless as a chocolate 
 tea pot. You then travel to another planet, hack your way through a very repetitive dungeun, fighting 
 mindless enemies, beat a boss. Rinse and repeat.
  
  The online mode plays out in a very similar manner, only it's alot more fun fighting huge bosses 
 with other people who do more then just die like their AI counterparts. In creating an online character 
 there are quite a few options, picking from race, class, and appearence. The first two have a great 
 result on your stats and skills, while your appearence does nothing but satisfy your vanity. During 
 questing you can have up to six party members as you travel through various missions. The missions 
 themselves are split up so that you can create one, or join one already in progress. Though they 
 have different tiers of difficulty restricted by the player level. So that people don't bite off 
 more then they can chew. In the dungeuns there are many items to be found, either inside barrels, 
 hatstaks, or occasionally dropped by enemies. These items can be used to create weapons, armour, 
 and other useful equipment from your user room pet robot (in which you can even name and upgrade) . 
 If you wish you can even have your own user store to sell the items you have found or created, 
 this is actually a necessity if you ever hope to get enough money to get the higher class weapons.
 
  
  Graphically PSU is a disaster, it is obviously a PS2 port and therefor looks terrible on the 360. 
 There are alot of jaggies and low res textures. However the art style and vibrant colours help 
 to make up for it's lack of polish.
  
  Phantasy Star Universe is a game you either love or hate. The graphics aren't next gen, the voice 
 acting and story are rather skittish, the AI is terrible, and the game play is monotoous. Yet, 
 despite all that it can still be very addictive and quite fun. especially online. But if you are 
 thinking about getting it for the single player alone i would avoid it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLACKFIRE2142
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Okay so what you are about to read is only the single player review of this game, as I have not 
 played the multiplayer version. So lets get down to buisness. First off are the graphics. Terrible. 
 PS2 graphics. This should not be for the 360!! I understand that it was for the PS2 and then they 
 put it on here but still I mean graphics are a big part of a game and should not look like they 
 dont belong. Which they dont. Still, I have to give them some credit for the gameplay which is 
 okay but I mean come on! When you run up to an NPC in the singleplayer, they friggin dissapear!! 
 What is up with that?! Alas, PSU still is a pretty good game once you get used to those graphics 
 and get passed them and look at other things, like the storyline which I liked. I bet the multiplayer 
 is good, but I'm not gonna pay $10 for that when the singleplayer is just mediocre... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lhaygood
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  This game caught my eye, because I can (and I know I'll date myself typing this) remember playing 
 the original Phantasy Star games on my old Sega systems as a kid. Ever the nostalgic one (and having 
 missed out on PSO) , I decided to pick this game up.
  
  The Good: The best thing about this game for me is the presentation. The sound and graphics look 
 pretty smooth on my home theatre setup. The controls are intuitive, and the game is definitely 
 a button-masher. It's also fairly exciting watching enemies pop out of space and rush at you. I 
 have fun running around trying out new combinations of weapons, photon arts, and so forth, and 
 the cinematic cutscenes remind me of cheesy-but-good anime.
  
  The Bad: First, the party AI. Ugh. In the story mode, the AI of your partners is awful. After experiencing 
 the wonderful combat system of Final Fantasy XII, this makes me want punch things. Second, the 
 fee for the online play (which is not MMO-like, and not all that fun, to be honest) is ridiculous. 
 Last, but certainly not least, I hate not being able to pause. Is it too much to ask to have some 
 way of totally stopping the gameplay if I need to do something, like answer the door, get the phone, 
 or answer a call of nature?
  
  Overall: I can't say I'm displeased with the overall effect, however. It's definitely fun, which 
 is the important factor. I don't think it's revolutionary or a must-own game, but if you want some 
 button-mashing, science fantasy fun, Phantasy Star Universe delivers amiably just what you need. 
 Plus, the graphics look pretty sweet in HD (I run them in 1080i, but 720p looks nice too) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loch_Ness_Monst
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  This game had potential. I really don't know where it all went. If you can get passed lowsy graphics 
 and a bland and flawed storyline. You may find some satisfaction in this sorry excuse for a next 
 generation RPG.
  
  The only real reason to play this game is for the online play, which may happen in the near future. 
 If your just looking for a game to enjoy offline, I'd take a pass on this game. Everything is just 
 too mediocore with this game. The story is next worst to awful, the graphics lack immensely, the 
 sound effects and music lack everything, and the gameplay is truly shallow and nothing new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nejoku
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty much the same as Phantasy Star Online (PSO) except with a few new mechanics 
 for the game itself and a actual story line.
  
  Good: different Worlds to Explore, New and different Weapon variations, decent story line, Large 
 online multiplayer, Extra mode (PSO Offline pretty much) , Better character customization
  
  Bad: Camera, Main characters (Ethan Waber) voice acting, walking through walls, Only 8 achivements
 
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  I personally enjoy this game alot becuase Ive always been a PSO fan, and this game is PSO but it 
 takes it further, in a storyline, and different planets to travel through and alot of free missions.
 
  
  Which why the name is PSU (Phantasy Star Universe)
  
  For any PSO Fans out there, I'd suggest they pick up a copy either rent or buy becuase this game 
 is a good deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofreak1216
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 12, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  While this game is very poor in single player, and you can beat it in a day or two. If you are 
 willing to pay 10$ a month to play this game, it is very worth it in my opinion. Going into the 
 game i already had 4 online friends going in with me. There are four races, Human, the jack-of-all-trades. 
 Numan, best at using magic and TECNICS. CAST, Best at using guns. and Beastman, best at using melee 
 weapons The gameplay here essentially consists of just hitting X repeatedly, to kill enemies, but 
 the real depth lies beyond that. You have to gather materials to synthesise items, upgrade your 
 weapons by building grinders, find rare weapon boards in hard missions, work cooperatively with 
 up to six people, play your way through the online story missions, and much more. the game feels 
 slightly dated but it is a great party game. I mean cmon, if UNO can get great reviews as a party 
 game, this can to, the only diffrence is the fee. The graphics are not very good to 360 standards, 
 but they are VERY good for MMORPG standards. In the lobbys its hard to maintain those graphics 
 with so many people on a server, but they manage to do it. One downfall is from far away people 
 sometimes look like clay figures. Which can get kind of annoying. The sound is a mixed package, 
 there are very well defined, such as the weapon hitting an enemy, but the music that plays is very 
 annoying, mostly tecno and a very VERY annoying j-pop themesong. Replay value is obvious, this 
 is an MMORPG, the whole thing is built around replay value, and this game is great about it. You 
 could try to build up your charactor to level 10 in all the classes, or just level him up to level 
 60 (the current level cap, will move up) . Try to open up your own shop and sell your user-made 
 items from it. Buy all the room decorations in the game and put them up. Level all the photon arts 
 up to level 30. (also the current level cap) . But after a while, the game will start to get repetitve, 
 you will probablly want to take a break, but eventually youll come back if your friends play as 
 well All in all, this is a great multiplayer game. If you play to buy this game and stay offline. 
 DON'T. Horrible idea, only get this game if you are willing to pitch out 10$ a month and play network 
 mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco0798
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  if u enjoyed PSO 1&amp;2 thenyou will LOVE this for startes their is a RPG single player side to 
 it with a real story which is a great edition to the series since the first ones the RPG was a 
 bit rubbish this one actually makes u want to go on play that extra 30 mins which is what makes 
 a great RPG.
  do not however buy this game expecting top end 360 graphics because uyou wont be getting that . 
 the gameplay remains the same expect that a lock on button seems to have disapeared which i found 
 really frustrating since u wernt able to select the target u want to slice/shoot/cast. it may not 
 seem like much but this will REALLY pee you off. the online was alright same PSO really good game 
 overall but please remember that for PSO Universe u will need to pay a subscription fee for the 
 game excluding ur x live fee overal a good game.
  
  if u already playing WoW u might wonna skip this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick0091
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Note: This is only a review for the offline portion of the game because I have not played it online.
 
  
  If you have played phantasy star online you will be familiar with the style of game play, however 
 if you didn't like phantasy star online or have not played it, doesn't mean you will dis like this 
 one.
  
  It is virtually the same game only with a serious upgrade. It has much faster game play and of 
 course everything has been improved drastically.
  
  If you have never played phantasy star online, it is basically a 3d hack and slash dungeon crawler. 
 It is set in the future on 3 planets and a space station. You can be one of three classes from 
 the start.
  
  Hunter: Basically melee weapons are your speciality, However you can also use some lower class 
 guns. and lower class techs.
  
  Ranger: Specialize in Guns, however can use lower class melee weapons and techs.
  
  force: 
 specialize in techs (spells.) but can also use lower class guns and melee weapons.
  
  You can choose to play this game in two different offline modes. Story Mode: You play as Ethan 
 Waber and progress through 12 chapters and unlock things for extra mode. There are a lot of cinemas 
 and it has a decent story. However it only lasts 15-20 hours.
  
  Extra mode: You make your own hero and play free missions and the game never ends. (unlock able 
 after chapter 4 from story mode)
  
  Game play: 8/10
  
  Great game play even if it does get repetitive after awhile. It is just hack and slash however 
 it can be quite intense and can be very hectic.
  
  Simple but effective.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  
  Seem a little old for its time, but then again so did phantasy star online.
 
  
  Sound: 7/10
  
  Not bad, but it does get very repetitive hearing the same light saber like sound over and over, 
 for the entire game.
  
  Value 6/10
  
  Short story however it was quite a good one and it addictive always wondering what will happen 
 next. Also Extra mode can keep you playing for hours even though it does feel like it could have 
 been so much more.
  
  It seems like they cut out offline stuff just so you will buy online.
  
  Reviewers tilt: 7/10
 
  
  I had an enjoyable experience and it is very addictive. It offers multiple things to level up which 
 is the most impressive thing about this game. You can level up:
  
  You main level which affects all stats.
  
  class level: Each of the 3 classes have there own 
 levels which take quite awhile to level up in one, This effects certain stats based around that 
 class.
  
  Tech levels: Every Skill in this game can get stronger just by using it. Also a lot of skills can 
 be used on various weapons. So if you have a favourite attack it will just get better and better, 
 making it stronger and stronger and maybe even adding a new combo or two with it.
  
  It may get a bit slow at times but I still think you will have an enjoyable experience.
  
  
 Best Thing about this game: Levelling system
  
  Worst thing about this game: No offline multiplayer and seems like offline content was cut out 
 for online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 8, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  I waited a bit to review this becuase I was waiting for the best patch to review on. The Dec. 8th 
 patch seemed perfect.
  
  Gameplay: I really dont have any complaints on the gameplay except you cant go in first person 
 view and run while shooting. I like how they add new things every two weeks becuase it keeps me 
 coming back and when I get bored with the old content poof! New levels and weapons! Its a very 
 good way to keep people playing. 9
  
  Graphics: Nowa days I dont really look into the graphics of games too much unless there REALLY 
 bad but the graphics are pretty good but not the best they could have been. 8
  
  Sound: The sound is pretty good the music is really nice but the enimies when they die its the 
 same rooaaar!! it gets kinda annoing. 8
  
  Value/Tilt: It will keep you coming back for more but you may find your self playing other games 
 while your waiting for the next patch but over all really nice game. 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manaka-kun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2006 1:34 am PT
Review:  That's probably because I play it offline, so consider this an offline-only review.
  
  The Story Mode in Phantasy Star Universe is now structured, instead of creating a character of 
 your own. You take the role of Ethan Waber, a 17 year old, and the story starts with him heading 
 to a festival, where he's run over and meets the Divine Maiden, Mirei. From there, it builds up 
 after Ethan becomes a Guardian, which is basically an authority figure for the people.
  
  Then, there's Extra Mode, which allows you to create a character out of four races: Humans (All 
 rounded characters) , Newmans (Your TECHNIC (Magic) masters; Basically Humans with pointy ears and 
 a specialisation) , Beasts (Hunters, or Warriors; Humans with more primative features and animal 
 ears) and CASTs (Ranged specialists (Rangers) , Androids) .
  
  Beasts also get a special ability, as do CASTs. Beasts may, at level 20, Nanoblast into super powered 
 animal forms, focusing on speed, power, defence of invincibility, depending on which tattoo you 
 choose to give you the abilities. CASTs get SUV's, which are super powerful guns used to take down 
 large groups of enemies quickly and effectively.
  
  Otherwise, gameplay is very similar to Phantasy Star Online, with additions such as the synthesis 
 ability with your Partner Machinery, which is a new little storage and synth machine in your room 
 that you can evolve, until it eventually fights as a party member with you. Plus, customisation 
 is alot more flexible, giving many more options, and the ability to use any class with any race.
 
  
  Graphics, though very similar to PS2 graphics (Since they are the same graphics as the PS2 version) , 
 are still alright to look at. Not a total eyesore, but not spectacular like with games like Oblivion.
 
  
  Sound in this game is pretty good, too. Voice acting in this game is good, even though many say 
 it is horribly done, to which I disagree. Extra mode character voices are also plentiful in customisation, 
 as you can choose one of the 10 base voices and edit the pitch to get the perfect voice for you. 
 This also allows you to make a proper child or maybe an older character to use.
  
  Overall, though Online has had much controversy due to the uproar over lack of updates, Offline 
 mode is still very much worth your money, and there's plenty to do to keep you entertained! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lutinantsland
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Although I did not buy this game, I feel I can write an honest review. After borrowing it, I immediately 
 immersed myself in the game. After a warning of bad voice acting, it didn't bother me much so I 
 was able to enjoy the core game play which is FANTASTIC. There is a huge selection of how to go 
 into battle. You can choose to focus on swords, sabres and other melee items or you can go into 
 battle with a mix of this an guns. It is a great game and very enjoyable. It can get a bit repetitive 
 when you start fighting smaller monsters but the big monsters are well worth it. Being able to 
 fight huge monsters with pretty good AI is amazing. The graphics are a bit out dated and it shows 
 but only on certain things. The sound is pretty annoying along with voice acting. I recommend this 
 game to a high extent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  If you were around and had a Dreamcast or even a Gamecube, you've probably heard of Phantasy Star 
 Online, also commonly referred to as PSO. A healthy supply of players provided the game a great 
 multiplayer experience. The next venture into the Phantasy Star universe is very similar to PSO 
 in many respects and can be played on the Playstation 2, Xbox 360, or PC. The Playstation 2 and 
 PC users have been put together on the same servers while those on the Xbox 360 are by themselves. 
 The game is made mostly for the multiplayer but there is still about a 15-20 hour single player 
 campaign where you play as Ethan Waber, a young, hot-headed individual who doesn't care much for 
 rules or discipline until he ends up helping a group of people called the Guardians. After playing 
 about an hour, he decides to join up with them and they have to defeat the SEED, a new brand of 
 enemy that is infested territory and is a system wide problem.
  
  You can invite NPCs to join your group and they will assist you by attacking enemies and casting 
 healing spells and other things. Unfortunately, the AI is horrible in this game and they may only 
 do about 30% of the work even if there are three of them! So, you'll find that they mostly walk 
 or stand around and you have to do all the heavy lifting. It is so frustrating when they a party 
 member heals everyone when everyone is at full life and neglect to heal when everyone is near death. 
 Forgiving the NPC fragility, the single player campaign features poor voice acting and at times, 
 no syncing. The mouths might not move, but they are speaking? This is obviously a Japanese game 
 first but it doesn't help in the presentation department for story telling with it's familiar twists 
 and turns that we could probably see a mile away.
  
  The game plays well with an easy interface but PC users might not be too happy. Using the keyboard 
 is very clunky and non-responsive at many times so if you get it for the PC, you may have to dish 
 out an additional thirty dollars or whatever for a controller because without it, you'll be crying. 
 It is obvious that the PC version is just a port of the console versions which is very disappointing.
 
  
  You have special attacks and normal attacks. The special attacks use Photons and will slowly regenerate 
 but this stops you from spamming these attacks. Some of them knock down opponents while others 
 do a roll or a multi-hit maneuver that is fun to do and funner to see.
  
  What you find that you will be doing, just like in PSO, is running around, killing enemies that 
 are not too bright, to find a key, to open the door, to the next area, to repeat the process again. 
 The game is an endless grindfest, which can be fun for a while but doesn't have a super long lasting 
 appeal.
  
  Multiplayer is the focus of the game and that is fine. Unfortunately, it costs money to pay for 
 month. It costs about 9.99 USD per month for this game and they don't even give you a free month 
 for you to see if you would like to pay at all! World of Warcraft gives you a free month. This 
 doesn't unless you agree to pay for 6 months at first! At least in PSO, you could play offline 
 with three other people. This doesn't have that capability and that is a major letdown if you wanted 
 to play with a few friends instead of on the Internet.
  
  Even though you can party with up to five other people, it doesn't get much better. The party options 
 and the looting options are purely atrocious. You can not even share money that is picked up so 
 melee fighters, who are close, can pick up everything especially rare items. What's even worse, 
 is that fact that you have to hit an enemy before you get experience. If you're a healer, and neglect 
 to hit one enemy, and then it dies, you get nothing even though you're helping your party!
  
  The game looks okay but the graphics are obviously dated so do not expect to get blown out 
 of the water when you look at the game. It's a more refined looking PSO but other than that, it 
 seems to be a big letdown.
  
  The sounds of the game are fine but the two footstep noises get irritating quickly. It would have 
 been nice if they added more sounds to the weapons but there aren't that many to deal with. The 
 music score is pretty good but nothing in the game screams out that it deserves much more than 
 a fleeting ear.
  
  Although the game is fun at first, it boils down to cost for a game such as this. Though there 
 are thousands of players playing this game online, it is very difficult to justify considering 
 all the other alternatives there are in this genre. This game has many endearing qualities but 
 it doesn't stack up against the rest so unless you just can't get enough of a PSO updated, then 
 I would pass on this one and wait until they make a game with post 2003 graphics unless you enjoy 
 grinding enemies day in and day out for 9.99 a month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suyomizzle_
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  Phantasy Star Universe is many games, but one of the things it's not is a rip-off. Nor is it a 
 true sequel to Phantasy Star Online, and there are many reasons why. The core gameplay is the same 
 of any of its modes, pretty standard action RPG stuff. You equip a weapon, attack and target in 
 real time, but dice rolls and stat calculations are still going on underneath, but you do have 
 a certain degree of control when it comes to evading and targeting. You can map special moves to 
 some of the face buttons (One special move to melee weapons in addition to the standard attack, 
 and one bullet to guns, and two special magic spells to casting weapons) . Each weapon is left or 
 right handed, or both, so you can sometimes equip two weapons at once. They equip to roulette, 
 so you can seamlessly switch between a few weapon sets in combat. There is also a separate item 
 reel where you can access items.
  
  The reel system is nice and definitely is a welcome addition to this type of game, but the gameplay 
 is overall by no means revolutionary, it just streamlines what we know and love.
  
  What shines about the game is its variety and potential for expansion. There are three modes, Story 
 Mode, Extra Mode, and Network Mode. Story mode being the most unique, and Extra Mode being unlockable.
 
  
  The story follows Ethan Waber, a young man who's got a grudge against a freelance group called 
 the guardians that the people hale as defenders of the Guhral system (the solar system made up 
 of three planets in which the game takes place) . An evil alien force attacks, and Ethan is forced 
 to take up the role of the guardians he so hates, only to find by being in their shoes he understand 
 them a little better. And so our story begins. It may sound trite at first, but it's a really well 
 done and well-written story. Unfortunately, it's offset by some downright dreadful voice acting, 
 at times, and some translation errors. But if you can see past these things, the characters and 
 story are all quite good once they really get in motion.
  
  Another unique thing about the story mode is the fact that it unfolds in the same way a TV series 
 would, and it's most similar to a Japanese anime cartoon. Each story mission takes place within 
 a chapter that's prefaced by the opening theme and animation, and has an ending reel with an ending 
 theme song, followed by a Next Time On Phantasy Star Universe clip. This setting, while not doing 
 much for the gameplay, really motivates you to play on and offers some potential for new downloadable 
 chapters, which will inevitably surface. In addition to the Story Mode, there is Extra Mode, which 
 is essentially an endless version of story mode where you go through the same scenarios as Ethan 
 but as a character that you create. The focus is on leveling and finding rares as opposed to actually 
 finishing the story.
  
  This alone justifies the price tag of this game, but in addition to all that, there is Network 
 Mode! This is a full-featured online game, which would be the closest thing to a sequel to Phantasy 
 Star Online. The online content at the moment is a bit bare, and it offers a lot of the same missions 
 and enemies you saw in the offline game, just online. But despite this, it is quite fun to play 
 though the game's missions with friends. And in addition, Sega is definitely going to release a 
 lot of additional content for the online game, such as advanced classes and a lot more missions. 
 The nominal fee is definitely worth it considering the free updates that are soon to come. Also, 
 the difficulty in the online mode is higher than the story or extra mode, and so it lets you just 
 take the game a step farther in terms of items you can find and enemies you can fight.
  
  Besides the horrid voice acting, the sound is actually really good. The opening and two ending 
 themes are all very good songs, and the BGMs are all enjoyable, memorable tracks.
  
  The graphics, unfortunately, are where this game suffers. The graphics, while not horrible, are 
 definitely not up to par with more recent games. The textures and character models all show their 
 age.
  
  Overall, Phantasy Star Universe is a very enjoyable experience, although some of the elements of 
 the story that are clearly taken from Japanese animation conventions may turn some gamers off, 
 as will the online fee when the online content is a little bit thin mission wise. But for those 
 willing to invest the time into the game, it is a very rewarding experience that can offer a compelling 
 narrative and hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickbetts
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty awsome if your not looking for an MMORPG. Lower your expectations and think 
 of it as an RPG. I rented this game because I love the art style and it looked really cool. I popped 
 it in my 360 and it looks like an xbox game. Yeah graphics arn't the best. I played the story mode 
 for 3 days and beat it in 21 hours . I got all 1000 achievment points and everything unlocked. 
 IF your looking for an awsome RPG with a great story line and characters that grow on you rent 
 this game. Now for the bad parts. To play this online you have to pay 10 bucks a month even if 
 you already have Xbox live Gold. Is it worth it? In short no. All you do is collect items and talk 
 to people. If you have a lot of friends playing this game online go for it, if not pass it up its 
 not worth it. That is why i say don't buy this unless your going to pay the 10 bucks a month to 
 play it online because you can rent it beat and then there is nothing else to do in the game. There 
 is no replayablity once so ever so just rent it. Its an addictive game with an AWSOME, PERFECT 
 story line that keeps you intrigued. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 5/10
  
  I'm only on the 4th chapter and the gameplay is really boring the hell out of me. Press x to do 
 the same boring attack over and over again... Missions are pretty boring too they try to get you 
 to open doors to get to an objective...
  
  Graphics 7/10
  
  The games real-time graphics look straight from a ps2 game. They aren't anything special at all. 
 There is one good aspect to the games graphics; the cutscenes! They look pretty nice.
  
  sound 7/10 the sound in this game is decent and the voice acting is good but they only talk during 
 cut-scenes.
  
  Value 5/10
  
  The game takes about 20 hours and to go online you need to pay a fee which is ridiculous. The achievements 
 are way too easy.
  
  Tilt 7/10
  
  The game isn't that bad if you are an RPG fan but is very boring if you hate RPGs. I would recomend 
 this game to achievement whores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firestarter76
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the trailer for Phantasy Star Universe, I was amazed. I thought this may be a 
 great game! . So when I bought it, I thought it would be better than Phantasy Star Online, since 
 video game sequels are usually better than its predeccesor. I was dead wrong. Phantasy Star Universe 
 was such a disapointment, so bland, so repetitive. The story of Universe is that a great destructive 
 force known as the SEED attacks the three planets of the Gurhal System. As you progress on, you'll 
 learn about the SEED's true nature, the cultures of each planet, their history etcetra. But it 
 is so cliched! Especially in the beginning and middle of the game, where they will have so many 
 damsels in distress who fall to the floor in the most idiotic ways, a bunch of rogues who I suppose 
 are the comic relief, and the typical hot-headed 18yr old kid who saves the world. That is of course 
 Story Mode. Extra Mode/Online is basically the same thing, except your the hero. The story gets 
 a little better at the end.
  
  It's difficult to review this game because it is really two games in one, actually three: Story 
 Mode, Extra Mode, and Online Mode. I'll start with offline as most people will probably play this 
 first. Story Mode and Extra Mode, like I said before, is the same thing. So I'll focus on Extra 
 Mode. When you begin your adventure, you create a character. This may be one of the few highlights 
 in the game. It's very advanced and in-depth. Although, some of the hairstyles and clothing are 
 well... stupid. You can change your characters hair, clothes, eyes, proportions, eyebrows, ears, 
 and all the other subtle things. However, knowing most people, they'll probably make the same character. 
 You know, the small, scrawny kid with a giant sword named Zero, Sephiroth, or some other stupid 
 name. Once you make your character, you will be sent to your room. Your room is basically a bank 
 and shop where you can add decorations, sell items, hang around with friends, store or take out 
 items and feed your mag PETE. PETE is a floating orb with hands in the center of your room. He, 
 she or it, can store your valuables and also synthesize weapons, sheilds, and items. To synthesize, 
 you must find a board or buy one and give it to PETE. Once in PETE, you must have the right ingredients 
 to make your item. Personally, its a waste, as you'll find most weapons while killing monsters. 
 PETE also can evolve into a personal helper/supporter while fighting. But in order to transform 
 PETE, you must feed him a massive amount of items etc. Even that is a waste, because you really 
 don't need anyone to acompany you in battle. Each planet has its own theme, music, shops and destinations 
 for you to explore: Parum is your basic futuristic city. Neudaiz is a feudal themed area and Moatoob 
 is a desert themed area (Kinda looks like something from Star Wars.) You'll travel to each planet 
 through PPT, in other words a space plane (scientology anyone?) Each weapon shop has their own 
 kinds of weapons and armors, which I found rather creative. They also have upgrade shops. Upgrade 
 shops can make weapons stronger by combining them with grinders. There is a percentage of failure 
 though. Clothing shops are also scattered around each city. But in Extra Mode, they don't sell 
 many clothes. So if you want to play dress-up, I suggest Online Mode. Now to the gameplay. Unlike 
 Phatasy Star Online, you don't just go off on a free-killing spree in a random area. Instead, you 
 must do missions, which are always the same. In fact, they don't have any unique quality to them. 
 They're really just Kill, Exterminate, Eliminate a certain something or somethings. There are a 
 few missions that involve the SEED, which will require you to eradicate them by using goggles to 
 locate them and using a high-tech rifle to remove them. Even that gets repetitive. Above all, everything 
 runs on a timer. When you take more time to complete a mission, you get a lower score and vice 
 versa. I don't think many people would want to rush the quests. It was a very bad idea for Sega 
 to add that.
  
  There are many enemies, many of which are just the same but with different appearances and powers. 
 There are Booma-like monsters, mutated animals, giant robots and D-creatures. Now where did I see 
 these creatures before? Oh yeah, Phantasy Star Online. Seriously, did Sega lose their creativity? 
 The areas are vast and colorful, but its really just going down the same paths over and over killing 
 the same enemies. In order to kill monsters, you only require two buttons: X and Y. The X button 
 is the normal three hit combination. The Y button uses Photon Arts. Photon arts can be attached 
 to a weapon and can create powerful attacks. They also get stronger by using them repeatively. 
 There are powerful, maybe too powerful, as you will probably just use the Y button to kill everything. 
 Other photon arts involve techniques (magic) and elemental attachments to guns. Weapons come in 
 a variety of colors and types. Extra Mode has a limited variety of weapons. Many weapons are only 
 available online, which doesn't seem fair. Certain races have their own special attacks. CASTS 
 use SUV weapons (Sport Utility Vehicle?) that unleash massive guns that fire lasers, bullets and 
 rockets. Online Mode has more SUV weapons, and I believe they'll be adding more in the future. 
 Beasts use nanoblasts. Nanonblasts turn your Beast into a raging monster, with a patch of fur to 
 cover up their happy areas . The AI in the game is very, very, VERY stupid. I don't know which 
 AI is dumber-the enemies or your partners! Your AI party, used through accepting Party Cards, run 
 into walls, don't attack or even support you in battle. It would have been nice to add a command 
 button or something for them. Maybe a kill switch? They do revive by themselves though. The enemies 
 don't attack often, when they do it's usually powerful. They are however, much smarter than the 
 drones in PSO. The bosses though are morons. You can kill them in minutes as they almost never 
 attack. Once you complete a mission, you are rewarded with a grade-S being the highest.
  
  Graphics aren't as bad as people think. They are better than PSO and are pretty decent. The scenery 
 can be beautiful, from the autumn trees in the mountains, to the sun-bath deserts to gorgeous fields 
 to grand futuristic ruins. It has the Phantasy Star look that is so popular. The music is amazing. 
 The orchestrated music goes well with each area. I'm not sure if Kobayashi was the music director 
 in this game. Whoever it was kudos to you! The voice acting is awful. Some voices are absolutely 
 terrible! It seems they were picked off from the streets. Thankfully, there are sub-titles. Online 
 mode is far different from offline. For one, it has more to offer. More weapons, festivities, armors, 
 clothes, etc. Many missions are added weekly, maybe monthly. But even those are the same, repetitive 
 killing objectives. You also might be wary of the people online, since most people are well: nerds 
 or hackers. Yes, hackers. Fortunately, Sega has received posts about people having managed to hack 
 into the gameplay. The good thing is Sega has more of a stronghold on players. People also may 
 be greedy and steal items, kick you out of a party right when a boss is about to die (they'll recieve 
 all the exp, not you then.) To play it safe, I suggest playing with your friends only. Now before 
 you go online, know that it costs at least $10 (with a Guardian's License that you must purchase 
 via internet) , monthly. I believe Xbox 360 players are charged more, since its Guardian's License 
 + Xbox live. I'm not entirely sure if it is. Anyway, unless Sega finds the heart to lower the cost, 
 many people won't be going on. Also Sega seems to favor Japanese servers over English. Wonder why.
 
  
  All in all, Universe isn't exactly bad. Its fun for a while. Then you'll get bored and probably 
 sell it. I suggest you buy it primarily for online play if you are willing to pay the high price 
 monthly. It does have the ability to be a good game, if only Sega tried harder. What is almost 
 insulting though, is Sega's greediness. In the last scene after the credits in Story Mode, they 
 actually try and persuade people to go online! They even have in big bold letters after the skit 
 ends Let's go to Network Mode! - also known as online mode. That came as a shock to me. Trying 
 to trick people to spend a load of money to go online. Ok, its not as bad I said it was. It's business. 
 Last Word: If you love Phantasy Star, you'll probably like this. It's better than most online games 
 (like Warcraft and others) , but not as good as it's predeccesor Phantasy Star Online. Maybe next 
 time Sega. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemur911
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  The PSO game was one of my personal faves... I logged around 200 hours (On a single character) on 
 it and it never got old.
  Basically the game is Diablo gone Sc-Fi, the mass appeal is doing dungeons over and over just to 
 find that new weapon or piece of armor, and we ALL know how that feels... it makes it extremely 
 addicting.
  
  Like PSO, the graphics are sort of a step-down to the last gen, it has a great art style but the 
 graphics don't push the system to its limits. The story spans 12 missions, each with a few parts 
 which will stretch out to more than 40 hours.
  In addition to story mode, you can log onto X-Box live, which turns the game into an MMO. There 
 is a monthly fee, so if your willing to fish into your wallet for a little extra money on top of 
 X-Box live fees, you should probably subscribe. If you don't want to subscribe, how ever, you can 
 use 'extra mode', there is no split screen in the new Phantasy Star game, so you'll be grouping 
 with various NPCs.
  
  There is a new race in PSU, the beasts, which are sorta like animal-people hybrids, which are pretty 
 bad-ass. All classes from the old game have been melded into four RACES, meaning that you will 
 choose a race, with MANY, MANY, costume options and branch out to fit your own style.
  
  Alas, no person should overlook the cons of a game. First off, split-screen is GONE. No more late-night 
 marathon's with friends/spouses. You will have to sign on to Live, with an additional price of 
 $10 per month, which might be a little much to ask for.
  Another thing is, you will be FORCED to progress further in the story mode to unlock more missions, 
 and areas for the extra mode (sorta like online mode, except it's... offline.) which is still kind 
 of shallow.
  Voice acting seems a little cheesy, and labored, and the graphics don't earn the title of a full-blown 
 next-gen game.
  
  But the single-player is still fantastic, a new Photon Art system now replace the Power Attacks 
 in PSO, now you will have a gauge that will be consumed everytime you use your photon arts, which 
 will become more powerful and intricate as you progress in level.
  
  Even though a couple of aspects have been left out, alot of cool stuff has been put back in. PSO 
 fans, rejoice! Time to go next-gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbobismykitty
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 22, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  being a huge pso fan this was a HUGE disapointment i had been looking forward to this for quite 
 some time but to tell you the truth i actualy liked the pso way way way way better first off it 
 was free second you couldn't get taken atvantage of as much i don't know if this is because i had 
 high expectations of this game but i thought it was horrible the main story was boring also i got 
 to about the third save point and people will say i didn't give it a chance trust me i did as and 
 i am not one to quite early on game but i just couldn't take it . even some major pso fans might 
 not like this game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghog69
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  WOW! What a disappointment after having waited so long for this game to come out. If you are a 
 PSO veteran, you MIGHT like this one. I didn't. Even the worst MMOs I've played seem to offer more 
 'gaming' than PSU. They did the series a disservice by having drops be ingredients instead of that 
 rare item. The sense of excitement finding a rare is lost. Instead you gather unique ingredients 
 to craft that same rare and hope to god you don't fail at it. Considering the repetitve dungeons, 
 I at least expected the loot table to rival Diablo. This game has little to offer online. Save 
 your $10/month and if you really want to try it, play the offline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ringoshu
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  The main problem with the bad reviews to this game is that everyone is attacking it comparing it 
 to western online RPG standards. Just because they are standards in every other game doesn't mean 
 they have to be in every online game to make a game complete. Outdated graphics? I'll be quite 
 honest to say that I was REALLY disappointed when it was announced for PS2 but thanks to that the 
 game sold a lot in Japan... The graphics are honestly pretty nice. I know of games with equal graphics 
 that have a better review than this game. The artistic design is superb, especially in Neudaiz 
 stages. I do criticise the recurirng loadings which are annoying in the PS2 version but are a flash 
 in the PC version, don't know about the 360 version. The PS2 version suffers from slow downs which 
 are manageable. As for the PC version, with my ATi x800 pro 256mb I'm able to run the game smoothly 
 in max settings. As for how the game utilizes PC resources, yes its bad, like any other PC game 
 programmed by Japanese developers. Which I wonder if they criticise the same things for Final Fantasy 
 XI since its the same problem.
  
  Tthe music instead of being so monotonous like GS says, its quite engaging, especially in Parum 
 and Neudaiz. Plus people put their music when they play 360 games if they don't like the soundtrack, 
 can't you just turn your mp3 on and the MUSIC in the game off? (Yes there is an option for that) .
 
  
  Story mode is not as airhead and superficial as they say, its not at all. Makes me wonder if they 
 actually PLAYED the game since it sounds so similar to the hohrrible gamestop sypnosis. Voice acting 
 is passable (and I'm quite picky with them) I obviously would've prefered the original Japanese 
 voices (I heard them since I imported the game...)
  
  Again, why the need to push the game in the mold of western online rpgs? Instead for aiming for 
 something so homogenous between games, what's wrong with games being different even if they 'miss' 
 other features? Online is really fun in this game :) Also much harder than offline story mode. 
 You can also buy clothing and redesign your room. You can also open your own shop. There's actually 
 a lot of stuff to do. You can also make weapons and items which can't be found in stores.
  
  Another note which reminds me how little they played the game is the lack of mention of SUV 
 weapons for the cast race which is the equivalent of the nanoblast in the beast race. That they 
 charge a monthly fee? Hhmm... 9.99 isn't exactly what you pay for a MMORPG. As for when you compare 
 it to Guild Wars, then yes its possible to say that they shouldn't despite the fact their publisher 
 has like 6 other online games which are pretty popular &gt;_&gt;; Plus there's locked content besides 
 the stuff you see in story mode, believe me. If you ever played PSO on any system, you would know 
 the cool stuff they can do with just releasing content that's already on the disc and loading it 
 in the memory. Also, they didn't say that a sort of expansion was already announced in Japan and 
 there are already additional story mode missions released in Japan. There's also the expert classes 
 which are said (taken from the word of various importers) to make the game a lot more fun than 
 it already is. You can combine any base class with the other or further specialize in your class. 
 Plus a trap setting class.
  
  Overall, this game is actually really good. Also, I at least would've let them give it a 7.5, since 
 its probably not that appealing to PC MMORPG addicts who feel ackward playing anything online that 
 doesn't have the text box in the middle down with a quickbar of attacks, a compass, the three bars 
 and in WoW's case, some flourescent entity with purple skin. Its addictive and fun ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninjiz
Rating: 3.2
Date: Nov 16, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  As fun as teh game can bem i cannot recomend because of the ridiculous $10 a month fee... HOW DARE 
 Sega charge a monlt fee on par with popular MMORPGS, when it has no where NEAR as much content 
 as a MMORPG?? Its nothing more then an online action rpg. Whats next?? Should MS charge a monthly 
 fee for Halo 3??? Just because it runs on a server somewhere?? Because Halo, and PSU have teh same 
 exact structure.... they are both simply Online games , as in group of players playing in a session, 
 in a non dynamic world. If you are willing to pay thise fee for PSu, that means you have no problem 
 paying for ANY online game, and thats just plain stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincentpollard
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I had hoped for quite sometime that PSU would be a great successor to the Phantasy star online 
 and rpg series. On one hand I had great hopes that PSU would revive the story aspect of the game, 
 and create an interesting game with memorable characters and plots that would hearken back to the 
 old days of phantasy star. On the other hand I was really hungry for PSO style online play with 
 advances in the battle system, monster A. I and other crucial aspects of the game. What I ended 
 up getting was a game that felt older than PSO. I must admit that PSU can be alot of fun, but for 
 a modern day Online RPG it has some very glaring problems. When the game was launched Sega locked 
 much of the content, and left players with very little content. Also the community aspect of the 
 game is sorely lacking, you have to go out of your way to communicate with players, and the lack 
 of a guild system really stands as one of the biggest weaknesses the game has. In many regards 
 the game could even be considered passable if it wasn't for the monthly fee, but as it stands the 
 monthly fee is ripoff, and after about twenty hours of the game you will be bored with the music, 
 scenery, gameplay style, and lack of rare and unique things to do in the game. All you will be 
 doing is feeding your PM, and lvling up. You can design your own room, and create a shop, but after 
 a couple days of that you will still be bored. I think that PSU fails to capture the same fun, 
 and community that PSO did many years ago, but also fails to eclipse its predecessor in terms of 
 gameply, balance and challenge. Perhaps in coming months sega will release more content, and the 
 game will get better, but as it stands the game does not need a monthly fee, and is outdated by 
 all standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PantsOfFury
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Oh Phantasy Star, when will you return with an offline game?
  
  Sure, this time around in Phantasy Star Universe they offer a single player story mode, but it 
 seems uninspired and simple.
  
  The gameplay is solid. Targeting isn't a trouble, and things work the way they're supposed to. 
 The different classes also add variety and cater to different playing styles. Plus, you're actively 
 doing something, unlike many MMO's and RPG's where it does most of the work for you.
  
  The graphics are for Playstation 2. Not too impressive, but the art style fits rather nice.
  
 
  If you're using 5.1 surround you'll be able to hear enemies behind you which can help in certain 
 situations. Music is fantastic (which is true 99% of the time with Sega games) .
  
  The online mode is essentially still a Beta, but it appears that everything in the extra mode will 
 be made available online which means we'll have a pretty beefy online experience in the future. 
 Better than FFXI any day of the week, but for those who enjoy WoW you'll be finding a different 
 experience here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForlonHope
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying:
  
  If anyone reading this review has played the DREAMCAST version of Phantasy Star Online, one will 
 not heavily appreciate PSU. Ihas the same exact gameplay as the dreamcast version with simplified 
 dungeons.
  
  If one is a die-hard Phantasy Star one, one will appreciate the game for what it is. Online - a 
 social gathering of friends upon an MMORPG. Offline - a complete different story to bring into 
 the Phantasy Star saga.
  
  The story itself is like no other. Completely different from previous Phantasy Star titles that 
 take place many years after the initial impact ( reference to Dreamcast story line) . It's a solid 
 story line with the epitome of watching any anime. The story itself is like sitting through twelve 
 episodes of an anime. The good thing about this title is that it has a solid ending, compared to 
 what PSO brought. Nothing amaszingly special with the offline mode other than the exploration of 
 all planets and the Extra Mode.
  
  Online has the same exact gameplay as offline. Only difference is that it's online. Create a shop, 
 go through dungeons, meet some friends, dance, and etc. Currently, the servers have not seen new 
 content released for the game itself, nor has mission opened up. This makes the game bare online. 
 SEGA / Sonic Team needs to give its American players new content just as the Japanese Servers get 
 (i. e. Halloween special that USA was out of) . With the monthly fee that people pay to play online, 
 Sega needs to release missions. That's the only aspect it is missing.
  
  The online mode can get addicting, but sometimes tedious. With a few friends, it doesn't get any 
 worse. Everything runs just as it's suppose to (with the exception of a buggy log in and an occasional 
 lag out) . It isn't complete ****. It isn't marvelous either. Its bottom line average. What's mostly 
 hurting this title is the absence of any new content and Guardian's missions that Sega / Sonic 
 Team has yet to produce for it's American Players.
  
  Recommended: For now, if one is a die-hard PSO fan or just wants an easy MMORPG to jump right in 
 and have fun with five random party members from God knows where. True to heart, it is quite an 
 addictingly fun game.
  
  Not Recommended: To the MMORPG connoisseur. And for those who expect the experience they had with 
 the PSO series for Dreamcast. I do not recommend it to those YET. Once new content comes out. Everything 
 will change.
  
  ***Currently, the Beta version that was released for the PSU is exactly just as what it was with 
 the PSU release version online. Bare. Two planets have not been released and only 30-40% of the 
 online game is actually there. SEGA / Sonic Team has yet to unlock the dungeons, missions, weapons, 
 features, and vehicles for the game that are already present but embedded somewhere; dormant until 
 one decides it's time for a makeover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butcher7786
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 8, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I have played many Hack and Slash/Action and Adventure games and RPG's and this has all to some 
 degree.
  
  This is the basic press this button numerous times and you take care of bussiness along with this 
 one for special effects. Think of this as: Champions of Norrath + FF graphics + Monster Hunters 
 item creation ( For lack of better comparison) + FF party system
  
  Your whole objective throughout the game is to gain members to join your party go to this world 
 slash your way through this enemy and return to your quarters with some items and cash. This is 
 really uninspired, I mean give me something more. I admit there are numerous weapon/item combos 
 to be discovered which somewhat makes up for the time spent actually getting them. Some are like 
 Hey this is wicked and others are like What the? All that for this, I can punch harder then this 
 thing hits 
  
  The worlds are better then I first thought. Looking over the ledges you can see quite aways down 
 and in other places it looks well, a little rough around the edges.
  
  There are WAY WAY WAY to many conversations involving word bubbles. I want to hear some of what 
 they have to say I mean, I want to hear emotion when someone says My sisters trapted you have to 
 help me please! I don't want to keep pressing same button hour after hour.
  
  The best part of this game though is the Free Mode where you create a chacter besides the story 
 character. You build them from the ground up. There are 4 races to choose from. Human / CAST / 
 Newman / Beast each with there own distinct abilities. Humans are all-around characters, CASTS 
 are excellent gunners, Newmans are better at spells and Beasts are the best melle fighters.
  
  The worst part is the single player campaign and over all feel. The single player mode feels 
 rushed it doesn't have a real strong story or at least I don't feel so. Most of the best equipment 
 and spells are ONLINE only which stinks for people who can't or won't pay the money to play online. 
 This game could have been so much more but not bad for first try at single/multiplayer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 8, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Phantasy Star Online shook up the gaming industry when it made it's entry onto the Dreamcast. It 
 was a hit, garnerning many players and becoming even an addiction for some.
  
  Phantasy Star Universe is just a rehash of everything that was good to the game, but is completely 
 dated at this point. The story goes after the war, about 100 years. Enter Ethan Waber, the typical 
 anime (idiot) character with a knack for hoverboarding, when he gets hit by a car, healed, meets 
 his sister, watches a ceremony, has a hate for the GUARDIANs, and has his colony attacked. After 
 the first chapter, Ethan suddenly joins the GUARDIANs, is assigned a trainer who may happen to 
 be his love interest, and go on a quest to find out the mysterious happenings.
  
  That's about as much as you'd want to know once the story wears thin. It's split into 12 chapters, 
 with each having an opening sequence, and an ending sequence that shows scenes from the next chapter, 
 complete with a 'Next time on Phantasy Star Universe.' Just like the traditional anime.
  
  Most of all the gameplay is stuffed full of useless running around, talking, and asking questions. 
 Once you get past that, it's still a nightmare. Combat is completely replusive. You can only use 
 a combo move of three attacks, all using the same button. That's it. A thing that switches up everything 
 a little is the Photon Art move you can use, but most of them are the same and pretty useless. 
 The battle zones you go into are almost the exact same. It switches climates and areas a little, 
 like grassland, SEED infected areas, and sometimes temples, but they all use the same sort of tilesets.
 
  
  The music is only one of the high points, reminding you of the good old days of the Dreamcast and 
 adventuring with friends online. That's about it. The dialogue and voice work is horrendous and 
 sometimes make you wonder if a person even did work on that character. I haven't tested online 
 yet, though from what i've heard, it's just not enough to justify the steep monthly fee.
  
  Phantasy Star Online is rated T for teen, retails for between $39.99 and $59.99 at most retail 
 outlets. It's a keep-away for casual gamers, and a must-rent for those who want to even briefly 
 remember the good part of the old Dreamcast days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lynchmobjr
Rating: 4.1
Date: Nov 8, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  The style of role play is good, turn based games are only for Final Fantasy in my opinion. The 
 hack and slash and story line is the only real good point to this game, the graphics, sound effects, 
 menus and even the cinematics could be improved quite a bit. Come on, this is an Xbox 360, Super 
 NES could do this good, and they pretty much did in Secret of Mana. I don't think there is a game 
 out yet that pushes the 360's limits. Anyway, I do however like how they minimise the graphic push 
 by making ghost people, they could do that for other games too that offer no useful information, 
 but the people you CAN talk to don't offer anything either. LOL figure that one out. Oh well, yeah 
 the price for online play could be free, after spending a lot of money to even buy their games 
 I DON'T want to have to pay to play it with other people as well!! Eh, thats enough for me I suppose, 
 I hope there are those who do or will enjoy it and spend the money on it so that Sony can get it 
 right the next time!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokurocks2442
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 5, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Well let me start by saying Go buy this game now if you have Xbox live! If you don't then dont 
 even bother with this game. $10 fee is required wich is really lame but its worth it. You level 
 up as you defeat enemies online you can decorate your room, Buy weapons, Buy armor with the points 
 you earn from defeating enemies. You find enemies by going through a series of levels.
  
  You can organize a team and go through levels as well wich is really exciting and fun. You can 
 hook up your keybored to chat with other players online wich is another + about this game.
  
  The graphics are definantly not next gen but its gameplay that matters and this game definantly 
 has it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soupboy76
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Immediately the game feels like this is what the first PSO should have been in the first place 
 - more fleshed out with more areas to roam like PSU. Just it is a huge slap in the face to call 
 this game an MMO since it holds no candle or depth to any current MMO out today like WoW or FFXI. 
 I would rather go back to playing those because they are way more worth the monthly fees that PSU 
 nearly reaches. PSU is simply too little and too late for Sega to release such dated textures under 
 the port limitations of the PS2 on a next-gen console like the 360. It is like SquareEnix releasing 
 another MMO built with the texture limitations of the PS2 for the 360 yet again.
  
  With PSU, less than 20 hours later I have already beaten the offline mode story and pretty much 
 have a taste of what 2-6 months of leveling on the online mode will produce for your character. 
 So going online starts feeling pointless... unless your motive to play online is getting rare equipment 
 and bragging rights to feel better than others, if that is the case I worry about your mental health. 
 Offline mode has such an incredibly faster pace of leveling and earning rare equipment, that I 
 feel teased to everything the game offers already. It really leaves the only motive to log online 
 is if you have friends on it to chat with. That is where the game only shines, as a hack n' slash 
 voice chat room. After awhile you will not want to party with random people because too many strangers 
 can be either obnoxiously juvenile or shady in how they play the game. Some even still to this 
 day play by PSO unproven myths and will flame you if you don't play by their rumored rules like 
 letting certain people with luck open boxes when Sega years ago at a PSO community gathering disproven 
 that already. It just gets annoying after awhile and sad that my only enjoyment came form playing 
 with close friends that at times are hard to keep up with if they have more time to play than you. 
 In the end the game still becomes yet again like PSO, boring and repetitive after awhile despite 
 the new planets. The only people who will love this game are PSO loyalists/addicts, xbox modders 
 or those with lower game standards. Finally, despite the beta the game is still plagued with bugs. 
 That is due in part to too many beta players excited to play freebies than actually submit problems 
 and concerns via Sega's PSU bug site. Voice chat is broken half the time that you have to use the 
 Xbox's voice chat, bosses sometimes do not load right even thought it was claimed to be fixed, 
 mission instances sometimes load in with glitched graphics - they still need to fix a lot. I am 
 just glad I knew how Sega treated PSO overall in the past, because I went into PSU with lower expectations 
 and didn't come out totally disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wheeloftime24
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  I am very tired of this its not next gen line. PSU started as a ps2 title. It was then ported to 
 the pc then 360. After playing FFXII and then popping in PSU high def. For a ps2 port PSU smacks 
 FFXII visually in my book. I have got to chapter 3 so far in the single player. The single player 
 is about an alien invasion of sorts. The game is set in episodes like an anime. The game is a lot 
 deeper then PSO was too. Instead of getting rares now you can create your own weapons, some weapons 
 can have an ice attribute and all. If your a hunter class you have been upgraded with techniques 
 of sorts on your weapons now. There is so much in this single player game.
  
  Now to the online. I don't like the 9 dollars a month it costs to play. However I dont like being 
 nickled and dimed on Xbox market place just to buy a new gun for Chromehounds,. Sega has stated 
 with the 9 dollars a month they will be adding new quests, new areas, new maps, new weapons clothes 
 everything. That is sure better then being charged 2-3 dollars per item or clothes. I have spent 
 about 20-30 hours online, and I haven't even begun to scratch what the online has to offer. I would 
 recommend this game to anyone who is willing to pay about 9 dollars a month. To me graphicaly it 
 looks great considering it was started on a ps2
  
  The sound is great. I really enjoy the sound. The gameplay is great. It is simple to get into and 
 yet it is deep at the same time.
  
  EDIT
  
  I have now completed the single player mission. There are a few people that really got to me like 
 the VOL brothers, and I just wanted to feed Karen to the SEED, anyhow once again over all I completely 
 disgree with the reviewer.
  
  The single player voice acting I thought was really decent. I remember popping in FFX, now that 
 was horrible voice acting can you think of YUNA and TIDUS, and there friend. The single player 
 took me about 25 hours. Ethan was lvl 67. The bosses weren't too hard, in fact I got a-s rank on 
 most of them. There is a big selection of weapons to choose from. I really enjoyed the story too. 
 It is presented in a very anime like style, but it is very upbeat for me.
  
  Okay now to my huge pet peeve these reveiwers are talking about. The game started on a ps2. It 
 was then a ps2 port to a pc, then a port to the 360. If you want to blame PSU not having a next 
 gen feel to it blame the ps2. The 360 version is running at twice the frame rate, and twice the 
 resolution as the ps2 version, not bad for a port. There isn't much to talk about in the way of 
 physic though, or real time lighting, why? because IT IS A PS2 port. I really think sega did MS 
 and us a favor by porting it over to the 360. Now to the argument that there are other console 
 games like this for free. I have never seen a 3d game like this on any console other then PSO. 
 I would really like this reviewer to tell me what american release plays like this, and is persistent 
 like this for free. I can't think of any. Yes it is 9 dollars a month, but that 9 dollars a month 
 goes to upkeep of their server, and they unlock content that is on the disk, and it has been said 
 there will be new added downloadable content. That 9 dollars a month also goes back to sega to 
 help sega keep on creating new titles. That is what the game industry is about is making money. 
 I can think of cheaper things, how about EA charging for cheat codes through the market place. 
 : (
  
  Now to the argument of rares being hard to find, and lack of content. Well at launch there was 
 like I believe 8 some odd missions, in 3 different areas. That already right there surpased what 
 the dcast pso had. Version 2 on the dcast had a monthly fee and there was 4 small different areas. 
 Now there has been an update and moatob has been unlocked and there have been a many a quest unlocked 
 for us to enjoy. The rares are hard to find and create. Well I enjoy a challenge. I am really tired 
 of these reviewers bagging this because of its hard to find rares. Isn't that what he word rare 
 means. Is hard to find. Anyhow. I hear the argument which should I buy FFXI or PSU. I played them 
 both, and I would say PSU for the simple fact it is easy to jump in and start playing. I would 
 say FFXI if you like to farm for hours and days just to afford that new piece of armor. Do you 
 run through the same missions over and over well yes, but that is exactly what PSO was, that is 
 exactly what diablo 2 is and was. Do you think people really cared about the online diablo2 story 
 uh no, they did run after run trying to get that rare to drop. PSU is the same way except for in 
 3d. So it sounds to me the reviewers are just trying to look at things to nit pick. Maybe sega 
 didn't send them enough treats or demos, or maybe sega didn't scratch their back enough to get 
 a good review I don't know.
  
  The game already has a lot of depth if you really look into it. There are little bonuses here and 
 there. Let me give you an example. If you had a staff and you put the same element of spell on 
 that staff you get a damage bonus. Its little things like that that make it a whole lot of fun.
 
  
  PSU has taken every element about PSO and expanded upon it. The combat system has been completley 
 over hauled. There are now photon arts that you can link to your weapon, and that photon art grows 
 stronger and stronger cause you to freeze or stun or confuse and do more damage with that weapon. 
 You can do massive combos with the photon arts.
  
  There are a boatload of techs in psu. Well there aren't so many online right now, but single player 
 has a ton, and those I would believe will be unlocked on multiplayer.
  
  Rangers can now lock on, and your weapons can have element bullets in it. For instance your bullet 
 can freeze, or confuse, or if its a dark element it can eat away health slowly.
  
  I really don't understand why reviewers are dogging on this game so much. Like I said earlier perhaps 
 sega didn't fly them to japan or kiss their cans to get a good review. I don't know, but this game 
 is greatly under appreciated in my book. There will be new stuff added to it for at least 2 years. 
 So I am excited for the future of this game
  
  If you are looking for a real time rpg online experience that is easy to jump in to and will take 
 a long time master I would highly suggest this, but do remember it is a ps2 port, so expect ps2 
 like graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silvernix
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 4, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Pour Phantasy Star Online! Add smoother animation, updated Graphics from Dreamcast to Xbox (original) , 
 a half and half story, and a few extra gameplay options and you get the new Phantasy Star Universe.
 
  
  SEGA pawned this off as revolutionary. However, comon now. Everytime someone uses that word, it 
 never lives up to it's name. But anyway, let's do a quick review.
  
  The Game has a few gameplay options. Story. Xbox Live, and Extra (which I've heard is unlocked 
 after you either beat the game or get pretty far into it) . Story mode, you play as Ethan, a young 
 man who apparently has a hatred for Guardians and he justifies it with some sorry excuse.... Something 
 my 6 year old Daughter would come up with. Anyway, he runs to the guardians when his sister is 
 trapped under some fallen rock because the base they we're on was attacked and instead of listening 
 to a Guardian, he talked crap and went another way.... course the Guardian just let him past. Anyway, 
 because a Guardian (The one who just let him past) helped him out with assisting with other rescues. 
 He felt like a hero of such and decided to join the Guardians. .... Let me tell you. I hate the 
 police up north (it's where I come from.... Jersery baby) , and let me tell you something! I don't 
 care if they save my family from a burning fire. I'm STILL not gonna like them. Course, they've 
 done MUCH more to me then the Guardians did to Ethan.
  
  Good thing about the story is that it plays out like an anime, opening theme, opening animation, 
 gameplay, closing animation, closing theme, and the next time on Phantasy Star Universe .... thingy. 
 Then, it does it over again... oh, The music and SXF are very bad too. It's like PS2 XF. The music 
 inside the game isn't very good. ... the theme song is good.... it's catchy.... problem is though... 
 The Lyrics run like this:
  
  Who said we are lost again
  In this lonely world
  I say we can start again
  We're on the same ship
  It's called starship earth
  
  Now.... 
 keep in mind, Earth isn't even remotely in the area.... I don't think Earth even Exists in this 
 game.... but I guess it does cause the songstress said so huh.
  
  
  Anyway, so this little hero wannabe joins The Guardians and ..... well, if you've played any Japanese 
 action, RPG, or action/RPG, you know what to expect.
  
  Hero with spiky hair = Check
  Hero with Spiky hair has a revelation = Check
  Hero with spiky hair who had a revelation has 
 a cute female Heroine = Check
  Hero has a sidekick = Check
  Hero thinks he can do everything by himself = Check
  Hero finally understands he can't do it 
 by himself = Check
  
  ... you know how it goes. It's so annoying. But it works. Xbox live is just like Phantasy Star Online. 
 Make a Character go online, do missions. Buy Weapons and Armor, rinse and repeat..... and just like 
 the original version, you have to pay between 8 or 9 bucks. lol, yeah. uh huh!
  
  NOW! Is Phantasy Star Universe Worth $59.99 NO NO NO NO!!! Not even close More like $29.95... maybe 
 $39.99. Is it even worth 8 or 9 bucks to play online? No way dude, that's why god created World 
 of Warcraft and EverQuest.
  
  I gave it the score I did because it's not 100% bad. I'm currently waiting to get home so I can 
 play it. IT's worth Renting or buying when the price lowers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hypershot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  The game is worth the wait and it's all what's been cracked up to be, even tho there has been some 
 technical difficulties on the 1st week of online release as any other MORPG games usually are. 
 The media game reviews just doesn't do justice based on initial impression of the game with less 
 than 20 hours of game playing. This kind of action MORPG games get highly addictive and grows on 
 you and at least need more than 20 to 40 game playing hours to truely feel what makes this game 
 so great.
  
  If you are looking for a good online action RPG game with deep customizations that you could have 
 fun for hundreds and thousands of hours, this is highly recommended coming from a veteran gamer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 3:01 am PT
Review:  PSU is a perfect example of something that makes you sit and wonder just what the developers spent 
 all this time doing. The graphics in PSU, which never rise above xbox (first gen) quality looks 
 like it was beaten into submission by the jaggie stick... and no antialiasing fairy to save it. 
 So sad. For people who never played PSO, I could see recommending this game as a rental, but anyone 
 who DID play PSO is going to scream I waited HOW long for this?!?!?! In a time when gaming franchises 
 like Tales Of ... Resident Evil, Final Fantasy, Suikoden, Xenosaga, Shadow Hearts, Wild Arms, Halo, 
 Onimusha, and so many more can make new games that take the heart of what makes it a insert franchise 
 here game and infuse it with new life, and a new story and make it FUN... PSU is inexcusable. We 
 all know that a new game in a series can range from being VERY similar (shin megami tensei mechanics) 
 to totally disimilar (Tales of symphonia/legendia/abyss) and yet stil be of the same line. PSU 
 is just an amped up version of PSO. In a weird kind of way, it feels like a port, even though the 
 content is new.
  
  Well, to the bare bones of the matter: For a game which focuses exlusively on killing things in 
 absurdly basic ways... the enemies are an unfortunate letdown. People expecting something like 
 Star Oceon or Grandia will wonder why they don't just replay those games, and MMOPRG fans who stumble 
 into PSU thinking it's an MMO will just be appalled. Hacking or blasting or zapping the kind of 
 limited supply of variations on a theme PSU has to offer just ins't fun.
  
  As for the anime elements... I love anime, and it's something that draws me to the xenosaga series... 
 but if Xenosaga is akin to Neon Genesis Evangelion or Last Exile, or Hellsing... well.......... 
 PSU is a lot like Yu-Gi-Oh or Pokemon. Much like the gameplay itself, the anime element is a kind 
 of grotesque parody of itself, and while it may appeal to some, it aims low and that's the only 
 way it'll score.
  
  Finally, what is going to be the most controversial part of every review and blog and article on 
 this game: the MMORPG/Monthly Fee issue. First, this game is NOT a MMORPG. Outside of a mission 
 there is no more complexity to it than the waiting room of a Mechwarrior lobby, or DOA lobby . 
 With one exception... the pitiful version of an mmo economy. Believe me, it's not worth the fee. 
 If you want to play an MMO, get D&amp; D or WoW, or (god help you) even EQ2 is better. I don't know 
 HOW PSU justifies a fee, especially given what xbox live is already offering, but I will say this; 
 if the poor quality of this game after such a long wait wasn't already going to kill this series, 
 it's pretentions to be a fee based MMO will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAmSD455
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 3, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Phantasy Star has come a long long way sense its old Genesis RPG days (some of the greatest rpgs 
 ever) . Its not been a bad life sense becoming a mmorpg, infact it was extreamly popular on the 
 Dreamcast and had its followers on the Gamecube, infact alot of people signed up for BlueBurst 
 for the pc.... Now when the announcement came through for Phantasy Star Universe... the presses stopped 
 and all PSO fans and well.. mmo players kinda stopped.... and from the headlines and screen shots 
 and news lines... People where really expecting a trully GREAT epic MMORPG... seriosly... people wanted 
 the world in this game.
  
  What did they get? nothing nessesarily bad, but did it live up to the hype? HECK NO! its Phantasy 
 Star Online part 4!! slightly better graphics, little improvements here and there, a few new innovative 
 things and infact a few missing things here and there...
  
  Graphics... hey its a little better looking than PSO and thats not saying much. The games definetly 
 got its own feel thats actually pretty nice, very nice vibrant colors and worlds. Cool customazation 
 features on all the characters and cool lookin wepons and monsters.
  
  Gameplay... This is where the term PSO 4 comes in, Its really just a few extra things added in to 
 go along with the same tried and true but getting slightly stale. They made switching classes and 
 added wepons and stuff but nothing really to set it apart from the others...
  
  AS FOR ONLINE.... Well guys the game kinda feels rushed, in the sense that everythings NOT there 
 yet... which makes paying for online right now feel like a bit of a rip off (yes im paying for it) 
 I mean its tons of fun playin with your pals and making new characters for free... but playin the 
 same levels over and over does get tier some when their are only like 5 levels right now... Oh well 
 ill be patient, please understand, more stuff i guess will become avaliable, we just have to wait.
 
  
  Over all : PSU is a fun game, not what everyone was expecting, infact a little less, but that dosent 
 take away from the fact its a decent mmorpg that still is being worked on (i hope) and a fun little 
 rpg in general, storys pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ergo33
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 11, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  i have played PS since the dreamcast days, it's nice to have a new PS to play once again. i love 
 MMO's but lets face it games like WoW can just get outta hand as far as the amount of time you 
 have to put into them to advance ( chill out WoW fans i love the game but don't have the time) . 
 however PS allows you to log on pick a mission and get on with your butt kickin business. there 
 is no annoying travel issues, no need for a damn atlas and you can actually dodge attacks VIA reflexes 
 not on dexterity/evasion STATS! so this is an MMO that plays like an action RPG but with some serious 
 upgrades....... FOR THOSE OF YOU AFRAID OF ONLINE CHARGES IT DOES HAVE AND EXTRA MODE IN IT SO U 
 CAN PRETTY MUCH PLAY OFFLINE WITH AI BOTS AS YOUR TEAM, ITS ABOUT LIKE THE WHOLE ONLINE EXPERIENCE 
 MINUS THE PERVS AND FREAKS. The extra mode is alot of fun tho, it allows you to use all the characters 
 you encounter in story mode as your AI teammates and then you romp thru a bunch of adventures with 
 them..... and no cutscenes or story just killin!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phange2
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Phantasy Star Universe does a number of things right and a handful of things wrong. Most importantly, 
 it's a capable online adventure in the same diablo-esque vein as Phantasy Star Online, though it's 
 currently lacking in content (which will be unlocked over time) . There's nothing too surprising 
 about the online game other than the fact that the economy is considerably more important (and, 
 indeed, Meseta is very hard to get) . The combat system is more dynamic thanks to the interesting 
 Photon Art system. As I said before, the lack of content makes the online game a bit hard to swallow 
 at $10 a month, but be looking forward to updated content in the future.
  
  As an offline game, it certainly won't win any awards for plotline or voice acting, but it's far 
 more capable and complete than PSO's half-hearted online, but offline approach. Still, it tells 
 a fairly decent story and is a good 20-ish hours long. Definitely not up to Phantasy Star IV standards, 
 mind you, but it certainly adds to the value of the game.
  
  Overall, it's a decent improvement over the already addicting PSO experience. PSO players should 
 get addicted all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaosjm
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Phantasy Star Universe has is very well polished in both story mode and Multiplayer.
  
  The thing is, not many people really wanted a storyline which has as much story as Final Fantasy 
 and as many cinematics as Metal Gear Solid. Most of the people just wanted offline mode and Online 
 Mode, just like last time.
  
  Good news: THERE IS AN OFFLINE MODE AND ONLINE MODE
  Bad News: To get the offline mode (called extra mode) , you must beat 1/3 of the story mode which 
 not many people are happy about.
  
  But believe me, its worth it., because even if you dont like the story line you can also play multiplayer 
 and extra mode if you dont like story line (which you most probably know) .
  
  Multiplayer is just like that last game, except with thousands of new stuff and the publishers 
 will keep adding new stuff to it, like new missions and worlds, new kinds of weapons like axes. 
 Also the awsome Master Classes
  
  In the end, not many people will like story mode but the fans will surely love extra mode and Online 
 mode, counting on the fact that they are just great improvements on the last games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ra-Devil
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  ADDICTING: The great gameplay, cool visuals, huge amount of customizable features as well as an 
 awesome online community make Phantasy Star Universe an incredible experience. THE GOOD: The gameplay 
 is solid. Everything you wanted changed from Phantasy Star Online was kicked up a notch, making 
 the overall feel more like Fable, except without the Invincible Roll . The games story is actually 
 really engaging, it's not that great, but it make you feel like it is. The anime style Chapters 
 makes it even better for anime fans, in which a Chapter begins with the Prologue, the Intro, then 
 you go through the actual bulk of it, then it ends with a little ending scene, then moves on to 
 the Next time on Phantasy Star Universe thing. It's really cool. Multiplayer is excellent, vamping 
 up the difficulty, and making it almost essential to Party Up with other players, which is great 
 since there's no other reason to play online other than to play with other people. THE BAD: Even 
 though they aren't that bad, the graphics in High-Def are beautiful, but still feel like a regular 
 XBOX game. The number of places to explore online, for the moment, are very slim. If you're in 
 a very busy server, prepare for lag, but the 32 servers make that easy to remedy. Sound isn't quite 
 what you would expect. Music is good, but the sound effects feel rehashed over and over again, 
 and even though each monster has it's own call, they start to get blurred to the point at which 
 you can only guess what you just heard behind you. The gameplay get's pretty repetative too, so 
 unless you like mixing it up, this is going to drag.
  
  REVIEW: I loved Phantasy Star Online, and so did 200,000 other players, making this review tilted 
 in the games favor. Everything that you wished you could do in PSO or anything you wanted to be 
 changed, pretty much was, save for the funny feeling you got in your gut (the good one) . The gameplay 
 is smooth and easy to get into. It's very similar to the Fable style of gameplay. This is great, 
 because unlike PSO, you don't have to be Strong Enough to kill your enemies to actually play, you 
 can maneuver your way around the enemy, get them from behind, then move again. This is exactly 
 what RPGs should be, not the nonsense of, Well since I'm 5 levels higher than you, I'm gonna' kill 
 you. Now it's about power AND skill, to which I say skill is way more important. The Value of the 
 Game is moderate, but only if you have online capabilities. I say moderate 'cause they make you 
 pay. You essentially get 2 games, a Story Driven Action RPG, and a Free-Roam Style Action RPG that 
 you can play off or online. The graphics aren't what you'd expect, but the game was made cross-platform 
 with the PS2, so it's understandable. Sound isn't all that great, making you listen to the same 
 hack-and-slash sound effects pretty much the whole time, but the music is just as good as PSO's 
 music. It doesn't take that much to master the controls for combat to the game, but everything 
 else takes some time to get to understand it. Synthesising items is now what is required to make 
 rare items. While some people gripe about this, I say it's one of the best features. Hey, this 
 little wolf-like thing I killed just dropped a whole piece of armor! That makes perfect sense! 
 This is kinda' how I feel when I play Diablo or WoW. Now you collect material to make items, so 
 it makes more sense, but also makes it a bit of a pain because there is a chance that the item 
 you are trying to make will fail, making all your efforts worthless. The weapons are all unique 
 and special in their own way: Spears can hit multiple enemies in a line and has good power and 
 speed, Swords can hit multiple enemies in a wide range in front of you and has high power, but 
 it's slow, a Saber does good damage and a fast rate to one enemy at a time, and Daggers attack 
 really fast to one enemy, but since you hit the target more times than a Saber, it does less damage. 
 Every weapon is really cool, and it's fun just trying all of them. Another thing I noticed which 
 I think is really cool is that different creatures are hurt by different weapons respectively, 
 so I attacked a small rhino thing with Daggers and did a good bit of damage, then used my Knuckles 
 and did more damage, even though the daggers have a higher attack power. All the weapons and creatures 
 are like this, so to be as efficient as possible, it's actually better to carry a whole bunch of 
 different weapons, which is absolutely innovative, but also a bit aggrivating. Same thing with 
 the elements that you can add to your weapons. Ranged weapons actually play a lot different from 
 Melee weapons, in that they have no special attack, but you can attach special elemental powers 
 to them, and they even have an ammo count. Force weapons like Wands and Staffs are the same way 
 in that they are completely different to play with. You attach different abilities to your weapon 
 and use them as needed, so you usually see Forcers carrying 4 or 5 Wands and Staffs so they can 
 have a wide range of Spells to attack, amplify, and heal with. Needless to say, it's all pretty 
 complicated, but still cool. The different character classes are really different when playing 
 online, making it very easy to pick a character class out, since Hunters are horrible at ranged 
 combat ect. ect. Offline though, they left it a little more open, making it feel more like each 
 class was essentially the same, each just modified your stats differently and each raised or dropped 
 your weapon level. In other words, a Hunter could be running around with a Spear, a Rifle and a 
 Wand, doing everything all the character classes to well, but they're simply better at Melee combat. 
 Online is a lot more difficult and more narrow as far as weapon usage and stat points go. In the 
 end, the game is great, and the $10 monthly fee for online play is more than a bargain for what 
 you get. I'm extremely pleased with this game and plan to play it non-stop.... till Gears of War 
 comes out, then I might get side-tracked, but till then, I'll be rockin' my HuCAST baby. Peace 
 and Love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PRJOKER
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 30, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  great game offline and online wish u had the same character off and on:) only played mostly offline 
 but plays fine:) took awhile to get the hang of the menues and learning how to switch between weapons/ 
 and goggles:) lol Time trails is a nice touch to add value to playing. The AI npc help out alot 
 and don't get in the way to often:) Wish they would have left the MAG in the game but u have the 
 room droid the after feeding and evolving will join u in combat:) like the pso MAG. Worth the price 
 of the game and the $399 xbox360:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingchunstudent
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 30, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Phantasy Star Universe is a simple game with a complex structure underneath it. The game has four 
 playable races, HUMANS, NEWMANS, BEASTS and CASTS. Each of these race start out as either a HUNTER, 
 FORCE, HUNTER or RANGER respectively, but you can switch your class anytime at a Guardian office. 
 Although certain races are better adapted to specific classes, there is no reason to let than stop 
 you. Play how you want with the avatar you want. There are 4 areas to explore (3 planets and the 
 Space Colony) which offer numerous missions to help level up your character. After each mission 
 there is a central meeting ground for you to regroup either by yourself or with your party of up 
 to 6 total people. This central meeting locations allow you to recharge your weaponry and buy/sell 
 supplies for the next mission.
  
  My only gripe from PSU is not from the gameplay, but from SEGA's attempt to prolong gameplay by 
 purposefully blocking paths/missions in each of the 4 areas so that they may add them later to 
 keep you playing. It seems that over half of the content is blocked from the start. This should 
 have been done differently. Players should have been given most of the content up front and additional 
 content been added to the already full game. I'm not sure if money is the driving factor behind 
 this move or if it's SEGA's attempt to debug and test the game for stability before letting loose 
 everything there is to offer.
  
  All in all it is a great game and I forsee myself playing it for months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ax_prime_basic
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Phantasy Star Universe has some big shoes to fill. As the sequel to a much beloved and pioneering 
 dreamcast rpg, it has enjoyed a fair amount of anticipation during it's long development. Unfortunately, 
 even disregarding the fact that it's the sequel to the great Phantasy Star Online, PSU is a miserable 
 failure of an online rpg, by any standard. The graphics are mediocre and glitchy, the level design 
 is lazy and uninspired, and the gameplay is some of the most repetitive you'll find in any mmo.
 
  
  The first thing you'll notice about Phantasy Star Universe for the xbox 360 is that you could swear 
 you're playing a ps2 game. Yes, the game was made with the ps2 version as the archetype, but since 
 the 360 version retails for 10 dollars more, gamers should not only expect something more than 
 a higher resolution, they deserve it. The few levels you'll actually be able to go to won't do 
 anything to capture your attention, as they are small, boxy, dull, and repetitive. Players jump 
 around as the server struggles to keep everything together, and most of the time, character textures 
 don't even load onto character models until you've been looking at them for 2 seconds. Factor in 
 some slowdown when you break more than one barrel/crate at a time, and the game seems to do all 
 it can to take a mediocre presentation and beat it with an ugly stick. The art design isn't all 
 that impressive, and truthfully, PSU just doesn't look good at all on the 360.
  
  The gameplay model of the original PSO has been overhauled a bit and is faster overall, but it 
 feels a bit wonky. The lock on feature is decent, but significantly reduces your movement speed. 
 Trying to hit crates that are right in front of you is akin to shooting in the dark. For some reason, 
 your character likes to just swing off to the side instead. You'll have to use the lock on to do 
 it, but it just feels like a chore. Also, the collision detection is quite poor... as blows that 
 are a good 5-10 feet away from you will hit you, and you can inflict the same phantom wounds on 
 your enemies. It just feels really rough around the edges, and it cheapens the experience immensely. 
 On a side note, there is no force feedback to be found in the game, making the combat feel even 
 more disconnected.
  
  It would help if the enemies weren't so slow and stupid, but they offer little actual challenge. 
 As a level 4 character, you can totally take on a level 20 enemy, as you can just do the run-up-hit-then-withdraw 
 tactic 1000 times to down him... they move like they're underwater and don't feature much in the 
 way of tactics. Some enemies hop around quickly, and they're more challenging than others, but 
 mostly they're just annoying. There's no real way to block in the game, and thus combat ends up 
 being rather half baked.
  
  The final nail in the coffin here is the legitimately awful mission system. There are only a handful 
 of missions available to you at the outset, and this reviewer couldn't find more than 9 missions 
 for 12 hours. These missions are usually dull and feature only the bare minimum of context, always 
 devolving into a mindless mess of lifeless hallways and barren rooms. After grinding on these missions 
 for hours and hours, you'll be able to go and select higher level versions of the same missions, 
 meaning you'll be grinding through these missions for even longer. It's a shameful, dirty way to 
 make more gameplay, and Sonic Team really should have introduced more quests from the get-go, as 
 it would have done a lot to offset the tedium. Truly, the missions feel repetitive even while you're 
 in one for the first time, as it's only a string of 100 copies of one or two enemies. But factor 
 in the reality that you'll be doing these missions about 10 times, it gets old really fast. The 
 one saving grace here is that the bosses are kind of neat, resembling big old school bosses from 
 the 16-bit heyday, with noticeable patterns and big, hulking character models. These will be the 
 main draw for most PSU players, and they can prove to be fun when in a capable team. Unfortunately, 
 you'll have to slog through hours of soul-crushing gameplay to get to them, so the pay-off doesn't 
 feel as big as it should.
  
  In the end, all of this adds up to an experience that feels tedious, lifeless, and boring. Phantasy 
 Star Universe had all the potential in the world to be a great mmo, but instead its potential is 
 squandered on cheap design and mind numbing repetition. World of Warcraft proved that you don't 
 have to subject players to monotony to have a successful mmo; you just have to put in the extra 
 effort and content to keep things fresh and fun. Phantasy Star Universe is the polar opposite of 
 both. It's a crusty, worn-out gameplay model that makes players pay monthly for a virtual chore, 
 and aside from a few good boss battles, it's just not a fun game. A dearth of mission content, 
 bland levels, ugly graphics, and overall lack of polish make PSU a colossal disappointment. The 
 debut of Phantasy Star on the xbox 360 is an embarrassment not only to the system, but to the way 
 mmo's have recently evolved. There is absolutely no reason why this game should require a fee per 
 month, as the virtual real estate is extremely limited and the lack of content is startling. In 
 terms of high profile, massively multiplayer role playing games, I cannot think of a bigger waste 
 of your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: espnrosters
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  This time around Sonic Team has beefed up the story for those who like deep stories. I'm not a 
 big RPG fan but after playing PSO on the Dreamcast I've learned to like them. PSO has been the 
 best of both worlds (a RPG with real-time fighting) . I've always hated turn-based fighting and 
 for the life of me with PSO out on the Dreamcast, Gamecube and then the Xbox people still continued 
 to like the FF series. If you're a PSO vet and not sure if you should spend the dough for this 
 game think back at how huge the maps in PSO was and throw that out the window. PSO is one quarter 
 the size PSU is. The GRAPHICS are a little better but vets know its Sonic Team's artistic style 
 for the series as of late and it still works for me. The GAMEPLAY is very streamlined compared 
 to any PSO even Episode 1&amp;2. Swapping out weapons and items has gotten way easier. Now you 
 don't have to go to menus as much as you used to in past PSO games. Enemies are faster and more 
 deadlier than ever too. The handling of experience points is different than in the past too. Now 
 you don't get the same amount of points as if you hit the enemy only once and someone else ends 
 up killing it. The difference between points of someone who actually kills an enemy and someone 
 who only hits it once is that big though. The SOUND is the only knock I have on this game. The 
 music in past PSO games started out mello and then got more dramatic when you were in combat. Now 
 the music is dramatic and stays that way which can get kind of old since these maps are so huge. 
 ONLINE is better than ever and on the 360 its the best because you have voice chat over your headphones. 
 Sonic Team adddress the yelling idiots would do in lobbies in the Xbox version with voice chat. 
 Now you can't talk to anybody unless you're a part of their party which cuts down on the yelling 
 idiots and that was a very smart move. Instead of the party of 4 now you can have up to six players 
 in your party. The online part is still addictive as ever and is still the place for level up junkies. 
 Now you only have to get past the $9.99 monthly fee for your Gaurdian license (Hunter license for 
 vets) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roffkaiser
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 29, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game for over 45 hours of straight up binge gaming I have to say it is just 
 as fun if not more so than the first 5 hours. This is totally a review of the multi-player as i 
 have not even touched the single-player as of yet. The Gameplay is very solid, and for being a 
 MORPG (people dispute the massiveness so i leave that out) it actually has gameplay past the simple 
 click macro and walk away aspect of many of its PC rivals. The 3 main classes all have a very different 
 feel and playing style that keeps everyone interested and boosts party cohesion. With friends this 
 game is immensely fun to play and without them, well you make them quickly as when you fight with 
 a party you quickly grow close to your teammates with good communication. The graphics are pretty 
 good for an MORPG but I ranked them low since this is a 360 and it is expected to be high quality. 
 Just a minor gripe and by no means am I a graphics whore. The music of this game is close to that 
 of Phantasy Star Online with a mix of electric symphony type music and good beats. the sounds of 
 individual players are customizable and that makes up big for the rather generic weapon sounds. 
 All in all this game is very excellent and well worth the 10 dollars a month and will keep you 
 coming back for more at every point of your characters career. Lets hope with continued developer 
 interaction the experience only gets better. Heres to the future :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thinkfootball
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I am fairly new to the PSO/PSU scene (I briefly tried PSO/BB on PC) . So I am not a fanboy by any 
 means. Coming from the likes of Diablo, GW, CoH and WoW I was confused as heck for my first hour 
 online. I couldn't find missions and i didn't understand any of the stats, text, etc. Now, after 
 about 20 hrs in the game (all online, no single player) I have found the more I play, the more 
 i love it! Pay attention during the tutorials (especially the mission one -- that Line place should 
 be your starting spot to get/join missions for quite some time) . Also, get a headset and join parties! 
 This game was fun soloing, but is an absolute BLAST in a 6-man party! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloFreek11904
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 29, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  When i first started play Phantasy star online for the dreamcast I was imeditly drawn in by the 
 multiplayer capibilities and the hours of fun I would have for nights on end. I was very dicouraged 
 when they discontinued the online service. I then played the xbox version and was discouraged as 
 well when that was taken offline. This time around I have been very pleased to see this game finally 
 on shelfs and in my Xbox 360. Some things have been changed. First off the single player and multi-player 
 mode are completely separate, which means you can't make an incredible character then start playing 
 with him online. The single player game is fun with unlockable achievements and chacter building. 
 The story actually has a more compeling story thats interseting unlike the other two. I think its 
 the online multi-player that draws people in. Now being able to play with six players, you and 
 five other people can go into a mission and just slaughter every thing you see and with sometimes 
 long boss battles that require team work, leveling up is more fun and enjoyable. For fans of the 
 game two things that I though changed is getting money is more difficult and so is leveling up. 
 Also, at least for mages, there aren't a wide veriety of weapons to choose from. There is So much 
 more in this game that I don't have time to go over. Overall this is a very solid game I love it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dikran
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2006 4:26 am PT
Review:  This game is the most beautiful RPG of all time. It was done extremely well on Dreamcast and XBOX, 
 and now we have the best version yet on 360, with graphics better than any of the other versions. 
 Dont listen to those who played it free and hated it from the beta version. This game is superb. 
 The created environments are lush and beautiful. The weapon selection is excellent and will only 
 get better. And with the following future enhancements, this is what we have to look forward to: 
 New maps, new items for your character's Room, new clothes to help your character strut his stuff, 
 new enemies and bosses, and new weapons and SUV attacks. In addition to this constant stream of 
 new stuff, Sega will be offering an expansion pack down the line, crammed with even more adventures 
 and goodies!
  
  I got that last paragraph officially from Sega. I have been a PSO fan for the longest time, and 
 I can tell you guys that you should save your money from the final fantasies for once and get this 
 freakin game.
  
  It is a huge Universe full of everything from riding different animals to setting up your own weapons 
 shop. When I played it at E3 two years ago I didnt imagine it would be this great. Its one of 
 those games that you have to try to love in the beginning but once you do, there is no going back. 
 Oh, and try to laugh at the cheesy Japanese dialogue. Remember, the Japanese are great at making 
 games, not at writing scripts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spam3333
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Although the single player lacking, multiplayer makes up for it if you can get past the monthly 
 fee. Play story mode single player to get achievements because you will never want to go back once 
 you get online. Definately what I've been waiting for, lived up to all the exceptions figured single 
 player was going to be bad but oh well you can't have everything perfect so i guess I'll just have 
 to live with it and stick with online. Definate buy don't waste your time waiting for something 
 else if you are a RPG fan this is a great game either new to the series or not you'll love it after 
 you play this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kindredmachine
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 27, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Phantasy Star Universe (PSU) is ALL about the online multiplayer period. In fact, they could have 
 removed the 40 hour solo game and I dont think many people would notice. For anyone who played 
 the original back on the Sega Dreamcast, this version follows the tried and true elements from 
 the original version but its been expanded enough to truly earn the name universe. At first, 
 the controls/camera may seem a little awkward and the world may seem a little small and bland, 
 especially compared to a true MMORPG but trust me, once you sink your teeth into this game you 
 wont want to let go!!
  
  It doesnt take long to realize that the depth of gameplay and weapon/armor creation goes WAY deeper 
 than any previous Phantasy Star game. There are literally hundreds of items and weapons and the 
 online community is GREAT! Its a completely different XBL crowd from the trash-talking people 
 you find in most FPS games.
  
  PSU also sports some of the most massive and scariest boss battles ever witnessed in a game, and 
 the VC (voice chat) plays out perfectly when youre in a team! I cant remember how you could possible 
 use a keyboard and battle at the same time like you do on the PS2 and PC versions. That being said, 
 you can ALSO use a keyboard if you prefer, but once you try the VC, you wont want to.
  
  Another thing, the missions in this game only take about 20-60 minutes each to complete so its 
 perfect for those that want an MMO-esk type experience without having to devote hours of your life 
 each day. Im married with a baby so PSU fits into myself like glove!
  
  With more play fields, weapons, items, missions and classes all being patched-in in the next few 
 months for the online multiplayer, PSU also promises to continue expanded so the game wont get 
 old.
  
  And for $10 bucks a month its worth every single cent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: livecowboy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 27, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  Endless hours of building you characters, battling cooperatively with friends to defeated hordes 
 of enemies and bosses.
  
  The Bad: Controls a little hard to remember. i want to pull the trigger to fight, but a diolog 
 box keeps coming up.
  
  The Ugly: $9.00 a month... What am I paying live for anyway?... Awe nevermind, thats like 1 meal 
 at subway for Jarred.
  
  If you were a fan of the old PSO, you'll like this game. A good combination of roleplaying with 
 a 3rd person point of view. New creatures, new weapons, and I dont have to worry about that stupid 
 amg onmy shoulder getting hungry. It was like taking your dog on a quest, .. except, your dog was 
 cuter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake0457
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 26, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I remember the days where I stayed up until 5am questing on PSO for Dreamcast. I'm happy to say, 
 most of the things I loved about the DC version are here in PSU. Like the Xbox/GC versions, you 
 have to pay 10 bucks a month to play online, but this is the first MMO I've ever actually wanted 
 to throw down the monthly fee for. The gameplay is pretty simple, run around, attack, level up. 
 All the combat is in real time, so the battles can get pretty frantic at times. This is an MMO 
 at heart, and the value of this game comes from the online play, there is an offline component, 
 but its nothing compared to the online, and this review is written describing the online aspect, 
 not the offline.
  
  From here, I think it best to list the aspects of this game, so here goes.
  
  Gameplay: Straightfoward. 
 There are some various small things to do, but 99 percent of your time will be in combat. You can 
 take several weapons into battle, and switch between them quickly using a pallet on the side of 
 the screen where you can also have recovery items at the ready. While not fighting, you can run 
 around the city, buy stuff, and talk to other players. Graphics: They're good, but not 360 quality 
 by any means. But thats because it's designed to resemble the simple graphics seen on the DC version. 
 Hey, if it aint broke, don't fix it.
  
  Character Creation: Very well done, and pretty complete. Several races, all focusing on one area 
 of expertise, male or female, and a variety of clothing, hair and skin options. Control: Easy to 
 pick up and use, X attacks, right bumper will toggle between your weapon and your technic/secondary 
 weapon. A uses and picks up, while start lets you navigate menus to access stats, options, items 
 etc. Some things are a little hard to navigate if you play in 1080i (the menus get pretty small) 
 but its still better than FFXI.
  
  Value: 11 out of 10. MMO's in general provide alot of replay value, and PSU is no different.
 
  
  Even for those like me, who hate WOW, FFXI and other MMO's, PSU will make you rethink that stance 
 with its addictive gameplay. 10 dollars a month may seem like alot to those (like me) who hate 
 paying per month, but I can honestly say I'll get my moneys worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJBizzen
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 26, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so I admit this is the first Pay-to-play game I've ever been interested in. Even as that, 
 though I'm really diggin' the systems and setup.
  
  The story mode, while lacking compared to other RPGs is a lot more fleshed out than the single 
 player modes in previous iterations of the Phantasy Star series, and I can't say it's a disappointment, 
 because like it or not, single player in these games will always be tacked-on and never fully realized. 
 Those facts withstanding, however, it's still a decent time and gets you a feeling of what to expect 
 when you take it online.
  
  Online, the game is a blast, and I think combat and community are vastly improved over the other 
 games. The character movement is less robotic, and you can switch between classes at any time, 
 with only a small fee to pay. The gameplay is really well done, and is much better than it was 
 in PSO Ep. 1&amp;2
  
  The visuals, while not quite what we expect from the Xbox 360 are clean, neat and attractive none 
 the less, with bright colors and nice character designs. The environments aren't as barren as they 
 were in the last game either. If I had to make one complaint about the visuals, other than them 
 being kind of underwhelming for next-gen, it's that the NPC civilians in the city disappear when 
 you get near them. I can understand why, but if Shin Megami Tensei: Devil Summoner, a PS2 title 
 have populated streets, then why can't an Xbox 360 game? I would've expected these kinds of shortcuts 
 in the online mode to prevent lag, sure, but why is this the case even in the offline single player 
 mode?
  
  ... Speaking of character designs, the online character creator is pretty deep; at least compared 
 to the last game, that is.
  
  The soundtrack is pretty well done, and I like the orchestrated/chora/techno mixture of it all. 
 It seems pretty standard at first, but there are a few tracks that'll stick with you.
  
  Even as one of the pickiest RPG snobs on the planet, I can recommend this game to just about anyone 
 with interest in the online aspects of the genre. It's a good value per month for what you get, 
 especially juxtaposed next to World of Warcraft at $15 a month and City of Heroes/City of Villains 
 at $15 a month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nofearkid009
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay deserves a real plus for this one. The new system is much better then the old menu 
 system from PSO 1&amp;2. Graphics are awesome. The music and sound effects are amazing!!! The only 
 two things that could have been alot better are the single-player and the online fee. The single-player 
 felt less then average experiance and doesn't take too long to blow through. Now, (sorry this is 
 bias) I just hate online fees. If there was no online fee this game would get 9.9 from me. So in 
 summary.
  
  ~GAMEPLAY- SO CLOSE TO A 10! If the singleplayer was even average or a little above this game would 
 recieve a 10. But the online multiplayer expierance makes up for what you lose in singleplayer. 
 (Except for the online fee, I really hate those)
  
  ~Graphics- Very nice, especially in HD.
  
  ~Sound- The music in this game is better then many 
 recent titles. There is also a different sound for every weapon/spell and then there are even more 
 sounds depending onwhat you're hitting with the weapon (air/metal/scaley enemy/etc.) .
  
  ~Value- Sorry guys the online fee is the only thing taking the one point away here, otherwise this 
 game is the one to get if you want to get into this awesome series now!!!
  
  OVERALL!!!-
  THIS GAME IS A....
  MUST HAVE!!! BUY IT!!!!
  
  IF YOU DO NOT HAVE ONLINE GAMING ABILITY-
 
  THIS GAME IS A...
  RENT NO BIG DEAL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MATRIXMAN3780
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  PSU is everything i had expected! Considering i played the BETA. The game has a lot of detail, 
 and the controls are very easy to follow. If you played the BETA, this game will be easy for you 
 to pick up and play right away. The monsters and creatures are plentiful and fun to fight with. 
 The only things i have complaints about, are the boring single player, and the occasional lag. 
 I hope they fix the lag in the near future. Also sometimes you will have trouble signing into the 
 servers, which is annoying, but im sure it will be easier with time. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
