-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pimp My Ride
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/strategy/pimpmyride/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Xzibit is in it.
 decent, if slightly short roster of hip-hop songs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Constant repetition of the same boring minigames quickly turns the game into a grind.
 driving mechanics are overly loose and sloppy.
 the actual ride-pimping process borders on thoughtless busywork.
 awful voice acting from the customers.
 it's a short single-player-only game with no replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 3.9, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 4.5, 299 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Eutechnyx
Genre: Racing
Date: Dec 6, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
No amount of Xzibit influence or ride pimpage can save Pimp My Ride from its god-awful minigames 
 and lousy driving mechanics. 

  Based on the titular car-customization MTV show starring the self-proclaimed Mr. Black Bruce Willis 
 himself, Xzibit, Pimp My Ride is a failure, primarily because it can't decide what it wants to 
 be: Is it a driving game? Is it a series of awful driving minigames? Is it a car customization 
 sim? Is it an unholy crossbreeding of all of the above? The answer is yes to that last one. It 
 is this complete lack of dedication to making any one of the things it cobbles together fun that 
 sinks it. It's too bad because X-to-the-Z's influence is stamped all over this game, and it does 
 basically grasp what it is that makes such a silly show fun to watch. It's just not fun to play. 

          Sadly, working over the hoop rides of a bunch of screechy teenagers doesn't make for quite 
 as compelling of a game as you might hope.     

  Pimp My Ride takes place in the glorious metropolis known as Pimp City. The residents of Pimp City 
 like to drive pimped-out rides. So, what's an up-and-coming car-customization nerd like you to 
 do when tasked with making the unpimped rides of the town's more hapless citizens into full-on 
 works of pimp-flavored art? Why, drive around doing lame ghost riding and cruising minigames to 
 earn cash so you can drive around in the customer's clunker to get new parts and make it into a 
 gaudy monstrosity, of course. And then you do this exact same sequence of events over and over 
 and over again until the game concludes, or you simply can't stomach the lame gameplay any longer. 
 Or maybe you'll just give up once the game crashes on you for the third or fourth time, which is 
 as good a reason as any to stop.  

  Again, the primary problem with Pimp My Ride is that the progression of events neither makes any 
 sense nor is any fun. When you're driving around trying to earn money, you're limited to a specific 
 section of Pimp City but can take part in specific events around the map for which there are a 
 few icons. When you go to a ghost-riding event, you take part in an idiot-simple rhythm minigame 
 that isn't all that rhythmic. You just press a displayed sequence of buttons as quickly as you 
 can for each stage of the game, and all the while, your dude dances alongside the car like all 
 those horribly awesome Internet videos you and your buddies have been watching over and over for 
 the past six months. There's also a hot steppin' event, but in actuality, that's just a new name 
 for yet another ghost-riding event. You have to press buttons with a different sense of timing -- but 
 that's it. The worst part about the ghost-riding games is that they never change. The game slowly 
 and surely tries to ramp up the difficulty, but it does it so slowly that you'll barely even notice. 
 The game can't even be bothered to change the hip-hop beat that plays behind you -- it's the same 
 beat  every time .  

  The other minigame, cruising, is almost not worth mentioning. You drive up to a group of gawking 
 hip-hop kids, holding down a button to put your car into 10mph cruise mode. As you drive by, you 
 press a quick series of buttons to send the kids into some kind of spastic frenzy and earn yourself 
 some cash. That's it. It's even less fun in practice than it sounds on paper.  

  As you keep driving around, you'll also be wrecking into other cars and various billboards, which 
 earns you cash for some weird reason. Eventually, you'll earn enough cash to meet the budget for 
 your next customer. You then drive to the customer and a cutscene pops up that is similar to the 
 sort of sequence you'd see on the TV show: a squealing 19-year-old girl with a horrid car and a 
 heart of gold. Xzibit makes fun of the car for a while, and you're treated to some truly atrocious 
 voice acting from the kids. Finally, you get the keys, and the pimping can begin. Of course, the 
 pimping isn't all it's cracked up to be because the catch is that there's a rival pimper of rides 
 out there competing with you on every job. When you get a car to work on, your rival gets the same 
 car. So you and the other driver drive around the city under a time limit, trying to get to as 
 many part suppliers as possible. The car with the highest rating at the end wins.  

  It sounds neat and all, but there's almost nothing to it. When you get to a part supplier, you 
 get to choose from several different types of parts, some of which are very expensive and some 
 of which are not. The trouble is that there's no reason not to pick the most expensive parts every 
 single time. The most expensive parts translate into bigger boosts to your meter, and you're never 
 hurting for cash. Sometimes you can choose from multiple types of parts that cost the same, especially 
 when it comes to the crazy custom parts the show is known for (a trunk-mounted anvil for an aspiring 
 metal worker or an in-bed tattoo parlor for the pickup truck of an apprentice tattoo artist) , but 
 you never get to use or experience those parts. You can drive around the cars you pimp, but you 
 don't do anything with them except travel from place to place or engage in the occasional bout 
 of ghost riding. There's no reason to put much thought into the ride-pimping aspect of the game, 
 beyond picking the most expensive part and deciding which part shop you can get to most quickly. 

  You repeat the same series of actions through 16 different customers, and eventually the game ends. 
 There's no multiplayer component, nor is there any reason to want to go back and play any piece 
 of the game again once you're done -- not even for the remainder of the Xbox 360 version's 30 achievements 
 (you'll get a pretty good chunk of them on a single play-through anyway) . The minigames are bereft 
 of entertainment, and driving around the city is more of a hassle than anything else. Cars oversteer 
 constantly, specifically into immovable objects most times. In fact, the driving is the only part 
 of the game that's even remotely challenging. Too often you'll be seconds away from getting to 
 that last part shop, only to hit some weird piece of the scenery you could hardly see was there. 
 It doesn't help that the entrances to most shops are barely visible, and the pointer arrow that's 
 supposed to tell you which way to go is borderline broken. The pointer arrow exists on a flat plane, 
 and it's nearly impossible to see which way it's pointing in most cases. Making Pimp My Ride any 
 form of a driving game seems like kind of a weird idea, and when you factor in how bad the driving 
 mechanics are, that decision seems even more ill-advised.  

          To all you ghost riders out there, go back to trying to break your neck and your car in 
 real life. This game ain't for you.     

  Pimp My Ride does at least do a halfway decent job with its presentation, if nothing else. Pimp 
 City is a reasonably nice-looking city, and the frame rate holds up as you drive around it at ridiculous 
 speeds. However, the car physics often leave something to be desired because you get hung up on 
 smallish set pieces far too often. There isn't even any damage modeling in the game, despite the 
 total lack of real licensed vehicles. But then, the cars themselves are designed to be the star 
 of the show, and when you finish up the pimp work, some of the cars do look pretty cool. Again 
 though, the trouble is that beyond the paint job, you never get to see most of the luxuries you've 
 included on the car outside of the one cutscene where Xzibit shows it off to the customer. Speaking 
 of X, he does a good job with the less-than-stellar dialogue that has been written for him. This 
 is less true of other voice actors, but at least X has a bit of fun with what is obviously a pretty 
 silly concept. You can almost hear him snicker as he explains the rules of Pimp City. There's also 
 a decent roster of songs on the soundtrack, many of which are from Xzibit's new album. The soundtrack 
 could have used a bit more variety, but what's there is mostly quality stuff.  

  Believe it or not, the notion of a Pimp My Ride game isn't an altogether horrible one. If it were 
 purely some kind of car-customization-business sim or even a better collection of minigames, it 
 could have enjoyably translated the show into something playable. But what's here doesn't work 
 in the slightest. Its repetitive nature turns from merely repetitive into completely mind-numbing 
 after just a few rounds of customers, and the way the game makes ghost riding the whip into a completely 
 uninteresting experience borders on offensive. It might nail a few of the presentational elements 
 of the show, but this is a lousy  game , and regardless of your affinity for the show, you shouldn't 
 bother with it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2009 5:23 am PT
Review:  I love the TV show "Pimp my Ride." It's funny, it shows you how they fix up cars, and it always 
 has a good ending. I was really looking forward to this game on the X Box 360. Sad to say, the 
 controls and the map are so poorly designed as to take the whole thing down quite a bit. Even the 
 biggest fans of the series will be hard-pressed to get through this game without shaking their 
 heads. 
  
  The car moves like a wooden travesty. It spins and bumps and loses the road at the least provocation. 
 The GPS map, which appears so welcome when you first switch it on, has much less clarity than comparable 
 systems in other driving games. The same blocky picture shows up no matter what you're doing, and 
 there's no way you can get across the city in time to assemble all the things you're supposed to 
 find. You'll crash into so many obstacles, they won't even be fun anymore.
  
  I wish they'd redesign this. It could have been so much better. Instead, they tried to hard to 
 make it look like the Grand Theft Auto or Crazy Taxi series. They didn't have to, because the original 
 "Pimp my Ride" show is a good enough model. Watch that, and enjoy it again. You'll be better off. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJackpotter
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 3:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the worst games I've ever played!
  The graphics are good, but that's it!
  If you really wanna know, I think that Activision should 
 be just making GH games and Tony Hawk's!
  I'm sure I lost 20 IQ points playing this game!
  This game should be in one place: garbage!
  Xzibit probably wants to kill himself! He looks like 
 a stupid guy who's just knocking on people's doors and simply saying "I'm gonna mess up with your 
 car during 5 minutes, OK?"
  What the hell?!
  This game is G. A. R. B. A. G. E: Game Around Races Bad Acting Grand Epilepsy!
  The next time you see 
 this game, smash it, for God's sake!
  Or just play frisbee with the CD! Your dog would love to! If you have a dog, that is!
  If I had 
 to choose between cutting my arm and then to put salt in the cut and playing this game, I would 
 rather cut my arm!
  Overall this game is a waste of money and time!
  Don't even think of buying it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TiamatDraconis
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 9, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  This ranks as number 2 for being one of the worst games I've ever played, right under Rapala Fishing 
 Frenzy.
  
  I tested this at Activision a couple years ago and spent a full month driving around and smashing 
 into things... get this... for money. That's right. You take the car you are supposed to "pimp" and 
 smash into anything and everything you can with it for money. You can also do short minigames, 
 like the god-awful rhythm-based "ride the whip" game in which you press buttons in time with the 
 atrocious music. When you finish, you are rewarded with money to buy parts for pimping your car.
 
  
  The only enjoyment in the game is in the silly cut-scenes where Xzibit meets his fans and mentions 
 how he will "pimp their rides". There are some funny moments here, such as when a D&D geek gets 
 his ride pimped.
  
  Overall, buy this as an April fool's joke, if you buy it at all, but I do not recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrPepper124
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  i personally dont have this game but when my friend plays it it looks terrible you rarely get to 
 pimp out cars and when you do you are limited on what you can pick. this game is repetitive and 
 boring. there is no depth in the game there is rarely anytime you anything different and when you 
 do u get excited but then u realize its just a letdown. you do the same challenges like ghost ride 
 the whip is so dumb i hardly found any fun trying this game im glad i didnt buy it. I feel sorry 
 for my cousin who waste his money. overall this is one f the worst gmes i have ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Belfento
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  ... and straight from the Terrible Ideas department, we have Pimp My Ride, a game where you travel 
 to Pimp City (yes, it's actually called Pimp City) , to set up a new car pimping operation. Xhibit 
 himself is on hand to assist you with your pimping needs. He introduces you to various customers, 
 whose hoopties you must turn into head turners (again, let me just state that these are not my 
 words) . However, you're not the only pimper in town. A rival pimping agency is here to steal your 
 hard-earned business, so you must be ready at all times, but don't worry. If you ever stuck, the 
 game will be more than happy to give you some Pimp Hints (I swear, I'm not making this up) .
  
  To my surprise, the overall concept is actually quite good, and it's evident that people thought 
 this through, and spent time coming up with a game that both follows the show, and is fun to play. 
 Now, if only the game itself wasn't so bad...
  
  Your mission is to take various vehicles in absolutely horrible condition, and not only repair 
 them, but transform them into works of art by installing some of the most pointless, pretentious, 
 and expensive (at first) upgrades you can imagine (which seem to have absolutely no effect on the 
 car's performance) . Now, all of the cars are piles of junk, as expected, but some of these contraptions 
 can't possibly be legal to drive. You'll see broken windshields, hoods that are kept on the car 
 with nothing more than some rope, and popped tires, whose holes are closed with corks (I counted 
 at least twelve) .
  
  The first step is the Cash Roam Phase, because this time, the producers aren't paying. In this 
 phase, you must drive around and raise money until you reach your predetermined budget, and there 
 are two main ways to earn money. One way is to just slam into everything. For whatever reason, 
 whenever you crash into traffic, magical coins will spew out of the car and will seek you out. 
 There are also random objects (parking meters, billboards, etc.) scattered throughout the map that, 
 when destroyed, yield cash awards.
  
  The second way is to find events located in Pimp City. The events are Ghost Ride the Whip, Hot 
 Stepper, and Cruise, and though they may sound mildly interesting, they're horribly simplistic, 
 and actually watching what happens on the screen is even worse. Basically, it's just Press X Buttons 
 as Fast as You Can for Y Rounds, Press X Buttons at the Right Time for Y Rounds, or Press X Buttons 
 as Fast as You Can for One Round, respectively. As the game goes on, there will be more buttons 
 you have to press, but that doesn't change the fact that you've done this a million times before. 
 There are also Cash Tokens you can find that spell "PIMP!" (note the exclamation point) , and reward 
 you with more money.
  
  Once you've reached your quota, a timer will appear, and you will have two minutes to arrive at 
 the customer's house to begin pimping his/her ride (since the first customer is female, I will 
 henceforth describe the customer as such) . The first time I played, I did not arrive in time, and 
 I have no idea what happens when you show up late. You don't fail the mission, and you don't take 
 a monetary penalty. I guess it's just a way to prevent you from racking up infinite funds, but 
 in the end, it really doesn't matter how much money you have.
  
  Now that you're at the customer's house, it's time for Xhibit's Meet and Greet, where Xhibit knocks 
 on the customer's door, and the customer finds out that her ride is about to be pimped. Upon learning 
 this, she screams wildly and flails her arms in all directions, as if she's having some sort of 
 seizure. Then, Xhibit examines the car carefully, pointing out all the horrific (and sometimes 
 illegal) problems with the car, and takes the keys (it's a good idea to pay attention, since you 
 won't always be able to visit every auto garage) . After this is over, the Pimp Phase begins.
  
  In this phase, you must roam through Pimp City, trying to find as many auto garages as you 
 can before the timer runs out. These garages all deal in a particular type of upgrade (rims, paint 
 jobs, interiors, etc.) . Once you arrive, you must carefully decide which part will best meet your 
 customer's needs, or so the game would like you to believe. There is never a situation in which 
 the most expensive parts are not the best, so once you get there, scroll right until you reach 
 the end, buy that part, and you'll win every time. You also get to play more stupid minigames to 
 "make deals" on the parts, and, if mastered, you can buy the parts for significantly less than 
 the asking price (I'm talking upwards of a 50% discount here) . Add that to the fact that you still 
 earn money for hitting traffic, and you'll never be hurting for cash.
  
  As I mentioned earlier, you're up against a rival pimping agency, who somehow gets a copy of the 
 customer's car to pimp the way they want it. After the timer runs out, it's time for the Reveal, 
 where Xhibit comments on both cars, and the customer chooses one. If you win, that car is added 
 to your garage, and you can use it during any Cash Roam Phase. I guess they made another copy of 
 the car, or you never actually gave it to the customer, or something. If you have an answer, I 
 would love to hear from you.
  
  The main reason this game is bad is that the driving controls are atrocious. Your car handles like 
 a massive brick on ice, and you spin out constantly. It's also annoying when you crash into walls, 
 poles, curbs, and other random objects that aren't meant to be hit (which you will, many, many 
 times) . Sometimes you'll bounce right off it. Sometimes you'll grind to a halt. Sometimes it locks 
 you into place, where you'll continually rotate around it until you eventually escape. This isn't 
 so bad when you can take as long as you want, but during the Pimp Phase, you can't waste too much 
 time getting stuck in trees and ricocheting off walls.
  
  As for the presentation, it's pretty good. Pimp City looks nice, the car models are decent, and 
 the frame rate holds up its end of the bargain. The voice actors for the customers are embarrassing, 
 but Xhibit does a decent job, considering what he actually has to say. The load times are annoying, 
 but you get to check your progress and read some Pimp Hints, so, it's not too bad.
  
  It's a shame, really, because if the driving wasn't so broken, and the minigames were more creative, 
 this might not have been half bad, but as it stands, it serves as a perfect example of what happens 
 when bad ideas go bad.
  
  There's just one more thing: You've officially been pimped!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jalexbrown
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  If you've ever seen the show Pimp My Ride than you might think it's a great idea for a video game, 
 and in theory, it is. The idea of taking beat up cars and turning them into something pimp (pun 
 intended) could translate into an awesome video game. However, in the case of this particular game, 
 the idea didn't translate too well. You can break down Pimp My Ride into just a few repetitive 
 mini-games, but even that would be generous.
  
  The thing you'll immediately notice about Pimp My Ride is probably the only positive thing about 
 it - the presentation. The visuals are pretty well done and most of the sound is good with the 
 exception of some annoying teenagers who are getting their rides pimped. Xzibit provides his own 
 voice to this game, and it's a welcome addition. It adds some authenticity to the game and makes 
 it feel remotely like watching the television series. Other than a few presentation perks, however, 
 this game really is very bad.
  
  You may think I'm being too hard on Pimp My Ride, but you wouldn't think so if you'd had to restart 
 five or six times because the game is constantly freezing on you. This can get annoying fast having 
 to start over and do the same annoying money collection sequence over and over again. The gameplay 
 really is the biggest complaint I can have about this game. Even as annoying as the crashes are, 
 try to imagine having to drive a beat up car around Pimp City collecting cash by Ghost Riding, 
 as it's called, which basically amounts to timed button presses to make your character dance. This 
 is entertaining the first few rounds, but you quickly master it and it becomes busy work between 
 car pimping. The funner part of the game is after you've earned enough cash to do the pimping, 
 although fun is definitely an overstatement. What the game considers pimping out a car is basically 
 the exact same game as cash collecting - drive your car to a certain supplier to buy a certain 
 part for the car. This part of the game adds a rival for some competition, but you can beat the 
 game simply by ignoring the rival if you're fast enough to hit most of the suppliers before time 
 runs out. Buying the parts consists basically of picking the most expensive and playing some button-pressing 
 or analog stick-rotating mini-game to try and get parts for a cheaper price than the asking price. 
 This all boils down to repetition in the end, and you'll quickly realize it's the exact same game 
 for sixteen different cars.
  
  Once you get past the initial fun of Pimp My Ride, you'll find little reason to go back and play 
 it again. The few good points in the game are still only mediocre in comparison to other 360 games 
 available, and you can count on the fact that you won't get your money's worth out of this short 
 experience. If you're a fan of the show or you absolutely have to try this game out, do yourself 
 the favor and rent it. You'll be out less money that way.
  
  In the end, if you buy Pimp My Ride you're getting a $50 sampler of Xzibit's Full Circle CD and 
 a few flashy graphics. Anything else you find in this game is a repetitive waste of your time and 
 money. It's a shame MTV and Xzibit didn't push harder to get a quality game out of the license. 
 It had lots of potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  I didn't bought this game, I got the game as a gift when I purchased my Xbox 360 over Ebay, and 
 my god I'm happy I didn't have to buy the game to see what bad structure the game has behind itself.
 
  
  Gameplay/Story:
  You are this guy that looks like Fred Durst, and you play in Pimp City (not kidding, the city doesn't 
 look as appealing as it sounds) where you scrap the whole Westcoast and GAS scene, and you pimp 
 up cars constantly by doing the lamest minigames ever.
  
  First, you see XZibit announcing that he'll pimp a ride, then you get to see teenage people go 
 into somekind of seizure about their ride before and afterwards, its not even rewarding or anything.
 
  
  The minigames and gameplay is the worst aspect of the game, but it'll make you laugh in some moments, 
 like in Ghost Riding the Whip: You are this guy who lets his car drive on the road, while you stand 
 next to it and dance, and you'll see a whole street of people constantly waiting for you to do 
 it, do these people have nothing else to do?
  
  Theres this Holla mini-game, which is stupid, you basicly ride slowly in a street while a group 
 of people start cheering as you drive next to them, then you tap 3 buttons and thats it.
  
  The driving in the game is better, once you pimped up a drive, you can ram other people of the 
 road, if I had a pimped up ride, I'd also slam into everything I see, but yeah, the controls are 
 slippery and the slightest bump can get you're cars front stuck to something.
  
  Its basicly see some lame cutscene, drive a car to multiple shops and on the way you smash cars 
 and get coins for it, then you use those coins to do minigames that gets you the pimping parts, 
 and then do the same thing over and over again, and on the last part some teenager will go in seizure 
 over his/her new car.
  
  Graphics/Sound:
  Tho, the graphics looks swell, characters in cutscenes and in gameplay lack in facial features 
 on in designs, there are about only 20-25 different NPC's walking around in Pimp Town.
  
  Sound is better tho, in the game you can listen to XZibits new album, which can be good if you 
 like his music, but the game doesn't have anything else.
  
  Is it a good Mini-games collection:
  No, you can get a few laughs about it, but thats everything, 
 gameplay is slippery and the mini-games suck!
  
  Also, did somebody wonder why people live in Pimp town? I'd move to a better place or jump off 
 the nearest cliff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freebones
Rating: 1.6
Date: May 6, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  pimp my ride is a game for mtv fans, not much to say about it other than it just sucks the gameplay 
 is total crap and so is the driving same with graphics and with value. i dont even know why i own 
 it. you pimp 12 rides and then what nothing!!! game over!!! you know what i said. i said mtv you 
 ****ing suck. there is pretty much nothing good about this game i think i would have rater bought 
 a gamecube game and thats what it looks like a ****ing gamecube game. actually i think thats being 
 a little generous. in short the game is total crap dont buy it it sucks!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asiansensation0
Rating: 1.7
Date: Apr 13, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  My brother got this game he had a choice between this and gears of war he made a very bad desision. 
 I had a go on it for about 2 hours, the driving was terrible if i made the slightest turn it would 
 spin out and it kept crashing into invisible things. The mini games were very boring just hiting 
 the same button over and over and watching the guy dance like a spaz is funny for about 5 mins. 
 The pimping stage is so repetitive and not much fun. Overall this game was queit disapointing and 
 i dont think i'd be playing it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROSSIBOYUK
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 4, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  If you buy this game you deserve to be shot. Seriously, you are better off spending 40 odd quid 
 on an Oxford shirt than this attempt at a video game. If prancing around a hippymobile to rip off 
 ghostbuster music floats your boat then by all means buy the game, but if watching a black fella 
 walking about with a limp like he has a wine bottle up his rear simply isn't your cup of tea, I 
 recommend you save your money. If Westwood had been in the game it may have gone up slightly in 
 opinion, but unfortunately it hasn't so lets not talk about it. This game is rubbish - FACT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shella77
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 6, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  Pimp my ride was really fun the first time around, I enjoyed playing it for the xbox achievements 
 they were easy to get but not without some work for them. You had to do lots of many things to 
 get them, which keeps the game going!!! I wouldn't want to play it on any other system do to the 
 lack of the achievements. If your really into a big gamer score than this game is for you, it's 
 fun and funky and can create your own cars, plus boost that all mighty gamer score you've worked 
 so hard on!!!! I really thought the hardest part of the game was the pimping to the max. Getting 
 from one side of the town to the next was sometimes hard with the traffic, than you would need 
 to grab the extras that are laying around town. You get to Pimp your cars they way you'd like to 
 with a choice of items for your cars. Also if the price is to high than you can try the mini games 
 to lower the prices, sometimes I'd get a car pimped out for 1/4 of what it would have cost if they 
 didn't offer that. Which means I could go for the best items everytime!!! Over all this game is 
 great if you find it used to save a few buck, not a new game buy. But I do say rent it or find 
 it cheap. &gt;^.^ 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
