-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/piratesofthecaribbean3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Graphics are nice, particularly the character likenesses.
 Finishing moves are kind of fun.
 Does a decent job of matching the look and feel of the movies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Basic combat is dreadfully boring.
 Mission objectives are uninteresting.
 All the playable characters play the same way.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 5.8, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 924 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Disney Interactive Studios
Developer: Eurocom Ent.
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date: May 22, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
At World's End's slick visuals don't make up for the dull, repetitive combat and uninspired mission 
 structure. 

  It's almost hard to believe in this day and age of movie and game tie-ins, but other than a couple 
 of handheld games,  Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest  didn't have a companion game on 
 consoles. Disney Interactive Studios is making up for lost time with Pirates of the Caribbean: 
 At World's End, which features plotlines from both the second and third  Pirates  movies. While 
 the game does a solid job of capturing the look and humor of the movies, it fails to emulate the 
 films' action sequences very well. The combat is extremely simple, and you'll grow tired of mashing 
 on the attack button well before you reach the end of the game.  

          Fighting is so easy you can do it with your eyes closed.     

  The first half of the 
 game follows the events of  Dead Man's Chest , specifically Captain Jack Sparrow's attempt to recover 
 the heart of Davy Jones to avoid becoming a member of his crew, and it culminates with Jack's encounter 
 with the Kraken. The second portion of the game sees Sparrow and his not-so-merry band of misfits 
 joining together to take on Lord Beckett and retrieve the heart of Davy Jones once and for all. 
 Even if you've seen the second film, the story is quite difficult to follow since it's told by 
 way of a mishmash of well produced, yet disjointed, cutscenes. You'll recognize several scenarios 
 and locations from the movies, but there are many things you'll do that aren't in the movies.  
 

  During the course of At World's End, you'll sword fight your way from Tortuga to Singapore, which 
 may sound exciting, but it's really not. There's only one button used to swing your sword, so all 
 you do is run up to enemies and mash that button until they turn their back and you finish them 
 with a final slash. Enemies literally appear out of thin air and put up little resistance as you 
 pound the attack button. Occasionally, you'll come across a tougher character that can only be 
 killed with a special move. As you kill a bunch of lower-level baddies, your attack meter fills, 
 and eventually you'll be able to perform a cool-looking finishing move. You can punch enemies, 
 and when you don't have a sword handy, you can kick them, though you're rarely forced to result 
 to fisticuffs. The only move in your basic arsenal that's consistently fun is the sometimes useful 
 ability to grab and then toss enemies. You can sling them into each other, or toss them off the 
 sides of buildings and docks, which is great fun. There are a handful of weapons, such as guns, 
 knives, and grenades, which are scattered throughout for you to use. Unfortunately, they're not 
 very useful. The guns work OK, but knives and grenades are particularly difficult to aim. If you 
 mix up your attacks (or pick up bags scattered throughout the levels) , you can raise your notoriety, 
 and your notoriety score will be uploaded to an online leaderboard. The game makes a big deal about 
 notoriety, but it's utterly pointless.  

  Most of your time in At World's End is spent as Jack Sparrow, though you'll also get to play as 
 Elizabeth, Will, and a few other characters. Sometimes you'll even get to fight as all three at 
 the same time, switching from character to character by pressing the D pad. These are the worst 
 parts of the game because characters you aren't controlling don't do much in the way of defending 
 themselves. This means you're constantly switching characters trying (often futilely) to keep them 
 alive. There are plenty of checkpoints in the game, but for some reason when these three-person 
 battles come up, you're forced to start with the same amount of health every time, which is a big 
 problem if you came limping into battle with a limited amount of life left. The rest of the game 
 is quite easy, so dying shouldn't be much of a problem.  

          The duels look cool, but there isn't much to them.     

  The only time At World's End 
 mixes up the fighting is during the boss battles, which are one-on-one duels similar to those seen 
 in the movies. These start with a brief cutscene, and then the game switches to a side view with 
 three circle icons on the side of the screen. When your foe is about to attack, a circle will appear 
 around the icon, and you must move the analog stick in the appropriate direction before the bigger 
 circle shrinks to the size of the icon. If you block all of your opponent's attacks, you'll be 
 able to press a button to counter his attack and also attack by moving the analog stick up, down, 
 or toward your opponent. None of these fights are very hard, but they do manage to be rather intense 
 and they always end with a humorous cutscene.  

  When you're not fighting, you'll spend most of your time running, climbing, and jumping through 
 levels, looking for people to talk to or finding lost items. Though you've got a wide variety of 
 moves at your disposal, the controls are relatively simple, even if they are a bit touchy sometimes. 
 There are also occasions where the icon for context-sensitive areas doesn't appear, even if you're 
 standing where you should be. The levels are strictly linear, and a handy compass points you in 
 the right direction should you ever get lost. None of your objectives are particularly interesting, 
 a fact made worse by the copious amount of backtracking you'll be doing. For example, you'll visit 
 Davy Jones' organ not once, not twice, but three times. There are lots of collectible items on 
 each level, and if you find everything, you'll be rewarded with unlockables and achievement points. 
 You'll end up with less than 300 points for beating the game, so if you're looking to get points, 
 you'll want to keep an eye out for chests and hidden items. Split-screen co-op and competitive 
 play let you take on swarms of enemies in timed challenges, and you can even duel against a friend. 
 Their inclusion is a nice gesture, but the results are underwhelming.  

  By far At World's End's best aspect is its graphics. The characters all look like their movie counterparts. 
 Jack's drunken stupor is a bit overdone, and he's not as flamboyant as he is in the films, but 
 that's just nit-picking because the likeness is uncanny. The animation is quite good, particularly 
 when you're just running around and jumping, but there isn't enough variety to the fighting moves. 
 Each character plays and attacks the same way, so you'll see the same few attacks over and over. 
 The sword fighting is surprisingly violent, especially when you consider there's no blood. It's 
 anyone's guess as to why it's OK for a T-rated game to show someone getting stabbed in the chest 
 and the blade going all the way through the person's body, but it's not OK to show any blood around 
 the wound. The locations in the game look very nice as well, and the camera will zoom in to make 
 sure you notice, often at the expense of the gameplay. The Black Pearl and Flying Dutchman look 
 just as you'd expect -- you'll notice detailed rigging, rusty metal bars in holding cells, and detailed 
 timber on the decks. Since nearly the entire game takes place on or near water, it's important 
 that the water looks good, and it does.  

          Character likenesses are spot-on.     

  The game's audio is solid, albeit unspectacular. 
 You won't be hearing Johnny Depp, Keira Knightley, or Orlando Bloom, but the soundalikes do an 
 admirable job of filling their shoes. It's just too bad there isn't more dialogue to flesh out 
 the story. The game uses the movies' soundtracks to punctuate the action, fading in and out depending 
 on the situation. It's not the best score you've ever heard, but it fits the game well. The sound 
 effects are good, but there's not enough variety to them. Granted, there's only so much that can 
 be done with clanging swords, but there could have been more variety to the catchphrases that your 
 foes yell when they attack.  

  When it's all said and done, At World's End is a very by-the-books approach to a movie-based game. 
 It has, and lets you play as, all the characters you'd want to play; it doesn't deviate from the 
 movies' plots too much; and it takes you to many of the locations you see in the films. While those 
 are good things, the game really would have benefited by taking some risks. The biggest problem 
 is that you're playing as a cool character in an exotic location, but you're not doing anything 
 interesting, just running around picking up items and hitting the attack button endlessly. Unless 
 you're a huge fan of the  Pirates  trilogy, you'll want to rent this one or pass on it altogether. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (62 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: legolas95
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 5, 2009 1:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is repeat and repeat and repeat in SO many ways. The sword fighting is as dull as it 
 gets and the controls are chunky. 
  
  The sword fighting is slow, and you kinda "fence" until you enemy gets stunned and then do the 
 killing slash, and in later battles that takes a while. So in those later levels you pretty-much 
 have to punch-strike is all you can do. And both ways are dull.
  
  Really the only pros to this is the finishing moves are neat and the boss and multiplayer fights 
 are a new idea (I think) . In fights mentioned you use the left stick on the controller to block 
 and when it's your turn (yes you kinda take turn striking and blockin') you attack until you hit, 
 and when you hit 3 times you get to have a "power move" which it very hard to block and it does 
 double damage.
  
  Graphics are OK but they could and should have been better. The Sound isn't bad actually is good 
 but not great. The characters mouths move like their speaking a different language, compared to 
 the characters words. The voice acting can have some credit though, as Jack does sound like Jack 
 and Will does sound like Will.
  
  In this it not all fighting tho, it involves a lot of climbing, balancing on logs, pillars, etc. 
 You'll find yourself scaling cliffs and balancing over cliffs and a couple other things too.
  
  Pirates of the Caribbean fans MAY enjoy it, but for the average gamer, go get something else. 
 seriously. Also this game has NO replay value and the hidden items are stupidly unseen places. 
 It MIGHT be worth a rent though, but I would'nt buy it for even $15. This game is VERY disappointing. 
 But overall not a good game, more like boring, repetitive and waste of money *yawn*.
  Gameplay: 6.0
  Sound: 6.0
  Graphics: 6.0
  Overall: 6.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  At Worlds End is an Easy but a very fun one. Unlike most Licensed Games, Pirates has Excellent 
 Replay value and captures the Feel of its Film Counter-part. Based on the storylines of the second 
 and third films. The campaign is short by most standards. You can complete it and all its Achievements 
 in About 12 Hours. But the Best thing the game has to offer is the Treasure Hunting. On Each Level 
 There are Seven Pieces of Various Items for you to Find and Collect. they are hidden in places 
 both in the main path of the game and out side in Secret Areas. Each level also has a Jackism Chest. 
 Jacksim is the Special ability "Captain" jack uses with his soul-collecting Special Sword. Each 
 Chest and pair of Seven comes with thier own Achievemnents (25G) as well as Bonus content in the 
 main menu. The Graphics of the game supprised me. Games based on Films usually have Mediocre graphics 
 and a very basic design. this is not so with Pirates. The Graphics are Top Knotch and the Games 
 Feel, as simple as it seems, is quit complex from its regular gameplay and its Special "Boss Battle" 
 Machanics, and i must say the Boss Battles are very Well Done and Fun to play, even over again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryTipper86
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 7, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End takes place in Dead Man's Crest and At World's End. The 
 Story is just like the movie but with ajustments. I think the story became worst. The game just 
 messed up the story. The graphics aren't that good. Even in the cutscenes, the graphics aren't 
 good. The game is basically a platformer/ beat them up genre. As you progresss through your platformer, 
 enemies will try to stop you. The story is told through cutscenes. Fighting is simple but each 
 character is almost the same. You must keep all of the characters alive and the fighting is boring. 
 The only difference is that didderent characters get different special attacks. I didn't really 
 enjoy this game. I returned this game to the store. I honestly had to use a glitch to get pass 
 parts.
  
  Story- 5
  Graphics- 6
  Gameplay- 3
  Enjoyment- 1
  Final Score- 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirf
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2008 2:44 am PT
Review:  it follows up at the start of the second movie, which is a nice suprise, you are playing jack at 
 the time but as you progress, youll be playing as elizibeth, will and... oh thats it, they each 
 have their own style of combat, but it seems to be pretty much the same, boring, the combat is 
 the most boring aspect of the game, but the boss battle sword duels are ok due to its interesting 
 style of fighting. the story is almost exact to the movies but i wished they had made it longer 
 and had gone into more depth with the films story. the platforming and puzzles that need be solving 
 are exellent, as well as the scenery and environments, the visuals are also crash hot with nice 
 looking characters and facial expressions, the sound is also well done with alot being that dun..... 
 dun.... dun.... dunnunnunnunnununnanun, well its hard to explain but i like it anyway.
  
  it doesnt really have any replay value but its two player thing is fun being able to play as anyone 
 you have duelled (including davy jones)
  
  overall 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Pirates of the Caribbean hit the screens a while ago, and everyone who is anyone took notice, Disney 
 have put their name to the official game which is quite literally breath taking, and you'll want 
 to get lost in this for a few days.
  
  The positives it that its something you might be familuar with, so this will help the gameplay 
 and although their are lots of pirates games available on multiple formats and consoles, this shines 
 through because of the sountrack, sound effects, and amazing graphics, which are crisp clear and 
 well animated. 
  
  I don't over expect much from most games, because quite frankly a lot are pants, and especially 
 PC games that crash half way through playing and the Xbox 360 reliability is the reason I now own 
 one.
  
  This game is definately a rental, and thats a negative, it would have been nice to have a fully 
 multiplayer roleplay game for the Xbox 360 and it isn't that. Its good, its great but its simple 
 not worth the money shelling out for a few weeks play at tops. I've been playing it two days, and 
 I swear I'm half way through.
  
  But if your sceptical about it, then push those fears away, and play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: declasse
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  The game itself is great fun, It's your standard adventure. There are a few bad points to the game 
 such as the combat system which is pretty uninteresting and generic (one button for everything) 
 But that's really the only major flaw you'll find.
  
  On the plus side there is a great story to follow (which spans the 2nd and 3rd film) Lots of playable 
 characters all of which are from the films and feature some Great voice acting, Fantastic visuals 
 and animations which bear more than a passing Resemblance to there real life counterparts.
  
  It's not the best game you're ever going to play but it's definitely worth a look if you're 
 into adventure/Platformer games or even if you just liked the films. It's alot of clean fun and 
 there will definitley be something for most here.
  
  
  And for $15 what's the worst that could happen? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  At world's end is a game based on the second and third pirates of the caribean movies. While the 
 game has some interesting moments, the core gameplay tends to be bad enough to make it only worth 
 a look for those really into pirates of the caribean. During most of the game you play as Jack 
 Sparrow, but you will also occasionally get to play as Elizabeth and Will as well. It doesn't really 
 matter who you play as because they all play exactly the same way. Through most of the game all 
 you really do is run through the different levels while hitting the a button to kill stuff. Litterally 
 all you have do is kill enemies is hit the A button three times, then hit it one more time to finish 
 them off. Enemies that are not armed with a sword can be killed in a single hit, which makes the 
 game feel even easier. The fighting tends to get boring and repetative after only about one or 
 two levels, because you do exactly the same thing in pretty much every level. Occasionally you 
 will have to kill certain enemies that can not be killed by regular attacks, and you will have 
 to build up your special move meter, to kill them with a finishing move. This aspect of the game 
 is definetly a little more fun, because you have to time the hits just perfect to kill the enemy. 
 Another somewhat enjoyable feature of the game is when you have a duel against an oponent. During 
 duels you move the joystick up, down, or straight to both attack and defend. The duels can be pretty 
 fun because you can do some couter attacks, special moves, and it requires more timing than the 
 usual fights, but it is by no means a challenge. In fact it is possible to beat most of the levels 
 without ever being hit. The game is so easy that you can probably get something to drink, and at 
 the same time eliminate enemies without much trouble. The game also has other flaws outside of 
 boring, and easy action. The platforming moments attempt to brake up the gameplay a little bit, 
 but end up feeling tacked on and in general feel pretty boring. The moments in the game that are 
 generally the worst is when you have to take control of two or three characters, because the characters 
 that you aren't controlling die rather quickly, and are of no help to you. These moments tend to 
 be more challenging, but only because you have to constantly switch between characters to find 
 health to keep everyone alive, which becomes extremlly frusterating. Overall 5.5/10 At world's 
 end is at best, an okay game that won't appeal to anyone unless they are extremlly into the source 
 material. And even if they are the game isn't worth more than a rent, because it is also a short 
 game with very little replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afq2846
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Now obviously when you put this game on you know you are playing a pirate game. Not only are you 
 playing a pirate game you are playing a game based on a famous movie. Normally these types of games 
 rarely live up to the hype. This game is based on the pirates of the carribbean franchise. If you 
 have not seen the movie then all of this is new to you as will the game be new to you. If you have 
 seen the movies then you know the characters and everything else. Throughout the game you normally 
 play as jack sparrow but you get to also play as the other characters from the movie. Basically 
 it starts from around the middle of the second movie and goes all the way to the end of the third 
 movie. Lets get to the actual game play. To say that controlling your character is stiff would 
 be an understatement. For a game the requires a lot of running and jumping its pretty hard to control 
 at times. Fighting becoming boring after awhile because its basically press a button a few times 
 then the fight is over. Not much strategy involved except for every once in awhile they throw a 
 "boss" character at you. You can also have a sword duel throughout the game. Actually that is where 
 some of the challenge in the game comes from. The duels can be rather difficult and tedious. The 
 graphics in the game are actually pretty good and the movie is straight from the movies. I really 
 think they had a lot to work with and they just stuck with the movie. They could have made this 
 a free roaming game which would have really been good. Instead they went with a linear board after 
 board game. The game is not really very difficult and replay-ability is really non-existent. I 
 would only suggest this game if it is cheap and you are board. If not skip it and watch the movies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destron123
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  POTCAWE is a great example of wasted potential.
  So what if the movie was disappointing? The game didn't have to be this bad as well.
  The art 
 and character design are superb, but it seems like the developers put so much effort into the look 
 of the game, they forgot to actually make a game that was fun and playable.
  The sword fights are pathetically easy and there's little or no enemy AI, so the developers take 
 the usual cheap way of adding some modicum of difficulty by swarming you with enemies or having 
 you have to build up some lame meter before you can launch an attack on some of the intermediate 
 enemies. The puzzles are not too challenging and end up sometimes being more frustrating, since 
 to prolong the game, they make it so you know where you have to go, but you have to maneuver so 
 precisely with the wonky controls, that you will end up repeating several relatively uninteresting 
 segments ad nauseum before getting through.
  Some of the cutscenes will make you laugh, not intentionally, mind you, its just that they are 
 so badly done as to border on camp. It looks like the moviemakers gave the game development team 
 just a gist of the plot, the result being that the execution of the cutscenes gives you something 
 totally different from the movie, like when Jack Sparrow realizes he has to flip over the Black 
 Pearl to get out of the land of the dead -- except in the game the crew just stand there and watch 
 him running back and forth across the deck as he SINGLE HANDEDLY capsizes the ship! That's bust-a-gut 
 hilarious.
  There is also some busy-work in the game like collecting items to unlock abilities. However, extra 
 abilities are meaningless as the fighting engine is so simplistic, you won't need them unless you 
 are really desperate for gaming achievement points.
  For fans of the "Pirates" movies, this is a great collectible, because the characters are so beautifully 
 rendered and the environments are gorgeous.
  The only problem is there's just not much of a game to play here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlord20
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Pirates Of The Caribbean - At Worlds End is a combination of parts 2 and 3 in the movies trilogy. 
 I loved the movies so naturally i decided to purchase the game. Now i must say, this game is not 
 the greatest but its not at all bad either. What do i mean by that? lets just say that i dont think 
 this game is for everyone.
  
  This game is fairly slow going and if you are the type of person who likes to be on the edge of 
 your seat the whole time then this is not the game for you. The sound effects are good and the 
 background music is pretty cool to listen to. The graphics are good. Better than most games but 
 still not the best. You play as a few of the characters so you are not limited to just Jack Sparrow..... Sorry..... CAPTAIN 
 Jack Sparrow. Just a little humor there. Anyways, we have all watched the movies so we all know 
 the storyline is great and if you haven't watched the movies then something is wrong with you. 
 Give it a try people.... It might surprise you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianroxie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I have been looking forward to trying this game for quite some time now. I have been hesitant in 
 purchasing it because I rarely enjoy video games based on movies. However immediately I was amazed 
 by these amazing graphics. The gameplay is also extremely fun with many different type of obstacles 
 and moves to learn which keeps things quite interesting.
  
  I have not yet finished the game, however so far nothing has disapointed me except possibly for 
 one small detail which is the right analog used for the camera angles, when you want to turn right 
 you must turn your analog left and vice versa. but other then that so far it has been a amazing 
 game
  
  Definitely worth a try and purchase in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Condemned23
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Today i am here to give a review for Pirates Of The Caribbean At World End, first things first, the 
 game play is simple, captin jack sparrow, and every character you play as will do the exact same 
 moves, so either way if you press X it will do the same thing as anyoter character, Next the story, well 
 the story starts off right after the first pirates film, with jack escaping from prison, and so on, lets 
 just say that at worlds end is pirates 2, and 3 put together, voice work is well done, graphics could 
 be better, i just wish that the game was a bit harder, and that you had more moves to do, all in all 
 my score for Pirates of the caribbean at worlds end isnt that its bad, not that it's great, but that 
 the game is o. k, my score for this game is a 6.5 out of 10.
  And i advice you rent this game before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stoooovie-land
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 8, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Pirates of the caribbean At worlds End hase some of the aspects of the movie put in the game but 
 the game is only 20% correct with the movie. It has large levels put to scale. but it is brought 
 down with lame sword fighting you simply just press the attack button until your enemy gives up 
 and press the attack button again to kill him then there is finishing moves they are fun the first 
 couple of times then it gets repetitive. then there is a feature that is enjoyable the duel featuer 
 is the only thing that does not get repetitive. I would say the hardest part in the game is when 
 you play as multiple characters on account they dont really kill there apponites and dont block 
 attaks its not really hard you just swich to that character and grab some health and keep playing. 
 then the whole story of the second movie is changed if you are a fan you will know that elizebeth 
 helps find the chest of Davy Jones she does'nt I wont say who does but i will say that you will 
 be dissapointed by how much the story is changed but if you really want to play this game rent 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven4d8
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  I did not enjoy this game at all. This game is very badly done.... If you are a fan of the movie 
 then maybe giver a rent but it is not worth you 60 bucks or whatever... even look for it in the 
 bargin bins as well.... should be there very soon.
  
  I give this game a 3/10.
  
  The good - the game looks really clean. The bad - pretty much everything else. The gameplay is 
 terrible... why cant we use our swords all the time? There are spefic times when you can use your 
 sword and stuff. Very dumb... sounds Dumb... Controls are Dumb... this game sucks!!!! dont bother... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ottosmann
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 15, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  PotC: At World's End includes storylines from the 2nd and 3rd movies. There are twelve missions 
 scattered throughout the world in such locations as Singapore, Tortuga, and Port Royale, just to 
 name a few. Now, this game left me pleasently suprised because movie games normally just aren't 
 that good, but this is an exception.
  
  There are two splitscreen modes available, one being where you get to duel a friend, and the other 
 being where can work with or against eachother to see who can kill the most baddies in 3 minutes.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: The low point of the game. Killing an enemy simply consists of smashing on the 'A' button 
 until you overcome your enemy. However, some enemies can only be brought down by a finisher. In 
 order to do a finisher you need to fill up your swordsminship meter by using combos, which encourages 
 more thought into what you are doing, keeping you from constantly mashing on the same button. The 
 game is for the most part easy, but once in a while you will encounter a very frustrating part 
 that will take a while to get past. Overall, this game just has average gameplay.
  
  GRAPHICS: Wow. For the most part, the graphics in this game are outstanding. All the characters 
 look exactly like their movie counterparts, and sme of the environments are particularly awesome.
 
  
  SOUND: Pretty good. All the voice actors do a good job of imitating the real actors, except for 
 Elizabeth, who sounds like she is stoned half the time. The music is fantastic.
  
  Overall, this game isn't worth the $40 that it costs to buy it, but I'd suggest renting instead. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishan316
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 13, 2007 3:11 am PT
Review:  Pirates of the Caribbean movies have always been stylishly pirate, and this area where the games 
 lacked till date, has been filled by Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End. The game's outright 
 beautiful scenaries and awesome character animations would hold any gaming buff spell-bound, as 
 this, what I beleive is one of the best looking games on the 360's run. The game sounds great, 
 and feels great too. Though it is true the combat sequences may become repetetive and boring when 
 you've spent a considerable time with the game, they do remind you of the good ol' days and that 
 fact is easily overlooked when you see technical excellence running on your TV. Some critics use 
 words like uninspired mission structure ... Well, I don't think anyone wants to play games that 
 are inspired by others...??? Give me a break... This is a game in the end and not a hollywood movie...! 
 We've seen the likes of Gears of War, God of War, Far Cry, etc., which I beleive weren't inspired 
 and were fruits of pure innovation. So I think every game should be exclusively judged, comparisons 
 are pointless... To end with, if you're a Pirates of the Caribbean fan like me, this is no game 
 you'd want to miss, but if you don't know who are Pirates, you still shouldn't miss this classic... 
 9/10 from me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 28, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Alright, so Pirates 3 has finally come and gone, but people looking into cheap games will wonder 
 is At World's End worth playing at some point? The answer to that is not simple...
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  The highest point of this game is the graphics. The graphics are sharp and 
 lush, and set a wonderful mood for the world of Pirates, and stays true to the movies with its 
 nature. The character animations and faces stay lively throughout the game, sometimes a little 
 too much. However, the game developers probably intended this because they wanted to make good 
 use of the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3.
  
  Gameplay: 5/10
  
  Now, this is where the game takes a turn for the worst. The gameplay of At World's End is very 
 very simple. The combat, which is the most important element, only features the use of 3 buttons: 
 slash, punch, and grab. On occasion, the slash becomes kick for those timely barfights or street 
 wars with the British, but most of the time, you will be hitting slash, slash, punch, and (later 
 in the game) slash once more to do away with your enemies quickly. after a while you gain the ability 
 to preform a finishing move, which is done simply by holding RT and pressing A, B, X, or Y. All very 
 simple moves. No, there is no ship battles and mine cart rides. There is the collection of 7 items 
 each level, but even that is somewhat simple since you just look in every nook and cranny of the 
 level to find them... which doesn't take long at all... and all of this is as boring as it sounds 
 most of the time.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The music of this game is actually pretty good and benefits the setting greatly. The game has its 
 own remixes of the movie score, but thats a good thing since it gives the game more of a feel of 
 the game than ever. The Sound FX of the game are actually nice to hear, with the item collection 
 noise being very piratey. However, most games like this suffer from voice acting, which this almost 
 got out of the suffering. Sure most of the game sounds great, but thats because they hardly say 
 anything in the game! Jack is very quiet most of the game, with only the few sentences when needed. 
 Unusual since he is the one people mostly want to hear from.
  
  Valve: 6/10
  
  For film fans: This game is worth it. playing as Jack sparrow and all of the other memorable characters 
 from the films is joy, and will keep fans hooked until the end of the game. The graphics and sounds 
 really make this game a sight to see for fans.
  For Gamers: Not really worth it. The gameplay is mind-boggling easy and the story is very goofy 
 and if you didn't watch the films, you might get a little lost on whats going on in the game. The 
 game will end up just being a short hack and slash adventure that you won't travel back to at all...
 
  For Achievement lovers: o yea, rent this one. The achievements are very easy to obtain in a 5 
 day rental period, but make sure you search the net for tips on getting the 100 souls achievement 
 before renting it so your prepared ahead of time.
  
  Tilt: 8/10
  
  being a fan of the films, I definitely enjoyed this movie game. The sotryline of the game was very 
 messed up (Jack meets calypso in Port Royal?) , which made for some weird moments in the game. However, 
 when all was said and done, the game was pretty amazing to me, and it looked absolutely gorgeous 
 in 720p HD.
  
  Overall: 7.1/10.0
  
  At World's is worth it on the 360 for fans of the film only. Other gamers are better off waiting 
 for Dynasty Warriors: Gundam or picking up Samurai Warriors 2 for their hack and slash needs... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Planeshifter
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 11, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Pirates of the Carribean: At World's End desposes itself in the endless list of uninspired movie 
 adaptations. It is supposed to tell the story of the second and third movie, but unless you have 
 seen them, prepare to understand only a half of it - which is a shame, in account of the great 
 cutscenes the game offers.
  Along your journey you are fighting hundreds of enemies, which becomes a tedious task due to the 
 flawed combat system. It offers a rich set of combos, but lacks speed and variety. In the end, 
 there is not much that stands out which would make this game worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farreg
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  So I was got this game as a gift from my wife. I liked the movies and my wife felt that it was 
 a good buy at half the price.
  
  I started it up and played the first few stages and one thing that was fairly prominent is that 
 they only use the movie plotlines as a rough guide.
  
  The combat controls are simple, the shoulder buttons for long distance. and two buttons to fight 
 with and combo into moves, and if you just hit A a lot after building your meter, you get to perform 
 a special finishing move.
  
  The Dueling mode is a bit different, though a little simple. Good concept, maybe needs to be fleshed 
 out a little more for it to be great.
  
  The game seems to be fairly short, and the achievements quite easily attainable. If a gamerscore 
 chaser can't get all the achievements within a week, there is something wrong with them.
  
  It looks sweet and its not overly complicated, so I would pass it onto your younger siblings, nephews 
 and nieces or children when you are finished with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warheart1188
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 29, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  The first real offering in the Pirates of the Caribbean world into a video game is great, but not 
 so much. The game take place in the last 2 films, Dead Man's Chest and At World's End. The first 
 thing you'll notice is the breathtaking visuals. The graphics are amazing and the environments 
 look like the films. The cut scenes are very nice and the story telling waters down the films plot 
 into a very short narrative. The gameplay is simple, too simple and the difficulty (unadjustable) is 
 set so that everyone can play. You get to play as Jack Sparrow, Will Turner, Elizabeth Swann, Capt. 
 Barbossa, Rhagetti and Pintel. You'll fight an amazing assortant of beautifully designed enemies 
 such as the king of the depths, Davy Jones. You swing your sword 3 times and the enemy is ready 
 to die. Or sometimes you'll fight the 'mini' boss type and have to use one of your awesome finishing 
 moves. There is also the dueling. Basically, you use the right thumbstick to move up or down and 
 backwards to block an enemy attack and use the same movements to attack. The dueling is very, very 
 boring and very bland. The Dead Man's Chest portion of the game is very short but you get to visit 
 amazing places like Port Royale, Tortuga, the Flying Dutchman, fighting the Kraken and Isla Cruces. 
 The At World's End portion is very good, but is also short. Levels like Davy Jones Locker can get 
 very confusing and Shipwreck City is fun to explore. The finale between the Black Pearl and the 
 Flying Dutchman in the malstrom is underwhelming but it suffices. The sound of the game is top 
 notch and the music, though not directly from the movie, takes the movie score and simplifies it 
 a bit but you feel like you're in the world of PotC. There are things like Jackinism Chests and 
 Calypso Chests hidden through each level. Jackinism Chests can be opened when you've collect 3 
 shrunken heads and use your Jackinism where the chest is at. Things like concept art and even the 
 game soundtrack can be unlocked. The Calypso Chests offer a piece to the Calypso puzzle which when 
 completed, it tells of the love story between Calypso and Davy Jones. You also have multiplayer 
 in which you and a friend can battle it out in the balnd dueling type of fight. As you progress 
 in the game, you unlock more characters to battle with. The unlockables and (easy) Xbox 360 achievements 
 alone are worth it to PotC fans to buy this game. Pirates fans will love just because it gives 
 us a chance to be in the world of PotC. But it could've been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  At Worlds End is mediocre at best. It is a rather repetitive and boring game, with essentially 
 the exact same battle every time, except in different locations. It is difficult to immerse yourself 
 in it as there is little depth or extensive character development. The controls are not difficult, 
 as it is basically button mashing with some control stick movement thrown in for some variety . 
 I find the controls very boring and they lack the ability to be able to fight very effectively 
 or with any sort of flare. Though, it is a good game to play when there is little else in the world 
 to do and you wish not to think much at all. The visuals and humorous cut scenes  and just because 
 its Pirates of the Caribbean caused it to actually have some value. This game is recommended for 
 very novice gamers and avid pirate fanatics. And even then it should only be rented 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GH2_GTA4_H3
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This can be a fun game. Once you get the hang ouf it it get's better. The most dissapointing thing 
 about it, is the fighting. Accept for dueling, that's the best part of the game. It's a decent 
 adventure game, although the storyline is pretty dumb. They leave off during the 2nd movie and 
 you follow almost nowhere near the movie plotline. But the tasks are ok. This is a Prince of Persia 
 type game. It has puzzles and also how you climb ledges and dash against walls, that sort of thing 
 that reminds you of prince of persia. At times you can be stuck on one thing and you have to use 
 your brian to get past it. The fighting has it's good sides and downsides. You only do the same 
 thing over and over, to kiss one person. But when you throw them, or dodge them, or use finishig 
 moves it's fun. But also the swordsmanship meter is hard to fill up, which is dissapointing. But 
 this game overall is worth renting not buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wigglebutt32
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game goes through the second and third movie. Overall this game shows a decent potential. 
 It has repetative battle, which can be one downfall. Also special duels can be held between charactersis 
 also quite repetative, but it can have its moments. There also is special movies by usind X, A, B, 
 or Y at special times. You can also pick up knives, grenados, barrels, bottles (for bar fights) , 
 and ammo for your pistol. Play as Jack, Will, Barbosa, Elizabeth, and more as you travel all through 
 the Spainish Maine in order to assemble the pirate lords, and repay souls of Jack's debt to Davy 
 Jones. Go from Port Royale all the way to World's End with an action packed adventure. The maps 
 can be difficult and if you want everything all the money in the world, its gonna take you a while. 
 The graphics are great, although hardly anyone talks. Overall I'll give this game a thumbs tilted 
 somewhat up. Its not the greatest, but not the worst either. If you're iffy about the game rent 
 it first. This game only appeals though to a select few. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 21, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  I had to buy this game, after seeing the amzing graphics in a comercial booth... not so good call.
 
  The graphics are indeed amazing, one of the best I've ever seen in any digital platform, but they 
 are mainly but landscapes. The whole game is very restricted. For instance, Jack crosses a walk 
 from a boat to a village, in bettwen this path we see a beautifull beach... but that's it, it's 
 only yo look at.
  This situation becomes a norm, the entire game. It's claustrophobic.
  Sound isn't better, in fact, is worse. Voices aren't from the original actors. Just that issue 
 is a sad disrespect for the video-game media, wich I can't condone.
  Its game-script is also very poor, it's but some sparse episode glued together like some post-it's 
 we some rubish written on.
  Controlls are slugish and slow.
  The best part of the is in fact the graphics, as long as you disregard it is meant to be a game 
 as well. Charecters are perfectly made, life-like really. Light effects are brilliant, it's a joy 
 to watch: Want to impress a friend: just put the game on the gorgeous machine, and let him watch, 
 but by all means don't let him play.
  For the above reason the game has its value, and in fact allthough not polished, neither respected 
 as it should have been, it has a good value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameslacker
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 20, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  yes this is the game of the not so great pirets 3 but wait it has both games oh my and how does 
 it do dear lord it is horrable . the fighting is repative you can onluy attack in like 3 difrent 
 ways kick them, shoot them and wack them with your sword that is it and the worst thing is your 
 kick does more damage than your sword how sad is that. all the enmies are the same sday you are 
 doing the porty roil level you fight a britsh dude you are like yes a new guy to fight you are 
 half way through the level god dam I keep fioghting the same guy. is there any thing good well 
 you get to play as jack, will, and who ever kiera kightly played but the best thing about this 
 game is the one on one sword fights. so rent it for thwe sword fights the ne on one there are the 
 best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeyrCat
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game (as I will never BUY a game based on a movie until it's proved itself worthy 
 of my money.) And I won't be buying this one.
  
  The graphics were fine, I really had no problem with them. I enjoyed how the characters actually 
 looked like the people they were based on, although the extreme swaying Jack Sparrow did in order 
 to liken his digital form to his on-screen drunken sway was very, very overdone. That not withstanding 
 the rest of the characters moved alright, especially in the fight scenes. Clothes moved with the 
 movements and the environments looked great.
  
  The fight scenes, primarily the boss scenes, were also very repetitive. If you want to kill a mini-boss, 
 just do a simple swipe-swipe-punch-swipe two or three times and then lay on the mini-boss with 
 your Special Trigger move. As long as they GAVE you regular people to kill. I can remember at least 
 twice where I ran in a circle away from the boss trying to get the regular mobs to spawn again, 
 as trying to gain energy from a boss in order to do your special move only results in you getting 
 stabbed in the face. Was I the only one finding that in the later boss fights, when you told the 
 character to do one thing, he wouldn't do it? At all? He was OK when you wanted just to swipe at 
 the Boss, but if you actually wanted to lunge after that overhead swipe you were out of luck!
 
  
  Most of the levels were repeats of themselves, find the gold, find the special items, 1-2 mini-boss 
 fights, and a few jump and climb puzzles. I really enjoyed them all, don't get me wrong, but it 
 feel like I'd done each level before as I went though them. A few items did make the levels liven 
 up a bit though, a grenado here, a rolling barrel of gunpowder there.. all in all good fun.
  
  Fighting as Elizabeth was just terrible. I don't know if it was just low powered shots, or 
 how clumsily she actually connected. It was worse when you let them fight on their own in the instances 
 where you had to control more than one people. These superb swordsmen became dolts when you weren't 
 controlling them, which really made accomplishing anything in those levels difficult.
  
  The storyline, I noticed, actually encompassed the last two movies, not just the last one. It squeezed 
 in there a slightly confused version of the second movie, and then had to scream through the third. 
 I can't really beat them up for altered storylines, as you tend to have to give and take a bit 
 to make things fit. But why put the second movie in there at all? Could you not have made the third 
 movie on its own? Not enough interesting places and events to make a game on its own? Meh. I understand 
 that I'm bad talking a LOT of this game. In the end I really did enjoy accomplishing it. I can't 
 mention enough the repetitiveness of it, but I liked the puzzles, the TAKE THAT -ness of shooting 
 someone in the face when for some reason you just couldn't make that sword connect. I enjoyed the 
 Dunes of Delirium a lot, and the slapstick endings most of the boss fights.
  
  There were a TON of achievements that you could get in this game. Approximately 2 per level: One 
 for simply completing the level (thus unlocking a finishing move for a character) and one for finding 
 all of the special pieces (maps, bottles of rum, jolly rogers) on that level. On each level there 
 was also a Calypso Chest which once all 11 pieces were found, unlocked the story of Davy Jones 
 and Calypso in the Extras menu. The ability to go back and replay levels let you finish any of 
 these that you may have missed, and increase your Game Score (read here as Notoriety.)
  
  I wouldn't own it, but I might borrow it again to finish getting that last 100 Souls achievement 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 14, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  Story: Basicly you follow the story of the film but with some minor changes, which still lead to 
 the same outcome. You start the tutorial at the start of Dead mans chest (the 2nd film) and play 
 all the way to the end of the trilogy.
  
  Gameplay: For a game based on a movie it was good. Maybe not gears of war standard but still a 
 pretty good game. I may be a little biased though as i have a love for everything and anything 
 pirates of the carribean. I have seen each film at least 5 times, that includes the 3rd, i love 
 them all. The bad points though are that the fishting can be a little reppetative and is a little 
 too easy when you are in of control 1 person, but when you are controling multiple characters (in 
 a switch in and out sort of way) you have to constantly switch to make sure your allies stay alive 
 so you can finish the level. This is because the ai of your characters is totally idiotic they 
 get hit every chance they can. Also what annoys me is the linearness (is that even a word) of the 
 game, you have to follow a set path and cannot wander off from it. This is also one of those games 
 (like turtles) which tries to do the Prince of persia platform thing and fails (although i have 
 to agre it does it less often and better than TMNT) . Having said all that the game is very fun 
 to play.
  
  Graphics: Well what can i say the graphics are beautiful, one of the best looking games out so 
 far, all the characters look like thier real life counter parts all the senery looks amazing, its 
 a great looking game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoSox09
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I didn't quite buy this game I just decided to rent it at my local blockbuster. I like the Pirates 
 of the Caribbean movies I think they are great. But usually movie games aren't any good. I believe 
 this is a average game that any die hard fan of the movies will really enjoy. In my opinion I had 
 a lot of fun with the game. The duels are pretty good. Graphics are really nice but not as good 
 as many other xbox 360 games.
  
  The game starts out in the second movie Dead Mans Chest then progresses into the third movie At 
 Worlds End. You are able to play as the three main characters Elizabeth Swan, Will turner, And 
 of course Jack Sparrow. The visuals of Davy Jones are really nice and usually the cutscenes show 
 off some impressive graphics its just to bad they couldn't look like that while your actually playing.
 
  
  If you are looking for a game to get easy acheivement points rent this game and finish it in about 
 a day.
  
  Multiplayer is also pretty fun to play with a friend.
  
  Pros: Graphics, Voice overs, story, relates to the movies real well. Gameplay is ok
  Cons: Can get 
 repetitive at some times. really short. would be nice to have ship battle where you control the 
 ship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair150
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 12, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Pirates 3 isn't a horrible game, but it isn't a great game either. This installment 
 of the Pirates series put you in the boots of... you guessed it, Captain Jack Sparrow. By the way, 
 this game starts a little before where At World's End starts. Goes in a little with Dead Man's 
 Chest. But when you get to the half way point of the game, you sort've feel like stopping just 
 solely because of the repetitive gameplay. Believe me, as a gamer, you start to get annoyed using 
 the same 2-3 combos to kill a person. Oh, wait! You get special moves you rarely need to use, Wow! 
 The sad part about this game is that this would'nt be a normal game if a little more effort was 
 put in to making it. Come on Disney Interactive Studios, your slacking. Overall it's fun, but the 
 repetitiveness will start to set in. Savy? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpikeDelight
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 10, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the dawn of time, man has been fascinated with reliving the movies they just walked 
 out of the theater to see. There were TV shows extending the movies' mythology, action figures, 
 conventions, and more recently, video games. The video game cash-in began pretty much when video 
 games came into existence. But alas, from E. T. to Superman Returns, movie tie-in games have almost 
 always been from bad to abysmal. The graphics always looked like they were from five years before 
 the game came out, the game design and level structure was almost always bad, and most of all, 
 these games were almost always buggy and half finished looking. This was usually because the games 
 were kicked out the door in time for the release of the movie they are shamelessly cashing in on, 
 regardless of whether the developers were done testing. These games though, were always the ones 
 the little kids (who didn't know better) got, making their parents see what they were playing and 
 giving their parents less reason to respect the genre, which is at this point deserves every bit 
 as much respect as movies or music do. These atrocities are what make parents view games as something 
 simple and a waste of time.
  
  Now, in 2007, in the HD-gen, budgets for video games are significantly bigger than those of even 
 the most high profile movies, and games can't just be scraped together with 5 guys working off 
 their computers in between working on the movie the games are based on. If this happens, it will 
 show, and the game will tank. But, in these early years of video gaming in the HD-gen, games still 
 look like their PS2 or XBOX brethren, and no shameless movie tie-ins have really been eye openers 
 with actual current-gen graphics. Sure, games like KING KONG wowed for their time, but that game 
 was put aside as a special project by Peter Jackson himself, and the game was actually worked on 
 not as a shameless movie tie-in, but as a normal game which happens to be set in the Kong universe.
 
  
  Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End, released May 5, 2007, is the first real current-gen shameless 
 movie tie-in. And let me say this: if this is what shameless movie tie-ins look, sound, and play 
 like in this generation, then please, keep them coming! PotC: AWE for the XBOX 360's graphics are 
 amazing for a shameless tie-in game. Everything in the game really makes you feel like you're in 
 the second two Pirates of the Caribbean movies (although Tortuga seems a little bit too tame) . 
 Almost all of the actors' faces were scanned for the game, and the CG characters from the movie 
 (Davy Jones, the hammerhead shark guy, all of the Flying Dutchman's crew) got their character models 
 in the game from Industrial Light &amp; Magic, the special effects company who did the effects 
 for the Pirates of the Caribbean movies. Every character model, even the lesser ones walking around 
 the street are muc more detailed than they would normally be in a movie game (see: Spider-Man 3) . 
 But the main characters, like Jack, Will, Barbossa, and Davy Jones look like their human counterparts 
 to the letter. The human characters do have that lifeless look in their eyes, but you don't see 
 them close up much anyway. All of the environments look good as well, or what's there, since most 
 are pretty contained and linear. The levels where it rains look especially good, as the wet ground 
 looks extremely real. But, besides the straight graphics, there are some real problems. The characters' 
 special moves glitch frequently, which leaves you seeing Jack stab through the air next to a guy 
 and things like that. Also, when characters run off the edge of something, they will usually continue 
 their running animation while going straight down instead of their falling animations, which looks 
 weird. Many graphical problems occur through the game, and you will notice each at least once while 
 going through the game.
  
  On the sound side, the score sounds pretty good, although some of the original tracks don't seem 
 like they fit in as well, since it isn't Hans Zimmer doing the music. The real problems with the 
 sound are that none of the actors reprise their roles for the voices and it shows, especially for 
 Will and Elisabeth. For Jack nobody will probably notice, but I sure did, being a huge Pirates 
 of the Caribbean fan. Also, a lot of the parts where it looks like Jack should be takling are replaced 
 with parts where everyone is silent and the characters just make gestures at each other. These 
 are very frequent and especially awkward because Jack is such a talkative fellow in the movies. 
 Plus, the fact that there are only about 20 different things for each enemy type to say gets very 
 annoying, especially when you hear each voice actor's take on a line, making the game sound like 
 an audition where the developers were actually taping their auditions and put them right into the 
 game.
  
  The gameplay is very repetitive, having only two buttons for attack and only really needing to 
 use one move for the whole game if you choose to play it like an **** Pressing A X A can pretty 
 much work on every single enemy you will encounter in your travels, except for the tougher enemies, 
 who can only be killed by doing a special move, which only requires killling about 10 other guys 
 with said button combination and then going up to the tougher guy, pressing A about eight times, 
 then holding L and pressing one of the buttons for one of the special moves you acquire through 
 the game. The only variations in combat are the one on one sword duels with harder enemies in the 
 game, which all start out with an awkward Virtua Fighter-style introduce both characters before 
 starting the battle scene where Jack looks at the guy and makes a face and then the guy gets mad 
 and does like a thumbs down, and then you go into the sword duel. All you have to do for these 
 is press up, down, or forward to attack, and press which one of those the other guy is doing to 
 defend. These portions are fine when you're winning, but can be frustrating when you start losing, 
 and it can be hard to get out of a slump. Most of the reason why these don't work very well is 
 because the analog sticks are less responsive than it would have been to use the face buttons for 
 this sort of thing. The platforming sections can be fun when you're balancing on a beam or crawling 
 across ledges, but the platforming falls flat when it requires precision. That f-cking Shipwreck 
 City level took me about 15 tries just because of the imprecise nature of the level design versus 
 the way Jack jumps. The reason why I lost so many times is because if you fall in the water, you 
 lose the level. Yes, I know. Jack Sparrow shows in the first movie that he is in fact a very strong 
 swimmer, so don't ask me why the developers decided to make him die on impact with water. But, 
 then again, Frogger can't touch water either. The only real variation is finding the various items 
 scattered throughout the levels, which give you an achievement for finding all seven of them in 
 each level (and each achievement is worth 25 GP, plus two that are worth 150 GP which aren't that 
 hard to get) .
  
  The cutscenes are pretty low-rent, giving a cop-out every chance they get, like when the ship is 
 supposed to fall down the waterfall in the third movie, all the game does is tilt the camera and 
 put a bunch of mist there while there's a close-up on the ship and you can't see what's going on. 
 Not to mention that the only people on any of the ships are Jack, Will, Barbossa, Elisabeth and 
 Gibbs. Why they couldn't put any of the characters you see on the street onto the ships just to 
 populate them is beyond me, but it looks ridiculous that about five characters are manning entire 
 ships by themselves. Besides that, the cutscenes make no sense at all, trying so hard to condense 
 the movies' many twists and turns into something easier to understand, which end up just being 
 laughable and idiotic. For anyone who's planning on playing the game, take special note of the 
 part where they vote and try to tell what's going on, imagining that you didn't see the movie. 
 The parts of the game which try to explain what happened that the movie doesn't explain, like how 
 Jack escapes from that prison in the second movie, don't tie into the movie very well because they 
 don't connect. In the second movie, the coffin is closed with a bird on top. In the game, Jack's 
 dad kicks him into an open coffin. It doesn't make any sense and only distances the game from the 
 movie. And is that a Sao Feng ship popping out of the water like the Flying Dutchman near the end 
 of the game? Please.
  
  All in all, this game is worth renting if you love the movies AND want a fairly easy extra 1000 
 Gamerscore. But if you only like the movies, then don't even play it because you won't really enjoy 
 it. This is also part of the reason why nobody should get it on PS3 because you won't get any achievements, 
 and trophies probably won't be compatible with the game when they are released for Home later this 
 year. Be warned though, if you want the whole 1000, be prepared to spend about an hour and a half 
 exploiting an infinite enemies part of the game on Port Royal in order to collect 100 souls from 
 shrunken heads you collect. Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed this game. It really makes you feel like 
 you're in the movies, and it's fun to spot the nods to the movies (like the statue in front of 
 the Blacksmith's where Jack hides behind in the first movie) . Really though, I love the movies, 
 but I'd NEVER buy this game, especially because it can be beaten in about 8 hours. Please, please 
 save your money for the dearth of upcoming summer blockbuster games which are so much more worthy 
 of your $60 than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coldman1
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 8, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Pirates Of The Carribean: At Worlds End is the third and might just be the final installment in 
 the hugely popular Pirates Of The Carribean Series. At World's End Might just be the greatest film 
 ever (Nah Pokemon The First Movie Is) But the same cannot be said for the game. In Pirates Of The 
 Carribean: At Worlds End you take control of Multiple characters but mainly the character you control 
 the most is jack sparrow but if you're thinking WOW we can control that weird eyeball dude well 
 you can but there's a catch you can only play as him when you fighting loads of enemies and have 
 to make sure that your allies don't die but you can use him in Multiplayer mode as well as other 
 characters.
  
  The Game maybe called 'At Worlds End' but if you want this game because you want to fight through 
 the film well sorry to disappoint you but you wont, the story begins about half way through the 
 second film which was 'Dead Man's Chest' an then carry on through til the end of 'At Worlds End' 
 but the developers have taken out all the best parts of the film and have left in the boring parts 
 such as like jumping and hanging from ledges no fun there but there isn't much difference with 
 the fighting area aswell because you have 3 basic attack buttons 'Y' for grapple, 'A' for Sword 
 and stuff and 'X' for Melee but it can be quite boring pressing the same buttons over and over 
 again. Now onto the Graphics which is probaly the best aspect of this game, the game's graphics 
 are so fine tuned that you can feel the sun's heat on you well not literally but you get my point 
 but the graphics are amazing.
  
  The Multiplayer aspect of the game has you either competing with a friend either Co-Op attacking 
 a whole load of enemies that come out of nowhere or you can duel with each other but if you were 
 hoping that you can do Co-Op through story mode well i hate to burst your bubble but you can't. 
 which is a shame cause the game might have been that much better if it was included.
  
  The Length of the game is really really short about 4-6 hours take you to complete it took me that 
 long anyway but there is replay ability due to the fact that there are treasure chests around with 
 special items contained in them each level has there own special item and you have to collect all 
 7 in each level to get a bonus and an achievement, you get an achievement for completing each level 
 anyway but the achievement isn't for that , no, it's for unlocked either Jack's, Will's or Elizabeth's 
 Finishing move each of those characters has 4 special moves which are easy to pull off and get 
 you 25G each Move you learn.
  
  If You Want this game solely on the fact that you either want the achievement points or You just 
 love the game take my advice rent this game DO NOT i repeat DO NOT BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jejh1971
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  Pirates AWE is almost good... The combat is terribly clumsy and too hard to control or enjoy, but 
 the item collecting is clever and fun. I stopped playing it because of the aggravating and too-hard 
 combat, though. Just when you need to trigger that special finishing move to kill the main guy 
 in the group of baddies (constantly) surrounding you, you can't hit the special buttons fast enough. 
 I became frustrated and mad at this time and just turned it off! It's a real shame Pirates AWE's 
 combat sucks so bad because the environment graphics are ultra-top-notch, and the graphic likenesses 
 of the actors from the movie is some of the best I've seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warwithin4486
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 6, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this may not be the greatest game ever, but it IS one of the best licensed games ever. The 
 graphics are AMAZING, and I for one think these are the best graphics I have ever seen, at least 
 the most realistic. Before this game Gears of War held this crown, but that game has a slightly 
 cartoonish look. The characters are all spot on, the animation is amazing, the lighting is perfect, 
 and the environments feel like they're an add on to the Pirates theme park ride. In fact, the whole 
 game feels like a kick ass ride. Sure, as Gamespot said the combat is repetitive, but that's not 
 what this game is about. It's mpre about exploring these amazing locales and visisting all the 
 characters from the movie. Besides, the boss fight duels make up for the repetitive combat with 
 intense fighting that keeps you on the edge of your seat. On the sound end of things, the developers 
 recreated the entire soundtrack with an orchestra, and it shows. The entire game, you feel like 
 you're in the movie. Also, the voice actors mimicking Johnny, Keira, and the rest are so spot on, 
 I didn't even know they weren't the real guys until I watched the making of. If you like the pirates 
 movies, you will totally love this game. There could be more to it, and I beat it in a few days, 
 but that's what sequels are for. Also, I played this game for like two days straight, which is 
 a good sign. I couldn't put it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmrfuzzy225x
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 5, 2007 12:08 am PT
Review:  The game is full of fun gameplay. But once you've beaten it once. It just is the same old repetitive 
 gameplay. The story is great. Of course like most games made off of movies. The game is different 
 as in events happening. I've seen the second movie and the parts in the game that were there to 
 show what happened. Are defiantly not the same as in the movies. But the graphics are awesome. 
 It feels like you are actually Johnny Depp fighting other pirates. A good 12 levels gives you a 
 good amount of time to finish before that 5 day rental is up. Gamerscore boosters out there will 
 love this game to boost a easy 1000 gamerscore to their accounts. In the end a great storyline 
 but not a great replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gladi8or19
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I Rented this game and i enjoyed it... im a big fan of the movies so i definetly was excited to 
 play it. though the game was a bit different than the movies were, it was still worth playing it. 
 It was a good rental, but not anymore than that, i wouldnt buy this game... id think that the only 
 people who would buy this game would be people who are maybe not great players, or just take a 
 long time to adapt to games controls, or are just younger, or are big POTC Fans.
  
  The graphics were pretty good, as was the sound and gameplay, except for the fact that a pirate 
 dies if he falls in water... kinda ironic haha, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cardfan_01
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  well the game looks top notch but falls far short in the kind of gameplay you would come to expect 
 in a game like this. the game play is a rather childish but since its from disney i can see why. 
 its really hard to tell if they were aiming for adults or for children in this title. due to the 
 fact that you can stab through people but not even a drop of blood. and the camera angles at times 
 is like playing the old resident evel games. i would advis just renting this title and giving it 
 a quick testdrive before even that via xboxlive markitplace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krakowwak0001
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  There is alot more Finding than fighting
  
  From a movie standpoint, Pirates is an incredibly family friendly, and overall fun franchise. It 
 would only make sense for a video game, and it seems that if it wasnt pressured to be released 
 simultaneously with the film that the lackluster experience that the next gen version of Pirates 
 of the Caribbean: At Worlds End provides could easily have been avoided. Despite its standout points, 
 Pirates 3 is more blunder than plunder.
  
  Your first mission in the Pirates video game takes you behind the scenes of the second film, Dead 
 Mans Chest. As Jack Sparrow youll undergo a painstaking tutorial that holds your hand for too 
 long, and far too often. The tutorial gives you an idea of how repetitious the combat is going 
 to be immediately, and also shows how convoluted and linear the title is. Swordplay consists of 
 tapping A (Xbox 360) twice, after which time your enemy will be stunned, and turn his back to 
 you. Hit your single attack button again, and its instant death for your fatuously brain dead 
 foe. Waves of enemies come at you, and unfortunately youll be pressing the attack button until 
 it gets jammed, or falls off. The only variation of combat youll find as you play along is the 
 finishing moves - Pull your trigger, and hit your B or Y button for a slick little finishing 
 move. Each character has his or her own unique set of finishers, however, a single change in fighting 
 style isnt enough to mix things up to make the combat satisfying. Using projectiles like knives, 
 or guns is fun and very pirate-esque, however, the lack of a cursor provides little to no aid in 
 taking down your foes. Plenty of knives will zip by your foes, as they remain not even remotely 
 close to being any sort of harmed by your projectile. A reticle would have been a very helpful, 
 and seemingly obvious addition to the mechanics. Boss battles mix up the combat again, but simply 
 consist of flicking the controllers analog stick up or down to attack or defend. They arent particularly 
 difficult, but its a nice change of pace. However, by your second duel, you will still find that 
 the tutorial is walking you through, pestering you over and over again after a few hours of play. 
 If you can get passed the gameplay and its brutal monotony, you should be more than satisfied with 
 what is the tip of the Pirates 3 video game experience.
  
  While the game doesnt necessarily break any barriers with the way it plays, for a film game, its 
 surprisingly detailed. In fact, for a next gen game, characters and environments are noticeably 
 quite pretty. Rain effects over recognizable environments make for an immersive experience as you 
 play as a set amount of familiar film characters, from Jack, to Elizabeth to Gibbs. All of these 
 characters are voiced by sound-alikes who will make you turn your head twice in conviction, its 
 just sad how little they speak, as if the developers were curious as to how fans might react to 
 them. The audio and animation in the characters really help capture the source material in a convincing 
 and enjoyable way. Fans wont only enjoy this, as theyll likely enjoy more of the off-camera 
 scenes, like how Sparrow escaped prison, or how Will Turner sneaks in to Jones organ hall. Treasure 
 hunting is abundant and appropriate, and point to the majority of the 360 versions fun-to-earn-achievements 
 .
  
  However, among all of this, gamers wont be satisfied as gamers. Repetition dominates this generally 
 simple game, but its a relatively well used license for a video game. The most damaging part of 
 the game is that there is no auto save. I found myself playing for a number of hours and later 
 finding myself playing through it again because the game did not save. That said, the fact that 
 I went back shows how interested I was to play it again, but it was purely out of a fan lust. Pirates 
 of the Caribbean: At Worlds End isnt forced to walk the plank, but its really getting on this 
 captains last nerve. Its just enough to stay alive, but the simplicity and constant guiding you 
 along really hurts it overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinalDuo1886
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  I'm a big pirates fan, so the lacking of each aspect that made this game dull and repetitive didn't 
 phase me. Anyone that not into pirates or never heard of it ( couldn't see how) would Judge this 
 game harsly based on the fact that it may appeal to them as being dull and repetitive. Not to many 
 Disney games reach the peak of being great like this game, so regardless of what may be scored, 
 this game deserves much more then it gain so far. Cars was meh, and the other pirates games was 
 also meh, but with this game suddenly In play, and also being a RPG. I can see good things in the 
 future for Disney games, if they finally learn from their mistake, and decide to put more into 
 there games that will appeal more to a wide range of gamers then just little kids. I can defiantly 
 see good things for the next pirates game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ma_hurt
Rating: 6
Date: May 31, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  I am sure that most of you are aware of how bad most games are that come out immediately after 
 a big movie. The records have shown that these games do not inspire high end game mechanics, and 
 are usually very dull. So you will not be surprised to find out that this game falls within the 
 expected boundaries of these rushed to market movie experience games. What makes it a little better 
 then the usually movie themed games, is that the graphics engines are a lot better now, so it is 
 easy to disguise bad game-play with nice, and truley stunning, backgrounds.
  
  So, here it is.... The game looks really nice. The scenery is fantastic! The graphics are so good, 
 that you literally make your way through a lot of the content before you realize that you have 
 been given yet another poorly planned movie game. Honestly, you think that this game will be one 
 of the few exceptions when you first start playing - and this is due to the beautiful landscapes. 
 But this feeling eventually ends, and you realize that it is just a highly repetitive game machanic 
 that just screams we want this game out as soon as possible to cash in on the movie success . Summary: 
 If you are a true pirate fan, then rent it and have fun for a few hours. Afterwards, you will be 
 happy that you are giving it back to the store. If you are not a pirate fan, then just skip it. 
 Play it at a friend's house just to say that you have seen the nice visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Novanglus
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 30, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  At Worlds End is mediocre at best. It is a rather repetitive and boring game, with essentially 
 the exact same battle every time, except in different locations. It is difficult to immerse yourself 
 in it as there is little depth or extensive character development. The controls are not difficult, 
 as it is basically button mashing with some control stick movement thrown in for some variety . 
 I find the controls very boring and they lack the ability to be able to fight very effectively 
 or with any sort of flare. Though, it is a good game to play when there is little else in the world 
 to do and you wish not to think much at all. The visuals and humorous cut scenes  and just because 
 its Pirates of the Caribbean caused it to actually have some value. This game is recommended for 
 very novice gamers and avid pirate fanatics. And even then it should only be rented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foller21
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 30, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This game has good graphics but boring gameplay and you feel like it's the same thing but you fight 
 against different men or crew this game may grow on you if you are a pirates fan but if you are 
 not and you are trying the game for the first time you will not like it because it the same music 
 over and over again and how likes a game with the same things over and over again i do not if you 
 do but things that are repetative get boring except music but thats another story. The people who 
 develop this game could have done a better job because this game could be more fun and interesting. This 
 game is to easy i passed it in three days. But if you buy the game buy the guide it helps you a 
 lot because this game might be boring but has a lot of tricky parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diva-of-Destiny
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing atomosphere, graphics, environments, story, and script that really transport 
 you into the pirate realm. A unique experience worth having amidst all the run-of-the-mill games 
 out there.
  
  The Bad: Fighting can be slightly tedious. AI while you are controlling 3 characters at once is 
 poor. Crossing balance beam like obstacles is annoying.
  
  Pirates has it's flaws, but it's benefits far, far outweigh them and make this an experience definitely 
 worth having. The xbox360 needs more pirate games, and this one really delivers, whether you are 
 a fan of pirates in general, the Pirates of the Caribbean movies, or just a good, unique story. 
 The incredible graphics and atmospheres really transport you to the pirate world, and the engaging 
 story makes you really want to stay. There's nothing else like this on the 360, and it's a refreshing 
 change of pace from the steady stream of first person shooters. And did I mention the GRAPHICS 
 are AMAZING...!!!
  
  The game pays attention to detail so well - things like Jack's mannerisms and way of speaking - 
 that are consistent with the movies. With some games you wonder if the script writer ever even 
 watched the movie/show - this is definitely not one of those games.
  
  The stars from the movies may not be doing the voice acting, but I wouldn't have even known that 
 if I hadn't read it on Gamespot. The voice of Jack Sparrow sounds so much like Johnny Depp that 
 I wouldn't be able to tell it from the real Johnny Depp. The music and sound effects are also great 
 - appropriate and not tacky or annoying in any way.
  
  There are a few problems. The game will sometimes have you play as 3 characters at once, switching 
 back and forth. The AI for the characters you are not currently using is dumb, and you really have 
 to babysit all 3 and switch around. Luckily, this is a very small part of the game. As for the 
 fighting in general, it can get a little tedious, but not enough to prevent the game from being 
 fun. There's lots of other stuff to do, and besides, I'd rather have simplistic fighting than tedious 
 memorization of long combos like some other games. Controls when you are crossing balance-beam 
 like obstacles are annoying too, but you get used to them. Luckily, again, very, very small part 
 of the game. While the game may have these small issues, they don't change the fact that it's an 
 excellent game and a unique experience overall.
  
  I've heard some people complain about the fighting mechanic and I just don't think they get it 
 . The fighting isn't the main point or the main strength of the game. The game's strength lies 
 in it's atmosphere, story, graphics, environments, and script. The fighting is one small part of 
 a game that has many facets. And frankly, the good stuff is the more important stuff anyway.
  
  As for replay value, I will definitely be playing the game again to collect what I missed the 
 first time, get acheivements, and simply because the game is stunning and a real pleasure getaway 
 from the mundane environments and stories of most games.
  
  I would like to note for those who pick the game up - it gets better and better as you progress. 
 The further into the game you get, the more exciting the game becomes, and the more creative the 
 situations and environments are.
  
  I definitely recommend Pirates unless your only consideration is complex fighting mechanics. You 
 won't find that here but you will find SO MUCH MORE. If you like games that really transport you 
 to another world, this delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDUB_x
Rating: 7
Date: May 29, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Pirates of the Caribbean is definitely the best Pirates of the Caribbean game to be released, although 
 there are a few areas that needed Improvement.
  
  what works:
  
  The game looks incredible. character models, environments, and the backdrops all are incredibly 
 detailed. its actually shocking to see this much visual detail in a licensed game. I liked the 
 Duel based Boss Battles and the Platforming segments are mostly good. What Doesn't Work:
  
  The general Combat is bland and repetitive. The objectives lack a general direction of what you 
 need to do, The compass does not do a very good job of telling you where to go. The main game is 
 very short, and worst of all is the A. I. controlled characters that you need to protect is so horrible 
 that unless you switch between characters rapidly, they get killed and you have to try again from 
 a checkpoint. The 3 characters at once moments in the game really kill the experience because they 
 are so bad at protecting themselves that it makes those parts more of a chore than an enjoyable 
 experience.
  
  Despite it's flaws Pirates of the Caribbean fans will enjoy the game while it lasts and action 
 adventure fans will get some limited play out of it. A rental at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fresh2deafbill
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Pirates of the Caribbean At World's End is a movie based game on both the second and third movies. 
 While the games graphics are amazing on the 360 version it doesn't make up for the lack-lustered 
 gameplay. There is only one attack button that you need to use and you can just mash it until your 
 enemies fall to the ground. There are a number of boss fights in the game in the form of a sword 
 fight. These are not difficult in any way and can be done in a matter of minutes. In your adventures 
 you play as all the main characters. The story follows exactly how the movies goes and the environments 
 look just as they do in the movies.
  
  The points are varied very well and range from easy to impossible. In ending this game does a good 
 job with graphics and gives you a good feeling of being a pirate, but that is about it. I made 
 the mistake of buying this but you shouldn't. RENT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 29, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The developers for this game tried really hard to separate this game from other recent 
 movie tie-ins, as well as upcoming ones, to no avail. Basically you'll be stabbing all the same-looking 
 enemies, all the time; either that or collecting scattered items and Calypso pieces. The basic 
 controls are [A] to use your sword, [X] to punch, [Y] to grab, and a combination of the LT + [A] , 
 [X] , [B] , or [Y] to initiate finishing moves. There are 11 levels to play through, the first 5 
 consisting of Dead Man's chest storylines, which then moves on to Singapore and the resulting story 
 of the World's End movie. Throughout the button-mashing and item collecting, you'll have duels 
 (at least once in ALMOST every level, but not all) . The duels try to innovate by changing the scheme, 
 you press Up, Back, or Down to attack, [A] for a special swing, and the same as well to defend. 
 These duels are mostly uninteresting, and break up the action in a bad way; only to slow it down. 
 My biggest pet-peeve is that if there are minion-based enemies, then a special enemy which can 
 only be killed by the finishing move I spoke of, the minions will keep spawning until the special 
 enemy is dead. This results in a lot of deaths as a result of you or your allies losing health 
 before you realize what must be done. That brings up another problem, your allies, sometimes you 
 have to take care of 1 or 2 allies, as well as yourself, switching between them with the D-Pad 
 (left or right) , and guess what, the enemies your allies kill just revive until you kill them personally, 
 as well as the A. I. being crap. Lastly, there is an attack called Jackanism (LT + RT + [A] ) in 
 which your sword turns green, and you can steal souls or open Jackanism chests, which, other than 
 that, provides no neccessitty to be included.
  
  Graphics: The graphics, like all the critics pointed out, are the best selling-point of this game. 
 The characters look like they should, the duels look better than one would have thought, but a 
 lot of enemy skins are re-used.
  
  Sound: Official soundtrack from the movies are used in this game, I was pleasantly surprised when 
 I heard the Kraken music being played (like in DMC) on the associated level.
  
  Value: There are 7 items to collect on each level, as well as a Jackanism chest on most levels 
 you play as Jack Sparrow, as well as Calypso pieces (12 in all) . When you open Jackanism chests 
 or collect all the Calypso pieces, you unlock content in the Extras, but it's usually uninteresting, 
 the Calypso storyline was okay, it followed the movies. Also, there is the ability to Replay Levels, 
 which is only useful for finishing your achievements.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: It follows the plot decently well, but when I fight Singaporians on the Singapore 
 level, I was in awe when, after killing their kin, they let Elizabeth and Barbossa in; did they 
 even think some of these things out? Some changes are made to the plot to fit in levels, but why 
 the hell can't Jack Sparrow swim? I mean, maybe in the movies he can't swim but... why would he 
 die instantly on contact with shallow water?
  
  My Final Word: Rent it, don't buy it. I achieved 100% completion (game and achievement-wise) in 
 1 sitting; I can sit really long. I hope you do check this game out, because for what it's worth, 
 it's one of the better movie-based games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdodds
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 28, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  POTC is a fantastic game, with good graphics and follows the storyline of Dead mans chest and At 
 Worlds End quite accurately. The only thing the game lets itself down on is the combat. To use 
 your sword it's just pressing A all the time. The environment you play in is (mostly) fantastic 
 and many players will enjoy every minute of the game. The game is great for Pirate fans. If you 
 love the movies buy the game, if not rent it and decide for yourself. The game's quite short and 
 easy achievements.
  
  My advice is give it ago, it's a game that you either love or hate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camster95
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 28, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  I really liked it easy achievements and its has good game play so i would say its a buyer defiantly 
 the other cool thing is that it has Pirates 2 and 3 in the game so i though that was really cool 
 The graphics weren't the best i would give them a 7.5 but the game play and camera angles were 
 awesome so i'm serious go buy the game now I would still rent it first though just in case but 
 i don't think theres a point because this game is THE BOMB so HURRY UP AND GO BUY IT OR RENT IT 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 29, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  Gamespot's written review of this game is pretty much on the money, though I give this a little 
 more love than they do. First off, the graphics for the 360 are astounding. I have a 32 LCD HD 
 flat panel TV, so I can truly see the magnificient artwork behind every frame. The characters are 
 remarkably similar to their movie counterparts, though yes, Depp's Jack Sparrow is little too wobbly 
 in the game - he seems a mixture of too drunk and too light in the shoes, not to offend. Still, 
 it's fair to say, the characters in this game are by far the best recreation of real recognizable 
 actors ever put in a game. That goes for just about the entire game's presentation. Most notably 
 the ships and water. There are some truly talented people behind this game.
  Either way, the gameplay is sadly too simplistic, and worse, the game seems to think that players 
 can't remember what button (s) to push in order to accomplish any task. This is all fine during 
 the beginning mission, but becomes annoying once you're well into the story, especially since interaction 
 with anything is always the same. And this brings up a point about what demographic the developers 
 were after: youngsters or adults? Certainly, young players will have no problem smashing away on 
 the A button and watching their favorite pirates hack his and her way through hords of baddies. 
 But, as Gamespot also mentions, if that is the case, it's a bit disturbing to see some very graphic 
 depictions of death in the finishing moves - though keeping with Disney tradition, moves lacking 
 any blood. Still, that can be forgiven; it's hardly the worst young gamers have seen, and there 
 is alwasy - just like the movie - a bit of tongue-in-cheek fun to everything. I really liked the 
 mini-boss fights when play switches to a kind of side-scrolling timed button puzzle. You face off 
 against an enemy and either defend or attack depending on the cues given by small circles on the 
 side of the screen. These are fun - and simple - but still challenging enough to make each one 
 something to look forward too. Gamespot complains that the notoriety count is usesless, and I agree, 
 collecting money and earning points for special moves seems to have no effect on anything other 
 than displaying a running total of your collected points. But if Microsoft has shown anything with 
 Xbox Live, it's that players will do anything to collect Achievements, which, like this game's 
 notoriety are worth exactly the same: squat. But that didn't stop me from trying to find every 
 last bag of gold, or sea shell, or flag, or whatever. We like to see numbers get bigger, and At 
 World's End taps directly into that want. And just like Achievements, encourages replay if you 
 missed anything the first time through.
  So in summary, if you want jaw-dropping graphics with some simple yet fun action and wall climbing, 
 this game should satisfy. Those who thrive on mastering the precision of Prince of Persia, Ninja 
 Gaiden, or Tomb Raider: Legend, or the technical squad mechanics of the Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 
 series won't find the same visceral thrills here, but there is still plenty of laughs, challenges, 
 and swordplay to make this game worth a chance. Sometimes playing a game should be just that: playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: widemouthedfrog
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 28, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  This game is not as bad as the reviews I have read. It looks great, plays smooth &amp; above all 
 for a game, its fun! I am not sure why its a 16+ rating though? Not very Disney??? I guess maybe 
 its the graphic nature of the finishing moves. My eldest daughter loves it and as there are not 
 too many decent games for kids this serves a purpose.
  
  Also as it wasn't the high cost of other, less enjoyable games it has been money well spent. Ok, 
 it's not going to test your brain or your reflexes too much &amp; there is very little 'live' to 
 it but there are FAR worse games out there that people blow their cash on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icepunch29
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 26, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  I like the character selection and the deuls and how u can go whereever u want and exploer where 
 ever and u can play as davey jones and go insed go to the davey jones locker and escape the place 
 and they should of made where u can place as captian barbosa and explore from the deads man ches 
 to at worrlds end where u can chose to play from each character either captian jack or captian 
 barbosa or will turner. I like how the gameplay is also u can go anywere and see the black pearl 
 closs and personal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sargentstriker
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 26, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  this game is good but they to it and i wish it could of been like the first pirates game! and it 
 coul of been like the gta style and the gameplay , and how u can go whereever u want and exploer 
 where ever and u can play as davey jones and go insed go to the davey jones locker and escape the 
 place and they should of made where u can place as captian barbosa and explore from the deads man 
 ches to at worrlds end where u can chose to play from each character either captian jack or captian 
 barbosa or will turner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZERObaker000
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 26, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  i wasnt too sure about this game at first but after i saw the graphics and gameplay i was relieved 
 to see that disney didnt make another bomb of a video game... i thought that it was kinda odd how 
 they compiled all the Pirates of the Caribbean movies together... it jumped around a lot and you 
 couldnt really follow it even if you know the story line... another i liked was that it had easy 
 achievements... i got about half of them in under 4 hours of gameplay. All in all its a pretty good 
 game... At World's End gets 2 thumbs up from me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_jedi13
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 25, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  the only thing i did not like about the game was that they tried to rush the 2nd and 3rd movie. 
 but everything else was amazing the graphics were really good the swordplay was amazing along with 
 the duels and i love the multiplayer. my friend and i play it over and over again. the acheivements 
 are pretty easy to grab and i would definetly play this game again. and its safe to say i would 
 love to play this game on the wii so definetly going to purchase it for that system as well. i 
 would recommend this to anyone that loves the movies it puts u right in the middle and you have 
 alot of fun not just being jack sparrow but all the other major characters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Pirates of the Caribbean At World's End is obviously based on the film of the same name. It also 
 follows the events of the second film Dead Man's Chest. This game easily avoids the ocean depths, 
 find out why by reading on you scurvy dog!
  
  Gamplay: A bit on the simple side which is a bit disappointing but there is a variety of different 
 gameplay types included which is great. There's obviously the combat which is pretty basic but 
 at the same time you can string together some pretty cool combos. Playing as the different characters 
 is great as well. There are some nice platforming sections reminiscent of Prince of Persia and 
 there's also a cool dueling system. This is really cinematic and is really fun to do. There's also 
 a multiplayer componetent which is also quite fun. Levels have around 4 objectives each and each 
 one will last you around 30-45 minutes. However there are also other things to do in the levels 
 so its not as linear as you may think as you can go off exploring as well. So the gameplay is a 
 bit too basic in parts but still this game plays pretty well.
  
  Graphics: These are some of the best graphics ever to be seen on the Xbox 360. They rival Gears 
 of War which gives you an idea of how good they are! The environments are absolutely gorgeous. 
 The game has a great lighting effect and the textures are incredible. The character models are 
 some of the most realistic I've seen and the animations for all of them are sublime. How Gamespot 
 can only give the graphics a 7 is beyind me.
  
  Sound: The musical score is awesome in this game with some original stuff mixed in with authentic 
 tracks from the film. The only downer is that the actors from the movies don't voice their characters 
 but the stand ins do a pretty good job themselves.
  
  Value: The story mode is apparently not that long but from what I've played there's incentive to 
 go through the levels again to find all the collectibles. Plus the game is really fun so I wouldn't 
 mind going through again anyway! Plus there's multiplayer which is pretty fun with a co-op mode 
 where you and your pal fight and kill as many enemies as you can and another one is the duel mode.
 
  
  Overall this is a realy, really fun game that captures the look and feel of the films perfectly. 
 If you're a fan of the movies or just want a simple and fun game to play then you should at least 
 rent it and maybe even pick it up for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 26, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  I loved the pirates of the Caribbean movies, so I Am a fun but this game falls short. The graphics 
 are great and the sound is ok. But the game play is where the game is lacking (If youre smarter 
 then a fifth grader) . The camera is a pain to control sometimes and Often moves one level up to 
 a pain in the ass. The fights are simple hack and slash which isnt always bad, but there are very 
 few combos you can do. There is a multi player component in this game a 2 player but since the 
 combos are so weak it takes a lot way from it. In the story mode there are duels that you can run 
 into very simple but more fun then the ordinary game play, which is very linier. Being as simple 
 as this game is it would have could have been better A LOT! They should have taken some pointers 
 from Evil Dead: Regeneration, Pirates and the first Pirats of the Caribean. Plus game would be a 
 bit more bearable with some Jack Sparrow one liners but for most of the game hes a mute except 
 for the cut scenes Savvy. As for the game following the movie well.... It doesn't. The game is acually 
 better then the movie:) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gadeos
Rating: 8
Date: May 24, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  This review comes from a PotC movie trilogy fan (anxiously waiting for tomorrow's launch) , so it's 
 not an objetive one. The games is fun to play, just that: don't expect plenty of content as of 
 story comes, specially 'cause most of the original story's been modified... ok, it's still the 
 same but retold in a different, simple way... easier to digest if 'u want. Characters look amazing, 
 as so as graphics in general. When it comes to cutscenes, it's hilarious to see Captain Sparrow 
 moving just like he does... fun to see it, lol. Combat system is really simple, yet entertaining 
 but a bit repetitive. I still have a lot to do but, since I only play it with my girlfriend (another 
 fan) , it's gonna take a while... but's fun to be both enjoying the same thing at the same time.
 
  This is not a game for fans that won't take it easy with the game's lack of connection with original 
 story... also, if you're just looking for an action game, and consider yourself a hardcore gamer, 
 please, DO NOT PLAY this one... rent it for the most if u're curious about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: levenhagen
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 24, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  spider man prove that games-based-on-movies are cool , pirates continue this legacy and takes you 
 from a prison to world's end.
  
  The first thing you are going to note in the game are the graphics, simple awesome, each face looks 
 like real, second thing is the sound, the same music of the movie, and finally the third thing, 
 the combat.
  
  The combat is very simple, press A and you attack with the sword, press X and you punch the enemy, 
 press Y and you make the grapple movement, this combat system is very simple so, it's not the best 
 thing on the game, but, after sometime you start liking this combat system just because it's simple!
 
  
  Boss battles in pirates are awesome, they're a duel you attack with the left analog stick (A is 
 the special attack) , 3 circle will be in the back of the enemy, when one of them shine you defend 
 pointing you analog up, or down, or in the middle like this: the highest circle shine, so, he is 
 going to do a high attack, then you point your stick up, understand?
  Each duel is more difficult because your oponents start doing a lot of combos and you need some 
 reflex.
  
  After you finish the game you still can repeat the missions to get the hidden items and try do 
 get 100 souls, so, pirates is a game that you certainly will play after finishing it.
  
  The game is a lot about adventure too, you will run, climb and jump through the game, the game 
 have 11 missions, 6 from the second movie and 4 from the third, the game is a lot fun and, if you 
 are missing a adventure game in the 360, or if you just want a cool, fun game, pirates is a must 
 buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 4.1
Date: May 23, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Corny/lame movies can sometime make for entertaining ventures in other genre's. Whether it be video 
 games, TV shows etc., so on and so forth. POTC is an average (maybe even overrated) movie series 
 that makes for a less enjoyable gamin experience.
  
  Gameplay: 4
  
  The engine is crap, and the third person view is done poorly. The controls are not responsive and 
 game cameras are a distraction. Combat is awfully easy.... it seriously provides as little challenge 
 as possible. The gameplay doesn't match the game well at all. Too many issues and glitches keep 
 the gameplay from even being remotely good. The frame-rate is terrible.
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  The only bright spot. Player models are so life-like it's mind boggling. The environments, 
 including the ships ad boats, almost look as if you are there in person. Sound: 5
  
  Sound is dull, boring, corny and repetitive. Sound effects are far from original and sounded elementary 
 in the majority of the game. I heard better sound on the PS2.... during it's launch period.
  
  Value: 3
  
  The storyline is so poor it take more away from an already mundane game. It 
 renders very little replay value. Games translated from movies can sometime take a turn like this. 
 It seems almost inevitable for every movie series, but this game is just so bland you feel like 
 putting it down in about 20 minutes. If you really need a POTC fix, try a previous release on a 
 last-gen system.
  
  Tilt: 2
  
  One of, if not THE least playable game on the 360. You feel like you are playing a teenager peter 
 pan game rather than a rendition of Jack Sparrow. If you like the movie, stay away because it will 
 leave a bad taste in your mouth. If you don't like the movie (like me) then this is just a flat 
 out waste of time and I would advise taking a hot soldering iron and welding your a55h0l3 shut 
 because that's going to render more fun than playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptJSparrow
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is utterly amazing. I haven't played Spider-Man 3 since I got it (I preordered this game 
 when I picked up my preorder of Spidey LOL) ! Everything in this game is absolutely incredible. 
 There's really nothing much to say about a perfect game, other than that it's.... uh... perfect. 
 This is the best Disney game that Disney has ever released, Meet The Robinsons coming in second. 
 This shows that Disney's video game section is really getting alot better. But they've outdone 
 themselves with Pirates 3. This game is everything anyone would want or care for it to be. Wonderful 
 Work, Disney Intereactive Studios! I'm sure that the movie will be even better than the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaver16
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best sword playing/3rd person game i have ever played, not only to u get to 
 play as Jack Sparrow but also as Will and others... Game is soo awesome if u love the movies play 
 this game has Story from Dead Man's Chest and At worlds end!!!, the combat is easy, the story is 
 awesome, colors are excelent, and on an HDTV, makes it look like im watching the movie, and i love 
 the fact that the game is in widescreen makes it more Cinimatic... If you love playing sword/3rd 
 person/pirate game, THIS IS YOUR GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyberella
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 22, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Really cool graphs, great sound effects. Great lighting effects and amazing detailed textures throughout 
 the games environment. Johnny Depp is exactly as seen on big screen. The characters design is 
 absolutely identical to the actors.
  The gameplay is really cool but just do not have many elements in order to more into the combat 
 sequences. It is pretty easy to follow the game sequence but the story gets somehow complicated 
 and there are times that you cannot follow the scenario.
  Gameplay does not get easily boring but sometimes in the fighting sequences it is getting pretty 
 much the same throughout the game. Perhaps the game should need more adventure components than 
 action or greater pluralism of action elements.
  In that way it lacks depth into the action gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zappa02
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 22, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Too start off this game is just playing fun. The game never gets boring at all. Its not hard, its 
 very easy, its just right. I only had this game for like 7 hours. Did not get too play it that 
 much, But so far like I said fun as Hell. I am going to keep this review about the Gameplay, Graphics, 
 and how it Sounds. I am not going to tell you what you can do in the game. I am not going to tell 
 you with its a free roaming game you will just have to go out and buy it or rent it.
  
  Perfect Gameplay
  
  Its fun as hell and it never gets boring and the gameplay is just right.
 
  
  Great Graphics
  
  I have to say that the graphics to the game is the Best looking graphics in the hole dam series. 
 Like the water in the game looks so nice I could drink it off my HDTV and ever thing els in the 
 game looks nice and Colorful.
  
  Superb Sound
  
  The sound is just superb. Ever time you get it to a sword finth, it just fells like you are in 
 the game and in the story.
  
  So over all this game is about the fun ass game play, with great graphics, and amazing sounds. 
 Its a buy if you are Pirates of the Caribbean fan if not you should rent it first. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
