-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pocketbike Racer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/pocketbikeracer/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Weirdly compelling FMV intro sequence.
 More features than you'd expect from such a budget game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Racing is bad, at best.
 Online is often broken.
 Repetitive music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 5.8, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 862 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: King Games
Developer: Blitz Games
Genre: Racing
Date: Nov 19, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Pocketbike Racer is a bad kart-racing game that's often broken. 

  Pocketbike Racer is one of the three games being made available by Burger King as part of a limited-time 
 promotion. The games are all available for $3.99 -- provided you also purchase some food. At a cost 
 of four dollars, you get what you pay for, but the games do still have some inherent value, even 
 if it's solely on an ironic level. On top of that, the limited-time nature of the deal means that 
 these games might (but probably won't) be rare in the future. Pocketbike Racer is a Mario Kart-style 
 racing game on tiny motorcycles that can fire a handful of different weapons. It's not so good. 

          Racing on pocketbikes is probably very hard on the knees.     

  Like any mascot kart-racing game, there are multiple characters to choose from in Pocketbike Racer, 
 and these ones mainly come from the deep, deep pantheon of the Burger King library. Starting right 
 at the top, you have the King himself, but there are others, like Whopper Jr., Subservient Chicken, 
 and, uh, model-slash-TV-hostess Brooke Burke. From there, you choose a bike, each of which has 
 ratings in three different statistics. You then race. The main mode is a very standard combat racing 
 mode, where you want to finish first and can get ahead of your opponents by using your weapons. 
 There are gates on the course that fill a weapon meter when you pass through them. As the meter 
 fills, more weapons become available to you. The lowest level is a shield, but you can move up 
 to a bottle rocket, firecrackers, a homing rocket, a flash bomb, and the disruptor, which reverses 
 the controls of any target it hits. If you get more energy than you need, you can toggle the weapons 
 back down to a lower-level item, but the controls for this are awkward. Other modes include a more 
 combat-intensive battle royale, a cone slalom, a time trial, and a stripped-down mode that takes 
 all the gates and weapons away for a pure race. There are multiple courses in the game, starting 
 at a Burger King parking lot and progressing to a backyard level, a garden, and so on. The courses 
 have a couple of shortcuts but are otherwise very generic. The racing, too, is very generic. The 
 physics are floaty in that "this is a budget game" sort of way. Combined with the way your bike 
 can occasionally get hung up on pieces of the level geometry, racing really isn't much fun.  

 
  On top of all the single-player modes, Pocketbike Racer has Xbox Live support and leaderboards 
 for comparing lap times. You can play up to six players online, but we had more luck getting the 
 whole game to lock up than we had at actually getting an online race going. Also, there must be 
 some sort of lap-time exploit out there, because some of the lap leaders have times of zero seconds. 
 Once you get a race going, it's not much better than the single-player, but at least the human 
 opposition is better at navigating the course. The artificial intelligence frequently gets hung 
 up, especially in battle royale mode, where some bikes try to race backward, only to get caught 
 on the wrong end of a jump ramp.  

  Like the other Burger King games, Pocketbike Racer doesn't have much value as a game. But as a 
 curiosity that won't be around forever, it's cheap enough and weird enough to consider adding to 
 your collection. Heck, the ridiculous opening full-motion video, which shows the Burger King sitting 
 on a bike while various real-world backgrounds are green screened in behind him, is probably worth 
 $4 bucks by itself.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (72 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: drugsrbadmkay16
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2009 9:22 am PT
Review:  Pocketbike Racer (Xbox 360)
  
  Storyline: C-
  There's no storyline in this game. You just jump on a bike and race employees and burgers around 
 a one of five tracks while shooting missiles at them. It's ridiculously stupid and what this game 
 is meant to be like for $3, but yet somehow quite innovative and unique. That's not necessarily 
 meant to say that it's concept is amazing, just funny (for lack of a better word) .
  
  Graphics: C-
  The graphics are much better than I expected from this game. I was expecting some 
 low-class PlayStation 2 graphics, but what I got were some low-class 360 visuals. That was actually 
 quite surprising. Sure, it looks amateur, but that's no surprise. You can't expect much from this 
 game, and that's how I looked at it. The character models in the game are actually quite detailed 
 and realistic. I would actually go as far as to say that they are some of the best character models 
 you can find on current gen consoles. The scenery is pretty lousy. There's basically no use of 
 texture or detail. There's also some serious pop-up issues that are disappointing, even for a game 
 like this. Also, the framerate is downright awful here. The bikes themselves look decent and believable, 
 though. Low-class overall graphics, but nothing too ridiculous and silly.
  
  Entertainment: C
  Although the game has no extreme content, it still is quite addicting. The 
 only choices you really have are doing a single player quick race, a 5 track tournament (which 
 take under 20 minutes or so) that includes a few categories, and race online. It's stupid and cutesy 
 of course, but it still is strangely hard to put it down. The multiplayer is actually pretty cool 
 as well. It's as simple as you would expect, but also fulfilling. Overall, this game is quite good 
 (for the money, of course) , and is hard to stop playing. It even has an achievement system that 
 makes it that much more motivating.
  
  Recommendations: B-
  I recommend this game to anyone who is looking for some cheap thrill. Even if you're not, you should 
 still check it out. It's pretty damn fun in it's own D rated game.
  
  Overall: C- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazpol
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 5:09 am PT
Review:  If you pick it up for $1.99 at a Game Stop, you probably paid what this game was worth. Not much 
 to it, you race around on pocket bikes as a cast of burger king characters. It does have a split-screen 
 local multiplayer so you can play it with some friends if you have absolutely nothing else to play 
 in your library. 
  
  I picked up the multilayer achievement on a weekend and surprisingly some people were playing this 
 on-line still. The game is better then Big Bumpin' so its in the middle of the Burger King pack. 
 Honestly all 3 games should have been on 1 disk, which is why I agree with low reviews. Its fine 
 to play, the controls are ok, but really the whole game is over quicker then you know, and the 
 graphics are shoddy, yaddda, yadda, yadda. I probably just put more time in this review then it 
 took to get 200/200. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Links14
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  This is one of the Burger King Games. This game is very cheap. U get to race with some BK characters 
 or u can make ur own character but the creation is very basic. U race on small mini motorbikes. 
 There are 5 different types of games types. They are standard Race, Battle Royale, Cone Trial, 
 Ultimate Time Trial and Hardcore Racing. In these races there are cones. There are different types 
 of cones. When you go though the cones u increase the gadgets bar. The gadget are shield, straight 
 fire bottle rockets, firecrackers, homing bottle rockets, flash bomb and disruptor. These gadget 
 can help u win a race which isn't very hard. The controls are easy to learn and to win a race is 
 very easy. This games does have online but no one play on it. You should get this game because 
 it only cost $2.99 at gamestop and if you love getting achievements you get up to 200 more gamerscore.
 
  
  P. S. If you want to get some online achievements my gamertag is nategraynat just add me and message 
 me about the achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmsaareagles
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This game isnt half bad. Even thou its basically free, made by burger king, pointless, and stupid, 
 its fun. I went into gamestop, with 3 dollers on my card for store credit. I was looking at the 
 games, i spotted it. No way i said to myself, no way. I walked it up to the counter, slightly imbarresed. 
 I paid for it and walked to my car. I got home, put it in, pressed start and BAMB!!!!!!
  MY HOUSE BLEW UP WITH THE JOY OF PLAYING A FUN GAME THATS KINDA COOL AND AWSOME THAT I JUST BOUGHT 
 FOR $3!!!
  The game is funny. Racing around with a king dude, haha. 
 
  This game isnt half bad. Even thou its basically free, made by burger king, pointless, and stupid, 
 its fun. I went into gamestop, with 3 dollers on my card for store credit. I was looking at the 
 games, i spotted it. No way i said to myself, no way. I walked it up to the counter, slightly imbarresed. 
 I paid for it and walked to my car. I got home, put it in, pressed start and BAMB!!!!!!
  MY HOUSE BLEW UP WITH THE JOY OF PLAYING A FUN GAME THATS KINDA COOL AND AWSOME THAT I JUST BOUGHT 
 FOR $3!!!
  The game is funny. Racing around with a king dude, haha.  
 game isnt half bad. Even thou its basically free, made by burger king, pointless, and stupid, its 
 fun. I went into gamestop, with 3 dollers on my card for store credit. I was looking at the games, 
 i spotted it. No way i said to myself, no way. I walked it up to the counter, slightly imbarresed. 
 I paid for it and walked to my car. I got home, put it in, pressed start and BAMB!!!!!!
  MY HOUSE BLEW UP WITH THE JOY OF PLAYING A FUN GAME THATS KINDA COOL AND AWSOME THAT I JUST BOUGHT 
 FOR $3!!!
  The game is funny. Racing around with a king dude, haha.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImpSlayer
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  As I inserted the humble disk into the XBOX 360, my expectations were already low. I turned it 
 on and the funny main screen greeted me. The King is driving a pocketbike through outrageous locales 
 (provided by a background greenscreen) . A snazzy little background song lulled me in. I jumped 
 in head-first, ready to fully explore this title. The racing is simply amazing. Simple controls 
 with quirky bikes makes things fresh. Although rather easy, the AI will sometimes lull you in to 
 a false sense of security. The characters are funny (the Subservient Chicken? Come on! Ya gotta 
 laugh!) and the taunts keep the atmosphere light. Each track is unique and has oodles of hidden 
 shortcuts (and some glitches) . The game even has a meager character customization feature. The multiple 
 game modes are each great for their own reasons (personal favorite is the batte) . The tournaments 
 are fun and unlock faster, quicker, or tighter bikes. The graphics are crisp and luscious for an 
 extreme budget title. All-in-all a fantastic buy. 
  
  Last Words: A Must for XBOX owners. An extremely cheap price for a slightly diminished version 
 of Mario Kart. I strongly recommend it. I still find myself playing it whenever I can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  Pocketbike Racer is the perfect example of the phrase-you get what you pay for, because if you 
 have high expectations for this game, you're gonna be sorry. But as long as you don't expect it 
 to be Project Gotham Racing 4 or Gran Turismo 4, you might, JUST MIGHT enjoy this game. You race 
 around assorted tracks from normal (a suburb) to disturbingly creepy (a "ranch" made of hamburgers.) 
 There are many characters to choose from like the King himself, the chicken-guy, Whopper Jr., and 
 even Brooke Burke. Why in the world did they put in a random, female "celebrity" into a game about 
 fast-food? I have no idea, but she does have cool taunts like "Don't you know who I am?" There 
 is also a character customization feature that lets you pick a person and change the colors of 
 their clothes. That's it, that's what I call customization. There isn't much more to say about 
 this game. And if you do want to buy it, you'll have to go to GameStop, and look like an idiot 
 buying this game, or you could keep you self-esteem together and use Ebay. But that's your choice, 
 not mine! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midgetbob
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  It's not often that a game that doesn't cost $59.99 will actually be entertaining. Pocket Bike 
 Racer offers impressive game play mechanics and some spiffy graphics that any XBOX 360 fan should 
 witness. There are many wild characters that you are able to race with, from a burger dude to a 
 giant tasty chicken. You can also modify or create a character of your choice, which is aesthetically 
 pleasing none the less. You will also notice the similarity between Mario Kart and this game; as 
 both are equally gratifying to play. The video clip in the beginning of the game is hilarious and 
 adds to an important factor to why this game rocks. The graphics are impressive with smooth transitions, 
 leaving out slow frame rates. The attack modes are tremendously gratifying, but yet so gracefully 
 accomplished it is truly a site to behold. I would suggest any avid XBOX 360 owner to give this 
 game a shot, to beat it fully, and to deliver a punch to corporate prices. Affordability is the 
 next generation. All hail the king! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay for this game sucks the biking is kind of fun but its dull i played it once 
 and i stopped right the next hour. So i would give the gameplay a 4 out of 10, so really the gameplay 
 sucks.
  
  Graphics: Well the graphics are like PS2 or XBOX graphics they are bad compared to the XBOX 360. 
 I would give the graphics a 5 out of 10.
  
  Sound: The sound, i dont even think there is any sound well the 'soundtrack' is the worst. I would 
 give the sound 0 out of 10
  
  Value : I got what i payed for yea and i payed 3 bucks Tilt: Well i dont know but i would say its 
 bad. Overall: It sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowbrains788
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 17, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  For $5 i got all three of the burger king games, and i think they're hilarious, the 5 tracks, and 
 annoying music will get to you after the first few plays, but the game mechanics bring you back 
 to the days of the n64 and dreamcast. You have three race speed, 50 cc, 100cc, and 150cc, and four 
 gameplay modes, giving you a total of 12 single player tournaments, xbox live is very hard to find 
 games on, but local multi has given me a few laughs. If you ignore the gameplay glitches and the 
 value game feel, you find a game straight out of the 90's. Overall: a great game to pick up on 
 ebay for a few bucks, and an easy play . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goliath40000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Pocket bike racers is addicting, fun and a game to play with your friends that will never leave 
 you bored but hooked! I took an immediate affinity to the game figuring out all the short cuts 
 and giving me an upper hand in the online multiplayer it took me no time to quickly ascend the 
 ranks with at least 50 wins and only one loss because i couldn't move, but the online multiplayer 
 will keep you coming back for more and for only a small fee of 4 dollars this game could b yours 
 definitely worth the 4$ and arguably worth as much as a real game so if you like racing and you 
 want a unique game this is definitely the game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ma_rc_01
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jul 26, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Hey you like Mario Kart right? Well this is the same thing, except they changed the karts for pocketbikes 
 and the Mario characters for Burger King mascots. Every well known (yeah right) mascot is here, 
 the King, Whopper Jr., and the chicken. There is also superstar model Brook Burke, who was a character 
 in Need For Speed Underground 2, so she knows a lot about the world of illegal street racing, and 
 it shows in this game.
  
  The game also features an extremely limited character creation tool; you can choose from a couple 
 of incredibly normal people and change the color of their pants, shirts and hair, WOW! And why 
 would you want to be normal when you can be a giant hamburger.
  
  And now for the racing, in one word, bleh, There are five tracks in the game and lots of motorcycles 
 that are rated in speed, acceleration and handling, but they all feel like you are driving a cement 
 block with glue on the bottom over a sandpaper road. The bikes handle so bad its unbelievable. 
 When you hit a wall, you stop, even if you only brush it, and you can try turning away from it, 
 but it takes so much time, its like youre magnetized to the wall. Its just easier and faster 
 to stop, back-up and go again than just turn away from the wall.
  
  One thing that is great in this game is the intro screen, you see the King, on a pocketbike in 
 front of a green screen, but instead of the screen, you see shots of roads passing by, and its 
 just mind-blowingly awesome. In short, buy this game if you want to see a sweet intro, or to collect 
 the whole set of Burger King games, but if youre looking for a good cheap racer, go elsewhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 4, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  I didn't know about this game until I got to Burger King one day and saw the sign. So I decided 
 to get it, and I'm sort of glad I did because it actually wasn't that bad. And I also think it 
 was the best out of the three.
  
  In this one you can play as a variaty of characters from Burger King employees to the King himself. 
 And there is a nice selection of bikes it isn't too big, but it's not like there's only three or 
 four. And you unlock new bikes as you win the races, but you start out with all the characters. 
 Plus there are five different maps you can play on.
  
  There is also a multiplayer which wasn't too horrible, but it was entertaining for what it was. 
 Plus there is an achievement in this game to play so many online games.
  
  And over all the achievements in this game are much easier, well at least I think so because I 
 got them all. And as in Sneak KIng there is only a chance to get 200 gamerscore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigdaddy9
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 24, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This just plain and simple is not a good game at all. The pocket bike is sooo hard to work i was 
 always crashing it into something. The game itself does not make much sense because the do not 
 tell you what the things on the track are but you figure it out after a while (they are weapons 
 for those of you who were confused also) . It is really hard to win because all the other pocket 
 bikes move around soo easy and your guy always crashes!, it is so frusterating!!! So if you have 
 not figured it out yet i am not to crazy aout this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeroxix
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 17, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Pocketbike Racer is a Mario Kart spin-off, but not a really good one. It has ok graphics, no real 
 significant sound, and only costs about 4$, so how much value can you really expect. You will get 
 a short lived surge of fun from this game, but you most likely won't be coming back often. Powerups 
 are limited, and race tracks are relatively small. Turning your bike is preety complicated, so 
 it's not an easy experience. The gsme glitches a lot, as you will see some of the racers freezing, 
 going the wrong way, or stuck banging into eachother. This game is worth its 4$, but not much more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Review: Pocket Bike Racer
  
  Most people thought when they first heard that Burger King was going to make games for the Xbox 
 360 that they were putting the gaming public on, well they weren't kidding, the first line of Burger 
 King games are available at your local Burger King, but are they worth their $4 price tag?
  
  Story:
  Every Main Character from a Burger King commercial in the past few years has come 
 to race on pocket bikes to prove whom is the best racer in the Burger King Kingdom, yeah, yeah 
 we have heard it before but where else are you going to race as a Giant Hamburger, a Creepy King, 
 or a former host of Entertainment TV's show Wild On?
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are surprisingly good for a game that will only cost you $4, that said they will not be 
 winning any awards here either, but for a game that you don't expect too much from the graphics 
 to actually looks like it belongs on the Xbox 360 is a small achievement on it's own, I mean I 
 have seen worse graphics in some of the games available on Xbox Live Arcade, and you pay more for 
 those games just don't be expecting the best graphics on earth.
  
  Music:
  The Music serves its purpose in that it doesn't annoy and that it suits the game, other than that. 
 Well the music and sounds are well below average, but for $4 can you really complain. Though this 
 is one game where a custom soundtrack would have been nice...
  
  Control:
  The controls are passable in that you can actually have fun playing this game with friends or for 
 a quick gaming session, but beyond that it is very simple, which I guess is the draw, easy to pick 
 up and play, and easy to enjoy. Just be aware of what I will discuss in the design section.
  
  Design:
  Surprisingly well done, but there are still some errors that keep this from being 
 a top notch game (I guess you only get what you pay for) , some of the physics are wonky, like if 
 your bike slams head first into another bike at top speed, your character does not fall off but 
 your bike just gets pushed back, or if your bike this one of those rubber cones (you know the ones 
 used for road construction) , your bike will come to a dead stop. The first while lending its self 
 to the arcade like kart racer feel is acceptable, but the second makes no sense to help maintain 
 the arcade racer feel. Other complaints: The races are too easy; only 5 tracks; Create a character 
 is pointless; one computer character is only out to stop you from racing at all, and will resort 
 to dirty tricks to do it; If you get your bike into a corner wall you will stay stuck into it for 
 way too long; Achievements can be completed in your sleep; but at least the Rubber Band AI that 
 one would fear would be present is no where to be seen
  
  Gamers looking for a quick gaming fix can not go wrong for $4 here because although the game is 
 short and the achievements are so easy that they are padding to your gamer score, the multiplayer 
 with friends is so fun that you will keep coming back for 30 minute to 1 hour sessions, and that 
 alone makes it worth your $4.
  
  Graphics
  6/10
  
  Game play
  6/10
  
  Sound
  4/10
  
  Fun factor
  7/10
  
  Tilt
  7/10
  
  Average score
  6.0 out of 10.0
  
 
  Pocket Bike Racer:
  
  Pros:
  Surprisingly good Graphics
  Multiplayer is fun
  Cheapest 360 game out there
  O perfectly good waist of time
  No Rubber band A. I.
  Can be 
 played on your Xbox as well
  
  Cons:
  Did you know? Plastic cones can stop a moving vehicle at high speeds dead in its tracks?
  Computer 
 cheats until you blaze a lead
  Only 5 tracks
  List too long... See design section 
::::::

::::::
UserName: contaminated
Rating: 1.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Oh boy if seeing ads on a normal game wasn't bad enough here comes Pocket Bike Racer and judging 
 from the money it has made it will be no suprise if we see more of it in the near future. There 
 is not much to talk about graphics arn't all that great gameplay is pretty solid and is a Mario 
 Kart with hamburgers and lameness attached to it. There is like 12 racers and a very weak create 
 a character mode although its more like choose the layout and color of your character mode. There 
 is online which is fun if you can do it with a few friends and just talk smack while racing around. 
 Perhaps the best part of this game is the fact that their is achievments and the FMV sequence at 
 the begining which is cool. All in all this game ain't good and you will get bored of it from the 
 time of an hour to a day it is that bad of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haloman92
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 12, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Pocketbike racer was rated on the lower scale from GS. To my own opinion it was easily the better 
 game of the three unique original burger king games. It suprised me with the modes of play involved. 
 Not only does it include original racing, but racing with upgraes (weapons, boosts, and such) , 
 a knockout type of play involving hitting the opponents with weapons, and a mode where you must 
 run through the most gates which fill up a bar that allows you to aquire weapons and other items. 
 The achievements arnt too easy like Big bumpin, but not too hard like sneak king. Of course just 
 like the others, they are short and sweet, this is the same unless you enjoy the online play. If 
 i had a choice to buy only one of these original BK games, this would be the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zdmetal2101
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 8/10- The game plays well but it can get frustrating once in a while. The sliding doesn't 
 work as well as it should.
  
  Graphics 7/10- The graphics are ok nothing too great just like every other average game. But it 
 is very colorful which is unique.
  
  Sound 6/10- The sound can get annoying just hearing the whizzing of the little bikes and the power 
 up things.
  
  Value 5/10- This game will have you playing for about an hour or two and then you will just get 
 bored with it. It is pretty fun to play on XBL with friends.
  
  Tilt 7/10- Overall the game is average at best and for 4 dollars its worth it. Plus it has some 
 really easy achievements and gamerscore in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clayartist32
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 11, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Now you can't say this game is terrible just because it isn't up to par with Gears. You gotta remember 
 this game was only $4, not $60. So for this price, you can't go wrong. It's fun, different, and 
 cheap. With that in mind I'll write this review. The gameplay of this game is very fun and different, 
 and the graphics suprised me. I was expecting N64 graphics, but this game rose up to at least gamecube. 
 The only real problems with this game is that the sound is a little iffy, it loses value to fast, 
 and there are ocasional mess ups. Sometimes when you make a turn to fast, the camera changes to 
 a perspective faceing you, which gets weird. Also, its far too touchy as to when you're out of 
 the track and not. But aside from that, this is a half-decent game thats only $4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantebk
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  A while back Burger King put out three promotional advergames for Xbox 360. Priced at $3.99 each, 
 these games were imagined as camp titles to attract an irony-loving college-aged crowd. Well, it 
 worked on me, I bought them the same day I bought my 360.
  
  Pocketbike Racer receives the Special Olympics Gold Medal. Sure, it's no Mario Kart, but for the 
 price it doesn't have to be. 8 people race through colorful tracks on tiny motorcycles firing bottle 
 rockets at each other. Though it can be extremely repetitive, some of the races are actually, shockingly, 
 fun. So fun in fact that this is the only Burger King game I played all the way through and got 
 all the achievements for. Even the taunts can sometimes be legitimately funny. Would you like second 
 place with that? Now, that's not to say it isn't occasionally broken --I spent one afternoon unable 
 to finish a single online race for all the times it booted everyone off -- but as the least broken 
 of the BK games, it walks away with the top honors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aftershadow
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is better then I expected. I thought it would be like one level, no fun. But it turned 
 out to have a good gameplay for me. I liked the music, I liked the general Idea. However, they 
 could have improved on the Create-A-Character feature. When I got this game, I thought, whatever, 
 just another game, but only 4 dollars. However, when I played this game, I was surprised. Now I 
 know my review may be a little generous, but thats because this game was only four dollars! The 
 Main Menu where the King is, looks completely real too, pretty cool. I would pay 4 dollars for 
 half of what this game is. If they worked a little on it, made more tracks, more races, more competitors, 
 and more adjustments, this could be a 50$ game. I didn't even know this game had xbox live either, 
 which is another plus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TCisGod
Rating: 5
Date: May 24, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Pocketbike Racer is probably the best way to spend four dollars at a fast food restaurant without 
 buying food. The game consists of holding down the right trigger, pressing the B button, and steering 
 with the left stick. There are four game modes, standard race, cone challenge, battle royale, and 
 hardcore racing. There are about 8 characters and you can make your own if you want. You can play 
 this game on Xbox live which gives it a little replay value.
  
  So if you have $4 and want a game you can just pick up and play than you may like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackthegame
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 1, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Pocketbike Racer is one of the three games being made available by Burger King as part of a limited-time 
 promotion. The games are all available for $3.99 -- provided you also purchase some food. At a cost 
 of four dollars, you get what you pay for, but the games do still have some inherent value, even 
 if it's solely on an ironic level. On top of that, the limited-time nature of the deal means that 
 these games might (but probably won't) be rare in the future. Pocketbike Racer is a Mario Kart-style 
 racing game on tiny motorcycles that can fire a handful of different weapons. It's not so good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_ferris
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  This is not the type of game where you talk about it's superb graphics and incredible AI. At 4 
 bucks you really shouldn't expect to. This game is built mainly on its value and how fun it is 
 to watch. I mean how often do you get to watch a burger take on Brooke Burke in a race at the BK 
 parking lot? I would say rare to never. It would have been nice to see another game mode not focused 
 mainly on racing but it was not added.
  
  Overall: Get it if you want a cheap game with some fun moments in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldqueen
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 25, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Pockect Bike Racer is all about mini racing bikes. I wanted to see how this game was because I 
 thought the concept was fun and to me it was, the only thing is that is a game in a very low budget 
 and it works both for regular Xbox and Xbox360. The Xbox360 version you can play single palyer 
 or you can also play with another person dividing your screen, it also has a multiplayer feature 
 and you can unlock achivements if you are good at it. Racing with all the BK characters is kind 
 of fun, it remembers me allot like the old Mario Kart for Super Nintendo wher you through bombs 
 and drop oil to make the other player loose. So basically is a racing game with fun features, the 
 graphics are not that good and the music is repetitive so keep that in mind. Overall I think is 
 a fun game just that, play it as a last resort when you just want to race with others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asher20
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I finally got Pocketbike Racer! I'm a little ashamed because of the fact that I was actually LOOKING 
 for this game. However, I finally got it and I must give a thumbs up to BK for delivering such 
 a fun game for less money than your average value mealitll also satisfy you much longer than 
 the meal will too!
  
  Time spent playing to date: 7 Hours
  
  Gameplay: 7
  
  Its no Mario Kart, lets get that out of the way first. Setting direct comparisons aside, this 
 gameplay hold us pretty well. In single player there are 12 tournaments offered (total run through 
 time is about 3-4 hours) . These tournaments rage from Who races best? to Who can hit the most 
 opponents with missiles? There are 3 different classes (50, 100 &amp; 150cc) and only 5 tracks 
 (8 would have been nice) . For the most part you race around the tracks using gas, brake, power 
 slide and turbo boosts while collecting power-ups to be able to shoot missiles and flash bombs 
 at opponents. The racing is pretty simple, the tracks (except one) are not too challenging and 
 if you dont win almost every race on the first try, theres something wrongyou should unlock 
 175/200 gamerpoints no problem. Another thing I will give props to is that even for 4 bucks, this 
 game offers character customization! The stock racers are alright. You will probably only recognize 
 The King and Whopper Jr. I wish they would have included the cartoon characters from the early 
 90s campaign. The multiplayer experience is another storyLocal multiplayer is fine, but online 
 the lag is horrible. It takes ages for a game to start (if your box doesnt freeze while waiting) 
 and every time I have played an online match, my xBox 360 freezes during the race. There are 25 
 achievement points that you get from completing 25 online matches, but I gave up on that figuring 
 that it would take more time to play the 25 races than it would to beat the single player campaign. 
 Graphics: 7 Im judging this on the basis of original xBox graphics. I know this game is marketed 
 for both systems, but we can all tell this is just an original title made backwards compatible 
 with some achievements. The graphics arent Chaos Theory or Halo 2, but honestly, they beat many 
 other games Ive seen on this system. The character models are good (I like the onions on Whopper 
 Jr.) , the tracks are bright and colorful and even the Kings robe flaps in the breeze when he rides. 
 If you expect more from a game of this budget you are expecting too much.
  
  Sound: 6
  
  Probably the weakest part of the game is the sound. While they do have different songs for 
 different tracks, all the background music gets very repetitive very quickly. I was impressed with 
 the attention to detail they put on the noises that come from the pocketbikes themselves. You can 
 hear downshifting, braking, acceleration, power sliding and other little noises. Value: 10
  
  For $4 this is a steal. I know there are others that give it horrible ratings, but for the 
 money you cant ask for much more in a game. It offers semi-solid gameplay that is very addictive 
 (my 4-5 hours went by quick) and a good laugh.
  
  Tilt: 9
  
  Despite its problems, Pocketbike Racer is a worthy ride through a BK universe. While it wont be 
 winning any Game of the Year awards, you should definitely pick it up if you find a copy.
  
  Tip: As a revision to this review you can easily get the 25 points for completing 25 multiplayer 
 matches. the way you do it is by finding someone else who has the game and then setting up a private 
 match with just them and doing the shortest map on a 1 lap basis over and over. You shoudl get 
 it in about 20 min or less. Happy playing!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adawg1500
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  WOW. its a good game. for $3.99 i thought it would stink. but it actually was not bad. its obviously 
 not the best game but hey if you have $4.00 go buy it.
  
  i've played better games but i'll play this if there is nothing to do. it's not one of those daily 
 basis crazy games but its a good game if you like racing and stuff like that. i didn't even want 
 to get it but i went to buger king and got it anyway even if you don't like buger king you should 
 think about getting this game because it is worth playing.
  
  as you know it's a buger king limited edition game so this is your only chance so you should go 
 get it for such a low price.
  
  i recommend this game to racing fans and people that like racing games.
  7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JudgeRedemption
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 12, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Obviously this is part of the line of games brought about by Burger King. Working with Blitz Games 
 (one of the better developers in England) BK has created 3 games that are all $4 a piece with a 
 value meal. Most people were hesistant when this was announced as offer games are usually not high 
 caliber. Boy were we wrong.
  
  Pocketbike Racer is a lot like games such as Mario Kart and Diddy Kong Racing. You pick a character 
 (including people like The King, Brooke Burke, Whopper Jr., and more) , pick a bike (almost all 
 the same except color differences) , pick a track (there are some very interesting ones) , pick a 
 mode (basically race or attack mode) , and then start!
  
  The loading times are surprisingly long for a $4 game, but once the game actually finishes loading 
 the gameplay is surprisingly great! The racing-mode can be a ton of fun if you're playing with 
 friends (either on Xbox Live or Split-screen) , but a bit lacking playing solo (unless you're practicing 
 to demolish friends... which is acceptable) . Basically there are small checkpoints around the track 
 that aren't necessary targets, but they boost up your Bar. The smaller the checkpoint (and therefore 
 harder to hit) the darker color (greens and blues are easy but the reds are huge bar boosts) , but 
 once you get your bar up to where you want you have 2 options. You can A) Use your bar to Turbo 
 boost which is a HUGE boost but at times hard to control (because of large speed increase) , or 
 B) Attack. At different points in the bar you have the ability to use powers (such as Shields or 
 weapons) . It's great in race mode, but the place it shines is Battle mode.
  
  In battle mode all the characters start spread around the track and it's the same basic premise 
 as race, but without the finish line. You can ride around the track (not just the track but anywhere 
 you want) and drive through the checkpoints. You use your bar in this mode to attack everyone around 
 you and you can win by either getting the most points at the time limit, or setting a point limit 
 and achieving it.
  
  Overall this game is a lot of fun and the best $4 you'll spend on your Xbox 360. Everyone should 
 spend the time to enjoy a value meal at BK and get a $4 game with it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iafjo
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  Burger Kings Pocket Bike Racer is a nice idea and all but it doesn't have great value. It has small 
 tracks, small bikes, and little maneuverability. The replay value for it is like any racing game 
 but at the same time it doesn't have enough quality gameplay for gamers to even want to play it 
 again. The graphics look okay, and the sound quality is pretty good, but the non-playable characters 
 resemble the early Sims. The create your own character feature was promising but then when actually 
 done only has base models that you can change the color of hair, shirt, pants, and skin for. Then 
 you have to look at its price, I mean for $4.00 what do you want? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smallzhi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever wondered whos behind the mask? Well in this medicore motor bike racer thats YOU. 
 In pocket bike racer for the xbox 360 you can play a variety of boring pointless characters. With 
 somewhat exciting if not bland maps also including launching ramps and cones that you go threw 
 to get powerups that help you advance threw the track on your way to victory. Those powerups are 
 things such as speed bursts missles and bubbles.... yes bubbles. However this game gets incredibly 
 old fast and even the online play is very very boring. Graphics dont really make a difference and 
 are just like the rest of the game boreing and bland. Pocket Bike Racer gets a 5.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DTbikerider9
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  Have you ever wondered whos behind the mask? Well in this medicore motor bike racer thats YOU. 
 In pocket bike racer for the xbox 360 you can play a variety of boring pointless characters. With 
 somewhat exciting if not bland maps also including launching ramps and cones that you go threw 
 to get powerups that help you advance threw the track on your way to victory. Those powerups are 
 things such as speed bursts missles and bubbles.... yes bubbles. However this game gets incredibly 
 old fast and even the online play is very very boring. Graphics dont really make a difference and 
 are just like the rest of the game boreing and bland. Pocket Bike Racer gets a 5.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerKirby89
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  This game sucks. Stay away from it if at all possible. It is a horrible game. Even for $3.99, it 
 is not worth it. I spent about a half-hour playing this game, and loathed every second. The gameplay 
 is missing an extremely important aspect: fun. In fact, the most fun I ever had with this game 
 was eating my BK Value Meal before putting it into my 360. It is so painfully repetitive, numb, 
 and boring, that it will probably never, ever see the inside of my 360 again. On the bright side, 
 you can unlock achievement points for your pain and agony in playing the game. But at only 200 
 points total, it is definately not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwc0422
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - The gameplay is alright but it's not quite well. You go around riding in pocketbikes 
 that can't turn worth a crap so basically it's somewhat broken. Gameplay : 7/10
  
  Graphics - This is probally the best part of the game! The graphics are not amazing but they are 
 well for a promotional game.
  
  Graphics : 8/10
  
  Sound - The most annoying part of the game! You hear a bunch of pocketbikes going around at once 
 sounding like  . Sound : 6/10
  
  Value - Ok, the value in this game just sucks. Noone plays this on xbox live and I don't blame 
 them!
  
  Value : 5/10
  
  I hope you enjoyed this review and it helps you make a decision to buy/rent this game or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkrio
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 25, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This is a bad, bad game. I advise you to Purchase the meal instead. Burger King ain't bad, but 
 it's not good either. The Creation of their food reflects the making of this game, Poor, Very unhealthy, 
 and it will leave you nautious*
  This game is terrible for several reasons:
  
  Gameplay: Wow i get to ride the king of all burgers in a pocket bike derby, hucking missiles and 
 heavy weapons at other racers... sounds fun right?
  I'll tell you that doing this the entire race really drags on. This game alltogether on one-player 
 mode is not fun... I got a kick out of it for the first 5 minutes, (like most people) but after 
 about half an hour this gets oh so very dull...
  You thought that was all!!! The Ai in this game is so obscenly stupid it
  couldn't even make 
 a turn, It runs right into a wall at some points. That example is for race mode, The battle mode 
 is where the enemys really shine, now in battle mode you are given the same courses as in race 
 mode, any changes? Nope, Exept the fact that you see the rival racers suicide bombing of the cliffs... 
 Or Trying to go backwards and hitting a wall, reversing, and doing it again (I counted about 13 
 times before the computer turned around and shot sombody with their bottle rocket . Throuought 
 the course of an hour of playing i had only been shot 2 times! I had already made at least 50 hits.
 
  
  Graphics... Meh they did ok but seeing the king use the same taunt over and over aint that cool
 
  
  Sound: After 10 minutes of playing I decided to mute my television. The reason being that for every 
 level they have 1, count it 1 song. 1 guitar riff, or tune that lasts about 30 seconds, than loops!
 
  
  And last but not least Value... 4 smackers... defintly woth every penny. No more no less. Once 
 you play this a good 3 times it'll be neatly put away in your sock drawer forever...
  
  Hey King games... Great Job... : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 23, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I really don't know what to say about these 4 Burger King promotional games.
  
  Lets face it, they do not deserve a 10 out of 10, not even an 8 out of 10... but for 3.99$ USD, 
 Pocket Bike Racer isn't THAT bad. It's not great, but it's just about Good .
  
  Since it plays on both the 360 or original Xbox, it's not going to have phenomenal graphics. Think 
 PS1 era graphics and details, just with less jaggies and more colors. The arenas range from a parking 
 lot with jumps and tires and bales of hay, to a construction site (which is the best looking, yet 
 hardest course in the game) , to a Burger King Garden , which I must say makes me want to eat a 
 Whopper right now (no, this game is not inspiring me to buy Burger King products, I'm already a 
 fan of the King) .
  
  The characters aren't very detailed, but passable, especially for a budget game. You can be the 
 King, Brooke Burke, The Chicken, and some other random BK related characters. Neither is better 
 than the other, the only thing that separates any player from another is the bike they choose and 
 their skill.
  
  The gameplay is somewhat like Mario Kart, where you have 8 racers, racing for points. The most 
 points wins, and each corresponding finish gives you X points. You can drive through little firey 
 check points which give you some boost in your power. This gives you nitrous and a Missle weapon 
 for some reason. I'd think throwing a Frosty Drink or Whopper in your opponents face would be more 
 effective and realistic, but hey, I didn't program it. At highest level you can get an attack that 
 allows you to shine the Sun in everyone's eyes and have them drive off the road.
  
  None of the tracks are particularly long, and there are only 5 tracks, total, so don't expect a 
 lot of diversity or replay value other than winning new bikes or getting achievements.
  
  There really isn't much sound, nor a catchy soundtrack, but I guess for 4 dollars it works in the 
 end.
  
  My little brother really likes the game, and has put in a good 10+ hours for it in addition to 
 my play time, and for 4 bucks, I really have to say that's a pretty good value. Basically, don't 
 expect the world from a 4 dollar game you buy at Burger King and you might be amused for a while.
 
  
  But don't rush out to buy an Xbox or Xbox 360 for this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacemasterjc
Rating: 5.4
Date: Dec 23, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  this game was fun for the first 20 minutes and then you just keep playing the same levels over 
 and over again. The multi player is not at all fun and most of the time the matches freeze. what 
 i hate about this game is that it does not have any originality. It only has 5 maps and you play 
 each of them at least 12 times each. The music in this game was uh? Some of the songs were really 
 annoying. all you did in this game was race the same people on the same map and occasionally you 
 could change people or bikes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EscoDaddy14
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  $3.99? Not too many games are $4 and decent. Pocketbike Racer for the 360 totally busts through 
 that barrier and goes beyond. As many have seen, the marketing ploy by Mircosoft has worked to 
 success. This game provides many good gaming moments all at a budget cost.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The gameplay is very similar to Mario Kart, except you are on pocket motorcylces. You can obtain 
 poer-ups by filling a meter as you race through coned areas. The higher the meter, the better the 
 power-up. They range from missiles, to lock-on missiles, to electro-shock. There are 4 different 
 modes to choose from : Battle Royale, Hardcore Race, Standard Race, and Cone Trial. An added bonus 
 is the ability to go online and race your friends.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The graphics are what you would expect from a budget game. They are very colorful and please your 
 eyes on an HD monitor as they are completely HD compatible.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overally you can't really fault this game for much since it is $4. There are some minor framerate 
 issues, but thats about it. For $4 you can; t go wrong, and if you are a fan of racing games then 
 pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjwickstrom1
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 21, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Burger King did a great job with their suprisingly fun BK games, but I feel that they didn't put 
 enough time into the games as they should. I know they're a fast food chain and not a big time 
 game publisher, but they could've easily taken more time to make the game rather than rush it into 
 stores.
  
  The gameplay is decent for a game like this, but it could obviously be better. The characters you 
 can choose from are vast and fun, including The King, Whopper Jr, and Brooke Burke! The pocketbikes 
 handling is suprisingly realistic, but the buttons on your controller are confusing compared to 
 other racing games. For instance, X fires your weapons, but usually in racing combat games the 
 RB or LB button would do that. When the weapons hit your opponent, they recipient of the weapon 
 spins out many times, causing an increase in speed and the opportunity for his/her opponents to 
 sneak by. This can bring problems though. Sometimes after spinning out you end up facing backwards, 
 when your opponents usuay end up facing forwards, which can costr you loads of time on the track. 
 Other times you'll spin into a wall and get stuck , not allowing you to move, and making you want 
 to reset your player, which the game does automatically and slowly! That's why I gave gameplay 
 a bismal 6 out of 10!
  
  The graphics are actually decent compared to the other BK games, especially when you playing in 
 hd. The characters sometimes looks a little choppy just like the tracks and game enviornment, but 
 the pocketbikes are the excat opposite: not choppy, colorful, and very realistic. There really 
 isn't much more to say about the graphics, so I gave it a 6 out of 10 as well, just like I did 
 with the gameplay.
  
  I gave the sound a one, but I'd give it a zero if I could. The reason for this is that ever since 
 the first time I played the game (at least my copy of it) the sound hasn't worked. I don't know 
 if it just does this part of the time or not, becuase I watched my friend play this game on his 
 360 and the sound worked fine. Anyone who has this game please pm and tell me if this happens to 
 you too!
  
  The achievements are very easy. I currently have 11 out of 12 achievements in the game for 175 
 gamerpoints. The only one I don't have is the achievements for completing 25 Xbox Live races, which 
 I've almost earned, becuase I don't play the game much online! All the other achievements are very 
 easy and quick to earn.
  
  As you can see, Pocketbike Racer is a decent game but it definatly has it's flaws. I still recommend 
 you check it out, since it's only $4 with a Value Meal at Burger King. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d-mic13
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 20, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, we all thought the same thing when we saw the commercial for this- WTF? But then again, we 
 probably all did the same thing- went out and got it anyway. On the way home, all I could think 
 was What did I just get myself into? When I arrived at my house, I popped it in and prepared for 
 the biggest surprise of my life.
  
  ------
  
  From the controls to the racing, everything works fine. But that's where it ends. There's no groundbreaking 
 special manuevers or unique touches, just acceleration, boost, weapon, slide, and taunt. The actual 
 racing is OK, just nothing new. In all, the game just presents a generic racer without much distinction. 
 The multiplayer, on the other hand, is sheer genius; not because of anything else added in, but 
 because it's just fun to pretend to take this game ultra-seriously with another person.
  
  ------
  
  Graphically, Pocketbike Racer is bland. There may be a giant tomato or llama in the 
 background, but everything just seems normal. The sound (especially the pocketbikes) is surprisingly 
 good, with the exception of the voice acting. The music, on the other hand is annoying after long 
 periods of time, and ultimately will lead to putting your own music on.
  
  ------
  
  Up until now, this game deserved a 5. What saved this game from such a fate was everything else 
 about it. The sheer fun it is to play this game is the game in itself. When you really think about 
 it, who wouldn't want to race pocketbikes with the King?
  
  ------
  
  +- Fun to play, easy achievments, great FMV opening sequence, excellent multiplayer, create a character
 
  
  -- Everything feels generic, no outstanding features, annoying soundtrack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hmking04
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 16, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  This game honestly isn't all that bad, but it's certainly not that good either. A fair description 
 of this game would be Mario Kart minus Mario and friends with The King and friends thrown in on 
 pocket bikes as replacements. Like most racing games, this game is more fun playing with other 
 people than it is playing alone. The game has I believe 4 modes, each with 3 different difficulties 
 and those modes can be played online via LIVE. Even if you don't have LIVE, you can use the 48 
 hour LIVE Gold Pass that comes with the game.
  All in all, the game is worth what you pay for it..$3.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vyse86
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 11, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  When you pay four dollars for a game, its probably best to keep expectations in check. Burger King's 
 recently released batch of games are pretty much only worth getting as a novelty or as a means 
 of earning a few more coveted Achievement Points. Given that gaining points is the only reason 
 many will play these games, Pocketbike Racer fits that bill perfectly as its the easiest and most 
 painless gamein terms of getting many points with minimal effort. The game is a kart racer, not 
 unlike games like Mario Kart or Diddy Kong Racing. The game controls quite well and allows you 
 to drift by using the A button as a handbrake. The tracks are usually littered with pairs of pylons 
 that, when driven through, grant you some power to use in the form of various weapons and abilities. 
 You can boost, use a defensive shield, launch rockets at opponents, use a blinding flash that typically 
 causes AI-controlled players to drive off the course or crash into walls and stop and a few other 
 things as well. There is also a mode where all power ups are removed and you simply race. This 
 is probably the most challenging mode in the game but its not to hard either.
  
  The game also features a battle mode which is where the game's bad AI is really made apparent. 
 Since its all about gaining powerups as fast as possible, you don't need to follow the usual path 
 of the course. The AI seems to realize this after the match is already underway and often gets 
 stuck or disoriented when trying to take advantage of it. It only takes 6 points to win and I'm 
 pretty sure the highest score I ever saw an AI-controlled player get was 3. The game is ridiculously 
 easy but thats really the best part of it. Points are earned for beating all the tournaments in 
 the game (sixteen, it takes awhile but is never hard) as well as simple little tricks such as doing 
 a wheelie for two seconds, a stoppie for half a second or jumping 50 metres. There are also points 
 for winning a game on multiplayer and playing 25 games on Xbox Live. I have yet to play this game 
 on Xbox Live but I'm assuming it isn't the most popular title on there. Still, as long as you get 
 this game soon, it may be possible to grab those points as I'm sure someone somewhere will be playing 
 it.
  
  All in all, the game is an unspectacular yet easy means of earning 200 points. It also provides 
 a cheap and unique addition to your gaming library as its one of the strangest forms of marketing 
 in recent years. At four dollars, you really can't go wrong with Pocketbike Racers. My advice, 
 turn on a couple of episodes of the Hotspot and play through everything. It will only take a few 
 hours and you'll be done with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 10, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Pocketbike Racer, one of the three Burger King games that were only avalable from November 19 thru 
 December 19, 2006, is probably the best out the collection. These titles work on both Xbox and 
 Xbox 360 and I will try to make the review based on both, but more towards my experience on Xbox 
 360. While not as wonderful of a concept Sneak King is, Pocketbike Racer showed that your 4 bucks 
 towards it was well spent:
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  
  The driving is well done, but its two major flaws have to be steering and collision detection. 
 For steering, turning seems to be a chore at first since you have to find the right way to turn 
 so you don't collide into something. I found holding the A button (Handbrake) and R Trigger (Gas) 
 while turning as hard as possible to be the best way. For collision, you will find that the detection 
 is either non-existent or way too harsh. For example, you could go through (or over) some fences 
 with out effort, but others you will get stuck on for about 10-15 secs. If your a race fan, you 
 know how much that hurts.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  Nothing amazing, but they get the job done. I am very happy to report that the games look better 
 then some of the last gen of Xbox games. The game even looks better in 1080i, which is pretty remarkable. 
 Still, don't expect Ninja Gaiden-caliber graphics here.
  
  Sound: 5/10
  
  The music is pretty good, actually. The problem I have is that after 20 hours, you kinda just wanna 
 turn on your own music, which is thankfully possible with Xbox 360. Xbox gamers will have to suffer, 
 sadly. The Voice acting is also a little rough around the edges, but the pocketbikes sound great.
 
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  Its $3.99, with the purchase of a value meal at Burger King. The gmae is a decent quality, considering 
 that they could have just winged it, and made three crappy titles. Overall, picking these up shouldn't 
 be embrassing because they are pretty cool games. Achivement lovers will like that the achivements 
 in this game are esay to achive, so here is a quick 200 points for everyone!
  
  Tilt: 7/10
  
  I love the game, but I found myself bored near the end. The make a character 
 mode is pretty sweet, but you get bored of that, too. But I wasn't expecting the best thing I ever 
 played and this game delievered on that aspect. its fun, cheap, and has some awesome concepts to 
 it. Here's hoping for a Pocketbike Racer 2.
  
  Overall: 7.3/10.0 Probably the best of the BK games, Pocketbike Racer is an amazing achievement 
 for advertisement titles. Pick it up, I recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan729
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  Graphics
  
  The graphics look very good for a $4 game. Environments are colorful, and have interesting track 
 design. There are five different courses which range from the Burger King parking lot to a fantasy 
 world filled with hanburgers. There are lots of details in the tracks and it is also nice to see 
 that alternate routes and shortcuts are present. Character models, bikes, and weapon effects are 
 pretty basic, but they work fine. There are eight different characters to choose from, and some 
 are very creative (you can play as a giant hamburger and a chicken) . The frame-rate manages to 
 stay stable in offline races, and there are few to no problems in XBL multiplayer. You sometimes 
 encounter glitches, but this can be expected in a game like this. However, they are very few and 
 not very noticeable. Overall, graphics are the high point of this game.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Gameplay is incredibly simple, but fun. The controls handle well, depending on which bike you are 
 driving (there are several choices for bikes) . The basic fundamentals are the game are simple: 
 You drive through two cones, which give you fuel for a meter on the right side of the screen. This 
 fuel can be used for different types of weapons or boost. The more fuel you have the better weapons 
 you can get (which range from a simple shield to a control distorting weapon) . You normally don't 
 find yourself using the weapons as much as boost in races. AI here is decent, and gets harder as 
 you progress through the single player tournaments. These tournaments offer four different types 
 of modes: Simple race, collecting cones, battle mode, and a hardcore mode where you have no weapons 
 or boost. All these modes are also available on XBL and local multiplayer. Another good thing is 
 that the game tracks all of your different stats. Sound
  
  Definitely the low point of this game. The music is repetitive, as are the different sounds. Luckily, 
 you are able to turn off all sounds and just use the music located on your Xbox 360. Value
  
  Obviously the value of this game is very high. After all, you are paying only $4 for a pretty 
 good game. The amount of modes, characters, bikes, multiplayer, and the incentive to get the Achievements 
 lengthen the game. However, don't expect to play Pocketbike Racer for too long of a time.
  
  Verdict
  
  Pocketbike Racer really is a great achievement. Blitz Games made a game with 
 a high advertising tie-in worth a purchase. I'd like to see more games like this, but I don't want 
 to see a flood of commercial-made games. If you haven't already, go to your local Burger King, 
 buy a Whooper, and purchase all three of their games. But if you only have to buy one, then buy 
 Pocketbike Racer. It truly is the best thing that you can buy at Burger King. Pocketbike Racer 
 gets a 7.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_XX
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 8, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Kind of like a cheaper version of mario kart, fun to mess around on but to many hours in the game 
 might make you want to break the Disc. Muiltplayer makes the fun last longer where you can test 
 your pocket bike skills against the best of best. I wonder if this springs ideas in Mcdonalds and 
 Wendys head. Oh yeah and the music makes you feel likes your playing nintendo or something, not 
 to bad but not very pleasent. I havnt tried Sneak King yet but this game is much better than big 
 bumping, alot more gameplay involved in this one so i say if you can only buy one and your at burger 
 king, buy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 30, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Yeah this would be a 5.1 game, if you would have had to pay anything more than $25 for it. For 
 $3.99, this is a deal and a half.
  
  One, this game has a high resemblence to the old school mario kart games. The controls, powerups 
 and everything. And hey, you can't go wrong with Brook Burke!! The racing can be surprisingly challenging.
 
  
  Gameplay: 7 Surprisingly good gameplay, but not the worst. Handles pretty well for the most part. 
 Actually has better gameplay than 30-40% of the titles on the 360. Controls are very simple.
  
  Graphics: 6
  
  Surprisingly solid player detail and the colors are vibrant. however the 
 grass and plants look very PS2ish which detracts from the graphics.
  
  Sound: 5
  
  Sound is mundane and repetitve. Some of the old school sounds can be annoying. Far from quality 
 sound. Don't need surround sound for this one Value: 8
  
  It's a racing game, that you can play online, with good gameplay and decent graphics that only 
 costs $3.99? Where do I sign up?
  
  Tilt: 7
  
  This is the only next-gen game my girlfriend will play with me. And I can admit that I like this 
 game too. Its far from a great game, but it is addicting and doesn't put a dent in your pocketbook. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuthorLex54
Rating: 2.6
Date: Dec 7, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Pocket Bike Racer is another of the three $4.00 games that you can purchase at Burger King. It 
 is based on the actual sport of Pocket Bike Racing, but is not as fun as it looks.
  
  Gameplay: A few different modes to play with, but nothing much. The controls for handling the Pocket 
 Bike suck and it seems the AI is able to go faster than you.
  
  Graphics: Pretty Generic. Not bad, but not great. There's three maps to play on, A Burger King 
 Parking Lot, The King's Garden, A Fantasy Ranch, A Construction Site, and A Back Yard.
  
  Sound: Ok, but the music selection sucks!
  
  Pocket Bike Racer is horrible game. Try Sneak 
 King or Big Bumpin', but not this one. It's not a fun racing game, even for $4.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justykissinger
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  This game takes a bare boned control approach that makes it accessible to almost any one (something 
 that up until now my girlfriend found lacking with the Xbox 360) . Minibike racer is most definately 
 a you get what you pay for type of game. It is shallow in almost every respect. It has passable 
 graphics, few courses to choose from and a limited number of unlockables. But for those of us with 
 occasionally frustrated significant others (due to our at times excessive, sometimes obsessive 
 game play) , I have found no better game on the xbox360 to throw in and have a multi player showdown 
 with. At $4.99, it couldnt be more worth it. But treat it more like therapeutic medicines than 
 anything else: play once daily until headache is relieved and return for prescription of other 
 BK games upon desire for whopper. Other wise over frequent game play could have you improvising 
 a new BK Frisbee game, and again for $4.99, that wouldnt be all that bad of a deal either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjagiello
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised, frankly, at this game. It certainly isn't great. BUT the value is surprisingly 
 high, given the $4 price tag. The gameplay is quite similar to a Mario Kart experience, in that 
 you race around wacky areas and fire weird stuff at other racers. Not much realism here... this 
 is no sim. I had no problems with any Live play, and played a couple of dozen games online, against 
 some other burger eaters. The production values are quite high, and I personally encountered no 
 bugs of any type, which is more than I can say for the other games I've purchased this week that 
 cost 10 times the price (15 times, to be more accurate) . Hopefully BK will get out of the food 
 business entirely and make games at this price point! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silicon_requiem
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 5, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  It seems to me that many people have forgotten the old skool games of the SNES days. This is obviously 
 a redux of supermario kart, and it works quite well. I don't care for online games, so I can't 
 speak about that aspect of it, the Gamespot reviewer seemed quite upset over that, but hey, for 
 something that costs the SAME AS A VALUE MEAL AT BK, this little game rocks. -The Good
  1) Easy to play- for people of all ages, and non-gamers like my fiance, can pick this up and have 
 fun
  2) Fun for whole family- its clean fun, plain and simple. No gimmiks, no cursing or abusive violence. 
 Sure, you get to shoot each other with cartoon rockets, but otherwise its okay even for very small 
 children
  3) A bit addictive, the very basic skills required to play get more difficult as you compete in 
 faster and faster races, but there is no need for fancy racing skills, just plain old reflexes 
 will do. Overall, you might just be surprised how much you end up playing this little 4$ game.
 
  4) You can even make your own avatar, limited for sure, but surprising for a super-budget title 
 5) Race modes add depth and fun value, there are 4 modes (3 if you lump standard and 'hardcore') 
 and each adds a different aspect to the game. However, the non-standard modes can be really easy 
 against the AI, but playing with friends and family is great fun
  6) For the price that its offered at, its surprisingly bug free, I have put about 8 hours into 
 it and haven't had a major glitch yet, props to the designers
  7) Configured for 360 by allowing achievements
  8) Umm... ITS FOUR DANG DOLLARS, HELLO?
  -The 
 Bad
  1) Online Experience (???) 2) Music is decidedly repetative, but I have to point out that we all 
 used to listen to midi music on the old games, and even the style of music being played is meant 
 to remind us of those days, so this is not that big of a deal as long as you go in realizing you 
 will likely turn the sound down eventually.
  -The Ugly
  1) Sometimes you can get stuck in places, such as crammed between some boxes or nose down in between 
 set pieces, but I haven't had to reset the game because of it, usually all it takes is a little 
 wiggling and I'm back out
  
  I disagree with the official reviewer because this game is old fashioned fun, playable by the whole 
 family, has good gameplay, great times, and in the end costs FOUR DOLLARS!!!
  If you can, get it, its well worth the four bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 5.1
Date: Dec 5, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  When you purchase a game for $4 from a local fast food joint, you can't go into it expecting much 
 of anything. What you can expect is to be slightly annoyed by the sheer amount of crappy advertising 
 in the game. You can expect the game to look like crap. You can expect the game to sound like crap. 
 But the key is......... is the game still fun to actually play? Well with Pocketbike Racer, that 
 would be a No .
  
  This is an obvious rip-off of Mario Kart. Of course, if that wasn't obvious going in than you are 
 blind. And while the game isn't horrible, it just doesn't have anything that makes you want to 
 come back to the game after playing for maybe an hour. The characters are all pretty lame, with 
 the exception of Brooke Burke. And how can you go wrong with having a huge, live chicken in the 
 game? Other than those two, The King, &amp; Whopper Jr., the rest of the cast is purely generic. 
 There are no advantages of using different characters anyways, so I guess it really doesn't matter.
 
  
  The visuals are a little rough, but aren't horrible. There are five colorful tracks and I guess 
 they all race relatively well, except for one. The construction site track needs to die a horrible 
 death. Combined with the fact that your racer can get caught up on things in the enviroment, flip 
 over on it's front wheel (and you can't get back upright) while landing from a jump, this track 
 has many 'instant deaths' that are very annoying. Of course the other tracks suffer from the first 
 two annoyances, so I guess they are only marginally better. This may have some of the worst music 
 and sound I have ever heard in a videogame. And when you can't even make a Mario Kart wanna-be 
 racer fun online, then you know the game has problems.
  
  But even with all of those problems, the game still has some weird charm that might have you go 
 for the achievement points, which are easier to get in this game than the other two Burger King 
 games. Other than that, I would pass on this game if you don't want to have all three BK games 
 just to have them. You won't be interested in this game for more than an hour, if that, and unfortunately 
 it doesn't have much of Brooke Burke in it. Which may be the worst travesty about this game when 
 you think about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psfreak03
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Of all the tie-in's Burger King could come up with, you wouldn't think that a videogame starring 
 various Burger King characters on pocketbikes for the Xbox and Xbox 360 would be one of them. But, 
 lo and behold, here it is. Pocketbike Racer is a straightforward racer with Burger King characters 
 like the King, Whopper JR, Subservient Chicken and for some strange reason, Brooke Burke. The graphics 
 are sub-par, there are various glitches here and there and the music isn't anything to write home 
 about. This game has real novelty value and is perfect for the Achievement jockey looking to boost 
 his Gamerscore. So, maybe it isn't a real great game, but for about four dollars, you could do 
 much worse than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seasponge2004
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Pocketbike Racer for the XBox 360, is perhaps the best game you will ever get... for $4. I call 
 it The Poor Mans Mario Kart . The game features a nice variety of vehicles, levels and characters. 
 The King's cape has very nice effects when going at high speeds. The game also features online 
 and split-screen multiplayer which really wowed me since i only pay $4 for it. The game does have 
 this very ackward weapon system but other than that, you get your $4 worth and then some. I would 
 definetly recommend this game to anyone with a XBox or a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  After playing Sneak King I was hesitant to purchase another one of these games. Luckily for me 
 I did. This game really is alot of fun and it looks like they tried to put some detail in this 
 title. This is easily the best of the 3 games you can buy. To be honest this game could sell for 
 $19.99 easily. It has online modes, tournaments, create a player. Hats off to this one.
  
  Graphics - 8.5
  I was shocked to see graphics like this in a $4 game. Some nice details and character 
 models.
  
  Sound - 8
  Great soundtrack! The music really keeps the pace going.
  
  Value - 8
  Even when your done with single player you can jump online and race some friends. 
 Really fun time I might add. There are even shortcuts on every track. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeoj7
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  i think for $4.00 this game is pretty cool. i love the fact that it is online cause i can show 
 eveyone my skills at this game. :) you may think it sucks because its from burger king but its 
 not bad at all. the graphics are decent, the races are well put, and you have a very good time 
 playing this game. best of all three. sneak king is ok. big bumpin is stupid. this pretty much 
 kicks the crap out of the two other games bk has made. now the question is what will they do next. 
 anyways, awesome game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gods_mistake
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is based on the most demented fast food campaign ever. This isn't the creepiest game 
 of the trio but it is the probably most fun. I don't really understand why Brook Burke is in this 
 game, but I also don't really understand why Burger King would make a game either. Aside from the 
 twisted characters and racetracks, this game offer quite a bit of hilarious fun for the meager 
 price of $4.00. The weapon attacks are fun and challenging. The bikes are pretty well balanced 
 and there are a lot to choose from. The sounds and music fit very well with the theme of the game, 
 the music is especially good and from virtually all genres.
  
  I would also emphasize hat this game really does amaze me in every way. Well worth the time and 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorarikukh2
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is surprisingly addictive and can waste about 4-5 hours if you sit down and finish some 
 tournaments. The character options are very clevar and pretty amusing. graphics are solid considering 
 you pay 4$ for this game. Its definetly worth the money if your thinking about buying it. Besides 
 its easy to unluck achivement points on this game theres only about 200 available points tho. but 
 its already got most of em. and I just picked this up this afternoon. This game is fun and addictive, 
 not one you will play for a few weeks just sort of a three day thing unless you get into the online 
 mode which wasnt bad. BUY THIS GAME!! Its the best $4 you will ever spend! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbuckey
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't expecting much from the new Burger King Xbox/Xbox 360 games, but since I'm a hardcore 
 gamer, and the community of gamers that I play with had started buzzing about how fun the game 
 was, I decided to give them a try. From my very first race I was hooked! This game is a lot of 
 fun and somewhat challenging too. It's obviously not going to be on par with big studio games, 
 but I would say it's just as fun if not more fun than some of the Xbox Live Arcade games out there.
 
  
  The graphics are on par with other Arcade titles and the controls are responsive and intuitive.
 
  
  If you're looking for a simple timekiller game drop the $4.00 (+combo price) and pick up this game. 
 I think you'll have fun with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtb2468
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Some people may say that Pocket bike Racer is just another Mario Kart clone. Well, yeah it is, 
 but the fact that you can play as a chicken, a Whooper Jr., Brooke Burke, and the King himself 
 adds a fun and different approach to the game.
  
  The game play is relatively simple; with easy to learn controls so anyone from the most experienced 
 gamer to someone who is picking up the controller for the first time can play on a somewhat equal 
 level. There are power-ups, which could have been much better, including rockets, landmine type 
 things, flash-bangs, and boost. The power-ups are what make the game the most fun. The standard 
 racing in the game is definitely not the best, as the controls sometimes do not feel very responsive.
 
  
  For a four dollar game, the graphics are very good. I was surprised to see how well the game looked 
 on a 1080i TV. Sure, the real-time shadows and lighting effects aren't exactly the best, but come 
 on, it was four dollars. There are tire marks left on all the games surfaces if you do a power 
 slide, which to me adds a lot to a racing game. The sounds in the game were ok, but by no means 
 anything spectacular. The music tends to get very annoying, so I recommend using your own music 
 to play this game with.
  
  The game play modes in single player are fairly simple, with the best one being classic racing. 
 The classic race includes all power-ups across the 5 tracks in the game. These races are fairly 
 challenging for the first few minutes, but with a little practice they become very easy to beat. 
 The battle royale mode leaves much to be desired. Having a battle on a course designed for racing 
 was definitely not the best idea. Much time is spent driving around in circles trying to find someone 
 to hit. The best weapon to use in this is the shield so that you can run into people to get points. 
 The other weapons don't seem to do a lot because of the erratic movements of the other characters, 
 who seem to strive to go through all of the power up cones, but yet rarely use a weapon. Usually 
 during the score breakdown, the CPU characters have 1-2 hits each. Hardcore racing is really annoying 
 in my opinion. It is just plain racing with no power-ups across the somewhat bland tracks. The 
 power-ups are really what gave the racing what it needed to keep it fun. Without them, it gets 
 very repetitive and becomes boring quickly. The ability to unlock more bikes as you progress through 
 the game definitely adds to the game. It would have been nice if they added unlockable courses 
 as well, so that there would be more variety in the game. The biggest mistake was the crappy character 
 design mode. This basically consists of changing a few of the characters clothes and has no customization 
 for facial features or even the haircut. The character creator should have just been left out; 
 it is a waste of space on the disc and some programmer's time.
  
  Adding achievements to this game was a good idea. I'm sure many people will keep playing the game 
 to get all 200 achievement points. This was a good strategy in attracting buyers and in keeping 
 people playing. Many people would give far more than 3.99 for 200 achievement points.
  
  Multiplayer is another good aspect of the game. Getting some of your friends in on a race across 
 Xbox Live is very fun. There are not a whole lot of laid back games like this coming out anymore, 
 making this one a good buy for anyone looking for a relaxing and fun time with less hardcore gamers.
 
  
  Overall, this game is definitely a game to buy for anyone looking for a fun, laid back game that 
 anyone can play. A great buy at $3.99, it is cheaper than the Xbox Live arcade games. Great graphics, 
 value pricing and overall fun game play make this an easily recommended game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Take one part Mario Kart, one part Burger King and a dash of WTF and you get Pocketbike Racer for 
 both the Xbox and Xbox 360. It's a fun little game for a while, but it ends up being quite shallow 
 once you play it for more than ten minutes. For a total budget game, though, it holds it's own 
 quite well.
  
  For starters, the disc comes packaged in a complete neon green shell with a slipcover and everything, 
 like you went out and bought a shiny new retail 360 game. I was expecting all these BK games to 
 come in a crappy little cardboard sleeve, so it was a good initial impression. Another notable 
 thing is that both the Xbox and Xbox 360 versions of the game come packaged on the same disc. Neat 
 in it's own right, but not really a technical achievement since both games are essentially the 
 same thing.
  
  There are five tracks to play and four different modes. The tracks are all varied in length and 
 difficulty, but none stand out anything like a typical Mario Kart track. The modes are pretty standard 
 too, with one of them being pretty unique. There is the normal race with powerups, a battle mode, 
 a slalom mode where you have to pass through the most gates, and then a race without powerups. 
 Slalom was unique, but not very fun. Once you figure out that you can start the race going backwards 
 you are guaranteed a win over the computer racers fighting for all the same gates. Battle mode 
 was the most fun of them all, but still without the charm of Mario Kart. The weapons are all pretty 
 dull and all very standard. There's things that shoot out like rockets, a mine, a force field and 
 a flash of light that blinds your opponents temporarily.
  
  The major downfall of this game is the AI. To put it bluntly, they are borderline nonexistent past 
 the starting line. I was hoping difficulty would ramp up in the 100 or 150 cc races, but it doesn't. 
 The only change there is how fast your bike goes, which does add some challange in some spots.
 
  
  My favorite thing about this game is that by going through different colored checkpoints you get 
 a varied amount of special . You can use the special meter for either boost or a weapon of certain 
 degree based on how much meter you have filled up. This is actually a pretty good design. You can 
 either choose to take out the opponents around you or just blow by them and hope they don't catch 
 up.
  
  Included in the package is online racing, intact with all four modes from the single player. While 
 this is great, it has a very weird downside to it... No voice chat capabilities. In the lobby you 
 can chat with people, but as soon as the race starts you are cut off and are forced to race in 
 silence. What's weirder, is that another BK game with online included voice chat, so I'm not sure 
 what to think.
  
  Overall, given the ease of the single player and the lack of voice chat in multiplayer, once you 
 spend the 3-4 hours to get all 200 achievement points from this game you'll probably never pick 
 it up again unless you want to show it to a friend. It's a fun ride while it lasts, but it doesn't 
 have any staying power since it's a very shallow game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 27, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  The Good: Suprisingly good visuals, well done online mode, tracks are unique and enjoyable, characters 
 are amusing...
  
  The Bad: Collision detection is poor, tracks are somewhat hard to manuver in, powerups aren't very 
 effective. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The third game of three that Burger King has brought to the gaming community is Pocketbike Racer, 
 a Mario Kart-like bike racing game with multiplayer racing for up to 8 players. The online mode 
 and achievements make this game worth shelling out $4 for, but it's problems keep it from being 
 quite as good as Big Bumpin and Sneak King. In the game, you race around four courses as the various 
 BK mascots ranging from The King, to Brooke Burk. These characters are amusing and give the game 
 a silly, goofy feel, but the actual gameplay is pretty solid. Luckily, there are no camera issues 
 like in Sneak King, and the controls are pretty simple and easy to master, but there are a few 
 issues that drag this game down a bit. The first is poor collision detection. Basically what this 
 means, is that when you crash into a wall, instead of just turning away from it and moving on, 
 you may simply inch your way off of that wall until you hit a point where the game will let you 
 get off of the wall. This does get annoying and lowers the game's good gameplay down a bit. The 
 second problem is the tracks aren't as well defined as they should be. In the neighborhood track, 
 you can race down a section of the track, then the game stops you and put's you on the area that 
 you were suppose to go on, even though it wasn't that well defined. It's not a serious issue like 
 the collision detection, but it is a nucience. The third issue is the powerups in the game. They 
 really aren't very helpful. Sure, you can launch rockets at opponents, but you don't usually know 
 hen you get rockets and they only work right if you have the person in front of you directly in 
 front of you. It's a nice idea, but it should have been improved before the game was released. 
 These problems keep the game from being as good as the other two games, but it is still a worthwhile 
 purchase if you are looking for some more achievement points and an enjoyable racing game at a 
 very low price.
  
  Gameplay: It's fun, but there are several issues that keep it from being highly recomended.
  
 
  Graphics: Suprisingly good visuals keep the game from getting stale.
  
  Sound: Soundtrack is decent, but use of custom soundtracks is encouraged here.
  
  Value: It's 
 $4, so you really can't go wrong...
  
  Final Thoughts: The King races? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  BK did a great job with this game for 4 bucks. It is actuly really fun to play agenst your friends. 
 I think they should make 3 360 games 1 a year because they did a awsome job. the graphics are great, 
 they beat condemed's graphics and it was 4 bucks. you can't go wrong for that price. It is worthy 
 of my collection or is it yours. 4 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
  Try it as soon as you get a whopper or any value meal.. The King is always right. Have it your 
 way and do what you want just don't kill, Rape, malest, or S##t on anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerdestroyer
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  ok so another BK game, this one, is actually very fun, kinda linear but very very fun. BREAKDOWN: 
 Gameplay: very good surprisingly, i never thought cheap games could be so good. its really just 
 a simple racing game with mario kart elements, and it blends it pretty good. for a 4$ game the 
 gameplay is absolutely amazing, but compared to other racing games, its not all that great, but 
 a great time waster and takes you straight out of boredom. this one has a create-a-character mode 
 which is cool for a low budget game. power up system is weird. dodge inbetween so many cones to 
 get a certain power-up and press the left and right bumpers to switch between power-ups
  
  Graphics: like sneak king, its good for a 4 dollar game, cool cape physics for the kings cape, 
 and its cool with the lighting effects. definitely amazing for such a low budget game
  
  Sound: unlike sneak king, this one has voices. you can press Y to taunt your fellow racers, doesnt 
 do anything but its pretty funny. the bike sounds almost real, and the music is pretty cool, gets 
 you pumped for the race.
  
  Value: DEFINITELY WORTH 4$ maybe even 10, yeah thats right, this game is cool and surprisingly 
 good
  
  Tilt: i wish i wish i knew what this was
  
  Overall: great for a low budget game, if you want a good time wasting mario kart type game, head 
 to BK now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evanwolves999
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  Pocketbike Racer is an amazing game for the price... heck, it is just an all around amazing game. 
 Look at the game at face value... the graphics are actually really good and it actually makes me 
 think twice for paying $60 for some games. If Burger King is able to push out graphics like that 
 for 4 bucks then I expect fusion frenzy 2 to be four bucks as well because the graphics really 
 are not that much better.
  
  With that said, this is a game that is meant to be played with friends. Have a few friends over, 
 get some food at BK and then pick up pocketbike and big bumpin ( I have a separate review for that) . 
 Playing a few rounds of pocketbike is a good change from gears of war and keeps things fresh. There 
 is nothing like the thrill of taunting your friends and crossing the finish line after hitting 
 your friend with a rocket to get into first place..... just pick this game up.... its only 4 bucks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos_theory_09
Rating: 3.9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 2:10 am PT
Review:  I understand that this is a discount game. And concidering that, maybe it isn't all that bad. But 
 after playing this game, I think that I could give my 5 year old nephew 5,000 bucks and have him 
 make a more enjoyable game. The physics and handling suck. It's just not fun. If it wasn't for 
 trying to collect a few achievement points, I wouldn't have played it more than once. (I only did 
 play it about three or four times, and I regret that!) So basicly, if you are desperate for a few 
 achievement points, then I guess you can go ahead and buy this. But other than that, don't bother. 
 It's not an enjoyable game to play in the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBlitzerx
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: To make things simple, this is a Mario Kart ripoff. Surprisingly, it does it fairly well. 
 There are a few different characters to choose from. Some Burger King related, some not. You can 
 also customize your own (change color palates) . Then you chose your bike, they vary in speed, handling 
 and acceleration. Then you race/battle on one of five different tracks. The environments are actually 
 pretty fun to race through. As for the actual racing, the physics take some getting used to. After 
 your first five minutes, you'll want to never play again. But if you take an extra five, you'll 
 get used to it. The items (they call them gadgets) are nothing special, but still cool.
  
  Sound: Like the others in the Burger King series of games, the music is decent, nothing amazing 
 though. Sound effects are alright as well.
  
  Replay Value: This game has Xbox Live support. So you can race online in any of the modes from 
 offline. The single player game will take you about three hours (if your going for achievements) .
 
  
  For $4-5, you might as well get this while you can. I find it to be the best out of the three. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buddycuffs
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  The best part of this game is the soundtrack which includes that Bob Your Head chicken song from 
 the old Burger King commercials. But they don't have the lyrics!! That kind of made me enjoy the 
 music less. This is just your basic racing game. You got your boost, the weapons, the shields, 
 the various tracks, and the characters from the Big Bumpin BK game. It is a bit challenging, but 
 once you get the hang of it you basically just win and win and win. The online is pretty fun, but 
 it gets old kind of fast.
  It's worth the 4 dollars for the easy achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xstealthmunkyx
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I recently went to my local Burger King and purchased this game. I wasn't expecting much, but WOW! 
 This game is actually as fun if not more fun that any other racing game. The controls are simple 
 and multiplayer is great! Yet the graphics are lacking a bit, the gameplay totally makes up for 
 it. This game is just great. Probably the best Burger King game out there. I would absolutely recommend 
 this game. I don't really have much to say, so im just going to say blah for the rest of this review. 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godigoshin
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 22, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I have been reading some reviews of this game that say that they judge it based on its price range. 
 For 4 dollars this game is MUCH more than a bargain game and deserves much higher scores. Gameplay 
 - As good as mario kart? no but much cheaper. Power-ups, courses selection, character selection 
 and creation are all much better than i first thought they would be. there are also 12 different 
 types of tournaments to play from 50 cc up to 150 cc. Lots of shortcuts to be found and tracks 
 are pretty deep. 8 player Online play and 4 player multiplayer also adds a great of fun to gameplay.
 
  
  Graphics - Graphics are not too bad, but since you could find an xbox game for 4 dollars at a used 
 game store i did not rate them as high as some of the other categories. Animations and effects 
 look pretty good and character detail is also pretty good. Sound - Reviews that i have read claim 
 that the sound is bad and that the music is a bunch of techno... this is false. The opening song 
 is a very simple, catchy, nintendoesque tune that seems to not want to leave my head. Also, there 
 is an in-race song that consists of 95% Les Claypool-like bass guitar and 5% screaming. Bass guitar 
 + screaming = great song. Value - If there was a higher score than 10, this game would get it. 
 Lots of unlockable achievements and bikes to go along with the single player, which can take many 
 hours to complete to its fullest. Online adds even more time to its longevity and, hell, its 3.99!!!
 
  
  Tilt - Because i am so happy that i only had to pay 4 dollars for this game, along with getting 
 a tasty BK chicken sandwich, i am pretty happy. The online multiplayer is much funner than halo 
 2 online multiplayer and is taking away from my time playing call of duty 3 online. Definitely 
 worth the 3.99 and tasty sandwiches to get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeleNel
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  All I really have to say is, the game is 3.99. Don't whine and cry when you dont get some amazing 
 gameplay that makes you lose sleep coming back for more. However, with that said, Pocketbike is 
 actually a lot of fun.
  
  The create-a-player isn't really much at all. You have premade players, then you get to change 
 the color of their clothes. GROUNDBREAKING!
  
  The gameplay plays a lot like Mario Kart or Crash Racing. Race a few laps, and build up your power 
 up bar by driving between cones. Shoot your weapon, and continue. Haven't played it on XBL yet 
 because... well... I can't find anyone else to play with. I'll have to get back to you on that one, 
 but for a quick run down, take 3 courses from Mario Kart, and play it online. There you go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MilfredCubicleX
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Lots of fun, once you beat single player it gets kind of old, but the multi player is always fun 
 to play with friends. There are lots of things to do in single player, including 4 different modes 
 of play and plenty of unlockables. Once you get tired of that, Xbox live is fun, as well as local 
 multi player. There's really not much else to this game to describe, which makes it annoying to 
 write one hundred words about it. So anyway, overall, for $4 dollars, its a hell of a game. I also 
 have big bumpin', and my friend has sneak king. Big bumpin' is more of a party game, but i haven't 
 played sneak king yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mynamesdenvrmax
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Pocketbike Racer is an interesting way to promote. It's also a great way for Xbox 360 and Xbox 
 owners. We get a meal, and a game for $3.99 *plus the cost of the meal. You not only get the single 
 player mode, you can also play over XBL with other Burger lovers.
  
  The graphics arent bad, I figured we'd see some pretty ugly looking images. The textures get pretty 
 sloppy when you're really close. Trees and plants look bad when you run into them. But from a distance, 
 its pretty nice. The graphics remind me of Full Auto's style.
  
  The sound is fair, the same MIDI style tune plays (slightly better than MIDI quality, just repetative. 
 The bike makes the same sound for the most part, and you wont really hear many tire screetches. 
 The controls could use a little work, as you blast away with the boost you'll often not have enough 
 room to really get going without hitting a wall. And once you do, you'll be stuck reversing as 
 all the others pass. When it comes down to it, you're getting a game for $3.99. You'll get achievements 
 (XBLA amount) , some thrills and maybe even want to play it more than a few times. Its worth the 
 extra dollars if you're picking up some lunch! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thornscar
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  This is the best of the 3 games from Burger King! And it gets that from the multi-Player mode. 
 Its kinda like Mario Kart, but not as good. Its a deal for the price though. So go out and pick 
 it up! This is the best of the 3 games from Burger King! And it gets that from the multi-Player 
 mode. Its kinda like Mario Kart, but not nearly as good. If you catch it at the bargain bin give 
 it a try. Its nice that it has achievements though, although they are not the easiest to come by. 
 Since they don't sell it at burger king you don't even have to eat the crappy food anymore to get 
 it! YAY! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
