-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Prey
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/prey/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great-looking graphics.
 Occasional flashes of really interesting gameplay ideas.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lacks any challenge.
 Aliens speak English and sound dumb doing so.
 Action is overly straightforward.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 10, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 93 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 4,494 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: Venom Games
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Jul 11, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Prey is an easy ride through an alien world that doesn't cash in on all its potential but still 
 offers enough thrills to make it a worthwhile trip. 

  A couple of years ago, you probably would have been branded as a lunatic if you had said that we'd 
 ever get to play Prey. Many of the game's ideas were originally hatched a decade ago. The game 
 was even shown off to press in 1997. But in 1998, Prey was canned so that the development team 
 could move on to other projects, and it was assumed lost. It resurfaced last year with a new developer 
 and new technology thanks to the engine that powered both Doom 3 and Quake 4. The end result is 
 a pretty standard first-person shooter that offers up largely the same sorts of thrills you've 
 probably come to expect from this style of game, in spite of some superficially novel twists.  
 

          Tommy and everything he cares about get sucked up into space.     

  Prey opens with the main character yelling at himself in a bathroom mirror. Tommy, a Cherokee Indian, 
 doesn't really care about his heritage and wants to take his girlfriend, Jen, and leave the reservation. 
 But before he can muster up the courage to convince her to leave (and just after he bashes in the 
 skulls of a couple of morons causing trouble in her bar) , an alien invasion sucks Tommy, his grandfather, 
 and Jen up into some sort of spacecraft. With the help of some unknown benefactors, Tommy manages 
 to get free and you set out on your quest to rescue your girlfriend and, of course, save Earth 
 in the process. There are a few plot twists here and there, but some of those twists feel like 
 they've been lifted directly from other games.  

  The two things that seem meant to separate Prey from its brethren are the game's liberal use of 
 portals that bring you from place to place and a bag of gravity tricks that are meant to keep you 
 wondering which way is up. The portals are open and let you see and fire weapons through to the 
 other side. They lend themselves to a couple of neat tricks, including one where you see yourself 
 entering a portal on the other side of the portal. Just try to resist the urge to shoot yourself 
 in the back of the head. The portals are a neat idea, and their potential is revealed early on 
 when you walk through one that shrinks you down and puts you inside a small glass case with a sphere 
 inside. But for the rest of the game, the portals might as well be doors, because the linear level 
 design rarely leaves you wondering if the portal that just appeared in front of you is indeed the 
 right way to go.  

  Playing around with gravity is a much more interesting part of Prey. You'll encounter powered walkways 
 that let you walk up walls and onto ceilings. Also, some portals will drop you into a room you've 
 already been in, but you'll be walking on what you previously thought was a wall. And in a few 
 other cases, you'll be able to shoot objects to change gravity, which forces your view to rotate 
 as you fall to another surface. These segments of the game serve as the majority of its puzzles, 
 but they aren't difficult to figure out.  

  The straightforward level design means that you'll spend the bulk of your time in combat. The game 
 throws enemies at you pretty consistently, though their numbers are never overwhelming. And since 
 the crazy aliens invented this portal business in the first place, they can teleport in rather 
 than run around trying to find you. However, unlike the imps in Doom 3, Prey's hunters don't just 
 teleport in behind you and attempt to catch you off guard, but also have a few basic evasive maneuvers 
 at their disposal. That said, the game's artificial intelligence isn't particularly advanced. The 
 hunters, armed with the same machine gun/sniper rifle combo that serves as your first real weapon, 
 will occasionally take cover or toss a grenade in your direction if you're not in their line of 
 sight, and they'll pick you off at a distance if you stand still in the open. But the rest of the 
 enemies, a somewhat small menagerie of alien beasts and the occasional flying robot, stay out in 
 the open and either rush right at you for a melee attack or attempt to circle around you and fire 
 weapons, if they're armed. None of the enemies are difficult to deal with.  

  You are, of course, always armed. While you've got a pipe wrench at your disposal for melee attacks, 
 it's useful only for the first couple of minutes. Then you take out your first hunter and get a 
 rifle that fires like a machine gun but also has a scope that can be used for a more powerful sniper 
 shot. All of the weapons are of alien origin, so many of them look kind of goofy and keep up the 
 organic-merged-with-metal motif that the rest of the game is going for. For example, rather than 
 having hand grenades, you pick up tiny crawling creatures that explode when you rip off one of 
 their legs and toss them at an enemy. If you flip them over with the alternate fire button, you 
 can plant them as mines or use them as Halo-like sticky grenades. You'll also get a rapid-fire 
 nailgun-like weapon that works as a grenade launcher, an acid gun, and a rocket launcher that also 
 fires a misty cloud that blocks weapon fire. Unfortunately, the mist also blocks your shots, which 
 makes its use limited. You'll also get the leech gun. No, it doesn't fire leeches that bore into 
 your enemies' flesh -- that'd just be gross. Instead, you can leech power out of specific power terminals 
 to charge your gun with energy. There are multiple energy types, so you might get hot-plasma shots, 
 a freeze ray, a powerful burst of electricity, or, near the end of the game, a constant stream 
 of energy that works roughly like Quake's lightning gun. While there are multiple weapons of varying 
 power in the game, their alien look doesn't fit with their mostly conventional usage. On top of 
 that, most of the game's enemies aren't tough enough to warrant that type of firepower. You could 
 very easily cruise through the majority of the game using only the default rifle, since it has 
 a recharging ammo supply.  

          The game's weapons are weird looking, but they act like standard first-person shooter firepower. 
     

  Because Tommy's a mystical Cherokee warrior, he eventually gains another ability, even if he doesn't 
 believe in mysticism. Early on in the game, you, as Tommy, gain the ability to leave your body 
 and "spirit walk." In spirit form, you're armed with a bow that can be used to kill many enemies 
 in one shot, but the real benefit of spirit walking is puzzle-oriented. To put it simply, you can 
 walk through force fields when in spirit form. So anytime you see a force field, just punch the 
 spirit walk button and walk on through. You can collect ammo and interact with switches and touch 
 screens while in spirit form, so you'll usually use this form to turn off force fields, electric 
 eyes, and other objects that get in your way. Some paths and walkways appear (and function) only 
 when you're in spirit walk mode, so there will be some gaps that you can cross when you're outside 
 of your body. Much like the game's other unique mechanics, it's an interesting idea that doesn't 
 feel like it was fully explored for the purposes of the game.     

  Gaining the spirit walk power has one other benefit: When you die, you'll be sent directly to the 
 spirit realm instead of to a game-over screen. This is essentially a basic minigame where you must 
 fire the spirit bow at red and blue wraiths to recharge your health and spirit energy, respectively. 
 After doing that for 15 to 20 seconds, you're sent back into the world of the living, right where 
 you left off. This makes death trivial and removes any remaining difficulty you might encounter. 
 In some ways, this method seems designed to remove the desire to constantly use quick saves and 
 quick loads to inch through the game's 8- to 12-hour single-player campaign. Considering that the 
 Xbox 360 version doesn't have any quick-save functionality, this process means that you can play 
 through the game and manually save only when you decide to stop playing, because under normal circumstances, 
 you'll never lose any progress -- though it should be mentioned that both versions of Prey locked 
 up a couple of times during play, which did, in fact, cause us to lose some progress. But since 
 both versions autosave at the beginning of each level and the PC version auto-saves at checkpoints 
 within the level, even this rare issue isn't enough to send you screaming for the save screen. 
 One nice benefit of the game's death system is that the game only stops to load between levels. 
 But it's only nice because many of the load times are close to a minute long.  

          The game's puzzles aren't very tough, so making constant progress shouldn't be much of 
 a problem.     

  A harder difficulty setting unlocks after you complete the main single-player game. It's sort of 
 a shame that this isn't available right from the start, since it makes the combat a little more 
 challenging. But since you can still do the death walk and refrain from losing progress when dying, 
 the game is not worth playing through a second time, unless you're specifically trying to earn 
 the Xbox 360 achievement you get for doing so. Speaking of achievements, Prey's are quite easy. 
 You'll earn most of them by simply completing the single-player game. The multiplayer achievements 
 include getting 25 kills with each of the game's weapons, scoring first place in a ranked match, 
 playing in 10 ranked matches, and totaling up a number of kills in the game's two multiplayer modes. 
 On top of that, there are three secret achievements, all of which are tied in to doing well at 
 three video gambling machines that you run into at the very beginning of the game.  

  Both versions of Prey support multiplayer for up to eight players in two modes: deathmatch and 
 team deathmatch. The maps are designed well enough, and they make better use of portals and gravity 
 than the single-player game does, but ultimately, the weapons aren't much fun to fire and the limited 
 number of modes makes the multiplayer feel like an afterthought. Deathmatch and team deathmatch 
 have been done better elsewhere. Also, it's worth noting that the Xbox 360 version can only be 
 played via system link or Xbox Live. There's no option for split-screen play.  

  The split between the Xbox 360 version and the PC version is fairly typical. The Xbox 360 version 
 looks great and usually maintains a smooth frame rate, though it bogs down in a couple of specific 
 spots. The PC version maintains its smooth frame rate throughout, provided you have a machine strong 
 enough to handle it, and at higher resolutions it certainly looks better than its console counterpart. 
 The Xbox 360 version benefits from the achievement points system, but it also carries a $59 price 
 tag as opposed to the PC's $49 price. Both platforms also offer a limited-edition version that 
 jacks up the price an additional 10 bucks and gets you two pewter figurines and an art book, which 
 doesn't seem like a good value unless you have an interest in pewter figurines.  

  One of the selling points of Doom 3 and, later, Quake 4 was the strength of their visuals. The 
 Doom 3 engine is also being used to power Prey, and the game maintains that standard of quality. 
 The engine is capable of some interesting feats, but these feats are used only in limited circumstances. 
 There are a few spots where you'll be in very large, open areas that give you an interesting sense 
 of scale, but the majority of the game is a corridor crawl. There are a couple of cases where you'll 
 see objects and even entire rooms being built right before your eyes, which looks cool, but you 
 can count the number of times it happens on one hand. So while the majority of the effects are 
 pretty understated, the game does get by on decent artistic design. Sure, it's mining the same 
  territory that's been drawn from time and time again (in 
 fact, it was done better by the last Doom 3 engine game, Quake 4) , but the environments are visually 
 interesting.  

          Spirit walking is an interesting idea, but you usually only use it to get through force 
 fields and hit switches.     

  The weapons sound appropriate but lack punch. The game's soundtrack is also fine, though it rarely 
 stands out. Strangely enough, the game's designers went out and licensed a whole bunch of real-world 
 music for the jukebox in the bar that opens the game. You can click around and listen to great 
 songs like "Barracuda" from Heart or Judas Priest's "You've Got Another Thing Comin'," but aside 
 from a chance encounter later in the single-player and in some of the multiplayer, you never encounter 
 these songs again. It seems like a waste. The game has plenty of voice work in it, and most of 
 it's just fine. After you gain the ability to spirit walk, you can also understand the alien hunters, 
 as they essentially start to speak English. While this gives you some tactical advantage -- namely, 
 you know when they're going to throw a grenade because they call it out -- they sound dumb, and it 
 lessens their impact as fearsome, unreasonable alien invaders.  

  Prey's campaign won't take too long, and it's rarely difficult, which makes it a solid choice if 
 you're looking for an easy weekend romp. But much of the game's potential for unique thrills feels 
 wasted by its straightforward level design, and the multiplayer doesn't add much to the package. 
 Fans of the genre have probably played games better than Prey in the past, but the action and the 
 environments you move through are interesting enough to make playing through the game worthwhile. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (448 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: darkprince2
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 1:18 am PT
Review:  The game starts out really cool. The beginning sequence was very original and had perfect music 
 for it, too. As you get farther and farther into the game, it becomes very unfair - the devolpers 
 took advantage of the fact that you can respawn at will by putting you in very unfair scenarios, 
 like having 4 snipers on you at one time and not being able to dash very quickly at all. When I 
 got to that part of the game, I knew I was done with it for good.
  
  I found that it took way too many bullets to put enemies down. It's really sad that this game was 
 10 years in the making. The reason this game got 75% is because it's all been done before and the 
 multiplayer is very very lacking. Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch. Whoopdee doo!! It doesn't matter 
 how long it takes to make a game, it's how much work and heart that was put into it that would 
 make it truly great and you can tell the developers took their sweet time making a subpar adventure. 
 What a waste!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sleezinator
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Prey is an FPS trying desperately to set itself apart from other shooters. It attempts to do this 
 by offering guns made of small vile creatures, oozy acidic blasters, and grenades with legs that 
 seem to just have a mind of there own. 
  
  For the most part Prey accomplishes its goals. I found it to have a fun story line that kept me 
 interested until the end. This was the first shooter I've played that was fronted by a Native American, 
 that was kinda fun. Graphics left something to be desired but weren't terrible by any means. 
 
  
  Prey also provided a feature that allows for when you die, you go to an after life where you shot 
 spirits with a bow and arrow. This was kinda cool in the sense you never truely died, you would 
 just pop right back in as you left with evidently no real consequence. That was both cool and a 
 draw back, in the sense that if you get stuck on a hard part there was no real restart, like run 
 fast to get there again, die, restart run back, die, and repeat over and over again but to the 
 same effect it eliminates a certain level of challenge that comes with dying and having to restart. 
 They've eliminated any suspense in the sense, nothing can kill you. 
  
  Prey has some great imagery of just absolutely twisted, "I can't believe they did that" sort of 
 stuff. Such as a school bus of dead children, your grandpa getting waxed and various other disturbing 
 images. 
  
  All in all this game was very, very OK. It's worth looking into now considering the price is close 
 to nothing. Definitely worth the playing time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wedge598
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2009 5:10 am PT
Review:  Prey takes a typical sci-fi FPS game (a-la Doom) and adds a simple vehicle and some anti-gravity 
 segments to create a decent shooter that's just interesting enough to keep you playing.
  
  The story tackles the age-old concept of why we are here and it plays out in a large alien ship 
 in the earths orbit. The story is not terribly original but it's interesting enough if your a sci-fi 
 fan to keep you going. 
  
  The graphics are looking pretty dated compared to the most recent Xbox games. The polygon count 
 on the characters are pretty low but the environments do look pretty good most of the time with 
 a few neat effects thrown in near the end. 
  
  The gameplay doesn't do anything wrong. Any FPS player will feel right at home with the controls 
 and weapons. The weapons are all alien in nature (sans the wrench) and they don't really excite 
 you too much but they get the job done. Still, there isn't anything fresh about the gameplay despite 
 the addition of portals and anti-gravity walkways. They attempt to throw some neat environmental 
 puzzles in by adding some buttons that change the direction of gravity in the room but largely 
 these puzzles have obvious solutions and don't really add much to the difficulty or excitement. 
 
  
  Most of the excitement comes with the battles which are pretty easy overall. This is amplified 
 by the fact that you can't die. If you run out of health you simply play a simply mini game to 
 collect health before you are automatically put back where you died. 
  
  Sound is pretty decent, the voice acting is ok and the environmental noises add the belief that 
 you are on a alien space station.
  
  The achievements are laid out so that you'll accumulate about 650 just by simply playing through. 
 About 30 are reserved for secret achievements and the rest of for multiplayer acheivements that 
 you'll probably never get because no one plays it anymore. What is neat is that completing each 
 level gains you more points the father you get. Level 1 is worth 10 points but level 22 is worth 
 60! This encourages you to keep playing if you like to collect achievements.
  
  Overall the game is worth a try if you can still find it. Nothing earth shattering but easily worth 
 the $10 or less you'll pay to get this one. Sci-fi fans will get more out of this than others but 
 it's at least a nice pad of your gamerscore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buldog300
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 12:06 am PT
Review:  It has to be said, at first prey struck me as stupid and just quake 4 with a different batch of 
 aliens. Weapons played the same, the story was at first ridiculous and many of the weapons felt 
 like quake and doom weapons made organic. Then I started to peel of the outer shell and the more 
 I played the game the better it got. No, it wasn't anything revolutionary and it didn't stray from 
 the pack so to speak, but it was a fun game with plenty of enjoyable moments. despite a few setbacks, 
 it's worth a try.
  
  Prey puts you in the place of tommy, a hotheaded Native American trying to convince his girlfriend 
 to leave their reservation. After beating two drunks to a pulp, you, your girlfriend, your uncle 
 and the entire bar around you is pulled up into space by green lights. Tommy manages to escape 
 and after nearly dying discovers the powers of his heritage, which he inevitably uses to butcher 
 many, many aliens.
  
  The gameplay of Prey is similar to Doom3 and quake 4, but doesn't demand you take as many risks 
 (yes, even fewer risks than you did playing as matt kane while running and gunning) . You get an 
 assortment of weapons that are similar to, well, quake weapons, such as a sniping rifle, lightning 
 gun (leech gun) and rocket launcher (but no bfg for prey) . Enemies are somewhat competent, although 
 some improvement would have been appreciated. 
  
  The most notable game feature is the death feature, which offers both a breath of hope in the game 
 and a cry of annoyance. Dying takes you to a realm where you shoot arrows at spirits to replenish 
 health and come back. You come back in the same spot you died. This is good for those who loath 
 the checkpoint system of firefights in past games, but annoying in that each time you take a shot 
 to many, you have to go through a slightly lengthy minigame.
  
  The graphics are, again, like quake 4 and Doom 3. Unfortunately not just in the perspective of 
 shadowing and weapon discharge. While Prey adds some new quarks, it still has that metal mixed 
 with flesh environment (and enemies) of it's older brothers as well as the vast and industrious 
 atmosphere. Spirit walking makes the game more interesting with a shadowed perspective. 
  
  Prey does alot that it's predecessors have done before it. While it's new tweaks give it a personality 
 all it's own, it has the heart and soul of Doom and quake. To be blunt, if you liked these games, 
 then quake is definitely worth the $10 to play it. It is ambitious and tries some new things, and 
 while Sometimes aggravating with it's more obstructive than challenging puzzles, it is a solid 
 shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Elijo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  I bought this game after playing and enjoying the demo but the game turned out to be rather different 
 to my first impression. I paid $15 for this game and looking back I wouldn't have been willing 
 to pay much more. I am not saying this game is terrible... it has good graphics, great sound... I 
 am just saying that there are so many negative points that bring this game down and if the developers 
 want the Prey sequel to be taken seriously I would strongly suggest they improve on these points.
 
  
  The main negative point I found in this game was the extraordinarily easy difficulty. It is impossible 
 to actually die in this game. Each time you die you go to an annoying 'spiritwalking' mode for 
 about 20 seconds and then you find yourself up and running again exactly where you were when you 
 died.
  
  Another negative point is the annoying mind games. The game is packed full of mind games in every 
 single level and I only found one interesting one in the game. Usually when you come to these mind 
 games you think 'oh here we go another boring stepping stone to delay my progress in the game'
 
  
  Artificial intelligence is another issue in this game. Seriously have you ever met an alien race 
 that is fluent in English but has gibberish handwriting? No I didn't think so either.
  
  These issues go together as the core backbone of a boring game. This makes the game uninteresting 
 and leaves and overall chore like experience.
  
  The fun doesn't start until the 16th mission. But in this dying stage of the game I found myself 
 begin to enjoy it. A late kick off but it means Prey saved itself from a much lower score. In these 
 last missions you find yourself using a large variety of weapons and blasting through a large variety 
 of enemies. With much less mind games and and gameplay improvement you start to find yourself having 
 fun. But then it's over and Prey has left a small hole in your heat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 10, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  
  It's very rare that I like a game and find it boring at the same time.
  
  But that's the feeling that PREY gives you. It's consequence free gaming takes away any feeling 
 of achievement and to some degree involvement. 
  
  For lovers of DOOM this game will give you the same thrills as before, it has a large choice of 
 weapons and some great ideas (such as portals and gravity changes) which are before it's time, 
 but these aren't used to any great effect or purpose and feel instead a bit gimmicky rather than 
 a part of the game.
  That's not to say that they aren't fun, they are, they just need structure.
  
  If you've played 
 any more detailed games (Bioshock, Condemned 2) then PREYs rooms will feel empty and box like in 
 comparison, with nothing that is actually interactive. Ammunition and energy is left lying around 
 and for the rest of the time, unless you are opening a door, your presence feels like it has no 
 effect on your surroundings, like the walls of the alien ship are just pasted on.
  
  PREY is an enjoyable game, but offers no real challenge. Of its 22 levels only the last 4 have 
 you fighting a decent amount of enemies, the rest of the time you just walk from room to room solving 
 puzzles until you reach the end boss battle. 
  If you die it doesn't matter, you will find yourself transported to a spirit world to shoot red 
 and blue birds until you find yourself straight back in the same position you died in (though this 
 is the greatest 'load' screen i've encountered in a game) 
  
  And here's my main point, I think PREY could have been a much more enjoyable game if only it gave 
 the player a chance to be involved, instead of being left feeling that a blind monkey could have 
 achieved the same goal.
  
  
  Good: 6.0
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RELL1K
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  First off let me start of by saying that this is a great game. It features a lot of great new things 
 that have yet to be introduced in a lot of other games. The game starts off with you in a bar talking 
 to your grandfather and arguing with him about you not wanting to live and stay on the reservation. 
 You get into a fight with some guys who are bothering you hot GF which happens to be the bartender. 
 I suggest you play the arcade machines and pick a good song on the juke box while you have a chance, 
 because you quickly get abducted by aliens.
  
  This is where the game really starts. You fight your way through different levels of the ship on 
 your quest to rescue your girlfriend. In your quest you discover and see things that seem to get 
 stranger and stranger as you progress. You also learn that you have the ability to "spirit walk". 
 Spirit walking is the ability of your spirit to leave your body and see things in the spirit world. 
 This adds for a new puzzle aspect which helps make this game a bit more interesting and also gives 
 you a new weapon, the spirit bow.
  
  Throughout the game you find new alien weapons which are different enough from the regular run 
 of the mill guns found in everyday shooters to be interesting. I wish there were a few more but 
 the selection you have is good and get's the job done. 
  
  
  There are a few levels in which you will have to pilot a small alien exosuit. These levels are 
 kind of boring and not very interesting but are OK as they tend to be short, though longer than 
 necessary imo. You progress through the game by fighting bosses and solving puzzles in a strange 
 alien ship which is big enough to be a small world itself. The environments look great there is 
 a lot of detail and overall the visuals are stunning. Though the game might seem a bit tedious 
 at times it is still better than a lot of other games out there and at the average price of $10 
 new or as low as $4 used there isn't a reason not to pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rated-R-83
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a rather wild game. You're a Cherokee Indian that is a rebel and wasn't to get away from 
 the reservation his tribe is apart of. When all of a sudden aliens attack and you're swept away 
 to this living breathing space station. What's really wild is that this station lives off of flesh 
 and blood. The entire game is based in this space station and it's pretty cool how this place is 
 built. The enemies are pretty cool especially the ones that are made from human parts. The few 
 boss fights in the game are great. This game is a lot of fun. It's a straight up run and gun kinda 
 game. The weapons are definitely from another world. They're like alive themselves. Now they're 
 some really gross parts in this game like during some of the levels the ship will like throw up 
 on you with an acidity slime of body parts. A really cool feature to this game is that you can't 
 really die. You're killed then swept away to this spirit world and you should red and blue spirits 
 with your bow to revive your health. The graphics are pretty good. The scenery gets kinda old after 
 20 some levels of the same thing. Other than that this game is a lot of fun. Lots of swearing, 
 blood slinging and my personal favorite sniping badies. I definitely recommend this game to fans 
 of first person shooters. It's fun and achievements are easily gathered because you get them all 
 after each level completed. Go out and grab this game you won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draylorn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? The coming back to life mechanic of course makes the game impossible not to beat, 
 but I loved every minute of this adventure, which is more than I could ever say for Doom 3 (which 
 blew) . This game wins for it's inventiveness, despite some pretty average shooting. The story starts 
 out a little cliched, but it gets better.
  
  The star here though is the actual envronments. The cliches are given their own originality through 
 the mastery with which they've been pulled off. You've got alien inventions, arcade games (you'll 
 see what I mean) , an ongoing radio show (you'll se what I mean!) , bizarre set pieces, etc, etc. 
 It's fun just to look at sometimes. The least you can say is that there are no other titles that 
 offer this combination of things.
  
  Pros:
  Awesome guns
  Awesome environments
  Overall good story
  Awesome enemies
  Charming puzzles
  Mind-bending reality shifts
  Generous 
 mix of gameplay elements
  
  Cons:
  Too easy
  Multiple endings might've been nice
  Uhhh that's it
  
  Whatever you end up thinking of Prey, it's worth playing at least once. There 
 are things here you are not likely to see in other titles. And it's worth it just to see those 
 things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyOwl411
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 17, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  This game has great games and a good variety of enemies. The enemies can be very strong and can 
 be very lethal. The hardest and best is the spider-like one which can go through certian walls 
 and massacre you. The guns are amazing too. My fav is the scorpion gun which is innovative and 
 a creative gun addition. My compliments stop here. Congrats to the creators, you made the most 
 annoying and stupid hero that is in my recent memory. Every time he talks, I think I start screaming 
 on the inside. Also, his special power is cool in the beginning, but after a glitch made me do 
 the stupid death animation twice in a row, i think I just wanted him to die for real. Also, the 
 small tweaks to this game is not enough to bring this game through the normal gameplay that underwhelms 
 completely. I mean, who cares is I can walk on a magnetic path or flip the walls around? So only 
 get this game if it is under ten bucks, because do not pay gold for the dullest copper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Prey is an FPS set in modern times. You play the role as Tommy who is a Cherokee and lives on a 
 Cherokee reservation with his Grandfather and girlfriend. Tommy is unhappy with the place but his 
 Grandpa and girlfriend like it there and don't understand why he's so unhappy with it. good Story 
 Of A Indian guy who learn he is having spiritual power and that is bird of spirit always follow 
 him as a guide he learn he being really special he as to fight against invader for her lover and 
 earth sake and is grand father who lost life in the process. The idea of the portals and walk up 
 and upside-down walls really did it for me in this game. It gave me the slight feel of dizziness 
 that excited me. 
  
  They story is ok.. The aliens come and get your girlfriend and you are trying to get her back... 
 There are a few twists along the way, that make things interesting, but overall its a average to 
 good story. This game really shines is the gameplay and the new ideas that it promotes! 
  
  So, if you like sci-fi and some puzzlings, mixed with some good old fashionshooting the alin 
 his brains out" genre, Then this is your game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Getix-01
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Prey
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really good with dynamic lights that shine off everything causing you 
 to be constantly drawn to the screen. For a sci-fi space shooter there seems to be a lot more light 
 than dark, Overall these graphics are simply brilliant but...
  
  Game play: ... this is where it all goes wrong, you will find yourself playing in buggy environments, 
 leaving you behind stuck in various objects. The shooting part is alright but you need to be a 
 fast paced hardcore gamer to defeat these annoying aliens. IN some situations you will find yourself 
 having to solve extremely complicated and frustrating puzzles whilst being attacked. at times you 
 will find stunning environments that are ruined within minutes because you are dropped right back 
 into repetitive and boring action. 
  
  * definitely worth the $1 or 1 * 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maninatrunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Believe it or not this game really works! If you were to briefly describe to me what the game was 
 like, I would probably think it was corny stupid or that there was a developer out of good idea's. 
 but this game seriously works!
  
  THE GOOD
  
  Well I mean for A lot of alien games seem like a lot of the villains or enemys look similar to 
 other games. This one really just uses, all kind of weird character art. so it was pretty fresh 
 feeling. I mean gameplay wise, This game couldn't be more simple, yet perfected. There are Puzzles 
 that every now and then will stop and make you think about what your doing, which did add difficulty 
 to the game. When you break down the core of the game it's very similar, Alien Shooter, Puzzles, 
 Boss fights. Sounds all too familiar right? Not here, This game has a flawless transition from 
 death and life, meaning NO MORE DYING!!!! I loved it, Instead of dying your spirit goes to the 
 spirit world and you have to k ill monsters flyinf around before a certain time to get more health 
 and "spirit". The game's story does a good job of catching your attention right at the right times, 
 you can tell they did a lot of testing and re-testing, because it seems like right when you might 
 be getting tired of something or bored or what have you, something else gets thrown into the mix. 
 Over-all The story is pretty good, where-as most shooters generally like this one don't do very 
 well in the story, but this one does!
  
  THE BAD
  
  Well I had two complaints. 
  
  #2 A couple of times the game would freeze, and it's not my 360, I just bought it about a month 
 ago, and it was at times when the frame-rate could definitly suffer. So the game sometimes screws 
 up, and has a few glitches.
  
  #1 The game is extremely easy, I mean think about the way they did it, if you die, in a few seconds 
 you just respawn exactly where you died, it was really just a formality. So if you died your kind 
 of like aww, oh no, (in a sarcastic way) and then your right back where you left off, but personally 
 I liked that it was a nice change of pace. but it did make it VERY easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkPhoenix142
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  For 8 bucks you really can't go wrong with Prey.
  
  The game stars Tommy, a Cherokee who dreams of taking his dream girl, Jen, to the outside of the 
 Indian preserve where se owns a bar. His Grandfather, Inisi, warns him of an evil that is approaching. 
 Soon strange lights envelop the bar and Tommy, Jen, and Enisi are sucked away to a massive planet-like 
 sphere. Tommy is broken of his transport device by a mysterious man who blows up the track that 
 his device is on. From here you gain your first weapon and the true game begins. The game features 
 some incredible visuals for an early 360 title. From the pulsing live walls that you are mostly 
 moving around in at the start, to the fact that most of the weapons you are using are alive and 
 moving nearly all the time. Moving around the sphere has some interesting twists in the form of 
 Portals and Gravity altering paths that allow you to walk on the ceiling and walls. A great little 
 thing that was included in the game are News Broadcasts that are recieved through these monitors 
 that have a picture of Earth on them, they are all really cool to listen to and I advise you stop 
 and listen to all of them, one you will have to search a bit for. Through the course of the game 
 you will collect a multitude of different weapons like the Rifle which can also be used as a sniper 
 rifle, The Assault gun which has a grenade launcher on it, and the grenades themselves which are 
 actually little nippy crab like creatures that you rip the limbs off of to trigger. Eventually 
 you gain the ability to "Spirit Walk" which allows you to seperate your spirit from your body and 
 use a Cherokee Bow to score some good kills. This also comes heavily into play to solve puzzles 
 later. You also gain an ally in the form of Talon, a Spirit Hawk who can distract enemies and translate 
 the Alien Language on screens and moniters by landing near them. When you die you are transported 
 to a strange area where there are these blue and red spirit things flying around and your body 
 hovering in the center. You have to shoot at least 1 red spirit to recover some life to your body, 
 but you can shoot as many as you want. After your body goes through the hole in the ground a suction 
 will eventually pull you back down into the game with however much life and spirit energy you gained 
 from the spirite. Your enemies include Alien Hunters who can teleport in at what seem to be whenever, 
 these strange Dog like aliens that can scare the crap out of you if you aren't expecting them, 
 and altered humans who are forced to work on the sphere. There are many more enemies but you'll 
 need to play the game to see them yourself. You will also employ the use of a Shuttle to fly around 
 a shoot at enemies, and even go to small planetoids which have their own gravitational pull. Will 
 you save Jen? What is this "Sphere?" Will you ever get back home? Or will you become Prey for your 
 adversaries?
  
  There's also an online mode but there aren't many people on at one time. Its still fun when you 
 can find it and the game is pretty well balanced online, except when there are Shuttles involved.
 
  
  All I can really say is for 8 bucks its a steal. Buy it if you see it. TRUST ME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hightower8655
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a pretty typical First person Shooter. Let's get that straight. The overall premise is 
 nothing really out of the ordinary. But the execution and the bells and whistles make what would 
 be a run of the mill game into a fun (though brief) shooter with a blistering pace and great price 
 tag (I found it for $3.99) .
  
  HIGH POINTS: Premise. It seems a little standard with its "aliens attacking Earth" plot, but it 
 ends up keeping you entertained at least enough to finish the game. The way the premise is incorporated 
 into the gameplay are what really suck you in. All of the guns, even though they are variations 
 of typical FPS standards, are well developed and are given a decidedly "alien" look. Also, the 
 gravity-defying walk walking sections and the portal puzzle really add a unique and exhilarating 
 experience that cannot be found elsewhere. If you like "Portal", you will definitely enough the 
 portals in this game. Finally, I feel that the music is worth noting. It is very 'heroic' and inspiring, 
 and sounds like a soundtrack out of a summer action flick. There is some pretty decent licensed 
 music to be found in sections of the game as well.
  
  LOW POINTS: First, graphics. This game is old. Like, launch title old. So don't expect to be blown 
 away by this aspect of the game. Next, there are some sections of the game that start to drag. 
 The environments can look really similar, and you feel like you are doing the same thing over and 
 over. There isn't a lot of repetition with the enemies you face either. You have basically seen 
 every chump you'll have to face about half way through the game. Finally, the difficulty is on 
 the easy side. Not because the game doesn't have challenging sections, because it does. However, 
 it is impossible to die, at least in the traditional sense. Mind you, I actually found this to 
 be an interesting addition to the typical formula, but it didn't change the fact that you are basically 
 not penalized for death. When you lose all of your health, you are transported to a "Spirit Land". 
 All you do here is shoot wraiths until you are transported to your exact spot of death. This made 
 you more willing to take chances and experiment, but also lent the game to simply taking the 'Rambo' 
 approach and powering through tough parts.
  
  FINAL SCOOP: Overall, this game is not perfect. Far from it. But for the price, it is a fun and 
 engaging shooter that is well worth the money and time that you will invest into it. A good addition 
 to any FPS-fan's library. Looking for a game to compare this too? Think Doom 3. This game definitely 
 has a very similar overall feel. So if you liked Doom 3 (as I did) , you will more than likely enjoy 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moshxpit91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  ok now before i start the rant, this has some GREAT ideas. i thought the story was actually pretty 
 good. i didn't predict how it was gonna end until about the second last mission, usually i figure 
 games out sooner actually but this one has a pretty good story actually. its a great FPS for someone 
 with little time on their hands and doesn't like much of a challenge. but everything besides the 
 story is been there/done that
  
  Story: Pretty effin creative if i do say so myself. i won't try to spoil it too much.. you are an 
 Indian dude. you are sick of the lifestyle and want to move off the reservation while your stubborn 
 girlfriend wants to stay. all the sudden, "WTF!?" aliens suck everyone up and take your girlfriend. 
 you have to try and get her back. i won't give anything away but that doesn't go too well... it 
 also turns out that the "thing" that brought you there in the first place, actually doesn't want 
 to kill you. its actually very interesting. i cant wait for prey 2 to see what happens next! :p
 
  
  Graphics: it depends on what you're looking at. for the most part, they look AWESOME. it looks 
 a lot like doom 3 (it might be the doom 3 engine, im actually not sure) but it looks great. from 
 far away things look absolutely amazing! not so much up close, some textures are a little blurry. 
 but its only some textures and only in certain lighting, its kinda weird. But overall, very sharp 
 looking game and you won't find any flaws unless you're actually looking for them like i was
  
  Sound: actually i was a little disappointed by the sound... im a big surround sound/home theater 
 kinda guy and when i turn on the dolby digital i expect to be floored... not so much with this game. 
 most of the weapons sounded bad. they had a sci-fi kinda star wars sound to them, but even so they 
 seemed to lack the punch they should have. however the leech gun had some cool effects like when 
 you used the lightning ammo or the fire ammo it had some cool sounds. also the enemy characters 
 sounded kinda weird too. You could tell they were supposed to be scary but the sounds they made 
 really weren't that scary. i was sorta impressed by the voice acting though, i actually thought 
 it was done quite well. 
  
  Gameplay: this is where it gets boring... there is nothing to it. You walk, then you shoot. It gives 
 you the option to crouch but its kinda awkward to use and most of the time its not even worth it. 
 In this generation of gaming, it really needed a cover system like gears of war. it would have 
 made the game much more interesting too. just that one addition would have made the game SO much 
 better. The way the game ends, it also would have been cool if it gave you a choice between two 
 different things. but then again i guess it would be hard to make a sequel that way so i understand. 
 This game is pretty easy. the actual game itself is actually pretty darn hard. But the way you 
 die, there is pretty much zero penalty, it doesn't even take you back to a checkpoint. You die, 
 you go to the spirit world where you shoot some blue and red colored things for a minute or two 
 then you're right back where you died! it makes what would be a pretty challenging game WAY too 
 easy. The puzzles are good. but after the first few you'll find yourself saying "-sigh- another 
 puzzle!?" some of them are hard, some are easy, some are awesome, some are stupid. its a mixed 
 bag of puzzles but its a good break from the otherwise hectic shooting mayhem.
  
  i recommend this game for at least a rental to anyone who likes first person shooters. Its not 
 for everyone though so if you aren't sure, either run to gamestop and buy a used copy (ten bucks!) 
 or rent it, your choice. but you should definitely at least give it a chance its really pretty 
 awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satanwershipsme
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I am game is very upsetting to me. I like SCI-FI First Person Shooters but when the you use a alien 
 gun to turn from walking on the ground to the wall to the other wall to the ceiling to the wall 
 again and so on and so forth. this gave a bigger headache than listening to a Oprah Show episode 
 where she just won't stop talking about her female body part and calling itHER VA J J" . They 
 should done a lot more and better. if they make another one I'll play it but right after i take 
 a couple of perks or two. That should be fun me playing a game if aliens and monster things, and 
 bright lights flashing everywhere it like fourth of July in my nice zen like home. If you need 
 a recomendation to a SCI-FI First Person Shooter it would be Quake Wars or even better... Quake 
 4!!! Overall the game will get a rating of a 5.0 because one reasons is the storyline! If I wanted 
 to go see a Indian guy complain about crap.... I would go to a casino! That real life drama, a 
 Indian reservation turn into a casino so tragic. The only thing to me that was cool about the game 
 was the walking alien grenades that when you ripped there legs off and threw them as soon as it 
 the ground then boom event when they ran around the level. ^This game really get me thinking. Why 
 does a guy who rather rescue this girlfriend then save this grandfather before he is impaled by 
 a big robotic arm? To me it sounds like the guy is a "VA J J". If you see your friend or family 
 member pick between you and your family then do the world a favor..... SLAP THE HELL OUT OF HIM!!!! 
 This game upsets me when you see a guy choose between his family and his lover it make me sick 
 to my stomach. What does he think he is getting some later when they escape or if they find a room 
 to hid in or even when he finds her dead! What will our friend Tommy do next? Kill himself? Escape 
 from the ship? Or even have sex with dead body? To me that my friends is a story for another day 
 or even in a hour or ten minutes or even never!! This game should be one of those games that you 
 should just put in a microwave and turn it on for a second or four. Now that is what i call entertainment. 
 Watching your microwave explode or just watching your Prey game disc Turn out to have a design 
 that looks like lightning bolts or veins!!!! BUT DON'T TRY THAT AT HOME! TRY THAT AT YOUR FRIENDS 
 HOUSE! BUT ONLY UNDER SUPERVISION! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  Prey has basically only a few somewhat original ideas in it, but still the overall package is done 
 well and you should give it a shot.
  
  Story of Prey lets you play as a Native American called Domasi Tawodi (or Tommy for short) , who 
 is a Cherokee living on a reservation in Oklahoma. Soon Tommy, girlfriend Jen and grandfather Enisi 
 are lifted up by a gravitational force into a green light above. They are transported to a massive 
 alien starship called the Sphere. For some reason a local worker sets Tommy free and now he just 
 wants to rescue his girlfriend, but ends up saving the whole world in the process.
  
  Prey progresses entirely through Tommy's eyes just like in Half-Life. In the end you'll get a satisfying 
 closure and explanation on why you of all the people were set free. I also urge you to see what 
 comes after ending credits.
  
  Prey uses Doom 3 engine and it shows. Environments are mostly small and narrow corridors, but they 
 are very detailed and the lighting effects are fabulous. Unfortunately the frame rate takes a hit 
 a couple of times in your 10 hour experience. Loading times can take up to a minute, but it doesn't 
 irritate, since the game prepares the whole chapter in one big load and after that it's a seamless 
 action until the next chapter and there are 22 of them in all.
  
  For some reason game doesn't use in-game music that much, but to compensate that there are a lot 
 of sound effects. The lack of real music also brings a feel of isolation just like it does in Metroid 
 Prime. Usually protagonist's in these games are completely silent, but Tommy talks a lot and tells 
 his feelings and ideas quite often as you play. Other voice acting is also done well and is pleasant 
 to listen.
  
  Game's structure is a linear, puzzle-based corridor crawl just like in Doom 3. This means that 
 Prey is best to be played in small doses, because what you see after 15 minutes of gameplay is 
 what you get right until the end of Tommy's quest to save his girlfriend and Earth. Puzzles and 
 paying close attention to your environment reminds me of Metroid Prime and the way to tell a story 
 reminds me of Bioshock.
  
  Prey has the most bizarre looking guns I've seen in a while in a video game. Their main function 
 is to be a rifle, a shotgun and a grenade launcher, but all of them have multiple functions. Guns 
 in Prey remind me of Oddworld: Stranger's Wrath, which was also known for its unusual selection 
 of weapons.
  
  Prey's unique idea is gravity. In order to make progress you need to manipulate gravity all the 
 time. This happens by shooting a specific spot on wall (or on floor, or on ceiling) . This makes 
 the gravity flip and at times it's very hard to know, what's floor and what's ceiling. It doesn't 
 matter though, since all you need to do is move forward and solve puzzles. Another way to manipulate 
 gravity is to walk on specific walkways.
  
  Besides gravity Spirit Walking is fun and is used to solve puzzles and fight enemies. By pressing 
 Y button Tommy separates from his physical body and as a spirit he can use his Spirit Bow, walk 
 through force fields and access other places where he otherwise couldn't.
  
  Aside from ordinary doors Prey also has a lot of dimensional portals, but they are not as well 
 used as they were in The Orange Box's The Portal. In Prey they could just as well be doors. But 
 at least it brings some variety in the regular corridor crawling.
  
  Save system is just like in Doom 3, where the game saves automatically in the beginning of each 
 chapter and aside from that you can manually save anywhere anytime. But you don't really need to 
 save: death is not a punishment in Prey. Instead of loading the last save point you just enter 
 into spirit world for about 15 seconds or so and are forced to shoot bird-like creatures called 
 Death Wraiths with your trusted Spirit Bow. Blue Wraiths give you more spirit power and red ones 
 give you more health. After this session is over the game continues pretty much from that same 
 spot it just ended 15 seconds ago. This takes all the challenge out from the game, but at least 
 it's different and you don't get frustrated.
  
  Prey also contains multiplayer mode, but unfortunately no one seems to play it anymore, because 
 it was impossible for me to find any games to try it out.
  
  Prey is a solid, average FPS game with a few interesting ideas. Give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tawagivercetti
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Tommy, is your average would be guy, he doesnt want to be a hero nor does he want to be Earths 
 Savior, one night, at his grandfathers bar, along with his girlfriend, a series of events, happened, 
 which led to Tommy, his father, and his girlfriend being abducted by Aliens, and thus the adventure 
 begins.
  with an Alien mothership in orbit, abducting a killing humans alike to provide food for mother, 
 Tommy must fight to save his loved ones, and to put an end to the Alien threat looming above the 
 earths atmosphere
  
  Prey, as a game is excellent, the graphics are nice, the controls are nice, and this game is unique 
 because, it has a gravity system that when used, can alter gravity as we know it, for one, could 
 you imagine yourself on an alien mothership, alone with only your weapon at your side, hitting 
 a switch that makes the gravity go sideways? heck the game becomes a whole new playing field as 
 dimensions previously unattainable become attainable, what FPS offers the chance to fight aliens 
 that are what seems like it to you UPSIDE DOWN walking on the ceiling? what game allows you to 
 use portals to navagate levels, well look no further
  
  the game itself will be around 6-8 hours for the average gamer, you will get on average 500-600 
 achievement points easy for clearing the main game, a few hundred points are earned for taking 
 the game online and doing the achievements, like say killing someone with a rachett 20 times, or 
 a machine gun 20 times, you name it, Multiplayer is also fun, and a good way to speand your afternoon
 
  
  Just to let people know, Prey as a game isn't over, of course i cant reveal the plotline whilst 
 your on the alien mothership like dyson sphere, but, it ends on a to be continued note, and you'll 
 understand why when you play the game and see these different plot elements that occur
  
  This is, a fairly fun, title, it may not be for everyone but for FPS fans, heres the game you wanna 
 play, and at its current $25 price, who could pass up a game like this?
  
  Check it out, you wont be disapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjohnson007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Prey is pretty much a straight forward FPS. You assume the role of Tommy, a Cherokee Indian living 
 on a reservation that wants to leave with his girl for a better life. The all of a sudden your 
 taken aboard an alien space ship and you have to fight your way through to try and save your girl 
 and then the world. The weapons are not all that impressive. They each have there own characteristics 
 and what not but nothing really impressive. Not to far in the game you gain the ability to spirit 
 walk which enables you to access certain areas that your normal body can't go. This is usually 
 signaled by a sign somewhere around. Its useful for solving some puzzle but the come few and far 
 in between. There is no game over in the game which is pretty good. If you die you head to the 
 spirit world and you have to shoot down these red and blue spirits to charge up your health and 
 spirit energy before you return back to where you died. As far as visuals go, there okay, there 
 are some parts where you may see a few problems that could have been fixed. All in all if you need 
 to kill time between games then year for about 10 bucks it okay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Prey is an FPS set in modern times. You play the role as Tommy who is a Cherokee and lives on a 
 Cherokee reservation with his Grandfather and girlfriend. Tommy is unhappy with the place but his 
 Grandpa and girlfriend like it there and don't understand why he's so unhappy with it. Eventually, 
 things start to heat up as green lights start hitting the ground and basically taking things into 
 the sky and destroying things. The aliens have come. They basically take you, your grandpa and 
 girlfriend away with a green beam that comes down. You basically are taken around their base area 
 and are witnessing some disturbing things. You eventually break free from the thing holding you 
 and you start your adventure. The game's gameplay is your standard FPS. The game only has 6 guns 
 and then one type of grenade to use but the guns are still creative and fun to use. The game also 
 has it's share of boss battle as well. Throughout the whole game, you'll be trying to save your 
 girlfriend cause your grandpa dies in like the second or third chapter so you are basically trying 
 to save your girlfriend for the rest of the game. The game also has interesting gameplay elements 
 such as being able to step out of your body and basically be a ghost of yourself to help you past 
 obstacles in the game. Also, you can't die in the game. When you die, you get taken to a place 
 where you shoot either red or blue colored birds to restore the health you lost and then you'll 
 return back to where you died. Overall, Prey is a great FPS and adds some new interesting elements 
 to the genre but nothing ground breaking. I recommend it if you love FPS's. A great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drewdogg58
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  prey is a pretty sweet game, i saw it on ebay for 6 bucks plus s+h and ign gave it a 9 so i thought 
 hey $6 is worth it if it turns out to b bad, best $6 i have ever spent on ebay. it is an awesome 
 sifi shooter where you are a cherokee indian on a reservation and really want to get off but ur 
 girlfriend wants to stay. You just have no interest in the spiritual ways of ur people but your 
 grandfather still has some faith in you. Your at the bar and suddenly some aliens come out of nowhere 
 and abduct you, ur girl, and ur grandpa. Typical ubduction kinda thing, but u escape the pod ur 
 in onboard and the whole time your trying to save your girlfriend and grandpa. once your grandpa 
 dies quite early (not too really give away anything) you feel bad about it and your mindset opens 
 up a bit more to your people. You enter this spirit world where you find ur grandpa (his ghost) 
 and u learn how to seperate your body and soul. It comes in handy for many of the puzzles you will 
 encounter along the way. It is fairly easy on either difficulty since when you die you dont get 
 reset anywhere all you have to do is go to the spirit world shoot spirits with ur spirit bow to 
 get health and spirit regenn and your alive within 15 seconds and whoever you were fighting is 
 waiting just as injured as before. I give prey a 8.5 because it really was fun to play and not 
 too demanding of talent but in a good way that you are still enjoying it. Cant wait for prey 2 
 coming in 2009. K2 always have pretty damn good games. 
  Andrew Hughes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  good Story Of A Indian guy who learn he is having spiritual power and that is bird of spirit alway 
 follow him as a guide he learn he being really special
  he as to fight against invader for her lover and earth sake 
  and is grand father who lost life 
 in the process The game you are immortal you can respawn as much you want even at hardest level 
 how ever the true part of this game is to avoid bullet and become pro with ur bow and stuff
  and kill the enemy you then learn alot about story and it problay a great Story from 2k : Bioshock 
 is still much more interresting story but not same category
  
  i would like a Prey 2 with nice multiplayer : nice story : good graphic
  the best Effect of illusion 
 optic ever seen is prey hope it prosper 
  like bioshock and also hope a next to the saga of the Darkness is evil entity being did he take 
 jack totaly possesion is dead ? no more mind. wonder =)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeaceTucan
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 17, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  This game could have been awesome if they left out portals, gravity change, and cherokee indian 
 powers. While I was playing Prey, i realized that if they just left it with a man and his girlfriend 
 get abducted by aliens, escaping, and saving the earth, it would've been an excellent game. I think 
 the developers tried to hard to wow players by adding a lot of factors to the story, when in reality 
 they ended up trying to hard and it didn't work out.
  
  You play as Tommy, a cherokee indian who hates everything about his beliefs and the reservation 
 he lives at with his girlfriend, Jen. Soon after the game opens, the bar that Jen works at is attacked 
 by aliens and Tommy, Jen, and Tommy's grandfather get abducted. While they are being taken away 
 to be killed and mutated into slave workers, a bomb goes off and Tommy escapes. Soon after, the 
 grandfather is killed. However, his spirit is not dead. You are forced to die so that your grandfather 
 can show you the ways of the cherokee. He gives you a spirit bird to guide you and the power to 
 use your spirit power to walk through the many forcefields on the alien ship. You goal is simple, 
 save the girl, escape the ship, and along the way save the world.
  
  The graphics are very good, and the combat is excellent. Only you would think there would be a 
 lot of combat on board the alien ship, even though there isn't. most of the time spent during this 
 game, is viewing the horror that the aliens are doing to humans and finding your way around the 
 ship.
  
  Throughout the game you travel through portals and can change the effects of gravity. Which is 
 cool, but doesn't really have a large effect on the story over all. It wouldn't take anything out 
 of the game if the developers took out the gravity and portals.
  
  Like I said before, it has potential, but they tried to hard to wow by adding many factors to the 
 story. Overall a pretty good game, but its just too much.
  
  I award Prey 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maybe137
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  tommy is an cherooke he want to get out of the reservation and go to the free world but his grandfather 
 and his girlfriend jen wants to stay in the reservation jen seys to him that he should be proude 
 of being a cherooke well a aircraft very huge man come over jens bar and sucks you up and there 
 you will have to use everytinhg to live well i have to commit that it was scary for me the graphic 
 is good and it's many different of monsters and weapons the lich weapon has an stronlgy effect 
 but the ammuniton quickly end but you have to reload it from some places in the wall and sometimes 
 it comes monsters from the portals in the first mission you will to fight with an mechanic thing 
 it's kind of effectiv against bad monsters i mean not good monsters and it's little bit of hard 
 but later in the game it will be easier for you will have more game experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cakolukia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed Prey because of its innovative ideas. The story was fair in my personal opinion, 
 and although it was too short and rather simple to beat, I had fun playing it and would recommend 
 it to anyone looking for an entertaining FPS. The idea of the portals and walk up and upside-down 
 walls really did it for me in this game. It gave me the slight feel of dizziness that excited me. 
 (I hate being dizzy haha, but this was just right!) Shooting enemies upside down was very enjoyable 
 and I liked every single second of it.
  
  Some will say that because Prey is too short, too easy, or just plain boring, but I say that they 
 are wrong. It took chances in its game play and they paid off. If you're looking for an exciting 
 and mind-boggling FPS that's not just another Halo clone, then I say try Prey out. You won't regret 
 it!
  
  8.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiquidMetle
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 26, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Now here's a game that I thought was going to be great and well not horrible. it not great. The 
 story is great, you're a hard ass Native American who wants nothing to do with his heritage, you 
 just want to get the hell off the reservation and live with you girlfriend. You end up being taken 
 by aliens, and here I was thinking I was half way through Quake 4 again locked up against some 
 metal board. Any ways the main story is you running around trying to save your girlfriend and kick 
 the crap out of some Aliens, I won't ruin the whole thing for you. Next for the game play, first 
 few levels I was in awe of the gravity functionality which still is fun all the way through the 
 game, but that's not the only innovative tool they devs toss at you, they give you the power to 
 use your sprit as a Native American, which is fun it turns everything all bluish and you get a 
 cool bow, oh and you really can't die, yup you heard me, you can't die. This is my only problem 
 with this game, there's no game over there's no death, you go to the sprit realm and you really 
 don't need to do anything, yea you could shoot the wraths, but you get a quarter of your health 
 back, and after about 20 seconds your back in the fight. Sure it removes the threat of broken controllers 
 from angry gamers, but it takes away the challenge, you can be Rambo for all it matters. Well otherwise 
 the graphics are good, not great; it feels like Doom 3 or Quake 4 but its fun. I'd say unless you're 
 trying to build up your gaming library this is a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exiss
Rating: 6
Date: May 26, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Somewhere in the deep space between conceiving a video game and actually publishing it lies development 
 hell. Like the starship Event Horizon in the film of the same name Prey has been lost to us for 
 many years in this vacuum. Until now. The sci-fi FPS has returned to the land of the living, much 
 like its main character, Tommy returns from the dead. But can sheer ambition fill the time gap 
 between what was once thought groundbreaking when the rest of the world has evolved since? 
  
  Prey invites you to step into the angst-filled shoes of a young Cherokee man named Tommy. Tommy 
 lives on a reservation, works in a bar, is self-loathing, and is having trouble manning up and 
 telling his female friend that he loves her. (Is she his girlfriend already? If so wouldn't he 
 have told her that he loved her at least ONCE already?) Tommy is decidedly unlikable with his self-pity, 
 yet his grandfather, Obi-Wan Chero-Kee makes vain attempts in igniting the boy's inner spirit. 
 At this point space aliens decide to attack. The bar and its patrons are sucked into space via 
 tractor beam, all to the soothing tunes of the Blue Oyster Cult. From there it is up to you to 
 slap sense into Tommy and save the Earth from the invasion. 
  
  The game is smothered in a unique art style that sets it aside from other FPS games. You definitely 
 haven't seen a game like Prey before. It's very much akin to a fleshier (literally) more illuminated 
 version of Doom 3. Unfortunately, for all of its style, Prey frequently repeats textures. Especially 
 indoors where everything blends into dullness. The character models are lacking in detail and feel 
 stiff and artificial. Enemies are cleaner, sleeker, and move fluidly, but repeat constantly. There 
 are twenty-two levels, but it feels like the development team made only four and repeated them 
 with minor variations. 
  
  The Blue Oyster Cult isn't the only band to be joining Tommy on his intergalactic journey. He will 
 also be followed by a host of others including Iron Maiden and Ted Nugent. However, you can't hear 
 them except in areas that have a jukebox, so what's the point? The aliens make the weird sounds 
 you'd expect, but prefer to speak English in voices that don't quite fit their characters. Even 
 the guns sound bored in this game. You CAN, however, listen to real-life radio personality Art 
 Bell several times throughout the game as he "interviews" Texas citizens dealing with the invasion 
 crisis. 
  
  Prey plays average, average, average. Aside from its art direction and the inclusion of Art Bell 
 there is almost nothing that sets it apart from standard FPS fare. It tries to be creepy as certain 
 points, but it's just too ridiculous and action-packed for that. The levels are linear with little 
 in the lines of exploration. Just run forward and shoot everybody. There are some (I resist saying 
 this) puzzles that play with gravity and dimensions. You can "Spirit Walk" to pass through barriers 
 and kill enemies without them noticing you. But at the same time there is no penalty for dying! 
 Tommy merely goes to the Spirit World and snipes a few pterodactyl demon things to replenish his 
 health before returning to the exact spot that he died. You get to wield many fantastic weapons, 
 but they all behave so averagely! Sadly, Prey feels like a tech demo, an experiment in new gameplay 
 ideas. Nothing really comes together like it should. There just isn't enough to make it more than 
 a quirky grab bag of interesting concepts that other games have since pulled off more effectively. 
 (read: Tommy passes through dimensional gates much like you do in Portal) 
  
  The multiplayer is AVERAGE and allows only for Ranked and Unranked Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch. 
 Almost nobody is ever on, though, which makes the game's value drop to near zilch. Prey is a bargain 
 bin game, the equivalent of a direct-to-DVD movie. A decent distraction before you move on to something 
 with more substance. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelsdad
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 25, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a fun SciFi-based first person shooter, especially for the casual gamer... as long as you're 
 not offended by offensive language. The level of unnecessary cursing is a little ridiculous but 
 easy to ignore. There are 22 chapters, some of which are immensely easy. Even the slightly more 
 difficult levels pose no insurmountable obstacles because you can't die in Prey -- whenever you're 
 health runs out, you're simply transported to a Native American inspired netherworld where both 
 your health and spiritual energy can be replenished until you fall back into the real world to 
 try again (without having to face any of the opponents you managed to kill off, before being killed 
 yourself) .
  
  The really attractive part of Prey is the ability to defy gravity and experience spatially impossible 
 transitions through portals and other modes of imaginary transport. The actual portals that pop 
 up in Prey from which enemies emerge are identical in shape and concept to the portals you can 
 create in the more recently issued game entitled Portal (part of The Orange Box) . Finally, there's 
 an interesting and not always 100% obvious means of overcoming barriers to your journey by entering 
 a Spirit Mode which allows you to traverse certain types of physical objects to find keypads or 
 controls that, if you leave your physical body in the correct position before entering Spirit Mode, 
 will ferry your physical body to the next passage and enable you to continue on your way.
  
  Prey had a good OVERALL story line (the interstellar story) but the personal storyline for 
 the main character was weak. At the same time the voice acting was somewhat weak and not too convincing, 
 either. Nonetheless taken in total, the overall story approaches a rating of "solid."
  
  The only frustrating parts of the game are 1) areas where the developers obviously knew what they 
 wanted you to do in order to progress but sometimes this wasn't 100% clear and 2) vehicle-based 
 transport was less than optimal b/c the vehicles take too much damage and again, it wasn't always 
 clear where you were supposed to go or what you were supposed to do while in flight through the 
 maze of tunnels.
  
  Despite a few frustrating areas, the overall progression is quick paced and once the player can 
 become familiar with the Spirit-Mode method of overcoming apparent barriers to the journey, Prey 
 is quite easy to complete. Completing each of the 22 chapters just in story line mode can generate 
 significant achievement points (more than 600) so its a good game to play if you enjoy racking 
 up achievement points while experiencing a fun story in FPS mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hrdcorenick
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Alot of people hate prey and not many have good things to say about it, but it is alot better than 
 people give it credit for. It is a great FPS but it isnt really action packed. The game is set 
 on an alien ship, you have spirit powers a few weapons to kill your enemies.
  
  The game is fairly short, and the weapons are great, either are the monsters, but this game is 
 really really fun, i think alot of people have forgotten what that is, they get to caught up in 
 graphics and other technical stuff! Yeh this game doesnt have the best features but its one fun 
 FPS.
  I found myself coming back to play it everyday!
  
  Definatly worth buying especially coz its so cheap no days i picked it up for $8 AU, one really 
 good game, that people pass off! If you want a game that you dont really need to get into to have 
 fun get this game, and if your an achivment whore this game is rewarding! you get about 500 points 
 just playing through on the hardest difficulty which is easy, get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnigManic
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Prey has great potential. A fairly original storyline is complimented by beautifully detailed graphics, 
 smooth controls and some excellent gameplay.
  
  The visuals are highly detailed, like the second Resident Evil. Plenty of poorly-lit environments 
 support the creep factor as you battle blood-thirsty aliens aboard their ship in hopes of rescuing 
 your girlfriend and saving the human. The various effects are pretty cool, most gimmicks succeed 
 in catching you off guard.
  
  As you make your way through the ship, you'll collect an assortment of organic alien weapons and 
 encounter many subtle puzzles. Some of the boss battles could have been more elaborate, but the 
 overall gameplay makes up for it. For example, your "spirit" ability not only helps you clear certain 
 obstacles and puzzles, you can also use it to sneak up on your enemies. The multiplayer experience, 
 like some elements of the gameplay, has great potential but just didn't hit the mark.
  
  The story develops slowly, (SPOILER ALERT) but after you beat the game, another aspect of the story 
 is unlocked for you to explore in a second play-through.
  
  
  Overall, Prey is a fun game to play through at least twice. Let's hope Prey 2 reaches that place 
 that this one paved the road to.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalibusTheCrab
Rating: 7
Date: May 10, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a great game in both story and visual effects. The story kicks off as you playing as Tommy; 
 A man who is embarrased by his Cherokee heritage and plans to move away from the reservation with 
 his girlfriend Jen.
  But the Extra Touristrials have something else in mind; Before Tommy could even explain why he 
 just beated up 2 random hill billies, The lights flicker off and on, Radio stations go out, The 
 TV says: Channel unavailable; A great start to a Horror Movie or Game as we are playing it.
  Tommy awakens to find himself attached to a floating surf board thingy (How the heck am I supposed 
 to know what it is?!) with Jen and his grandfather either side of him, As the level contiues, Tommy 
 sees Earth and soon comes to a conclusion that the Aliens arnt around to make friends.
  Anyway, i dont want to spoil the rest of the story for you so I'll move on, The Gameplay is alright 
 with some freaky weapons and grenades....
  As you move on, You will come to puzzles that will require Tommy's Cherokee ability to pass them.
 
  The music is an amazing feature to the game and has been timed perfectly.
  The graphics are amazing from the begging level but you wont stop to look much when you arrive 
 at the Alien spaceship.
  On-Line is a little deserted when I arrived, Probably Halo 3 or Gears Of War had already arrived 
 so I might of showed up a little late.
  Overall, Prey is a great game in Story, Visual Effects and Music.
  Just watch out for clues in 
 puzzles and you'll soon move forward!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash2X
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 8, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  +Great Level-Design
  +Great-looking Graphics even for todays standards
  +clever Puzzles
  +Better Storyline, then it sounds first
  
  The Bad:
  -laggy, almost unvsited 
 Multiplayer
  -too easy
  
  First off, as I heard about a game that Storyline is a Native American is beamed into space to rescue 
 his girlfriend I thought "Yeeeaaah... shuuuure" but it works out pretty well. Prey doesnt give you 
 much Story, but if its told its pretty well made. Sometimes a Videogame-Veteran gets suprised 
 :-p
  
  The Gameplay:
  Its a pretty staightforward FPS with small Puzzles among the way. The really fun part is the clever 
 Levedesign. You have not only to go up against walls, go through a small Box and end up in a totally 
 different room, you have to use your ghost-form to solve puzzles too.
  The only real problem the game got for most people is the lack of challenge. You cant die for real. On 
 one hand it makes the game easy, on the other hand its better then reloading your last (Quick-) Saves 
 again and again with the same goal...
  Too bad that the basically really well-made Multiplayer is almos unplayed and as laggy as it can 
 be. If you find some people with a good connection its really ok.
  
  The Graphics:
  Even today it looks awesome. The textures look clean on normal and HD-TVs and the living Weapons 
 look really alive. Theres a pretty long Demo aviable, so take a closer look.
  
  The Sound:
  A good original Soundtrack, good Sound-Fx, a ok 5.1-Mix. Nothing real to complain, not 
 a reason to freak out, but supporting the atmosphere well.
  
  So...:
  I think that every FPS-Fan should at least take a look. Its been a long time that a FPS really 
 impressed me and this one shure did. The Level-design alone makes it worth the money and that you 
 can get much Gamerscore pretty easy isnt a bad thing too ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antrosg24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for 5 pounds and i have to say are the best 5 pounds i ever spend on a game! After 
 two years of it release it still rocks. They story is ok.. The aliens come and get your girlfriend 
 and you are trying to get her back... There are a few twists along the way, that make things interesting, 
 but overall its a average to good story. This game really shines is the gameplay and the new ideas 
 that it promotes! Where portals and gravity roads changes everything and adds an exciting twist 
 to the game. The floor becomes the celling and the celling become the floor. Portal offer a whole 
 new dimension ... You walk through them and a whole new world opens up! Also you can spirit walk 
 which again add a new mix but it is not used very often. 
  
  On the downside action at the first hours is very limited but later on and especially at the last 
 level it is unstopped!!
  Graphically is very nice and the whole enviroment is very nice. 
  
  I would recommend this game to every game that like first person shooters.
  
  Overall i 
 would give this game an 8,5/10.. Very good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesallthetime
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This game starts off where you are in a bar and all of a sudden this ship comes and takes you, 
 your grandfather, and a girl that you likes. Then after you gets taken captive you manages to escape 
 somehow. Basically the whole objective of this game is too get off the enemies spaceship and get 
 back to earth with your grandfather and the girl but things complicates. I wont tell you what happens. 
 You'll have to play it to find out.
  
  This game is a 1st person shooter. The weapons are awesome. They keeps getting bigger and stronger. 
 As the game progresses you uses your enemies weapons against them. The enemies are big and small. 
 They can walk and fly. Some enemies are huge as in 10 times bigger then you. One cool thing about 
 this game is the spirit walk. You can use your spirit and walk through shields to unlock doors 
 or to get codes to open doors. The storyline is kind of long but not overly. 
  
  What i didn't like about this game is that you are almost finished the game before the action picks 
 up. As well the game is kind of complex and seems like it repeats itself too much. I didn't really 
 like the ending either. I'm not telling you not to buy it but if you are like me and you are always 
 into the action games like Call Of Duty 4 then Prey is not the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylan545
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Well, i'd rather say this was quite an suprisingly very good game.
  At a point it did got a bit boring to be honest, But i picked it up again and it went straight 
 to day and night gaming for me.
  Well i think the begin is just really really worthless but, it did got really really good later 
 in the game, especcialy when you fight your first big boss.
  You get new guns, gotta fly in some pods, and you can listen to radio conversations in the alin 
 ship, this is quite funny, cause the conversations sound like stupid redneck hippie nerds or something.
 
  i didn't got it finished yet, but i'm really looking forward to the ending, cause i want to know 
 if you save your girlfriend, blow up the ship what happens with the spooky alin ppl helping you?
 
  So, if you like sci-fi and some puzzeling, mixed with some good old fashionshooting the alin 
 his brains out" genre, Then this is your game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: qtpa2t
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I had first got the game just after new year and thought this is going to be an easy game because 
 the first five levels are so short. Later they got much longer and a little bit harder. It's a 
 great game, but the storyline, graphics and weapons all suck. If you are playing for the first 
 time, you will want to go to options, video, and adjust the screen brightness and gamma. It is 
 way too dark in the game. I just beat the game today and the ending was horrible but the game was 
 levels were fine. There were some boring parts but I got over those. There were a couple bad levels 
 and other levels were like levels in other games some were just plain boring as crap. Again, the 
 ending sucked and during the game, you were like a friggin gorrila with a hand grenade. Finally, 
 keep it if you already have it, but if you don't have it, don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: 8 - Interesting story. Not too many of this style out. Good use of the grandfather and 
 the spirit through the game.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 9 - Fantastic graphics, very much like Doom 3 in style or gore. Graphics alone 
 could make this game interesting enough for some time. Great physics envolved with the portals, 
 spirit mode, and antigravity.
  
  Sound: 7 - Sound quality is great and has realisitic value to the voices. Aliens being able to 
 speak english is rather lame
  
  Environment/Maps: 8 - Maps are a little over dark or shadowed but is fine due to the context of 
 the game. Very detailed maps, great use of the antigravity and the spirit mode adds a lot to the 
 gameplay.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 8.5 - Great physics envolved with the portals, spirit mode, and antigravity, 
 very top notch. Engine was made very well, and quite similar to Doom 3. A few minor issues with 
 the menu.
  
  Interface: 8 - Menu was buggy and even at times unresponsive or so it seemed. User interface during 
 gameplay was very well made. Interesting selection and use of weapons in both normal and spirit 
 modes. 
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 8.5 - Portals, Antigravity, and even a seperate spirit mode adds great value to the gameplay 
 and puzzles with in it. Story gets a little weak at times but graphics and style make up for it. 
 Games style is very close to that of Doom 3, by that I mean the gore, use of shading, and environment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamEs4eVr
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Okay first of i want to say i thought this game deserved better from gamespot and the overall average 
 of the critics. I dont know what was so bad seriously if you didnt get the story your friggin retarded 
 cause it made complete sense. It was one of the easiest stories i have ever followed. So on the 
 campaign side i thought it was insane because of all the gravity switches and all the other insane 
 things they put in it. Some people might say that the campaign was too easy because you could never 
 actually really die but sometimes you need it because otherwise you complain about dying too much 
 and it being so hard and horrible save points. I think it was smart for the creators to make it 
 that way. On the multiplayer side i thought it was chaotic in a good way. Overall i gave it a nine 
 because it seemed that there could have been more done with it but it still was insanely good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gial240
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Even though the game has some negative features, it does have some nice ones like the scope for 
 the rifle gun and Spirit form. The scope is nothing to grand but I like the basic design and flexibility 
 you are given to use it. The spirit form is something that should give the game review a .5. It 
 allows the creator of the game to make better puzzle and riddles and the players to have more fun 
 with solving them. There is also a good amount of weapons to select from. Modified pulse rifles 
 to living creatures that explode on impact, it's up to the players to choose.
  
  If your into Doom type games, you should rent this game first. Personally, I did not enjoy this 
 game as much as I thought I would. The beginning of the game is interesting until after 30 minutes 
 of game time, interest starts to fade away. The story slowly fades into the background after playing 
 a variety of maps. There is also a lack of mob/enemies to fight. You will usually find the same 
 ones roaming around the maps, some people may not mind this but others do, hehe. Some may consider 
 this good others, bad., The achievement points for the game are very simple and have no challenge. 
 All you have to do it basically beat a level to unlock the achievement.
  
  
  Something that can be debated as to whether it's a good thing or bad thing is the Resurrection 
 after dying. Although it is a fun mini game, it gives the players no fear in dying. So this up 
 for debate as to wether it's good or bad.
  
  Overall:
  
  The Good:
  - A good variety of maps to play in
  - Spirit form is a plus
  - Good weapon Variety
  
  
 The Bad:
  - Another Doom remake
  - Storyline is not as strong as many would like to be
  - Lack of enemy variety
  - Achievement points are too simple
  
  So if your a die hard fan 
 for Puzzling, doom remakes, I recommend renting the game first, heh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candidate0
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Top Game.
  
  For some reason i ignored this game when it first came out bt i managed to stumble across a copy 
 in a package deal from my local blockbuster.
  
  At the same time i also got assassins creed and the game i enjoyed most out the two was this.
 
  Great story, excellent fun, good bosses, i loved it.
  A bit repetitive but some different ideas, used once on the ship, with some moments you find yourself 
 telling your friends about.
  I like the scene when you find Jen for the second time on the ship and the shrinking bit.
  
 
  Great first person shooter, worth buying if you see it floating about cheap anywhere.
  Only faults i could really say is that its a bit easy as you dont ever really die and as previously 
 mentioned in places you feel it gets a little repetitive.
  
  I also couldnt give a opinion on multiplayer as i went to have a game and no rooms were created, 
 thats my fault though for playing a game released so long ago.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kinjirossd
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  You star as Tommy, a Native American without any regard for his heritage, who was abducted by aliens. 
 Unfortunately this never is truly elaborated upon. He only cares about saving his girlfriend and 
 the dialogue gets to the point that if you hear one more whiny comment from him, you will reach 
 the screen and choke him. Story is pretty bad considering who wrote it.
  
  Graphics:
  Straight Doom/Quake 4 carbon copy. Truly uninspiring 
  
  Gameplay:
  It's a run of the mill 
 FPS and it even fails to accomplish that fully. Aliens rush at you from portals and you shoot them. 
 No challenge can be found here. Heck, you can even die all you want because the only consequence 
 is a side trip to some a spirit world with flying manta rays or something of the sort. The games 
 does try to introduce a gravity switch/railing twist, but after you've done that once, all future 
 instances just impede progress. The weaponry does have an artistic flare symmetrical with the surroundings 
 however, their functionality are FPS cookie-cutter.
  
  Sound:
  I can't even recall the musical score so that is self-explanatory
  
  Overall: 
  Play it once 
 if you can muster the endurance, get the easy achievement points and send it back 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  This game opens on a Cherokee reservation, where a young man is not content with his life there, 
 and his family doesn't understand why. After disputes with his grandfather and his girlfriend, 
 our hero gets much more to worry about: the Earth is invaded by aliens, and none other but this 
 man must fight to free us from their grip.
  
  The game looks beautiful, with fluidly rendered graphics and an immersive environment. The controls 
 are a little clumsy, as your hand keeps popping up in giant size whenever you walk up to something 
 on the wall. Also, many items have no way to manipulate them, which really is a letdown if you're 
 in a room full of stuff you'd like to figure out. Otherwise, though, it's a good battle game, a 
 bit like 'Doom' but much more fun. I wish they could make a game about Native American history 
 that doesn't involve aliens, but that's for the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunCrusher303
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  The story mode in Prey was totally cool, I was checking this game out before it was released and 
 was happy with the offline portion of the game. had this game been offline only then I would have 
 rated this game higher but that was not the case and in fact the multiplayer was pretty bad. I 
 do think this game has a lucrative story which compels you to keep playing. Unthinkable things 
 happen through this story which force you to watch things happen to your grandfather and girlfriend 
 that were truly hard to watch but motivates you to keep going. All ends well in this game unlike 
 many others that leave you scratching your head, not true for this one. I think if someone was 
 at the point in there gaming where they liked or lover shooters and never tasted this flavor, it's 
 one of thirty one you might just like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buzz86
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Prey was the first game of this type that I played on the 360. As my expectations were low this 
 game didn't disappoint. Graphics and sound were quiet good when this game came out but now that 
 there are games like Halo 3 or Gears of War this game cannot compare. What made this game interesting, 
 not necessarily good, was the crazy maze like levels you had to go through. Gravity could be changed 
 so before you knew it you were walking around on the roof! This made the game more entertaining 
 but still wasn't really enough to keep me glued to my screen. I lost interest in this game after 
 maybe 5 hours of play. So this game is good if you have a spare night and want a cheap game to 
 hire from a video store. But don't spend your money and buy this one, it is not worth it. I would 
 rather play Gears of War for a 3rd time. :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstar_88
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Prey is one of those games you've heard about at least once during its development, and only because 
 of the fact that is was categorized under "development hell" for a long period of time. After over 
 ten of waiting, the game is finally here, and while the game certainly was ambitious at the time 
 of its conception, the end result is a game released a little behind its time. I've only played 
 snippets of Doom 3 and Quake 4 through my peers, but every time I play the game, I can't help shake 
 the feeling that I've already played this game before under a different title.
  
  The main draw to Prey (at least to those playing PC games in 1996) was the idea of portals. I'm 
 not a Physicist, but the best way I can describe it is basically fabricating a rip in space so 
 that you can literally jump from one place to another. I will say that seeing it happen for the 
 first time really gives you a sense of wonder, but the novelty wears off after the first hour.
 
  
  Long story short: you're a emotionally drained Cherokee nicknamed Tommy who denies his very heritage 
 and wants to take his girlfriend Jen off the reservation to live the American dream. His grandfather, 
 who is very close to the Cherokee traditions, tells him not to turn away who he really is. This 
 of course, creates conflicts. But before it can be settled, aliens take the three of them away 
 faster than the white man took their land. You end up on an alien... rock... ship... thing, but after 
 Jen's faith in the Cherokee goddess and witnessing your grandfather's death, you end up on an adventure 
 which involves saving the world. Oh, and your girlfriend too. The story unfolds through Tommy's 
 eyes, who see the events occur before his eyes, through flashbacks, FM radio transmissions, the 
 voice in his head (I'd spoil it for you if I told you what that was) , and rare visits to the "Land 
 of the Ancients".
  
  The game starts off great, but as you slowly progress through the game its flaws rears its ugly 
 head. Most of the environments look great, but you'll start getting a little fatigued seeing the 
 same machinery and organic walls and material over and over again. Most puzzles involve the use 
 of simply pressing switches to open doors, although there are a couple that stand out. Another 
 unique puzzle aspect of the game is the use of gravity, which some rooms are equipped with so you 
 can turn your world upside down. Perhaps the most often used trick is spirit walking, which allows 
 you to leave your body as a spirit so you can gain access to restricted areas or get a preemptive 
 strike on your foes. All of these aspects contribute to puzzle solving, but none are used in any 
 truly interesting ways.
  
  The game itself is very easy. While some are tough, most of your standard enemies don't really 
 put up much of a fight. You have your "standing still in one place while you fire at them" and 
 the "run at you like crazy" variety, all which usually involved one tactic to beat each. Dying 
 is not really an option either, as being killed gives you the opportunity to participate in the 
 ritual of minigames. In this case, if you die, you play a 30 second crossbow game which gives you 
 health and spirit energy back, and you start off exactly where you died. Doesn't really offer much 
 of a challenge, huh?
  
  At least your efforts in finishing this game are awarded. Awarded with achievements points? Hallelujah! 
 Easy achievement points? Hallelujah! By the end of my first playthrough, I earned 665 gamer points, 
 and it only took me three days to finish the game. So if you like easy achievement points, this 
 game is something you should play over the weekend. 
  
  There's not much else to really point out. I myself haven't been able to play the multiplayer because 
 there doesn't seem to be anyone playing the game online, so the lasting value of this game is pretty 
 much gone as soon as you finish the campaign. 
  
  Prey is a pretty standard first person shooter fare with some really cool concepts. It's certainly 
 on the good side of the good FPS-bad FPS spectrum, but it doesn't hold any special gaming moments 
 for you to remember. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twiztid4evur
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  Prey's offline is a really good game, but as far as the online goes it's pretty crappy, the online 
 lags alot and theres only two game modes and the maps are horrible. It was only eight dollars so 
 i'm not mad or anything i really didn't expect much but i got more then i expected out of the game, 
 i thought it was gonna be alot worse but the offline started to become all right. After a while 
 the game will make u so bored it feels like you've been sitting in a room for nine hours with nothing 
 to do and your staring at a wall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phundude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I picked this one up cheap from gamestop, not expecting much. Man, was i wrong. This was a great 
 game, very fun the whole way through. The story was pretty good for a video game, even tho it was 
 cliche, and the voice acting was great
  
  The graphics were pretty solid, the bad guys didnt look very good but the enviornments were awesome 
 and slimy. Sound FX made all the guns sound powerfull
  
  Controlls were tight, no complaints there. The walking on walls aspect of the game was really cool, 
 and this was the first game (as far as i know) to use the portal technology, which will probably 
 become famous due to orange box's popularity
  
  Complaints? i had a hard time finding a proper difficulty, i was dominant on normal but on the 
 harder difficulty i would die alot in cheap ways and it just became trial and error or just luck 
 rather than skill or tactics.
  
  Its linear but its really fun, and its cheap in your bargin bin. Probably 10 bucks tops for a used 
 copy at gamestop. If you havent tried it, and like FPS I really suggest this one. Lots of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  The game Prey begins with a interesting, but also dull beginning. You don't really like the character 
 "Tommy"; he is a Cherokee, and a former U. S. Army soldier who is living on a Native American reservation 
 somewhere in Oklahoma. The game starts off with Tommy in a bar which is owned by his girlfriend 
 "Jen". Tommy constantly tries to push his heritage away, trying to force his girlfriend to leave. 
 Then, strange noises occur outside the bar, as green lights surround the bar, lift up a vehicle 
 and crash it into the bar. As the bar is being destroyed you see an Alien craft above, and soon 
 -- everyone in the bar is teleported up into the massive alien ship called the Sphere. After docking, 
 all three, along with countless other captives, are dragged through the upper levels of the Sphere. 
 Tommy is freed in an explosion set off by a stranger who, despite being cybernetic like most of 
 the Sphere's denizens, appears to be working against it rather than for it.
  
  As the gameplay begins, you'll notice it has very simple and generic first person shooter gameplay. 
 You won't be amazed by any new and innovative features, everything in the gameplay has been done 
 before. You'll move from location A to location B. You'll end up getting a good different variety 
 of weapons to use. One interesting feature is called your "Spirit Walk". Once going into Spirit 
 Walk, you leave your body and use your spirit to move around whether it be through shields to help 
 navigate the levels. If you are blocked by a shield barrier, go into your spirit walk and turn 
 off that barrier.
  
  Spirit Walk is a great feature, but it also is a downright terrible one as well. Once you die, 
 you go into a mini-game involving your spirit. You'll have to use your cherokee spirit bow to shoot 
 strange creatures, and the more you shoot, the more health you get. It makes the game extremely 
 easy and can get rather annoying at times as well. The enemies in the game speak english, which 
 is a little strange. The AI goes from good, to fair in certain gun fights. Some of the best gameplay 
 is when you use what is called a "gravity walkway", in which you'll be able to walk on ceilings 
 and on walls... and in certain occations you'll be confused which way in "up".
  
  The graphics and sound are good, nothing spectacular but good nevertheless. The music is very well 
 composed, but it's the voice acting and the sheer great ambience in the levels which takes the 
 cake. The game uses a modified version of the Doom 3 engine, which means it has some great visuals 
 no doubt about it. The game has some impressive character models, and impressive environments. 
 The frame rate is quite steady, and from the weapon effects to the screams and even some amazing 
 radio comments with Art Bell make the sound in this game great.
  
  In closing, this is a goog game which will give you 14+ hours of good gameplay, an interesting 
 plot, and some features which might actually creep you out a little bit, and make you have some 
 great times, especially with some of the wacky mutiplayer level designs.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  When i first started playing this game i was hoping that the aliens would be taking over Earth 
 (well they are) but I was hoping that the game would take place on Earth, not in a space ship... i 
 dont find that to be moderately entertaining, but i took a chance with this one and i have to admit 
 the game is really not half bad. The graphics are good enough for my taste but these futuristic 
 games are just not entertaining to me (read my review of Dino Crisis 3 and youll see why) . However, 
 this one was rather intriging. I thought the story and graphics were good enough and rather interesting, 
 the only thing that really upsets me was the aliens... they are not really many differnt variety 
 of enemies, which can be a problem if your a gamer who likes to see variety, but in all i would 
 say that this game is worth buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmase14
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a decent FPS, but it lacks that extra "umph" to make it a great game. The visuals are above 
 average but the story was uninspiring. I disliked the fact that navigating through the level was 
 at times a tedious chore. I would, at times, lose my sense of direction while switching from walking 
 on the ceiling and floor and vice versa. The mission objectives could have been a lot clearer as 
 well. There were times that I could have finished a level 5 to 10 earlier if only I knew what I 
 was supposed to be doing (thank goodness for Gamespot's online strategy guide)
  
  But on a positive note, The weapons were unique in the fact that you will not be fighting with 
 machine guns and pistols, but rather weapons left by dead aliens. And the idea of defying gravity 
 and walking on ceilings was innovative. Also, there are a lot of Acheivement points available from 
 just completing the game, and that in itself shouldn't be a lengthy task (maybe around 10 hours) . 
 Overall Grade: C 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  So, the 360 is known for its top notch first person shooters, so it's relatively easy to overlook 
 pretty decent games like prey. As far as shooters go this is far from the best... but the cool mechanics 
 like portals and weird weapons offer new takes on the stale fps genre... and the game is pretty 
 long with a really good story.... obviously this is no bioshock but its not dull either. The achievment 
 payout on this game is pretty good too, merely completing the main story will net you nearly 700 
 points... and a little multiplayer and goofing around can easily get you all 1000 Pay attention 
 to the beginning since it is one of the best in recent memory with a scene that follows an abduction 
 as Blue Oyster Cult's Don't Fear the Reaper. The ending implies a sequel which you'll definitely 
 want to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MassacreV
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  The main character is completely retarded and annoying. He never shuts his damn mouth about finding 
 his girlfriend. Jen, Jen, Jen, i have to find jen! He completely disregards his heritage.... his 
 grandfather is killed and comes to him in spirit form and teaches him to leave his body and kill 
 things...... he interupts his grandfather to go away so that he can find jen. The graphics are an 
 exact copy of Doom3 and Quake 4, slightly improved as they should be being 3 years in the future..... nothing 
 new really at all. The only slightly interesting thing is the new gravity system that allows you 
 to walk on the ceiling! its not really that cool and gets real old real fast. The game stopped 
 being fun after...... well after i started, it became more of a chore than anything and was a pain 
 in the ass to finish, to not buy this game. Do not play this game, instead play doom3 and quake 
 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MB116
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  This game really makes you think of the old school type first person shooter. You can carry all 
 the guns and there are plenty of spots where you have to figure out where to go. Aside from all 
 of that the action is great, the enemies are good, and the ideas presented in the game are great. 
 The graphics arn't the greatest but they are good ebough to pass. The story makes sense alothough 
 it is kinda dumb. The fun part of the game is that it is easy and you never get frustrated. The 
 weapons are pretty sweet as well. They are innovative and unique. The multiplayer is a very week 
 part of the game and it isn't very fun at all. This game is really ment for a single player campaign. 
 At the end of the game their is a pretty cool boss to fight. Overall the graphincs and the gameplay 
 really brings you back to what first person shooters used to be and this is a great thing. Gamespot 
 strongly under rates the game so don't listen to them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samherrett
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Prey, what a let down!
  Let me start off, first of all controls are decent and voice acting is okay that is the only good 
 points about this game.
  The graphics are blocky and not very good but hey graphics dont make a game.
  The storyline is 
 decent aliens taking over e. t. c save his girlfriend,
  the gameplay is repetive you walk around with a gun or a wrench killing aliens but thats all you 
 do until you find the end of the level.
  The only reason I've rated it hard that its not hard to kill other enemies but its hard to find 
 out where to go to progress. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  Prey... Prey... What to say about Prey? It has one of the lamiest stories around nowadays, but 
 surprisingly that will not affect how neat the whole game is.
  You take control of a cherokee named Tommy, you want to get out of the reservation with your girlfriend, 
 problem is she likes her culture and won't get out of the reservation. Your grandpa believes in 
 the old ways, you don't, at all. It's night and you and your girlfriend are discussing the issue 
 mentioned and your granbdpa is with some wierd talk, some guys are trying to be funny with your 
 girlfriend, you lose your temper and attack them. And that's when your dream of leaving the reservation 
 comes true: an UFO flies over and tears the place apart, abducting everyone inside. Starngely some 
 abductees manage to free you, and that's where the game begins, you gotta rescue your girlfriend. 
 So yes, we can say you'll be playing a very very violent Mario Bros. hehe. The story does have 
 minor twists to it, little things that make you get a bit more interested in the story, but nothing 
 to big, though it could have been better exploited in order to give such a good game a great story.
 
  It's a FPS similar to good-old Duke Nukem, so you can expect a bit of dark humor. The game is 
 insane, you'll have portals opening that are thinner than a layer of paper but will throw you inside 
 a complete new room, por even a corridor. Also you'll be walking on the walls and ceiling a lot, 
 as well as inverting the gravity of the room in order to progress. That is definetely the big point 
 in Prey, the best thing you'll see in it, cause I swear to you as a gamer, for the first time ever 
 someone made those "upside down" walking look cool enough; you can actually "fall up" in this game 
 (depends on your point of view) .
  At a certain point of the game you gain the ability of spirit walk, when you do that Tommy detaches 
 from his soul, as his soul you'll carry a bow and arrows that are quite powerful against enemies, 
 however as you use them you deplete your spiritual power, when this power vanishes all you'll be 
 able to do in spirit walk is, literally walk around. Also, when you die, you go to this sacred 
 place where you can hunt down blue and red wraiths (spirit power and health) , and after a certain 
 period of time you get thrown back to just where you died, this is cool, but it makes the game 
 extremely easy.
  The weapons per se are insane, most of them are biological, moving on your hands, etc.
  he scenario 
 changes from thos Doom-like environments to a few moments of Bioshock-like grandeour, but always 
 keeping a certaing perverted subliminal messages that, once again will remind you of Duke Nukem.
 
  Some enemies are very well crafted, but the most common alien you'll be fighting look pretty ugly 
 when faced upclose which is bad. I'd like to make a note here, there's an enemie that comes from 
 pits and portals, a big fat floating guy that shoots rocket-things at you... Anyone remebers that 
 from Duke Nukem as well? The guys from 3d Realm have strongly based this game on their classic 
 Duke (good for us) .
  Unfortunately the game is very short, probably one of the shortest games I've played so far for 
 the XBox 360.
  The ending ( the one that comes after the credits) explicitly promisses us a continuation for the 
 game, and that I tell you, is something I can barely wait to check out.
  All in all, Prey is one of the best fps released lately and any fan of true shooters gotta get 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Released: July 11, 2006
  Publisher: 2K Games
  Developers: Venom Games, Human Head Studios
  Game Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person Shooter
  ESRB 
 Rating: M for Mature
  ESRB Description: Blood and Gore, Intense Violence, Partial Nudity, 
  Strong Language
  
  Story (8/10)
  Starting out with a great storyline, Prey eventually gets 
 boring and confusing, but not enough to make this game unworthy of playing.
  
  You are Tommy, a Cherokee on a reservation. The game starts in his girlfriend Jen's bar. Tommy's 
 grandpa shows up with a strange prediction (you will need me before the night is over, Tommy) . 
 Suddenly the bar starts to shake and aliens appear as Tommy, Jen and Einichi are sucked up into 
 an alien spacecraft. Normal stuff, right?
  
  Once you are on the ship, a strange man unchains you but is too late to get to Jen and Einichi. 
 Obviously, it becomes your goal to set them free.
  
  Gameplay (8/10)
  An amazing concept at first (just like the story) continues too long. By the last level (there 
 are 22 total) I was screaming at the TV yelling "JUST END, DAMN YOU!"
  
  All of the weapons are LIVING. That's right. Living weapons. The grenades are little spider-like 
 creatures called Crawlers. You pull their legs off as a pin and chuck them across the room and 
 they explode with a lovely shriek. There is a sniper rifle, assault rifle, rocket launcher and 
 a sweet 'Leech gun' that has four different types of fire, depending on the leech system you transfer 
 from.
  
  You can also walk on walls, change the gravity of the ship, walk through portals (some that change 
 your size) , walk out of your body and (this is the best part) you DO NOT EVER DIE! Eventually you 
 learn how to 'deathwalk'. You never see a 'Game Over' screen. Ever. Also, it's always fun to hear 
 Tommy lay out an F Bomb when he gets shot.
  
  Now here's where the good parts end. Levels get long and annoying, puzzles need to be solved near 
 the end, and I had to use a guide to get me through certain parts. 
  
  Graphics (7/10)
  I would certainly expect more from a 360 title. There are no cinematics and lighting sucks.
  
 
  Durability (7/10)
  Not astounding, but there are 22 levels and an online multiplayer mode.
  
  Overall Score (7.5/10)
 
  
  Final Thoughts:
  Rent it. I beat it in two days and it is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  Prey is a game where you are taken captive by aliens, and your goal is to try to save your girlfriend. 
 The main gameplay usually revolves around solving some puzzle or passing an obstacle then shooting 
 lots of aliens. Prey introduces a lot of neat ideas such as changing gravity, spirit walking, and 
 walking through portals, and while they are interesting can't overcome the game's very straightforward 
 nature. The a. i. is basically stupid, and you can basically just run straight at them and shoot. 
 You won't even have to take cover or anything like that as even if you do die you don't contiune 
 from a checkpoint. This keeps the game frusteration free, but it also makes things way to easy. 
 Since you just contiune right from where you were before there is no fear of dying and you just 
 shoot down the red and blue birds with your spirit bow before you go back to the game. The game 
 isn't very long either lasting about 8-10 hours and doesn't have many moments that really make 
 it stand out. The game's basic shooter type gameplay is basically mediocere and uniteresting, and 
 not any different than any other shooter out there. The game still is pretty good thanks to some 
 neat puzzles, spiritwalking, and a great story. The game's multiplayer mode is pretty solid, but 
 you won't find any servers these days. Prey isn't worth a buy, but it's worth a rent if you're 
 into shooters. Hopefully the game's sequel can have great action with it's neat ideas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carrion6
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  This game is descent. I'm not a huge fan of sci-fi shooters, well at least that have weird weapons 
 and so on. Visually I thought it was awesome, the whole premise is sweet as well. Grinding people 
 up is always a good visual, it kind of gets your stomach in a knot. But unfortunatly it gets boring 
 after a bit and some of the story line and parts of the game are confusing, you def. need to take 
 your time with it. It was a great idea and concept for a game, unique you can say. Maybe if they 
 make a second one it will be much crazier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LLR3175
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Well looks like this is another overlooked fps to hit the market. Ok lets start with the story of 
 this game shall we. You play as Tommy a native American who does not really want to accept his heritage, he 
 live on a resort with his grandfather and girlfriend Jen. Then out of nowhere aliens take you into 
 there ship. Now I don't care what people say about this game to me I loved the atmosphere of this 
 wonderful game, the space ship where the game takes place is one of the best I have ever seen, it 
 takes the word weird to a new level. The graphics in this game are ok they are not the best and 
 it is certainly not the worst. The weapons in this kinda are what make this game so unique, see you 
 never have to reload the gun as long as you have ammo. Sadly the guns are all kinda the same, I mean 
 they look fantastic and nothing like I have ever seen before but they are just in the long run 
 kinda bland. Ok the next we shall talk about the difficulty of the game, ok people this game is VERY 
 easy see when you die you enter this spirit realm type of thing were all you have to do is shoot 
 these spirits with your bow and tada you are back to were you were. Now for people who do not like 
 a challenge and want every thing to be simple this is great for you, but for people like me who 
 love a challenge it was kinda messed up. All in all the single is great, the story imo makes up for 
 some of the short comings of the game, it will keep you going till the end. Ok now the worst part 
 of this game the multiplayer, thats right I sad the worst adn let me tell you why. The multiplayer 
 to its credit has very unique maps but too bad you will not be able to play them right, see the 
 maximum amount of people that can be in one game is 8 but even if you have only 2 people the game 
 will lag like crazy, sadly 2k never fixed this problem and thus we were left with a laggy multiplayer 
 experience. Even worst is the sounds the character makes, see if you kill your opponent no matter 
 what character they will all have the same death gargle, for example if you kill somebody using 
 a female character the character will have the same death gargle/scream as Tommy same thing goes 
 for the aliens. Ok so this game has a good single player but easy gameplay and terrible multiplayer, I 
 suggest people who still want to play it to rent it first, that or if you like having a collection 
 of games just buy it, it is dirt cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Prey has been a long time in the making. It's gestation period was a phenomenal 11 years, from 
 it's conception in 1995, to it's release in the summer of 2006. In the time the core elements of 
 the game itself haven't really changed, it's always been about the portals and walkways. However, 
 obviously the storyline, visuals and dynamics have gone through some major re-visits. What eventually 
 came out from all this time passing from one team, to another, then another, was actually a very 
 well coordinated title.
  
  I think i'd have to say: Don't believe Gamespot on this one. They'd have you believe that the game 
 is fairly dull, unimaginative and been-there-done-that, with not so great weapons. I'm sorry Gamespot, 
 but for me and quite a lot of my friends who've played this game, that just ain't so. The visuals 
 are everything you'd expect from a game based on the Doom 3 engine, slimey, gorey, gloomy in parts 
 but on the whole, very spectacular. The sound is excellent, especially the gun sounds. The voice 
 acting is excellent too, very witty dialogue from Tommy at times.
  
  The gameplay innovations, such as the portals and gravity-warping elements such as walkways and 
 alignments, are nothing short of brilliant. That is to say, there is a high degree of professionalism 
 employed when pulling off these mind-bending stunts. The integration of the portals is excellent, 
 being able to interact with the area on the other side before you step into it proves that it's 
 not all a fake-cardboard-cutout job here, it's real programming through the portal and it's right 
 there in front of you.
  
  The length of the game is about average, with between 10-15 hours of gameplay for the average gamer, 
 although if you're quick with the stick, so to speak, then you might be able to get it done in 
 as little as 8 hours on the Normal difficulty.
  
  The quality of the title on the whole very much impressed me. The storyline was under-expanded, 
 some of the elements (such as ghosts) did feel a little out of place in a sci-fi shooter, but in 
 part that's what made it all the more different and interesting. This is a thrill-ride through 
 an immense alien mothership, one you won't forget, despite what the critics say, if you're into 
 a good old shoot-em-up which is just a bit more celebral than most other shooters.
  
  I certainly recommend this title, but if gore, violence and a bit of swearing puts you off games, 
 then this definitely isn't for you. Not to say it's extremely bad, it's not as gloomy as Doom 3, 
 or as genuinely frightening as FEAR, or as gorey as Quake 4, but it is an 18 rated title folks, 
 keep that in mind for the younger gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StegrShmil
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  A unique story and gameplay. Thats about all I can say about this game. The weapons are disappointing, 
 the enemies are ok but they didn't give me much excitement. The enemies are on the doom side but 
 they arent as scary and they arent much of a threat. The bosses were probably the best part of 
 the game. (besides the last one) The story line. Its pretty messed up. The beginning of the game 
 was the scariest part of the entire game but it is nothing compared to some other scary games. 
 Your grandpa gets killed by the aliens crazy stabbing machine and you sister dies later on in the 
 game and becomes a boss. (one of the better ones) Those are about the only good thing about the 
 story line. And there is weird indian people from another world that are stuck on the aliens planet 
 spaceship thing. Also the game is short. And I mean really short. I beat the game in a three day 
 period, but not halo hours or anything special. The weapons are decent. There arent very many but 
 they are kind of cool. But I was seriously upset at the amount of weapons there was. The entire 
 game I was wishing to find a new weapon. The spirit mode is kind of cool, but I fount it worthless. 
 If you don't know that there is puzzles in this game then thats probably because there really isn't. 
 There is but none of them are challenging. The graphics are okay. They aren't the worst I have 
 seen on the 360 but definitely not the best. The multiplayer is something I didn't experience when 
 playing this game because I guess no one else was playing at the same time as me, or its just bad. 
 So this game gets a 6.0 for decent weapons, enemies, and a story line, but not enough weapons, 
 bad puzzles, and a very short game. Oh yeah, this game is the easiest game to get 1000 achievement 
 points. You get achievement points after beating every level. And some levels you don't even have 
 to kill anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMoney0613
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  this was one of my favorite sci fi games it really didnt take me that long to beat i enjoyed every 
 second of it. I was kind of mad cus my live ran out on me so i didnt get to play the multiplayer 
 but most people said that it really wasnt nun much. the graphics were very good and i liked the 
 way you could go through the little portals and be somewhere else. I also loved the wrench because 
 it was so helpful when i ran out of ammo for my guns. if there is a second one i will definently 
 buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerohour38
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Prey has had a long history going back all the way untill 1997 where it was announced at E3 and 
 scheudled for releae in 1998 athough the game seen many many delays over 9 years oft development. In 
 Prey you play as Tommy an native american ex-soilder who really wans to just setle down and have 
 a ice life with his girlfriend Jen who hisalso native american. very early into the game you are 
 abducted and transported to an Aien ship with jen and your grandfather.
  
  The Gameplay in prey is pretty good crossing over a First person shooter and a puzzle game. You 
 start off with a wrench and move onto guns throughout the course of the game. also speaking of the 
 puzzle elements you actually most of the time have to run up walls to achive your goal.
  
  The graphics and texures look pretty good and the atmosphere stands out in space.
  
  overall 
 i think its a good game although it can get fairly boring at some levels but its worth a try if 
 you like a good action game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PackersMax
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a good rent because of its originality. There are also some great ideas: you can walk on 
 walls, switch the ceilling to be the floor, etc. The graphics aren't the best on the 360, but quite 
 good. The problem of some people is that you can't die in that game. When you die , your spirit 
 go in a new world where you shoot at some birds to regain energy and spirit power and you come 
 back where you were in the game before, with the same weapons and the same number of ennemies. 
 I believe it's a good manner to just help the player to dont save at each 10 seconds because he 
 doesn't want to go over and over the game 4-5 times. In fact, Prey worth a rental, but I don't 
 think it is the kind of game that you play more than once. So it's why I suggest to just rent it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvin201
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 6, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a First Person Shooter. Its a pretty fun game in the beggining but just gets very boring 
 towards the end. Antoher problem about this game is that you never die. Once you die u gotta shoot 
 some dragons to bring your spirit back. Also a big problem about this game is the multiplayer. 
 Im not sure if its the game or the server but the character move very weird. Its almost impossible 
 to shoot them. Also the graphics look kinda weird. This game is defienitly a rent if you want to 
 try it out. I just beat the game for the achievements but if it wasnt for that ill stop mid way. 
 This is how i break this game down.
  
  Story: 7.5 Like i said before Its fun and puzzles are a bit challenging but the point that u cant 
 die just ruins its.
  
  Graphics: 560 Looks very sloppy even though i gotta admit the guns look cool.
  
  Multiplayer: 
 3.0 Dont even bother playing it its HORRIBLE.
  
  Sound: 8.5 Very nice music and sounds make this game enjoyable to litsen to. Bottom Line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Story: Suprisingly Significant unlike most shooters. Graphics: Doom Graphic Engine. Not too ugly 
 but not the prettiest girl around.
  
  Audio: Funny Radio Shows, Average Alien Effects, Decent Voice Acting.
  
  Missions: Usually 
 puzzles, shoot stuff, kill boss, save your Girlfriend, Kill boss.
  
  Controls: FPS. A little weird but easy to get used to.
  
  Features: Alien Weapons, Special 
 Native American Powers, Can't Die 
  
  A. I.: Stand there and shoot. Not the smartest.
  
  Loading Times: Way too long for a 360 game.
  
  Multiplayer: Could be fun but NO ONE PLAYS. 
 Lame due to the fact that 1/2 of the achievements are MP based.
  
  Requirements: A 360.
  
  Weapons: Alien. Some pretty cool.
  
  The Good: A fun experience overall.
  
  The Bad: 
 Loading times, Achievements too MP Based (No one plays MP)
  
  The Ugly: Your girlfriend after the aliens are through with her...
  
  Replay Ability: Low to 
 Medium. Need to beat game once to unlock 2nd Cherokee Level and gets you an achievement.
  
  The Bottom Line: A good pick up for $15 but not the most in depth 360 shooter around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indecident
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say that this game shows the triumph that is online gaming arriving to the consoles. 
 I would have never heard of this game had it not been for xbox live, so thank god live brought 
 it to me.
  
  First the downfalls:
  
  On the face of it, this is a standard shooter. Lotsa guns (BIG guns) , lotsa ammo, monsters, space 
 style storyline and lots of violence. You could take that as a minus, but it depends on your perspective. 
 I happen to be fond of a well done gun and run fps, and at the moment the market is saturated with 
 other fps's with taking a tactical slant on the genre. Why not go back to the basics and do them 
 well?
  
  Now the major downfall to the game is YOU CAN NOT DIE! When you die you are taken to a spirit world. 
 Here, you will be able to shoot spirits with your bow and gain back either spirit energy or actual 
 health. At first this sounded like a good idea to me, something fun to change the monotony of oh, 
 I'm dead, start again. However, it is when you realise you can't die, that you realise that the 
 challenge isn't great. Sure it is there. There are intellectual challenges and it is a pain in 
 the ass to die and come back in that it wastes time, but there is no real fear of reprisal. You 
 could go through this entire game with the wrench if you had patience. But...
  
  The positives:
  
  Like I said before, I do like a well crafted gun and run. The graphics are 
 not the greatest ever seen but easily match up Half Life 2 in my book. And the environments are 
 well designed, well imagined and astounding to take in.
  
  Now onto the main positive; THIS GAME IS FUN! Screw the fact you can't die. This game is so fun 
 you won't care. There are so many new things in this game that make it stand out from the rest 
 it is amazing. It is also very creepy in places, the story line is quite good and how good it looks 
 has alot to do with the gameplay innovations, which I will explain now.
  
  First off, spirit walk. This allows your spirit to leave your body and pass beyond certain obstacles 
 to activate switches, or check areas ahead for danger since you can't be detected. You can also 
 take out enemies with your spirit bow covertly, though this will use spirit energy (which is basically 
 bow ammo) . Also at certain times there will be invisible paths that will only show up in spirit 
 walk mode and can only be traversed in this mode too. One could question here how come you can 
 collect ammo in this mode, but hell, who cares.
  
  Next, there are the portals and strange one sided doors. Portals are self explanatory, and I don't 
 intend to explain them here. If you don't know what they are, find a sci fi for dummies book. However, 
 you can pass around the back of these and they will dissapear and you can also do this with certain 
 doors. You can see into the room, but there are no walls either side of the door frame and you 
 can walk around the back. You may think this is a visual thing rather than a gameplay device, but 
 when you take into account that some of these doors are in movable crates or on tracks, and sometimes 
 you get multiple choices which can lead you back into the same room, you can see where this is 
 going.
  
  Now the best gameplay innovation is the gravity manipulation. This works in 3 ways.
  
  1) Gravity 
 walks. These are essentially magnetic walkways that allow you to run up walls and across ceilings. 
 You can detatch by jumping from them.
  
  2) Gravity switches. These can be shot to change the gravity alligment of the entire room.
  
 
  3) Planetoids. Small planetoids have gravity wrapped around them.
  
  This not only looks cool, but the disorientation effect takes on a new level when fighting a foe 
 who may be on the wall or ceiling, and it is also cool to watch dead enemies fall from a gravity 
 walk.
  
  Take all the things I have just told you, they make a great single player campaign. But then put 
 them into deathmatch and the result is astounding. I personally think it is a travesty that more 
 people don't own this because the potential deathmatch mayhem that can happen with these innovations 
 and the various weapons (see the main gamespot review for details) is amazing.
  
  This game is awesome, and I can't wait for, and pray (no pun intended) that Prey 2 gets more exposure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JetB1ackNewYear
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  This was the first game I bought for the 360 and the first game i sat down and really played. You 
 start of as your father which is a indian chief owning a bar tell you something strange is going 
 to happen. Later aliens destroy your bar and take you, your father and girlfriend up on their ship. 
 You some how shake lose and find a weapons to start defeating these aliens. The graphics look nice 
 and the texture of slimy things are amazing they look as real as the slime being on your screen. 
 The portals in the game are crazy and, walking on the ceilings is a blast. The story forms and 
 you gain a small power which is never being able to die. it made the game very easy but, also made 
 it so much more fun to play. You did'nt get upset and stop playing because you died to much. The 
 multi-player i played a few couple games it reminded me of doom in a way running around aimelsy 
 trying to kill anything that moves in a ship like area. It didnt excited me much id say stay away 
 from it and go straight to single player. *Conclusion* The game was a great time not being able 
 to die made me beat it in less then 3 days. The variety of bosses and aliens are cool to look at 
 and the graphics look pretty to. Id say if you want this game rent it because i don't think many 
 people play the multi-player to much and if your a good hardcore gamer you can beat it in no time 
 and enjoy the feeling of saving earth! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun.
  
  This game is fun.
  
  Did I mention. This game is fun?
  
  Another first person shooter. Major difference though.
  
  Switching you up like Bruce Lee on 
 crank.
  
  THIS GAME IS FUN.
  
  Your on board an alien ship which rotates around a mini'sun. Your a Native American Indian who 
 starts off the game drunk on a suck ass reservation casino.
  
  You kill aliens with a wrench and then f*&amp; k them up with KRAAAZY weapons.
  
  This game 
 is fun.
  
  The people at Gamespot are PROS. They could beat every game blind folded. I am average. If you 
 are a normal human being. If you LOVE games. THIS GAME IS FUN.
  
  Graphics = as GOOD AS OBLIVION (OVER RATED) Sound = Better then HITMAN ( AND I LOVE HITMAN!!)
 
  
  Gameplay = A good game challenge but not too KRAZY.
  
  Overall = who cares. It cost a min of 15 bucks now. BUY IT KRACKA!!!!!
  
  I have played games 
 for over 20 years and I have ADHD. That being said.... this game is FUN. GOD BLESS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  Well I finally decide to get Prey at first I rented this game quite long time and at first I didn't 
 like it too much. But finally thought about this game and finally got it. The graphics are good, 
 weapons are quite limited but good, the music is really excellent exspically when you beat the 
 game at the end and the characters are good. This game is quite easy and easy to beat as well, 
 in this one you can able to get the achievements really fast and they give you alot for it when 
 beating each chapter. You really can't die which I like about the game because other games once 
 you die you have to start over on the same chapter. Sometimes the game can be a little dizzy when 
 walking on the platforms but you can the hand of it. The bosses are easy to beat and the puzzles 
 are good to figure out. It depends if you like it or not, this game was good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellwitlife
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a first-person shooter that takes place in the average everyday life of an Indian who does 
 not follow the ways or believe in the ancestry of his tribe. The story opens up with you in a mirror 
 talking to yourself about how you're going to convince the girl you love who runs the bar you are 
 inside of. Your grandfather comes in and gives you the speech about not following our roots and 
 what not and you will be tested this night. Two drunk guys get out of line and you have to put 
 them in check by taking a wrench to their head. You are then abducted by a spacecraft and then 
 the story really begins. Gameplay is basic but good in controls. You are in full control of your 
 character and at no time can lose control unless you are walking on walls and so forth. You have 
 a limited arsenal from what I see, but guns look good, and for the most part are organic to an 
 extent which is cool. Enemies react very nicely to you. I can't put my thumb on it though but something 
 is missing even though it's nice. Graphics are good and Prey does some things I'd love to see other 
 games do far as warps, and transporters; for example you'll be looking in to another room from 
 a small box, but if you go around it, it's the same room you're in. Better example, there's this 
 sphere in a box in one room. You transport into a warp hole of some sort then you wind up in the 
 box on the sphere minitaurized, and an enemy comes in sees you and jumps in to the warp hole to 
 get you. Really great effect. Gravity switch which change the polarity of the pull of gravity so 
 the next minute you might to walk on a ceiling or wall to get to a certain platform. Also certain 
 tracks let you traverse anywhere along it's path, like Samus' morph ball on a spider track but 
 you can still shoot and everything. Very, very cool effect. Sound is good, not enough elements 
 but alot of extra stuff such as monitoring systems that the spaceship has in certain parts that 
 show the Earth and let you hear the radio with them discussing reports of bizzare spacecrafts which 
 I love. I love when designers throw in extra little things like that. It's so awesome. I haven't 
 beat this game just yet, but I feel like something's missing to all the action, but personally 
 I like it alot. If you played Redneck rampage back in '96 or Duke Nukem 3D in '95 you will definitly 
 notice that similarity in feel especially to Redneck Rampage, That's what this game reminds me 
 of so much. Maybe I feel like this game is evolved but not in a sort of oximoronick way if that 
 is a word, anyway if this game is somewhere cheap get it, I think it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paksiwin
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Whoever let the old man of first-person shooter onto the party deserves a part on the back. The 
 11 years its taken to put the spectacle of Prey together have seen four Quakes, two Halos, three 
 Time Splitters, five Unreal Tournament, two Metroid Prime and a Black. Prey is an Alien abduct 
 story that appreciates the need to abduct you to some where alien. A great set-up in which hero 
 Tommy argues Cherokee beliefs with his barkeep girlfried, the game goes to town on the hardwood 
 structure of the FPS.
  Preys greatest trick are the ones it been working on almost from the start, involving portals 
 and gravity. Though conventional environments still feature, many of its interior chambers are 
 more like single floors wrapped into cubes. Gravity walkways often snake around an areas every 
 surface, allowing you to run rings around and above your opponents provided you dont deviate from 
 the lit path; do that and youll be back down to the ground with a demagnetized thump. This extraordinary 
 interpretation of FPS rules and traditions is then threaded together by the aforementioned portals. 
 Which can, for instance, see you crawling into a box and coming out on the surface of a moon. So 
 exciting is the discovery of moments such as these that to reveal them is to spoil them. So will 
 leave you instead with the assurance that if you let Prey abduct you from your humdrum video-game 
 life, you might never want to come down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Prey, the game that almost never was. After going through several development phases and more delays 
 than i remember, the game is finally here. For anyone who's played Doom 3, this game uses the same 
 engine and it looks very similar. Dark enviornments, that look very similar. The most interesting 
 feature in the game are portals and use of gravity. One moment you're walking and your whole world 
 get flipped upside down.. literally. While this is novel at first, it wears off and you're left with 
 a very average FPS, that is also extremely short. This game can be completed in about 6-8 hrs with 
 very little reason to play again. Technically, the game is sound with a smooth frame rate and good 
 music and sound. The one thing that messed up the challenge though is.... YOU CAN'T DIE! If you lose 
 all your health, you're teleported to anoth dimension where (armed with a bow and arrow) shoot souls 
 to recover health, then you'r warped back to the exact spot you left off to continue the fight. For 
 the price it's a decent game, but a rental is still cheaper! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Review: Prey
  
  Prey is a FPS from the guys that are supposed to be making Duke Nukem Forever, though Prey was 
 announced shortly before DNF. So will Prey prove that there is still hope for DNF, or will this 
 game forever live in its more infamous cousin's shadow?
  
  Story:
  You are Tommy, a member of the Cherokee nation, a humble mechanic for your tribe, and an ex marine, 
 but you really want to leave the tribe behind to see more of the world, but your girlfriend Jen 
 wants to stay and remain a part of the tribe and so Tommy is torn, the girl he loves or the freedom 
 he longs for...... When aliens come and kidnap your entire village it is up to you to save not 
 only your family, and girlfriend, but also the entire human race.
  
  Graphics:
  WOW! That about sums up the graphics of prey, the graphics textures, and even character design 
 will blow you away! This game is a feast for the eyes! And what is more the innovative touches 
 added to this game make this game all that more impressive like portal jumping, getting shrunk 
 down and having to fight your way out of a box, weird alien guns that you have to figure out how 
 to use. All is not perfect though; there were a couple of graphical slowdowns in the later stages 
 in single player. But other than that this game has to bee seen to be believed.
  
  Music:
  Those expecting a good soundtrack for the sound department will be happy to know that 
 they will receive it here. The sound effects are also top notch and are as good as sound effects 
 can get. Having said this you would think that this games music is great and nothing is wrong. 
 While the soundtrack is very good, it is not memorable, but what I think makes this game so engaging 
 is that it has amazing voice actors playing each of the roles in this game that keep you sucked 
 into it's world until the end
  
  Control:
  If you have played a FPS on the 360 than you know what to expect, though I found the fact that 
 the fire and use buttons were the same a little frustrating, the control is solid otherwise, and 
 very intuitive.
  
  Design:
  Considering how long it has taken for this game to be released it is no surprise to me that this 
 game is as great as it is. And although it may not be up there with the kings of the genre (Half 
 Life 2) , it is better than most of the rest of the competition (Quake 4) . But what is even nicer 
 is that this game has free downloads for its multiplayer modes and extras which is something that 
 hasn't been done enough for most Xbox 360 games for the same type of content, but it is something 
 that really needs to be done for many other games of this genre I feel. As good as Prey is single 
 player, multiplayer is a blast to play, and I feel Prey is easily one of the best multiplayer games 
 on the 360 on XBL well better than a lot of the other FPS games I have played on XBL.
  
  If you are one of the few Xbox owners that do not own this game (and why don't you yet for only 
 $20) do your self A favor and buy this game..... NOW!
  
  Graphics
  9/10
  
  Game play
  9/10
  
  Sound
  9/10
  
  Fun factor
  9/10
  
  Tilt
  9/10
  
  Average 
 score
  9.0
  
  Prey:
  Pros:
  Captivating Story
  Good music
  Amazing graphics
  Must play Multiplayer
  Kick ass action
  Free Downloads!
  
  Cons:
  Graphical slowdown 
 every once in a great while
  Short
  Shoot and use same button, and use is a little too sensitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinmuckelrat
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  This Game is a Great game to buy. But the game health system really do suck. Because every time 
 you die you go back to this spirit world for a few seconds to shoot at red or blue birds for your 
 health. Until that you go back were you got kill at. This game has alright online play. But its 
 way to glitchy to play online. Graphics are ok
  
  sound is ridicous in some ways
  
  Value is only worth 30 dollars are less.
  
  This game is really easy for any first time first 
 person shooter fans.
  
  This game is alright, but it really needs a lot more work.
  
  There going to create a prey 2, I hope they create the health system better next time.
  
  Anyway 
 this game kinda dissapoint me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xarcand
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Ok about a month or two ago i walked into to block buster checking out the game section, Prey caught 
 my eye. 20$ used. My friends were telling me this game was awesome so i thought to myself what 
 the heck, ill give it a try i buy it and get back to my house..
  
  *powers 360 up* So heres a brief preview of the story:
  
  PLOT
  The begining is set on an 
 Cherokee indian reservation, Tommy (maincharacter) is a cherokee garage machanic looking for bigger 
 things in life then the one he has on the reservation, The introduction starts out in a pretty 
 much buisnessless bar runned by Jen (Tommy's girl friend) who is reluctant to leave the reservation 
 with him on his dream for a better life. Enisi is Tommys last living family member and is his grandfather, 
 he attempts to teach Tommy about his heritage but is just ignored. While Tommy and Jen argue aliens 
 come out of no wheres and start beaming them up. When Tommy wakes up he finds himself , Enisi, 
 andJen being transported through a disturbing place, blood, flesh, and chucks of meat are what 
 makes up the interior of the ship. Tommy is seperated from the others and is broken free from his 
 shackles. Now Tommy will have to find a way to stay alive and save Jen, but he must open himself 
 to his heritage to do so.... can he do it? maybe.. ; )
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 I found this game to be alot more enjoyable then i found Doom 3 and Quake 4 to be, Quake 4 seemed 
 to be just a clone of doom 3 with a weak story and the Quake name slapped onto it.. but that another 
 review for later. this game in no way pushed the even close to the boundaries of what the 360 is 
 capable of these graphics are just a little bit more polished up then Doom 3 and Quake 4, But everyone 
 always judges a game by its graphics.. why? Just because the water and lighting looks amazing doesnt 
 make a game great. It all about the GAMEPLAY
  This game plays basically like a standard shooter you got your Melee wep, automatic, gattling gun, 
 bazooka, and a few more, they all act like normal guns, they just look strange. This game has some 
 confusing parts, and fun, the first one you will come across is the gravity walkway, this allows 
 you to walk straight up the wall and to the ceiling. That can be useful for fighting but mostly 
 for getting around. they also have portals you walk through the portal and it teleports you into 
 a diffrent part of the ship. An interesting addition to the game is that you NEVER die! you are 
 sent to the spirit world and you can just sit and wait or shoot wraiths for extra health or spirit 
 power (this makes game easy) The puzzles are kinda easy but may be hard for others. I'd have to 
 say Its pretty average.
  SOUND The sound and Music was great, i mean the composer did do Elder scrolls soundtracks... thats 
 about all i can say about the sounds. for the gun sounds.. just think lazers (pew pew pew)
  OVERALL
  
  GOOD: Interesting gameplay on some parts (portals, gravity walkways) , some decent 
 NPC intelligence (almost rare though) uhhhh....
  
  BAD: Little uniqueness on Enemies (almost rip offs of Doom 3 and Quake 4 designs) , Online is pretty 
 boring, too easy on some parts, graphics need to be smoothed out a bit more (you'll see some jagged 
 edges on the character models.) I found this game to be entertaining, but rent this game before 
 buy. i dont know your taste in games so try it out first
  
  My Grade 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakemaster77
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  although this is one of the first games on the xbox 360 it still offers a lot of enjoyment!!!
 
  
  It has been a long time since I played prey; Finished the game but having little difficulties with 
 the online play as this is one of the earlier games this is only in the beginning fase if u ask 
 me, compared to others like gears of war.
  
  But still it is nice to play offline sometimes just by yourself as there are a lot of secrets to 
 explore and taking time to enjoy the sceneries although they are sometimes a lot of the same (the 
 levels)
  
  you can play this game when they are updating the network or something.
  
  greetzzzz...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgamer367
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a shooter that plays out like game such as Doom and Quake, but not as fun. The game is 
 about a Cherokee Indian named Tommy who must rescue his girlfriend and Grandfather on an alien 
 spaceship. The story is great about how Tommy realizes who he truly is, but the gameplay is rather 
 simple. You mostly walk around, and there are very few combat sequences. There are nice graphics 
 and sound, and the controls are easy to learn. Although the story starts off great, it just goes 
 downhill and becomes just plain bad. Xbox Live is fun, but won't keep your interest for very long. 
 Prey is a good shooter, but could have been a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  The action is fairly typical FPS stuff, like the Doom or Quake series. It's similar because most 
 of the game is just run-and-gun, without a load of strategy. But Prey also tries to move away from 
 the typical, modern FPS. While there is a lot of action and shooting, the pace slows a bit every 
 so often, and you'll find yourself trying to solve puzzles. This is where some of the most fun 
 bits happen. Most people who know anything about the game should know all about things like the 
 portals (which you can walk through seamlessly) . But the actual environment is one of the most 
 intriguing I've ever seen. You play as Tommy, a tough Cherokee who gets abducted (along with many 
 others) by a sinister alien race. When you get to their ship (aka The Sphere) you realize it's 
 actually a giant creature/machine hybrid of sorts.. It's sick but you can even find openings throughout 
 the ship, such as sphincters that crap out body parts and acid on the unsuspecting humans. But 
 enough of that.... There's this other cool feature that stands out. You can find switches which 
 activate the wall walk which lets you walk up walls or even go upside down. It can be disorienting 
 but it's cool. You can also shoot certain gravity pads. This changes the gravity, around; it's 
 sometimes necessary to do this so you can reach certain areas or something.
  All in all this isn't a bad game. The graphics look nice and the audio is good.
  I'd have to 
 say my favorite feature is the weapons, which are all unique in one way or the other. You can dish 
 out a lot of pain with guns that spray acid, or shoot grenades or whatever else you can think of. 
 Another cool thing is that you can't technically die. You go to this spirit world where you can 
 gather health and such, and eventually you'll just spawn back where you died , with no stupid loading 
 screen.
  If you in fact do love shooters like Doom, you'll love this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tallwhitemocha
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Prey was a disappointing game. More disappointing though than the lack luster game play and the 
 cake walk difficulty levels was the vast amount of potential I saw while playing. This game could 
 of, and by all rights should have been the right proper successor to Doom. More than the Quake 
 franchise this game had all the elements that made Doom genre defining and an instant classic. 
 Instead it tripped over mediocrity and fell flat on the face of boring. The only satisfaction I 
 got from the game were the creature and ship designs, interesting weapons, and the guilty pleasure 
 of running around whacking anything that moved with a pipe wrench. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Everyone expected great things out of Prey. It was supposed to be this fantastic shooter that had 
 so many unique ideas. To a degree, it is. The shooting action is solid and the gravity and portal 
 aspects are a refreshing new addition, but you will begin to realize this is just a standard first 
 person shooter. That said, it's still fun and most people will really enjoy it.
  
  When you're done with the single-player, there is multplayer that is worth looking at. It only 
 standard deathmatch and team deathmatch, but the level designs and use of gravity and portals make 
 it fun, if not somewhat disorienting. A game can support up to 8 players and the action can get 
 pretty frantic. If everyone has a good connection, the game runs really smooth and is extremely 
 fast paced, much like Quake's multiplayer. However, should one perosn have a bad connection, there 
 will usually be serious lag and make the game almost unplayable. I only had lag in one of the eight 
 games I have played and hopefully a patch will come along at some point to address this probelm.
 
  
  In the end, Prey is worth checking out. If multiplayer is not your thing, Prey is atleast worth 
 a rental. Some times the gameplay may get alittle boring, but the unique ideas and promising storyline 
 make up for it. If you do like fast paced multiplayer action, this game will definetly suit you. 
 Just make sure you have a good connection or you are going to have a miserable time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fathertroy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun and addictive... it has a very good storyline. The sounds are good and the 
 graphics are great... it makes use of the gravity thing in multiplayer which is really interesting 
 (sometimes gives me a headache) . The weapons are fun to play (the acid sprayer is really effective 
 and the rocket launcher is a very powerful weapon) with and the difficulty of the game is ok. The 
 singleplayer campaign has a good 10 hours of gameplay (add some more if u have a hard time getting 
 some of the puzzles) .
  Overall... this is a good game... with some nice multiplayer features... (although not a lot of 
 people around anymore) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicare
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 12, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  After years of development and almost sharing the fate of Duke Nukem Forever, Prey finally hit 
 the shelves. The game, itself, is a standard first person shooter that is currently available on 
 both the Xbox 360 and PC. Although it does not offer much to veteran FPS fans, it does provide 
 a fairly enjoyable but short experience.
  
  You start off as Tommy, a Cherokee indian, on a reservation with his grandfather and hopeful girlfriend, 
 Jen. After a quick introduction, the player learns that Tommy is a disillusioned ex soldier who 
 wants to get off the reservation and take his girlfriend with him. He wants nothing to do with 
 his heritage, but soon he will learn how important that is. For no sooner than you get bearings, 
 Tommy and his companions are suddenly abducted by aliens and taken off the planet. They find themselves 
 held prisoner in some strange and sadistic sphere which is currently orbiting the earth. Before 
 Tommy can figure out what's happening, a stranger frees him from his bonds and the real game begins.
 
  
  Initially Tommy just starts the game with his handy wrench, but soon he will amass an inventory 
 full of alien weapons. Although they may by of foreign origin, they behave quite like the standard 
 weapons that most fps fans are familiar with. Assault rifle, rocket launcher, energy weapons, grenades, 
 etc. No real surprises here.
  
  The most unique feature of Prey, is Tommy's spirit powers. After a short tutorial with his grandfather, 
 Tommy learns how to project a spirit form of himself into the real world. While in spirit form, 
 Tommy can pass through force fields and other barriers. He also possess a special attack using 
 his spirit bow. Everytime he fires off an arrow, he loses spirit energy, and if he does not replenish 
 it, he will be unable to fire further arrows. Fortunately, every enemy that dies gives off some 
 spirti energy.
  
  While the spirit arrows are somewhat fun to use, you'll find yourself mostly avoiding his spirit 
 form during combat. The regular weapons pack far more punch and fire faster than the slow arrows. 
 The real use of Tommy's spirit form is mostly just to get you by the various puzzles and barriers 
 throughout the sphere. In fact, most of the game, you will find yourself trying to navigate through 
 the corridors and mazes of the sphere. This game world is full of portals, force shields, teleporters, 
 and shifting gravity generators that provide a problem solving element to the game. Initially, 
 it provides entertainment but eventually it gets very repetitive and somewhat aggravating. The 
 constant switching portals and gravity generators made me quite disoriented at times as the player's 
 view/perspective will shift around depending on which gravity generator is activated.
  
  The combat is fairly straightforward and for the most part, very easy. Shortly into the game, Tommy 
 learns about his spirit powers. One of the big advantages, is that if killed, he is teleported 
 to the spirit realm where he faces an easy minigame. Simply shoot at the souls of dishonored dead 
 with your arrow and replenish both your health and spirit energy. After a few seconds, your character 
 returns right to where he was killed. Basically, you can't die and have no need to reload. Whether 
 its fighting regular enemies or a boss, you have an unlimited amount of tries and no penatly for 
 deaths. Because of this, the boss battles themselves are fairly easy and unremarkable.
  
  The game also supports multiplayer via Xbox Live. I haven't played too much of this, but it flows 
 fairly well. It's very quick paced and I experienced no lag. Most of the gameplay centers around 
 free for all deathmatches, but you can custom create a game to your style. The only major downside 
 to the MP, is simply that there just aren't that many players doing it.
  
  All in all, Prey stands as a decent entry in the first person shooter genre. It doesn't offer anything 
 revolutionary and its gameplay is fairly straightforward, but it can be a entertaining experience 
 for a short time. I would recommend either gietting this game at a bargain price or renting it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiscoDevistated
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  You cant die. Thats right you can't die. You know how much that makes this game easy?
  
  Now this other than that. This game is fun! The graphics are good. The weapons are cool. And the 
 fights are fun.
  
  The environments are incredible. And multilayer is good fun. The Indian style main-character is 
 a bit, stupid though. But the game is fun. And a must buy at the local game-stop for 17.99$ used. 
 However I wouldn't pay anymore for it.
  
  The controls are smooth, however the physics act up.
  
  But yea, a great game. But not as good 
 as the hype.
  
  Plus you can kill little girls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokizarro
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  i got this game a couple of days ago and completed it in about at least 16 hours. The game is short 
 and full of action and full of good old FPS style shoot em up combat! read all of my review before 
 you judge it!
  
  storyline: the storyline was a bit far fetched in my opinion and corny, although most games are 
 corny nowadays. Such as resident evil and Lost Planet. But anyway the story starts off with the 
 main Character Tommy looking at himself in a mirror in a pub bathroom telling himself he does not 
 have the guts to ask his girlfriend Jen to leave his reservation behind and start over. Tommy is 
 a cherokee and His Girlfriend Jen and his Grandfather are very fathful in their sort of religion 
 Tommy describes it later in the game as a load of superstitious bullshit anyway you get abducted 
 very early in the game by a space ship called the sphere. Jen is seperated from you and you set 
 out on a mission to save your girlfriend and eventually to save humanity from destruction. Your 
 grandfather is killed early in the game and is transported in spirit form to a place called the 
 land of the ancients. He teaches you spirit walk and deathwalk which i will go into detail on later.
 
  
  gameplay: the gameplay is nice and easy, basically just run and shoot which to some people can 
 get repetitive and quite tedious so i give gameplay a 7/10 graphics: the graphics are by far the 
 best i have ever seen on an FPS in my life, the enviroments are more or less the same at most times 
 so that becomes repetitive as well sometimes, and the fact that everything looks the same makes 
 puzzles very complicated and boring. Nevertheless i give it a 10/10 for dazzling me (at first)
 
  
  sound: the voice acting on this is brilliant. Especially when the main character Tommy yells at 
 the aliens in the game and curses at them, i give sound a 10/10 for excellent voice acting and 
 music
  
  spirit walk and deathwalk: spirit walk is a very good new idea where you can go into... lets say 
 another realm and walk through forcefields and you are equppied with a weapon called the spirit 
 bow while you are in this form you can do a lot of unique new things. Deathwalk on the other hand 
 is quite a stupid idea. Once you die you get transported to this rock with wraith like birds circling 
 you and you have to shoot them with your spirit bow for health and so on. You have at least six 
 seconds to do this before you are teleported right back where you died!!!
  so really you can't die in this game.
  
  overall: this is a good game but it is too short really. 
 I would suggest a rental at best. I bought this game for 15 quid which i think is a bargain considering 
 its generation, if you can get this at 15 quid or less just buy it. It's your choice but i would 
 definitely suggest a rental if you don't want to spend 15 quid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treyballard
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Well like all others I thought Prey was going to be this great innovative game that would change 
 alot of ways FPS' are played. I was sadly mistaken. While this game has some innovative features 
 like changing gravity and gravity walkways it falls way short of being a truly innovative game. 
 The switching of gravity and the gravity walkways are cool for about the first 4 times then they 
 just become monotonous and even tedious. This game does have great graphics and a somewhat good 
 storyline but it just turns into the basic FPS tactics: Shoot and Run. I would say that this game 
 is a mix of Quake 4 and Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buying1999
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a truly inovative shooter. In prey we see the first real use of portal technology. With 
 a portal you'll be able to instantly transport from one board to another. That's a new idea for 
 sure but apart from being able to transport you'll also be able to look into the other area before 
 you go there. In action that's a pretty big inovation. Then there's the gravity walkways. On these 
 walkways you are able to walk upside down. This really adds a great new method of gameplay both 
 in the single player campaign and the multiplayer modes. Grapics are built on the doom3 engine 
 so we all know that it's gonna be easy on the eyes right? Well that assumption surely holds true 
 here. Great lighting and particle effects help to create a surreal alien world that our anti-hero 
 must combat the horde that is attempting to get a harvest from Earth. The animation could have 
 used a little more attention but that's a very minor complaint.
  
  Audio is great. Good use of ambient sound, music, and character dialogue.
  I would, however, 
 liked to have had the story fleshed out just a little more. The story is good but it could have 
 used a little more background and a little more reason.
  
  The replay value is good here. The game has multiple achievements for beating the game on different 
 difficulty levels and multi-player play is quite enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadster
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 29, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Whis i 1st played the Demo of prey, i confess i wasn't overall convinced about it being any good, 
 however, 1 bargain bin purchase later, and after deciding to play it after months, i was pleasantly 
 suprised.
  
  I liked the idea of the gravity walk rails, the gravity switches, and the use of the spirit walk, 
 oh and one idea borrowed from soul reaver, where you don't actually die, you lose your body and 
 have to re-empower yourself, by battling fallen deceased or something.
  
  This wasn't a totally brilliant game, but from what i've seen so far, it feels like a watered down 
 mix of Turok Evolution, Soul Reaver and Metroid Prime, and i don't mind Prey, even though the watered 
 down part boiled down to being far too easy, and the audio feeling a little underpowered, just 
 like Doom 3 before Trent Reznor lent his Audio wizardry to ID's Shooter, which, when applied, sounds 
 less like a Nerf shooter and more like a Mega Cannon!! (Boom, instead of pop) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayervorge3000
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  (SLAYERVORGE3000's #1 BEST GAME FOR XBOX360 AWARD)
  
  Prey is a really good game that is about an Indian heritage that is being taken by alien lifeforms. 
 As like all stories the aliens have to be hostile. So you fight your way through the gigantic alien 
 spacecraft to try to save your girlfriend Jen. With a little unwanted help from Tommy's (you) grandfather 
 Enisi. The whole game is filled with suspense and surprise. This game is also one hellava emotional 
 ride. Some places you hear Tommy call the aliens stuff and then you hear him start to cry or something 
 like that.
  
  GRAPHICS ~ Holly crap, very good graphics. Gameplay graphics are amazing and the cinamatic graphics 
 are pretty much the same with gameply. The lips move very realistic sometimes and everything from 
 the crowbar to the alienish guns look very real. Amazing!
  
  SOUND ~ Very good voice acting. The music goes really good with the game and all the other sounds 
 in the game are good.
  
  ENTERTAINMENT ~ Very fun and very not so boring. Prey is 110% good, nothing can beat it... well 
 almost nother (Halo series) ... anywho you never really die in the game. You go to the spirit world 
 and then kill some evil spirits and go back to your body which lays there dead until Tommy's spirit 
 re-enters. Theres nothing really bad about the game.
  
  REPLAY VALUE ~ Oh So Very High 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bababadong
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  Many people found this game to run on a disconfigured and incomplete Quake engine, which may look 
 like that. But then again, I found the graphics to be very good, the weapon sets for both Multiplayer 
 Mode and Story Mode are fantastic each with their own individual abilities. Not only that, but 
 I don't think I've seen such an interactive game. Multiplayer Mode is great because it has all 
 the topsy-turvy gravity controlled platforms that it has on on Story Mode which you use to your 
 advantage or your defeat. The levels are graphically designed to fit what the normal, and even 
 some of the critical RPGer wants. Also the fact that the guns are alive helps! But I did find glitches 
 while I was playing. Some of the story mode parts didn't continue which made me go to my last saving 
 point. Now I'm not saying that it's the game that did this, it could be my Xbox 360, but I would 
 suggest to save every level, either at the beginning or the end, (I would recommend the beginning 
 because you don't know when the ending is sometimes) , because you could get so far, and then have 
 a problem and have to restart. And one final note, the thing that attracted me the most about this 
 game, is the fact that it's story line and world structure. Everyone's like, why don't they just 
 kill Jen? Well it explains that at the end in a very strategic and intelligent matter. The world 
 or ship that you're on is huge that an entire city is supposed to be just a small spec. Plus the 
 portals that transport you from one place to another in a mere second is one of the most confusing 
 but awesome things I've ever seen in a game. So, overall, this game does have a few glitches (maybe, 
 maybe not) , but that doesn't kick the fact that it has great graphics, an interactive world, a 
 good multiplayer, and an overall excellent story line. So I would recommend this game to even the 
 most critical RPG person. A very nice game creation, I hope to see more of it's kind in the future! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozobee
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 23, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  The story is great, I like it alot.
  But that's not what makes the game stand out from others.
  It's the portholes in the game you 
 pass into.
  One second your on the floor, then you go in a box and your on the wall,
  battleing foes up above you.
  Or you are looking in a hole and see your self in looking in another 
 hole.
  That makes the game kind of trippy.
  Also the guns are alive.
  You'll see an eye come out of one turn, and look at you, or pulsate, or wiggle around.
  The on 
 line is a little lacking, but good.
  All in all a fun gameing experance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy2
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 19, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  + Really good graphics and lighting. A lot of neat things I'd never seen in a game before.
  + Story really isn't bad, especially if you grew up on old school shooters.
  - Multiplayer works 
 0.02% of the time since there's so much lag.
  - Extremely easy game with unlimited lives.
  
  As far as revolutionizing the market, Prey isn't that. It introduced some new types of gameplay 
 to the traditional FPS genre, but didn't do anything else new. That's not really a bad thing. Sometimes 
 you need just a plain old shooter, like back when the FPS genre first hit the scene. Going through 
 the game, it reminded me a lot of Duke Nukem with a mix of Turok. If you really loved those games, 
 you'll probably get a big kick out of Prey.
  
  You star as Tommy, who is actually one of the most personal characters I've ever seen in a first-person 
 shooter. He's an indian who's just sick of living on the reservation with his grandfather and girlfriend, 
 Jen, at this crummy little bar. That all changes when some aliens come and zap everything into 
 their ship. Upon trying to get out of there, save your grandfather and girlfriend, you collect 
 an array of helpful weapons to use. The weapons are pretty cool. There's a machine gun that turns 
 into a sniper rifle (Turok: Evolution, anyone?) , a rocket launcher, a acid shooter (shotgun) . There's 
 a ton of really cool weapons in the game, with only one human weapon. The trusty melee weapon.
 
  
  The level designs are really creative. Aside from being just creative, most of them feature a portal 
 that hops you from one spot to the other. It's actually one of the innovative parts of the game. 
 There's also the paths that you can walk, in which you walk on the walls and upside down. It gets 
 you pretty dizzy, but it's fun. Another neat feature of the game is your ability to go into spirit 
 mode. In spirit mode, you can find secret paths and shoot enemies with a spirit bow and arrow kit. 
 What's nice about the game is how dark, yet well-lit the game is. I've seen a lot of shooters that 
 leave you turning the brightness up on a game, but not this one. It's bright enough to actually 
 see, yet dark enough to actually make you look for a light somewhere.
  
  The sounds are kind of cheesy. I know I'm not like a lot of you, but I really don't like a lot 
 of F-bombs in my games. This game has quite a few, without an option to turn it off (a la Unreal 
 Tournament) . The voice acting is pretty good, aside from the aliens. They speak this horrible English, 
 which makes the game seem a little less 'realistic'. Art Bell's in the game. That was pretty cool. 
 The biggest complaint I really have about the single player is how easy it is. You can die a million 
 times, go to the spirit world, and teleport right back to where you died. It makes the game just 
 incredible easy.
  
  The single player is a pleasurable experience. However, the game's quality severely drops when 
 you load up the multiplayer. I really don't know who to blame: Xbox Live or Prey. I've played Prey 
 on the PC and the multiplayer works like a charm, however, the Xbox 360 version just flat out sucks. 
 I mean, I tried to at least get the achievements but there's absolutely no one playing it. I did 
 find one room after about 10 minutes of searching. It was buggy and slow as crap. That's even with 
 the patch. Maybe next time.
  
  Overall, Prey is a great single player game for those looking for a Duke Nukem homage. As far as 
 a great game, not really unless you just want to beat the game over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is a sci-fi first person shooter along the same lines as quake 4 and doom 3.
  
  This in my opinion is the best part of the game, the story is very interesting and takes a few 
 plat twists along the way to keep the gamer interested. The main gist of the story is that you 
 play a native american who wants him and his girlfriend to move away from the reservation as he 
 has lost interest in his cultures teaching. Then disastour happens while you are in a bar owned 
 by your girlfrien aliens abduct you two and your grandfather and it is your job to say you girl 
 and the world while you are at it.
  
  The gameplay is very basic, your normal fps game. There is not much new here but one thing that 
 is interesting is the portals, every so often you will come uppon a portal which you can go through 
 to get to another area, you can also shoot through these portals, but sometime afteryou walk through 
 a portal you may find you self on the roof or even one of teh other 2 walls. This is a good touch 
 but i think it could have been done better because the portals are very much liek doors walk though 
 and your on the other side, it would have been more interesting if it wasn't as linear. Maybe more 
 portals leading to teh same place but soem are harder than others. In a whole the game is very 
 linear, there is one set path to follow and you have to follow it through the 22 levels. I also 
 wasn't a fan of the death system as everytime you died you would go to teh spirit world for a few 
 seconds to shoot some ghosts (which give you a life boost) and then placed back in the exact same 
 place you left. I didn't liek this because you are not being punished for bad play, you could die 
 as many time as you wanted because you knew you would come back to that spot in a few seconds full 
 of health and ready to go. This made an already easy game easier. None of the opponents really 
 pose a threat even towards teh end when you are facing 4 or 5 boss monsters at once. Even the final 
 boss is a walk in the park. Multiplayer is your basic deathmatch and team deathmatch, nothing exactlyu 
 new about it but still allot of fun.
  
  This game looks pretty good to say it was a release title with teh xbox 360, reat realistic graphics 
 which set the eeire mood. I did see a little problem at times eith teh framerate at points you 
 would get a little slowdown. Nothing major that would ruin the gaming though.
  
  This is a solid fps, a little easy and the puzzles are a bit over simplistic (in fact sometimes 
 i found myself overthinking them) . But if you want a few hours (and i mean a few as i finished 
 teh game in 1 day) fun go pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zogo1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 14, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  %% %% %% %% %% %% %% %% %% %% %% %% %% %% %% %%
  
  I started playing and I must say I did find it scary! The graphics were pretty good, the sound 
 was ok, the gameplay was average and the overall presentation was good. ----------- ------------- 
 ---------------- --------------- -------------------- ---------------------
  Gameplay: It's good for a bit, gets boring after a few days and is just plain fun!
  - ---- -- 
 --- ------------------------------ ----------------- --------------- ----------- -----------
  Graphics: Impressive, a bit glitchy but some frame rate issues. ----------------------------- ----------------- 
 ------------------- --------------- -----------------
  Sound: Good voice acting and nice sound effects but music is average.
  -------------- ------- 
 - - ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------------------- ---------------- --
  Overall: Nice game with good stuff and just plain fun!
  - = - = - = - =-= -=- - - =- =- =- =- 
 =- =- =-= - =- =- =- = - = - = -= -= -= -= -= -= -= -= -= -= -= -= - =- =- =- = =- =- =-= = -= 
 -= - =- = -- = -= =- =- = -= - =-= - = = - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianDiablo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 14, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  Prey is one of those games when you look at them and you like woah this game looks cool but once 
 you play it your like WTF this game is freakin awsom!!!! This is said because it has a unique story 
 mode having to do with aliens. Most fps if they do have aliens there awsome but in this they got 
 some crazy looking things that may make you jump once or twice. Not veichle's really only 1. Multiplayer 
 is so fun it sucks. What i mean by this is its just like unreal tournment and if u havent played 
 it its super fun but lagg. Each room ive been in there was lagg. I dont have it any more because 
 of that but other then those i really reccoomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcs565
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Although this game is somewhat a rehash of the standard FPS, there are a few elements that make 
 it stand out. There are lots of puzzles and cool weapons and superb graphics. The bosses are tough 
 but not overly so and death does not exist. When you die, you do not really die... you enter a spirit 
 world where you shoot wraiths with your bow to regain health. You will also enter into spirit mode 
 at times where you leave your body to solve puzzles. Some very cool concepts here, though the battles 
 can be a bit redundant. The atmosphere is very cool and reminds me of Half Life. The music and 
 voice over is cheesy, but not to the point of being annoying. All in all, definitely worth playing 
 and you can find it in the used bin pretty cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swazonek
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 7, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Prey from developer Human Head Studios is a new FPS with some highly hyped gameplay elements and 
 a immersive environment with plenty of interesting characters. Those expecting the best FPS for 
 the 360 yet will be disappointed but the game is still worth checking out.
  
  The game starts off with the main character Tommy standing in front of a mirror in a Bar washroom. 
 He is an indian that doesn't want to be a part of his tribe anymore and wishes to take his girlfiriend 
 Jenny off the reservation. Jenny disagrees with him and before they can get into a big arguement, 
 they are sucked up into a giant alien spacecraft in what is one of the most cinematic and intense 
 moments ever captured in a video game. I wont spoil the rest of the plot but let's just say that 
 there are quite a few good twists and turns along the way. The story never lets up and keeps you 
 playing until the fantastic ending.
  
  The beginning Bar sequence of the game has a ton of interactive surprises such as being able to 
 play poker and blackjack as well as playing with a jukebox. You'd think the rest of the game would 
 have fun interactive elements like these but sadly once you get on the alien ship, the only bit 
 of interativity to come is the ability to play the same poker and blackjack games as before.
  
  Prey's FPS gameplay feels similar to a Quake or Doom game. You can get all sorts of fun alien 
 weapons to play around with that operate like conventional weapons such as a machine gun and a 
 rocket launcher but the twist is the alien designs to them. The machine gun for instance has a 
 scope view where an alien eye latches on to your face from the gun. The grenades in the game are 
 green spider creatures that can be flipped around for different modes such as a proximity mode 
 and a timed mode. All of the weapon designs make for some fun combat situations.
  
  Throughout the game, Tommy fights the alien enemies on the ship. The A. I of the aliens is good 
 if not remarkable. They will shoot, flank, and hide behind cover but that's about it. Besides fighting 
 the aliens on foot, Tommy can also find ships that he can commandeer. These ships have machine 
 guns equipped so you can make quick work of flying enemies. The ships also have a particle laser 
 which can be used to grab flying enemies and throw them around. This makes ship combat a lot more 
 enjoyable and a great element to the game.
  
  Now, Prey would be an utterly average game with gameplay only consisting shooting aliens. Prey 
 also makes use of gravity, mirror, and warp puzzles. Some spots in the game have you shooting pads 
 that cause the environment to completely flip around. Moments like these can give you motion sickness 
 but they are also well-designed. You can also encounter warps in different small parts of the ship 
 such as tiny boxes and the walls and ceiling. The warp puzzles seem random and while they certainly 
 look cool, they don't really add anything special to the gameplay. Prey also has some cool magnetized 
 walkway sections where you are literally walking on the ceiling. Some of the best moments in the 
 game come from when you have to fight enemies while walking upside down and flipping gravity around.
 
  
  Shortly after arriving on the ship, Tommy gets powers granted to him from his ancestors. The main 
 power is Ghost Walk which lets you turn into a ghost and get by force fields. The most well-designed 
 puzzles come from combining Ghost Walk and gravity flipping sections. While in Ghost Walk, Tommy 
 also has a bow and arrow which can be used to kill enemies. Ghost Walk also depletes energy that 
 is needed for being able to use it. Killing enemies while out of Ghost Walk replenishes the ghost 
 energy. The other thing that your ancestors grant you is the inability to die which means that 
 if you happen to die then on, you get sent to a lost land where you use your bow to shoot life 
 and ghost energy giving birds. After a short time in the lost land, you are taken back to the land 
 of the living. Not being able to die removes any challenge the game would have had and even in 
 hard mode, you can't die. While casual gamers will like this feature, the majority of gamers will 
 wish there was a way to die.
  
  Prey's single-player can be finished in under 10 hours and since the hard mode isn't hard at all, 
 the only real reason to go through the game again is to get a single achievement. Prey also comes 
 with a multi-player mode that is severely lacking. There are only two gametypes which are deathmatch 
 and team deathmatch, there aren't many maps, and there is a large amount of lag making the multi-player 
 nearly unplayable. This is shame because fighting people online while flipping gravity and warping 
 around would have been pretty fun.
  
  The graphics in Prey are a high point. The Unreal III engine has never looked better with character 
 models and indoor environments having very good-looking textures and details. Prey does sport an 
 outdoor environment which looks pretty bad and needed some work in the texture department. Like 
 the graphics, the sound in Prey is also spot-on with some nice poppy sound effects, great voice 
 acting and wonderful music. Besides the excellent Prey Theme, there are some licensed music tracks 
 in the jukebox at the beginning of the game. This is the only time you hear these songs which makes 
 it feel that the use of them was a waste.
  
  Prey provides exciting FPS action with some interesting twists that only somewhat pay off the end. 
 The game is short and the multi-player is wasted. The puzzles never become truly great and the 
 game has an overall lack of challenge. However, if your in the need of an FPS with a better than 
 average story, Prey is easily worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: centruroides
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 5, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I love shooters but this 1 was kinda a dissapoint
  the gameplay is fine, but the game elements r lame, bad, rare!! get it borrow&acute; d or rent it, 
 dont buy it, it rly doesnt worth it
  
  Pros:
  - A shooter (that may count as a pro right)
  - decent armory
  
  Bad:
  - No uses the 360 
 capacity in graphics or sound matters.
  - Cant die, that make the easiest game ever.
  - no creativity on weapons: all homologues: machine gun, rifle, granades... but diferent shape (except 
 for 1 weapon) .
  - bad AI
  - Short
  - A guy killing things thats all, easy riddles.
  
  that something that came 2 my mind, i just finished it and exchange it 4 another 1, no even try 
 hardest dificulty.
  
  if u want a shooter, try The darkness or wait 4 bioShock, that may fix some things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 5, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  The Good - Some fun and original puzzle elements - Easy to pick up and play - Some nice little 
 touches
  
  The Bad - Dated graphics - The shooting is repetitiive - Boring enemies and weapons
  
  For 
 the first hour or so in this game, I was having a blast. Being introduced to the insane portal 
 puzzles and interesting gravity tricks, I was immersed. But once you've done all these things, 
 all thats left to do is blast your way to the end, which would be fine, but the actual shooting 
 in this game is very tedious due to the fact that the weapons are unoriginal and the enemies are 
 not challenging. Also, the fact that you cant die really ruins any kind of challenge. Worth a rent, 
 but nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshdrew
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  this game is different then any other first person shooter you've probably played in a good way 
 though. this game is awesome theres so many things you can do in thi game the list is endlist you 
 can walk on walls or walk upside down or walk any direction you want the graphics are preety good 
 to and heres so many memorable moments in the game and you can turn into a sirit and use your spirit 
 bow to kill aliens. the enemy's and monters in this game are wicked its scary plus theres teleports 
 and the weapons in the game are bad@$$. the onlibe multiplayer is also great he servers are never 
 ever empty and the stuff you can do in his game are just mind blowing the game will shatter your 
 perception of reality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 4, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Start in a bar beat up some hicks get abducted kill lots of aliens go home..
  
  Graphics: Amazing looks something like quake 4 and doom 3 only on the xbox 360 with a bit more 
 polish!
  
  Sound: Voice acting is good and there is actually licensed music as well.. weapons sound kinda 
 phonny ( even tho they are alien weapons they should soound more realistic.)
  
  Value: The game is only about 20 bucks now and is worth a good 15 hours our so of gameplay. For 
 the gamer looking for a little game to hold you over untill some big games come out you may want 
 to buy it. For the hardcore gamer that wants lots of action for a long time just rent this and 
 get something else instead.
  
  The Good: Graphics and sound are nice
  
  The Bad: Lacks In The Gameplay departemnt weapon sounds suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SCFNameless
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  very good amzing and trippy, who knows if aliens are our creators very trippy ot t t t t t t t 
 t t t t t t t t t t t\
  very good amzing and trippy, who knows if aliens are our creators very trippy ot t t t t t t t 
 t t t t t t t t t t t
  very good amzing and trippy, who knows if aliens are our creators very trippy ot t t t t t t t 
 t t t t t t t t t t t
  very good amzing and trippy, who knows if aliens are our creators very trippy ot t t t t t t t 
 t t t t t t t t t t tvery good amzing and trippy, who knows if aliens are our creators very trippy 
 ot t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t tvery good amzing and trippy, who knows if aliens are our 
 creators very trippy ot t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t tvery good amzing and trippy, who knows 
 if aliens are our creators very trippy ot t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t tvery good amzing and 
 trippy, who knows if aliens are our creators very trippy ot t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t tvery 
 good amzing and trippy, who knows if aliens are our creators very trippy ot t t t t t t t t t t 
 t t t t t t t tvery good amzing and trippy, who knows if aliens are our creators very trippy ot 
 t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnlivedPhalanx
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 30, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  From the moment you start the game Prey takes control and introduces a very cinematic and atmospheric 
 setting in a bar located on a Cherokee reservation. Apparently you and your woman have been having 
 some arguments about leaving the reservation. Jen doesn't want to leave due to her job and family 
 being located on the land. The character you play as, Tommy, has little interest in staying and 
 doesn't care if he leaves his heritage behind. As you can probably tell, that causes /some/ tension 
 between the two. Luckily for you, it won't soon matter.
  
  Aliens abduct you. Yeah I said it, and I mean it too. Cliche and utterly boring as it may seem, 
 being abducted in Prey was one of the more memorable experiences in gaming I've had so far this 
 year. Mainly because once you're on board, you realize the ship is half organic and half mechanic 
 on the interior. You are strung along bound to what appear to be dissection tables. Moving along 
 players will notice that the ship not only abducted people, but planes, buses, cars and houses! 
 Along the way someone helps you escape your certain doom but you and your girlfriend are separated 
 and you guessed it, the entire game is based around finding her and escaping alive. Basically from 
 here on out you simply move through the ship in a logical manner trying to find a way to save Jen.
 
  
  Amongst the boring repetitive nature of just running and shooting down corridors some breaks in 
 the style do occur. The most noticeable one, you can walk up walls and ceilings using artificial 
 gravity walkways. This is really exciting at first, until you realize that it makes you sick to 
 your stomach, and that they're all over the place (quickly becoming boring) . The other is a one-sided 
 portal that can tear open at any time anywhere on the ship. They might as well be doors since that's 
 about as useful as they are aside from one or two relatively cool puzzles they are used to solve 
 and since you can't open them (only the enemies can) they don't feel especially useful.
  
  The monsters and AI in the game are largely unremarkable and predictable much to the game's detriment. 
 For aliens living in a semi-organic spherical space-ship they behave too normally to be believably 
 alien. In a first person shooter usually the guns are the main focus of the game, and the ways 
 you can shoot people (in this case aliens) . Even the guns in Prey are typical and unremarkable.
 
  
  Graphically, the game boasts some pretty good looking visuals and sprites and until recently was 
 one of the best looking games on the console. The frame rate is solid, not like you'll see a whole 
 lot of great action, but at least it doesn't chop up during some of the more intricate scenes that 
 take place. Sound design is the second best part of Prey next to the graphics. The sound is crafted 
 perfectly to the kind of mecha-nasty environment that the Sphere is. Everything squishes delightfully 
 when you step on it and the guns sound nice and full unlike some other spacey-type shooters. Voice 
 acting too is pretty awesome, you don't find a whole ton of games with great voicing. Even Oblivion's 
 characters were short of hit or miss, but Prey manages to nail the voices dead on in a way a lot 
 of developers seem to be unable to do.
  
  Prey is about the most mindless shooter you could ask for, even the puzzles are overly simple and 
 most of the environments (while pretty) are underwhelming at best. Much of Prey's problem is that 
 it doesn't do anything that every other shooter can do with only a couple interesting exceptions. 
 The story attempts (and fails) at getting more complex as you unravel the story behind the Sphere 
 (which is a movie reference) and learn that the keepers have this great power and humans are little 
 more than food for them. Yeah, did I mention it was an attempt to become complex? While Prey is 
 largely unremarkable, it has enough new and cool ideas to make it worth playing at least once. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadrisingguy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  A good FPs that defines the laws of gravity and portals! To begen with the story is simple: got 
 to save world and his girl. But they rework it with twists and turns! But my main problem of the 
 story is that it is short! the gamplay is the same but with puzzles. Some of the puzzles will make 
 u think for a while. The graphics r really good. The alien ship is alive! the walls look gross 
 but good! the slime that drips off the ceiling looks like real slime! the sounds is really great! 
 u can hear the hunters wispers about plans and traps (whicth comes in handy) . after all I love 
 this game. Its a very trippy, great FPS that I hope comes with a sequel! u need to pick this 1 
 up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The___OoofMich
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  To begin, the single player mode was pretty good. The first few levels of the game I was like wow 
 this is something new and completely different that I had ever played before. The weapons in this 
 game were quite different, but not in a bad way. The guns that you are able to use are the guns 
 that the alien species had. The coolest thing about the guns is that there was no reload, so you 
 can just keep on shooting. There are some guns, like the first one you receive, that kind of suck, 
 but then as you proceed throughout the game you are able to use new &amp; much more powerful guns. 
 There are some cool effects in the game as well. Your character has the ability to alter gravity 
 by pressing switches or figuring out some puzzles. Also there is this thing where you can come 
 out of you flesh body and go in to your inner spirit. This is a necessity in the game , because 
 if you don't use this in some parts the you cannot proceed. The single player achievements are 
 very easy because you get them by completing each level.
  The story in single player is also very good. I don't want to tell about it because I want you 
 to play it. Trust me though ;) Now for multiplayer... It is very good but there is one major problem. 
 LAG!! Now not every game is laggy, but I would say about 90% of the games are. There is also only 
 two game modes to choose from. There is Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch. Those two are my favorite 
 game modes to play in most multiplayer games anyway. The good aspects are that multiplayer allows 
 you to use every weapon that you can use in single player. It is very fast paced, so that means 
 minimal campers, and that is always a good thing. The multiplayer achievements are rather easy, 
 but you still have to play quite a bit and work hard to get good in able to get them.
  One more negative about multiplayer is there is a very small online population, probably because 
 its been out a while and isn't a powerhouse shooter like Gears of War, Rainbow Six, or Halo.
  
  Final thought... If you dont have this game yet, than get it now and try it out. The best thing 
 is that now it is in the bargain bin for around $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfoboost
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  The game is good don't get me wrong but it gets wierd at times espically when you have to fight 
 these girl ghost that keep hitting you with these light beams in a really dark room. The graphics 
 are ok but the other wierd thing is how the weapons are alive thats kinda freaky because sometimes 
 bugs come out of it and its always moving. The good parts to it are that you get to teleport into 
 different parts of the ship buy going through little boxes or a portal just opens up with a guy 
 and you kill him to get into the portal. The last good part is how you die but you dont acually 
 die like game over wise you just go to the spirt world and kill ancestors for health =] I REALLY 
 RECOMMEND RENTING FIRST!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 20, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  No Duke Nukem here kids, just good ol' Cheroke heritage laying the smack down on any alien fools 
 who decide to mess with your reservation and your woman. Kind of comes off like bigot central and 
 I mean no real disrespect, but in all honesty, this is the main premise of PREY. Coming from the 
 guys who once worked on the popular Duke Nukem FPS games, you now take the role of native hero, 
 Tommy. Tattered jeans, leather jacket, long flowing hair, he's your standard manly man checking 
 in to save the world from galatic flesh hungry aliens! As much as first impressions usually sum 
 up what a game has to offer, don't be fooled by how much fun can be had in this not so standard 
 FPS.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Starting off with a quiet introduction to the main character and his recent struggles, you get 
 a few moments to familiarize yourself with the context sentive controls and movement. If you are 
 by chance one of the few people on this planet who hasn't played a first person shooter, this is 
 a pleasant chance for you to prepare for the worse. Stinky stuff hits the fan real fast as the 
 aliens show up and your posse is abducted onto their massive space ship. From here, a majorty of 
 the game takes place in this part machine, part organic contraption that strangely resembles a 
 nightmarish orifice factory. They are aliens, so don't look too much into it. Once able to move 
 freely, Tommy aquires new weapons and shares his witty remarks along the way, which feels very 
 Duke Nukem like. After taking down a few aliens, you then have the joy of using their wonderous 
 ship technolgy to continue your journey. Everything feels very easy to use and interact with if 
 you've played these type of games before, yet the learning curve seems to rest solely on effectively 
 using the alien tech which allows walkways on ceilings and paper thin portals that can pop out 
 of no where.
  
  VISUALS
  Hopefully, I some what made it clear that the aliens you are encountering are kind of strange. 
 Besides having trouble in seeing exactly what they are, they are usually covered in body armor 
 that conceals their human-like bodies. Think Pumpkin Head from the horror movie. There is a fair 
 variety of Frankenstein creations that litter the ship. And yes, you will be on the ship about 
 80% of the game. Like Doom3, the game engine supports great detail on objects ranging from gritty 
 metal to slimey flesh. Later in the game, you have the chance to see massive open areas that not 
 only allow for small spurts of exploration, but they show how well PREY can run good clean graphics 
 with multiple things on screen. I have seen the game on a well equiped PC, and there is a considerable 
 difference in smoothness on textures and objects within the environments, but nothing worth complaining 
 about while playing on the 360 version.
  
  AUDIO
  Since you spend a good portion of the game on an alien space ship that resembles a giant mechanical 
 womb, expect to hear tons of gross sounds. Weapons, unlike Duke Nukem, are all organic and run 
 off of natural ammo rather than simple bullets. You can recharge some, change the effects of others, 
 and most have secondary actions. When crossing paths with other characters, you have the privilege 
 to hear some pretty decent voice acting. The animations are sometimes not as passionate as the 
 voices, but the point gets across. One thing that I really enjoyed was the times when the head 
 honcho alien would bother you by causing head aches that would impair vision and movement. Not 
 something that happens too much in the game, but if you have a good surround sound setup it really 
 invokes the right feeling.
  
  EXTRAS
  As always, I find myself searching every possible path, looking under every object, pressing every 
 button, hoping, just imagining there is a developer who will reward my annoying urge to find something 
 hidden. Like RPG's of the old days, random items in barrels was like gold for the curious. Now 
 with so much power and technology in games, all we get is a pat on the back for simply turning 
 the damn thing on. Not only does this feel like smack to the face, but achievements in PREY are 
 nothing more than a joke not worth politely smiling at. You play each level and recieve credit, 
 online in the frantic arena of combat, you battle with fellow players who wear the skins of characters 
 from the game. Kill a few people with certain weapons and you get points. Deathmatch and Team deathmatch 
 is about all you got to shake a stick at, and even then that feels lackluster when you question 
 just how much levels upside down can really make a game worth playing.
  
  OVERALL
  Quick fix is about the best way to sum PREY up. In no way does that take anything away from it 
 that it barely even had from the get go. I've always felt that no matter how many games you have 
 of the same genre, this FPS for prime example, PREY fits into the worth checking out category. 
 Still, after seeing what the game has to offer I can't help but feel that Duke Nukem could have 
 been this with a little more time and effort. With a feasible story, year old graphics, and a cast 
 of characters that can hold your attention for at least a weekend, PREY is a good rental that will 
 please any fan of first person shooters while it last. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LasPlagasHope
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 18, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  Prey is the age old story of boy has feud with girl and right in the middle of it you guys get 
 abducted by aliens and it's up to you to save the girl and world. You play as Tommy and native 
 America who feels trapped in the past of his old tribe's ways but learn that the powers of the 
 tribe he denies are what will help him the most in his quest.
  
  Prey was in the works for over a decade and has invaded a PC and XBOX 360 near you, but was it 
 worth the long wait? Well the answer is no because while prey has a cool look and aside from a 
 few new quarks everything else just seems like you have been there, done that game play. This is 
 do to the standard FPS view on the Doom 3 engine and by now it's the look has lost it's wow factor 
 is had back when it was first shown on Doom 3. That game does do a very good job of mixing that 
 bio-organic technology and some of the nasty things you see on the sphere are really neat.
  
  What puts Prey apart (but not very far) from other FPSs are the portals and gravity manipulation 
 that is used quite well in the game. Portals are portals that take you to place to place and you 
 will be using them more than doors. The cool thing about these portals are that when you enter 
 one you might be flipped to some other side that when you entered because while you walked into 
 a portal on the wall you may exit the portal on a ceiling and it has a neat effect. Also there 
 are wall walkers that you use to walk up and down walls and at times can be a tab disorienting 
 and it may cause you to have to stop and look around to end the head ache it's giving you. You 
 also have a few levels in the game were this space ship is used to float you around but it is very 
 hard to control at times and can also make ur head hurt trying to orient yourself.
  
  Spirit walking is a big part of the game. You can exit your body to solve puzzles, walk through 
 force fields to flip what seems like endless switches and really it kinda gets old. Also when you 
 die instead of the game starting over you end up in the spirit world where you shoot these imp 
 like spirits to gain health. So dieing or running into the line of fire never seems like a big 
 deal because if you die you just end up in the spirit world shoot some stuff and end up right where 
 you died with a full thing of health. Making it so easy it almost ruins the game and even on the 
 harder mode it still seems too easy.
  
  One big dissapointment in the game are the guns none of them seem to pack any real punch and they 
 are all just standard FPS gunes even if they look cool they don do anything cool just shoot. And 
 the enimies for that matter aren't very outstanding they just look neat and act lame also they 
 soeak english and it's even more lame. Also there are many long load times what can put you out 
 of the game some lasting almost 60 sec. and at times you will see frame rate issues. The music 
 is pretty ok and some of the scores are kinda epic but you only hear music in brief action parts 
 of the game other wise you hear the noises f a giant living space ship and it is very mood setting. 
 So if you are in the mood for some fresh characterization and you really like FPSs it is worth 
 a rent. Trust me you can beat it twice in a week easily so they is no need to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornInFlames
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 4, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a first person shooter set in another of those 'aliens coming to usurp the Earth' scenarios 
 that we know so well. This time the menace is a giant sace sphere that comes into orbit and begins 
 harvesting people. You play as Tommy, a native american who has lost touch with his culture (which 
 makes a dull subplot with lots of lecturing from his grandfather) , and get abducted in the first 
 level which is a saloon-type bar. After this you rush off through the sphere, picking up various 
 bizarre looking weapons and trying to save your girlfriend who also has been kidnapped. The whole 
 look of the game is organic, and your guns are all alive in some way (grenades are little explosive 
 crab-aliens, a rip-off of half-life) . Environments often are pulsating and look like organs and 
 whatnot, but are quite inventive as they introduce walkways that have their own gravity allowing 
 you to fight upside down, sideways etc. There are also places where you will be on a spheroid where 
 you can walk all around it, blasting enemies. You have unique abilities as a native american, and 
 can go into 'spirit-walk' where you exit your body and can pass through barriers that otherwise 
 would stop you. While in spirit form, your only weapon is a bow and arrow. This spiritwalking is 
 a part of many of the game's puzzles. The gravitational effects are also featured in puzzles, which 
 pop up regularly. The puzzles are all fairly easy though, and it is usually obvious what needs 
 to be done (hmmm, there's a switch behind that glowing barrier that my ghost can go through) . Your 
 enemies are fairly bland, the only really interesting one being a boss near the end which is a 
 fairly sadistic surgical experiment. The game is also very easy, as you don't die like you would 
 in a normal game - instead you go off to some spirit realm and have to shoot birds with your bow 
 to replenish health and spiritpower. Multiplayer in this game would be great fun except that the 
 online play is completely ruined by lag. It is strictly impossible to find a smooth game, and is 
 basically unplayable. A LAN party would work well though, but not many people are going to have 
 a copy of this game. This game has some good ideas that just aren't fleshed out enough, and if 
 the multi were ever fixed with a patch, the game would regain lots of value. If you are a fan of 
 FPS or sci-fi, this game might be worth picking up as it is quite cheap by now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 11, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  I wait like with all questionable shooters. Prey dropped from it's collector's edition price to 
 under $20 used in what seemed no time flat. There is a reason for that. While the atmosphere and 
 gameplay can be somewhat entertaining, the story and weak enemies, and sometimes where the hell 
 do I go next moments? age the game quickly. The mulitplayer is the worst feature of this shooter 
 which is about half the value of the game. So goes there half the fun right there. So what you're 
 left with is constant missions that seem almost identical to the last. You get weapon upgrades 
 every other level and besides that nothing seems to change. The enemies may change, yes, but they 
 are all boringly easy. And when you die, there is no penalty but save the archery experience you 
 must encounter with every death. Yah. The boss experience? What boss? It was just like the rest, 
 keep dying until the ugly beast rears its head and kill it in less than one minute. If you must 
 have this game, the lag in the multiplayer kills any chance this game has online. So beware. Save 
 Jen in a rental, because if you pay for this game, you'll wish you hadn't. And if you buy it for 
 $20, remember your trade in value is going to be like $3-5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jejh1971
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 11, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  Okay, so maybe Prey borrows from every other FPS since Quake 1, but that's okay, it's very good 
 in that WOW kind of way. The first time you look into a mirror box and see yourself crouching down 
 from the side, you'll know you are playing something really special. The graphics are top-notch, 
 oozy, creepy and dark, the sound-work is atmospheric and creepy, and the entire game-world is like 
 a pandora's box that you've gotten yourself stuck in! The weapons of Prey are not that spectacular, 
 although they look good onscreen. They seem to deliver the same baddie-killing mechanics we'll 
 all seen many times..... hey, where is the cerebal bore from Turok ??? While traversing the games 
 twisty, turny paths, hallway and .... orifices.... gross..... you will encounter some real head-scratching 
 puzzles that require you to really think. And If you have a HD TV, this game looks amazing, so 
 make sure to play the opening sequence more than once and show it to your mom.... she'll be sure 
 to freak out and wonder where the hell she went wrong with you. Prey is a great game that's almost 
 perfect in every way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  This is a classic example of a graphically good game with boring gameplay. This game had a lot 
 of promise and really great ideas but for some reason I found it really boring. The graphics were 
 awesome and the story sounded pretty good but the main character was just sooo boring. The weapons 
 weren't that good either they all looked pretty much the same and the vehicles should have been 
 left out as these levels were pretty tedious. There was plent of violence in this game thought 
 and the whole out of body experience and walk on walls was really clever. Also there were some 
 good scenes in the game like when a plane gets teleported onto the space ship and crashes. I though 
 that was a nice touch. I managed to endure the boredom and complete this game and I have to say 
 it was pretty long but not enough to make me want to play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roman_Slayer
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  Prey is a generic sci-fi horror featuring a modern Earth and a technologically superior race of 
 aliens. The aliens, naturally, want to mutate then enslave all humans in the literal bowels of 
 their organic worldship. Only one good thing can be said about Prey, it looks good. The music is 
 inappropriately heroic, the sound affects are stupid, gunfights are uninspired and all exactly 
 the same. There are very few enemies and weapons, and it's the same story that was good, back in 
 the 50's, and Independence Day. If you're really into horror games and aren't expecting FEAR, Prey 
 might be a good rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great use of the Doom 3 engine, interesting story, nice selection of weapons, portals 
 and gravity is fun
  
  The Bad: Tommy is a jerk, not very challenging even on toughest difficulty, multiplayer is something 
 to yawn at, Combat is too straight forward and simple, story could have been fleshed out more, 
 not worth the 10 year wait
  
  I'm very disappointed that we waited 10 years for this. Being 10 years in development this game 
 could have been out of this world (haha) but instead we get a straight forward run 'n' gun FPS. 
 That doesn't make this bad though. Prey introduces the awesome portal engine and it just amazes 
 you through the first few levels. Prey's puzzle solving is simple and uses its gravity engine as 
 well where you'll be flipping rooms around. This game is also very easy even on hard and this is 
 do to the fact you NEVER get a game over if you die. Tommy is a Cherokee Indian so his grandfather 
 takes him to their dead world and Tommy can then project his soul outside his body and this adds 
 to more puzzle solving elements since he can go through barriers his body can't . When you die 
 you do this death walk where you shoot enemies flying around to gain more health then you enter 
 your body right where you died. Despite all this Prey has one of the best stories an FPS has had 
 in years. You'll definitely play through this twice and it's worth it at its bargain bin price 
 now. The multiplayer I hear is crap but I don't have XBL Gold so I can't say. If you want a great 
 FPS experience on your 360 or PC pick this baby up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dakkadakkadakka
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 30, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  Prey is a... very interesting game. It is very atmospheric, it does most things right, but sometimes 
 its frustrating and tries too hard to have complex, unique puzzles. But we'll get into that later.
 
  
  Prey starts you off as Tommy, an Indian who is tired of life on the Reservation. You start off 
 in the bathroom, with your girlfriend Jen yelling at you to get to come to her. Prey has a nifty 
 physics engine, as you start the game you can turn on sinks, flush toilets, turn on dryers, etc. 
 I do love doing things in games I can't do in real life. Heh.
  
  After a fight, you get abducted by aliens. I was very impressed by the way the developers wanted 
 to introduce you to the Alien ship. You are on a roller coaster ride, introduced to the Alien guards 
 and overall what the ship is like. It gives you a feeling inside of you, a feeling saying Oh crap 
 .
  
  After a Human Rebel sets you free, you quickly learn the Ship is organic. With tentacles, spewing 
 mouths and gross brown skin. As I said, the game gives you a very good feeling of what the ship 
 is like.
  
  Shortly after that, you discover the portals. Portals are very fun in this game, instead of teleporting 
 you to a new area, it feels like you're walking right into a new area. Portals give this game some 
 nifty puzzles, mainly when you have to find the right combination of portals to get to a door. 
 Sometimes the game overuses them, but thats fine. Its a neat and fun idea. They have another cool 
 idea, where you shoot a certain pad on a direction of the wall, and you and objects that aren't 
 nailed to the ground will be shifted to that side of the wall. Another, probably more famous idea 
 is wall climbing. Where a neon blue ramp thing lets you walk on walls, it can cause some pretty 
 trippy battles. There is also Spirit Form where your spirit leaves your body, only equipped with 
 a  bow. Your spirit can gt past force fields, go by enemies undetected, 
 and scout out ammo for you and you're low. Spirit form can also help you with puzzles.
  
  Speaking of puzzles, this game is chock full of them. some times using all four of the things I 
 mentioned above. Some are fun, some are hard, and some are just plain frustrating. But the puzzles 
 are the only challenge you will have the entire game. When you die, you are taken to the Spirit 
 Realm, and you must kill the evil spirits there. Its easier done then said, since they do not attack 
 and are easy targets. Spend 2 minutes tops there, and you're alive again right where you were. 
 Red spirits give health, blue gives spirit which is your ammo for the bow. So lets say you die 
 when you're in a boss battle, kill a lot of Red spirits, and the boss is still at the same health 
 he was before, but you can have full health again. If you want a challenging game, avoid Prey.
 
  
  Like I said in the title, Prey, for me anyway, does not pick up until the last several levels. 
 Where the story really picks up, tings get interesting, and it makes you want Prey 2. The ending 
 is great, and gives you a good feeling on the inside, the last boss is disappointing, but thats 
 fine.
  
  Now, lets wrap up the review with Multiplayer, shall we? The multiplayer is great. Wall climbing, 
 lots of weapons, tons of skins to play with, lots of maps. All for free as DLC. The only problem 
 is, online is VERY laggy. Unbearable laggy, even. No matter what you try you'll have none-stop 
 lag interfering with your game. This game is one of the few you buy for the single player instead 
 of multi player.
  
  Overall Prey is a very fun game, and worth a rental. It's 6 hours long and the multiplayer can 
 be very annoying, so thats why I don't suggest spending more than $20 on it.
  
  By the way... worst Indian casino. Ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustHawkeye
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 30, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  When i bought this game i had high hopes and they were mostly fullfilled. i didn't have xbox live 
 during the time i bought this game and about six months later when i get xbox live there isn't 
 anyone playing which is sad because it is an amazing game. the graphics and portal use are great 
 one thing that threw me off was how in the first level you can touch almost everything like videogames, 
 telephones, light switches and even spin a bar stool, yet that was the only real activity like 
 that in the game and i feel they could have done more with it. the story is good and keeps you 
 going through it to see what happens next. this game was done well but much more could have been 
 done and i feel it will be in the next game. this game on the other hand suffers from a very old 
 school feel and some will like that but most want the most out of next gen games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microsoft4life
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 28, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for something different and isnt that long of an adventure, then Prey is for you. 
 Although it doesn't deliver on where it should, its still a very solid and worthwhile game.
  
  Gameplay- 8. The singleplayer campaign was a decent one. The main gripe I have with it is that 
 the enemies were a walk through the park for the most part, I mean their were a few pain in the 
 asses here and there, but overall the enemies were just way to easy. Now where this game really 
 shines in gameplay is the use of puzzles making you use your brain to figure out what you have 
 to do to advance, sometimes this does get repetitive but it has enough different puzzles to stop 
 it from becoming a nuisance.
  
  Graphics- 8. The graphics while not spectacular, were pretty good. Character models looked grungy 
 at points, but the lightings, weapons, and the look of the ship, space and earth were absolutely 
 gorgeous. Sound- 9. This is the best part of the game bar none. Anytime you die you can hear his 
 last scream before death which makes for a very realistic experience in my opinion. Also, the voices 
 are done very well, and throughout the ship you come across a radio show with Art Bell discussing 
 with callers the abductions that are happening. Overall this is where the game shines the sound.
 
  
  Now if your looking for something that will kill a few hours, and thats somewhat innovative with 
 a nice twist at the end this is the game for you. It also helps if your into SCI-FI. Overall if 
 your looking for a good singeplayer experience get this game or at least try it out. But I must 
 warn you this game over Xbox Live is probably the worst online play ever, so I suggest not getting 
 this game for playing over Xbox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SexxiyGunzz
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 26, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  you wanna know what it feels like to be in an alian world?
  Then prey is for you. I thought at first that the never dying thing wouuld be stupid, but it wasent 
 that bad it suited it in a way. The game IS at times scary, but its mostly incredibly wierd and 
 the leval designs and the desin of the game itself is so original and unique you'd want to keep 
 playing just to see what would be in the next room.
  the combat is kinda weak but the creepy looking enemy's make up for that. each leval is different 
 and brings you closer into the story and sets up for a sequal at the end, but at the same times 
 gives u a complete ending with closher.
  If you havent tryed prey yet, try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0dazubeN
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 20, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Well the story is really good and I wouldn't wanna give it away... unless you already know it.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY- Well prey starts you off in an unlikely tone for an alien invasion... in a bar bathroom. 
 Every thing is interactive from a jukebox to a pac-man rip off and keeps you interested in the 
 inviroment itself and yet wanting to move on in the game. after a bar fight or two you get to understand 
 the typical firstperson shooter type playstyle. You shoot with one trigger and do the secondary 
 fire with the other trigger. Like halo and others of the genre you look and move with two thumbsticks.... very 
 typical. Once the stuff hits the fan you learn what makes this game very untypical. You are ubducted 
 into an alien vessel and are unware why. Your enviroment around you is a very new place. Gravity 
 isn't a dominering device yet actually manipulated. Your weapons are not of bullets and gunpowder 
 yet more of an organic nature. Your gernades are alien crabs and upon ripping off all of it's legs 
 you got an explosive gernade. Your shotgun is an acid shooter and your machine gun has a creature 
 attached to the top that fires gernades. When playing the game for your first time you get what 
 I call gravity legs' which is when you are kinda afraid from moving your feet off the ground.... seriously 
 this is the first game I have played that made me movement sick. Wall waking, portal flyin, gravity 
 changin... screwin with your head. 8/10
  
  GRAPHICS- Most were worried it would look like Doom and it really didn't... kinda. The graphics 
 are really good and have good texturing and give you a sorta... unfamiliar feeling. This was born 
 from the doom engine and had a better result. The sphere where the game takes place has an orgainc 
 meetalic overlay to it and It shows nicely... with pulsating walls oozing with secretions and metal 
 trying to hold it in place you get a feeling that is very odd. Green mist is in some larger rooms 
 with metal walkways overruning it. Very great graphics. 9/10
  
  SOUND- The sound is an odd bunch. You have a really stellar soundtrack that convinces you of your 
 strange suroundings with reminicint music coming in from feeds on earth and Art Bell radio listen-ins 
 from callers on earth and amazing sound affects from the creatures themselves the sound... well... sounds 
 good. The problem is the voice acting... very few characters keep it real and give convincing perfomances 
 and ends up sounding like a resident evil soapopra.... TOMMY SAVE ME! I WILL JEN! It's all too 
 corny and is worse than a keannu reeves good-bad cop movie.
  7/10
  
  VALUE- Once again we get the good and the bad.... the single player is really great.... too bad there 
 isn't enough of it. The Multiplayer is not that great.... too bad there is too much of it. That 
 simple.... done.
  
  So overall this mixture of a trippy soap opra mel gibson film extravoganza gets a good ole 7.9 
 SORRY FOR ANY SPELLING MISTAKES... TOO LAZY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 5.6
Date: May 17, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is so wierd, and not in a good way. First off you are an American Indian (not that there 
 is a problem with that. Turok is an American Indian and he's cool) that has a white man doing his 
 voice. It's so steriotypical it's annoying. Then you have the rest of the characters which are 
 equally as annoying in this game. The story is basically this, you get abducted by alien trying 
 to take over earth. The cut scene are long and boring. The action is limited and there really isn't 
 that much I haven't seen before in this game. The graphics are good and suit the system. The controls 
 are poorly set up and touchy. The music and sounds are forgetble. On the whole this game is another 
 average FPS with a slight variation in theme in the hopes that people will pick this up. This is 
 not the next great action game, but could tide you over for the next one. It's rental at best. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonpeggisace
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Prey is a fast paced shooter with evil aliens, cherokee, and loads of twisted guns and levels.
 
  You play as a cherokee named Tommy who goes to see his girlfriend and uncle at the bar his girlfriend 
 works at. Then all of a sudden theres a news on the radio of lights in the sky. Then Tommy, Tommys 
 uncle and girlfriend, the juke box, the WHOLE bar gets sucked up into outer space and into the 
 alien ship. One of the best parts in the game is where you first find out that you can walk up 
 certain walls, it makes the levels all the more fun!
  You get to use a lot of cool weaponry like acid guns to launchers to alien rifles to Tommys wrench.
 
  And when you die you can collect souls and start back from where you died, which makes the game 
 a bit too easy but its a fun idea :)
  
  Overall Prey is a great game with great graphics and gameplay.
  
  I hope they make a sequel!
 
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmayronne
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  There arent many games out there that really turn your world upside down like Prey will, no pun 
 intended. Prey is simply one of the coolest FPSs ive played in a looong time. The way it messes 
 with gravity as a gameplay-inspired part of the game is great and executed beautifully. Fighting 
 enemies standing on walls and running on ceilings firing down at you is as intense as it is jaw-dropping. 
 Match that with some slick very well textured and shaded levels with amazing architecture and nasty 
 very organic look and you have a recipe for awesome-ness. The sound is also very good, the music 
 is forgettable but the soundeffects are loud, clear, and crisp with excellent bass. If i had one 
 nit-pick it would be the somewhat goofy story. Nothing against native americans, it just dosent 
 seem to fit in with this game at all. This game dosent really punish you for dying either. See 
 you come right back after what i like to call a little mini-game, shoot spirit things with bow 
 and arrow until you come back right where you left off. The process takes about 10 seconds at most. 
 Other than that minor nit-pick Prey is a excellent game that could be gotten for cheap now possibly. 
 If you enjoy a good FPS you definately should not miss this, this game MUST be experienced if your 
 a fan of the game-type. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saki257
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  This game was so fun it had a excellent story line great gameplay and awesome graphics. i found 
 this game to be one of my most fave fps sci fi game so far. this game does produce motion sickness 
 so be prepared before play. this game was cool in the sense that you could walk on the walls and 
 walk upside down and shot enemys from that point of view. it awesome how u can turn into the spirit 
 and go to places where your body cant get. the game played with your mind confusing your makeing 
 the game a very good challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BustaSag
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 25, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  I first played the demo &amp; was interested in the whole Getting Jen Back thing so I bought it. 
 I thought is was cool how everything in the game was alive &amp; how the aliens tortured everyone. 
 The graphics were not that bad at all &amp; the sound was decent. But the game is more of a puzzle 
 than a shooter. I swear, I wouldn't have beat it without the walk through. I found the game frutrating 
 as hell at times &amp; just went off to do something else. But walking upside down was a pain in 
 the ass if you ask me. I hope part 2 is alot different. For 30 bucks, I would recommend it to someone 
 who can solve a rubik's cube in 5 min. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TCisGod
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 20, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a sci-fi shooter for the Xbox 360 and PC. In it you play as Tommy a Cherokee Indian who 
 wants to take his girlfriend Jen and leave his reservation. But when he is about to convince her 
 to leave him, Jen, and his grandfather are abducted by aliens. Tommy manages to escape and sets 
 out to rescue his girlfriend and save the world. What sets Prey apart from other sci-fi shooters 
 is the ability to separate your spirit from your body to solve puzzles and defying gravity. For 
 example, there are walkways that have you walking on walls and the ceiling. Though some of these 
 tricks are cool they start to get old. Most of the game is spent fighting enemies. You do this 
 with a variety of different weapons including a rifle, an acid gun that works like a shotgun, a 
 rocket launcher and many more. All the weapons are alien weapons so they have a different style 
 than human weapons for instance the grenades are actually little creatures crawling around on the 
 floor. Prey won't take you long to beat. It takes at the most twelve hours to finish. Also unless 
 you want to get the achievement for beating the game on the hardest difficulty you may not want 
 to play through the game again. When you die in this game you play a mini game that has you shooting 
 flying creatures to regain health and spirit energy and after about 20 seconds you taking back 
 to the place you died. This takes most of the challenge out of the game. So you could be playing 
 the game on the hardest difficulty setting and it will still be pretty easy because you dont have 
 to worry about dying. Overall, Prey is a good game that is worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Croix-Man
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 20, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  I loved Gears of War so I figured shooting games may not be all that bad, so I went out and bought 
 the cheapest 360 fps I could find that interested me. Enter Prey. The story is decent, but at the 
 end is where it shines through with the story. And the whole never dead thing is pretty nice also. 
 I donno what to really say about this game accept to say its a fun short game. So if you are waiting 
 for a game to come out next week and you have $20 go buy a used copy, you wont regret it anytime 
 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bighawk911
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 18, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  If you like sci-fi future shooters this game is worth figuring out, it takes some time to complete. 
 This game had levels that I had to use a guide for and it took some time to figure out the later 
 levels. I think that is a definite plus.
  
  I get tired of killing aliens in any sci-fi shooters but the guns really do make this game great. 
 There are three different guns that require you to charge up at charge stations. The graphics of 
 the actual kill on the aliens was the only part that got redundant and boring. Otherwise the setup, 
 story, and gameplay were excellent.
  
  If you are going to play Prey make sure you have more than a week of rent time to finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 13, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I love this game to say at the least. This game is my favorite FPS for the xbox 360 out yet. It's 
 taking me quite a long time to beat this game. It's not the longest game out there, but its still 
 pretty long. The graphics on this game are really good considering it came out a while ago. This 
 game is pretty inexpensive. You can buy this game at any ebgames/gamestop for $29.99 brand new, 
 and I think that this game is totally worth it. The xbox live gameplay is pretty fun, although 
 theres not many people on it anymore considering most are all on gears of war. But none the less 
 if you like sci-fi type first person shooters that give you a chill sometimes, than this a DEFINETLY 
 the game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megjur
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 13, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a fun shooter with good graphics and a pretty good story. The main character is fairly 
 likable and the stroy has a few twists that keep you interested. The graphics are very good. The 
 creatures are well done and interesting and the AI is fairly competent. The weapons are unique 
 and fun to use but the controls to change weapons is clunky and downright annoying during boss 
 battles as you scramble through your inventory of weapons trying to find the right one. Many people 
 have criticized the death walk feature that prevents you from actually dying, but this feature 
 didn't really bother me. The alien settings are unique and the anti gravity feature adds a fun 
 element to the basic shooter premise. The cut scenes are very well done.. especially the beginning 
 sequence when the abduction takes place. The classic rock music and Art Bell sequences are a nice 
 touch. The most annoying part of the game however has to be piloting the goofy shuttles. These 
 things are slow, clunky and hard to manuever. The game could have easily done without the shuttles. 
 Though it's not a classic game, it is still a fun game and well worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tab132
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 9, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  Although this game is incredibly well done and worth at least 8 hours of your time, most of my 
 xbox live friends are like Preyh is ghey which i was like whatever untill i finally pick up the 
 damn game, and boy theyre clueless. The Story revolves around a cheeoke who disbelieves his heritage, 
 beats up two bikers, then he, his girl, and his grandpa get abducted by aliens. Now you have a 
 carnival ride of hell.
  The gameplay is obviously a highlight, mainly because prey is in fact the first game to have the 
 ideas for portals (portal, hl2mod) , in game arcade games (doom3) , and various. The way you solve 
 puzzles and just get through the game is possibly the trippest thing imagened. nethertheless its 
 orginal and well done, but guns fps is kinda old.
  Graphics are beuitiful and well designed, but the only thing that sucks is that its running off 
 a modified doom3 engine, and that game's like 3 years old. At least it didnt turn out as much as 
 a disaster as the quake 4 port running off the same engine.
  Sound, once again a game to pioneer jukeboxes, but you only get to use it for around 4 minutes, 
 but hey Dont Fear The Reaper is on that, who doesnt like that song. Voice acting and weapons sounds 
 and all that are top notch.
  Value, i bought this game for 25 dollers, and ive played it for probally around 22, which is well 
 worth because im still playing. The Achivements arent that hard the only thing sucky about it is 
 that the online play is laggy and the only way to bypass easily is to host a game, but getting 
 250 kills only takes about 2 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryguybond
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 5, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  7.5 gamespot rating? sheesh that's kinda low! I don't agree, although it was my virst x360 game 
 so i might have been partial
  
  Pros: i love the graphics and the portal ideas. you got shrunk, flipped, changed, moved, all kinds 
 of cool stuff through the portals. i though it was very original be it b/c of the portals or spirit 
 walking or whatever. the weapons are fun, the bad guys are challenging, the puzzles aren't too 
 hard to figure out. i LOVED how when you die you just come right back to the same spot after shooting 
 some flying demons with your spirit bow of destruction
  
  Cons: cheesy dialogue, lots of stupid cussing. Tommy the cherokee isn't the best user of the F 
 word, it made me laugh more than anything. haha so did what happens to his girlfriend. the story 
 line wasn't the greatest, just a little cheesey too. i didn't like some of the flying gameplay, 
 nor did i like how some of the enemies later in the game took a lot of ammo to kill off.
  
  Graphics: GREAT
  Sound: GOOD
  Gameplay: between good and great
  Story: NOT GOOD
  Time: 
 just about 7 hours in total. maybe less. beat it in less than a week.
  
  OVERALL: rent it if you really want to play it. I'll play some more to unlcok acheivements but 
 other than that the reply value isn't too high 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scat-mgduffs
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  when i first got this game i thought the graphix are good and the voice acting is good the when 
 i got onto levle 2 i just couldent belive how clever it was this game you got to find ways out 
 and find ways in and at the same time kill the clever enemys who arnt dumb this game was defently 
 worth the mony i payed for it and it is mutch better than doom 3 by miels. now iv got to write 
 100 wrods so ill just write jiberish bbbbbbuuuuuuyyyyyyy ttttthhhhhhhiiiiiisssssss ggggggaaaaaammmmmmmeeee 
 iiiiittttttttsssssss  ttttttthhhhhhhaaaaaannnnnnn  
 333333333
  
  
  buy it now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toad1971
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 31, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I think Gamespot's review is very fair and tell it truthfully. Prey is a ambitious fun game that 
 didn't take the fun, story or action far enough. I really enjoyed playing it for what it was, and 
 felt myself wishing it was better.
  
  Pros: Great graphics, story isn't amazingly unusual, but the setting is creepy, and very well done, 
 with attention to details... a nice imagining of an alien abduction, nice handling of environment, 
 good dialogue, interesting main character, fantastic music.... loved the soundtrack, fairly interesting 
 weapons, fairly interesting creatures, wall walking was fun and portals were fun, a few interesting 
 portal related puzzles.
  
  Cons: Not enough action, not enough variey of enemies although the ones present are interesting, 
 needs better pacing, too much isolation, some isolation is good for creepiness, but here it's a 
 little too much, wall walking was cool, but more puzzles are needed, portals were not used to full 
 effect.
  
  In short, this game is easily worth buying for $30, or used for even less. Even though it has flaws 
 it was an enjoyable experience and if you like FPS's or thought out alien environments you may 
 enjoy this game.
  
  I WOULD buy PREY 2 should they make it assuming the game is even better than the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3r7y
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 27, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Prey has a great twist on your typical alien abduction FPS. The story has crazy plot-twist everywhere 
 you turn. You start off at your girlfriends bar on an indian reservation, and next thing you know 
 the roof gets ripped off. You then witness all your loved ones getting sucked up into the ship. 
 I wont ruin the rest of it but its a great FPS. The game also does this whole new gravity thing 
 were you'll be rightside-up and you shoot a certain switch and next thing you know your upside-down 
 now. You also can use these situations to your advantage (killing enemies with gravity) . This is 
 one of those games that when you beat it you can throw it pack in and start over on a higher level 
 (cherokee) . A must have for 360 FPS fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxGreatScythexX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game, I was not expecting half the things I played in this game from what 
 I thought it would be!
  
  Gameplay:
  I love games that give me something to remember it by that no other game has had, and Prey certainly 
 got that message into my head. Entering rooms inside of rooms, becoming incredibly small to walk 
 on a mini planet you past by in the same room, and flying in the somehow large and detailed space 
 rooms. You can loose yourself in the game sometimes while walking into a box that somehow transports 
 you into another box that is in the same room... but is on the ceiling! There were alot of interesting 
 concepts in this game and I loved playing every minute of it. The story is kind of whacked out... you 
 are abducted by aliens and you are an Indian sad about not being able to ask out this other Indian 
 girl in a run-down bar... There is conflict when your grandpa is killed by these aliens! Now... it's 
 personal! You end up going into some spirit world from space in holy grounds with your dead grandpa 
 and blah blah blah. The gameplay is almost identical to Doom's because it runs on the same engine, 
 so its not being so original. Some of the weapons are pretty strange, such as there is a auto-laser 
 riffle and a sniper riffle in one gun. The story mode is slightly long, but it will past by like 
 you only played it for four hours.
  The multi player is nothing special at all. The character movements are sketchy without an movement 
 actions, the lag can get out of control, and the floor-to-ceiling controls get really hard to kill 
 someone using it over and over again. The action is very fast paced and very unrealistic. The single 
 player is definitely better than the multi player.
  
  Graphics:
  Since Prey is running on the Doom 3 engine, the graphics are not that impressive. They are xbox 
 visuals not xbox360 graphics. Not much to talk about here.
  
  Sound:
  The voices in this game are very authentic, especially when the Indians talk. The aliens are pretty 
 cool to listen to and look at. The in-game cut scenes are pretty cool since you can move around 
 and get a better chance to hear what they are saying. Many of the weapons sound the same though 
 since most are laser-based weapons.
  
  Value: I think the game is worth $50 since there is alot of content ad new things to experience 
 in Prey. The multi player may not be amazing, but the single player will have alot to offer to 
 alot of people. I have played the campaign a couple times just to see if I could find anything 
 new.
  
  Tilt:
  The game is well balanced and is very hard of more difficult settings. With many surprising events 
 and even unexpected twists, you can't help but at least rent this game. I would say there is at 
 least one thing that is in this game that has not been in any other.
  
  Final Words:
  I enjoyed playing Prey, but the sad part is that it does get boring not too long after playing 
 this game. It can get repetitive and does not have a major multi player. In short, at least give 
 Prey a chance and rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: user5689
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 24, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I was so excited for this game, I wanted it so bad.
  then it sucks,.
  For one, the whole portal thing, yeah there just glorified doors, and/or an excuse to just pop 
 enemies wrtie in front of you. The moments when hte poral aspect rally shines are far and few between. 
 Deathwalk, sounds cools right? you die, do a little minigame and come back...
  The game would have a a pretty solid shooter if it wasn't for deathwalk. It sounds great on paper, 
 but unfortutanatly, it kills the game. There is no possible way to lose at the Deathwalk. Worse 
 case scenario, you come back with half health.
  I liked the gunplay, (even if living weapons thee case speaks of, act like every weapon in every 
 other shooter, ever.) The game was fairly creepy, and the plot was decent (if not a little cheesy) . 
 But deathwalk kills the entire experience. The inevitable sequel needs to improve on the portal 
 and deathwalk aspects, then we might have something as genre changing as half-life.
  If you absolutely have to play it, wait for he price to go down. I got lucky (it was mislabeled 
 as 20 bucks) , theres no way in hell anyone should pay 60 bucks for the overrated, disappointing, 
 easy-as-hell, turd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 23, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  Lets make this clear, the only reason I got this was because it was bundled with the console and 
 Oblivion, and Oblivion was the game that really made me want to invest in a 360.
  I don't usually like FPS's because more often than not all you do is run around like a rabid monkey 
 and shoot everything... and this is a perfect example of that.
  And one main gripe is.. YOU CANNOT DIE... you are just swept away to the Spirit World to boost 
 your health and then you are placed back exactly where you were, but with more health... why? Its 
 possible to complete the game using the most basic weapon in the game, a wrench, and to me that 
 is wrong.
  What also screws this up is the way you are made to play, no exploring vast open plains or the 
 huge ship you find yourself in... nope, you go from A to B, killing everything in between, then 
 move onto point C, and then D, E, F etc., etc., etc.
  Sure it looks good but in this day and age I want gameplay to go with the flash graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerminalEcho
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 18, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Ok, here's the usual breakdown:
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is solid, and Prey really did break some new ground with the whole gravity 
 pad idea. I was very fond of the puzzles they put in, that not only force you to use your trigger 
 finger, but also your head. The guns were very cool and innovative, and I like how unique some 
 of the organic weapons were. Overall the gameplay is solid, and the game has good length, but it's 
 the mechanics that just felt old and out dated.
  
  Graphics: This was my biggest complaint about Prey. The graphics really do look like something 
 that a last-gen console could power. The edges are smooth and the colors a bright, but the overall 
 appeal of the graphics engine leaves much to be desired when compared to other shooters like GOW, 
 COD, and GRAW.
  
  Sounds: Sounds were average and satisfying, but again, no new ground is really broken here, and 
 this is not what I consider to be the high point of the game.
  
  Value: I liked the value of the game because it was actually pretty lengthy, and the multiplayer 
 can leave you playing beyond the campaign. Length wise, it's better than a lot of games that you 
 see on the market these days.
  
  Tilt: My tilt on the game is an 8. I knew some infomation about it when buying it, but wasn't really 
 sure what to expect overall.
  
  The Down Side: As stated above, the gameplay mechanics, the sound, and graphics all fail to impress. 
 If a few of these areas could have been just a touch revamped before launch, you'd be seeing a 
 much higher score from me.
  
  Bottom Line: If you can get past the few major faults I listed above, there is much fun to be had 
 in Prey, and the game is long enough to keep you busy for a few days, but despite their best efforts 
 to create something new and exciting, the developers ended up leaving us wondering what could have 
 been, with another six months of work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zexxo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 1, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  Prey is game that has some of the most innovative gameplay ideas ever to be layed out. It packs 
 a host of creepy levels, amazing scale and a fantastic ending that confirms a sequal. But how will 
 YOU enjoy prey? Only you can find out, and hey, for 29.99, i'd say its worth it no matter how you 
 look at it.
  
  PROS
  
  + Level design is so good, it rivals that of Half-Life and Doom 3
  + Story is amazing (in my 
 eyes)
  + Smooth Framerate
  + Ace Voice actors
  + Great looking game and some wacky weapons...
  
  CONS
  
  -... just wish there were more 
 of them
  - Doom 3 engine is very outdated, it offers bland combat
  - limited enemy design
  - You can never die really, so I guess this ones a con or a pro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 14, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Regarded as a god by your people and thought of as little more then nourishment to your alien enemy; 
 Prey is more then just another FPS. This task will be one that no human can endure but a God can. 
 Trapped on an Organic Alien Spaceship with nothing but your longing for your #1 Girl. You desperately 
 search for her and find the keys to unraveling this sinister place and saving earth in the process.
 
  
  STORY: You are Tommy a Native American who wants to get away from his tribe and take his girlfriend 
 with him. Although things are not what they seem and on that very night you become a God among 
 your people. The beginning of the game, takes you through a slightly darker tone then you would 
 expect. Seeing people being slaughtered like sheep is not the most pleasant of experiences with 
 the Unreal Engine and naturally you will truly be appalled at what will be announced around the 
 end of the game. One other thing is the uniqueness as playing an Indian. Not very many games stray 
 from being a Cop of the month that takes down a bunch of mobsters as being, just your plain average 
 John Wayne popular guy. It puts a certain new and interestingly refreshing feel to the experience, 
 which would otherwise make it an average game. ENTERTAINMENT: The real cool and most interesting 
 thing about this game is the Sprit walk and the gravity or teleportation boxes. The way you can 
 teleport from a little box on a ground to another thats on the ceiling is rather strange but is 
 really what makes this game unique. Not very many games pull off these types of new ideas well 
 but Prey certainly handles them as its own. Some of the puzzles they introduced in this game are 
 truly spectacular and deserve props for giving a one-two punch at the Half Life series. Another 
 thing that is interesting addition is a mini when you die in which you go to the sprit world and 
 shoot sprits until your body floats down again but no matter what you can never die. So you instantly 
 learn you are a god.
  
  PROS: The new ideas that are introduced in-game are brilliant, the story is decent and helps deliver 
 the alien atmosphere, Graphics are not spectacular but they still come up to par with some good 
 360 games, the sound is great and the Art Bell segments were a great addition to the game but the 
 real points go to using one of the best songs ever, Don't Fear the Reaper plus some other classics, 
 a thoroughly entertaining ride which should not be missed.
  
  CONS: Very disappointingly short story; which I finished in about 10 hours.
  
  OVERALL: This 
 great game and one worth your while but its short game play discredits its brilliance in many ways. 
 Thats not to say this game is not playable or rent worthy; because for its very short campaign. 
 Its defiantly one of the best FPS's for the 360 and some of the most clever new puzzles and useful 
 powers in a FPS since Half Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enginwolf04
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 8, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  Apparently, the concept of the video game Prey had been tossed around quite frequently throughout 
 the past half-decade or so. The story of the game is certainly interesting, but very cliche, but 
 the game-play itself falls very short of any other games of this ilk. To sum it up, the graphics 
 look great, but the game-play is extremely repetitive and the novelty of the portals wears thin 
 far too soon due to half-baked execution. Fun as a rental, nothing more.
  
  The story of Prey is actually interesting, albeit been-there-done-that material. The main character, 
 Tommy, may not be memorable, but you get the point that developer Human Head was trying to convey 
 about Tommy's stubbornness and opposing strong convictions. His girlfriend, Jen, comes off as mostly 
 boring and not worth saving. The grandfather ultimately overkills his role as spiritual leader. 
 Other characters in the game provide little more than filler NPC roles to further the game along. 
 Mediocrity is unacceptable considering this game has been in limbo for so long.
  
  The graphics are the best thing about this game. Apparently, the Doom 3 engine was incorporated 
 and the engine certainly looks great in this game, with the exception of certain up-close textures 
 that look unfinished. Tommy looks fine, with typical Native American garb, and the same goes for 
 both his grandfather and Jen. The enemies all seem the same during the 23 levels of this game, 
 so you stop appreciating the Hunters and their kind very early in the game. Claustrophobia must 
 have been the feeling that the game developers were trying to convey, because most of the game 
 is nothing but long or curvy hallways with lots of doors between them, with the rare large expansive 
 areas. The gravity tricks are few and far apart, and it feels like a one-trick pony more than anything 
 else, and the same exact thing can be said regarding the portals. It seems like the focus was just 
 on the beginning levels, and then it get's boring and predictable after the first six levels or 
 so. No creativity to be found in this game, save for the first few portal applications.
  
  The weapons in an FPS should really want to make you use them again and again. Not only are these 
 weapons underwhelming (especially in multiplayer) , but most are not very useful. The wrench is 
 immediately useless after gaining the rifle. The rifle itself is useful due to its secondary sniper 
 scope function, complete with zoom capabilities. It also slowly recharges up to a minimum ammo 
 count. The next gun, the leech gun, is actually one of the best weapons in the game. With its various 
 types of ammo, from fireballs to lightning arcs, to a powerful blast pulse ray to icethrower, this 
 gun packs a nice punch and is pleasant to play. The only draw back is that the secondary function 
 is useless except for refilling ammo and the power nodes that you leech ammo from are few and far 
 apart at the beginning of Prey. Next up is the spider-like grenades. These have a primary throw 
 function and a secondary proximity mine function, the second being useless in the single player 
 portion and quite useful in the multiplayer portion. Acquiring the alien assault rifle is a treat, 
 with standard shooting function and a secondary grenade launcher firing capability makes this a 
 decent weapon of choice. The acid rifle is the most useless weapon in the game, short of the wrench. 
 Due to the poor aiming mechanism in Prey, you will find it very difficult to properly employ this 
 weapon, except for during the single-player portion, as the enemies just stand there most of the 
 time, trying to aim at you. The acid sprayer weapon is the best weapon in the game, with an acid-ball-shooting 
 primary and a secondary function that provides a shot-blocking mist shield that protects you for 
 a limited time, but also prevents you from shooting through it as well. Not a bad idea. Of noteworthy 
 mention is Tommy's spirit form. This is a half-implemented great idea. Though you leave your human 
 body vulnerable during this state, the spirit form allows you to attack the enemy without putting 
 yourself in harms way (that's not really an issue in this games) , once you've learned the bow 
 and arrow attack. With so many buttons on the X360, more functions should have been added to te 
 spirit form to make it more versatile and useful. It's also necessary to progress in the game, 
 as hidden walkways and rooms are only available in spirit form, in order to reach switch consoles 
 and obtain other puzzle-oriented solutions. The sound in Prey falls in a broad spectrum from too 
 quiet to unremarkable to few great moments . Nothing stands out and the weapons sound like they 
 are all muffled and suppressed. Some weapons deserve the understatement (acid rifle, I'm looking 
 at you) . The constant astral sound generated during spirit form is enthralling, but get's old very 
 fast. The enemies all share similar grunts and don't really sound all too individual. The robot 
 enemies are devoid of any remarkable sound, not even a robotic grunt, and this is really disappointing 
 considering any attempt would have been appreciated. The voice acting is OK, with Tommy genuinely 
 sounding like a Native American, as well as his grandfather and Jen. Elhuit, the leader of the 
 Hidden Tribe, also sounds genuine.
  
  FORGET THE MULTIPLAYER! I encountered nothing but lag playing this game online, not to mention 
 that there weren't to many hosts online. Perhaps I'm used to Gears of War and Lost Planet having 
 an abundance of servers available with hosts ready to play, but I was not impressed with Prey at 
 all. Lag makes it impossible to put a bead on your enemies, and add to this that the aiming mechanism 
 for Prey is shoddy in the first place. No fun in multiplayer. The weapons are underwhelming, the 
 maps are extremely boring, and with a barebones deathmatch and team deathmatch available, this 
 game is not worth playing for its multiplayer. Seems like it was obligatorily tacked on. Could 
 have left this out, and just put more Gamerscore points into the single player portion. In conclusion, 
 Prey is a game that is best rented and never bought. You can find better FPS games out there than 
 this game. Worth a look at, but you'll never come back to it once you've done all there is in a 
 matter of a few hours.
  
  Poor AI, uninteresting pacing, spirit form is very useful and pretty cool, too easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AerosFan
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 3, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  While this is really an average shooter, the original story and the vertigo inducing environments 
 elevate it past mediocrity. The Cherokee protagonist is nice and the angst between the old ways 
 and new ways is realistic. The game play is like any other FPS. The story line takes place on an 
 alien ship, therefore the weapons are organic alien equivalents. You have your standard machine 
 gun, grenades, etc. The game play is linear and fairly predictable, but the environments make the 
 game more playable. Their are plenty of gravity well switches and walking upside down and up the 
 walls. Down is up, up is down, etc. Enemies pop into the area unannounced via portals, which adds 
 an element of surprise. The surprise ramps up a notch when you are walking up the walls or on the 
 ceiling and an enemy ports into the room below you. Another interesting aspect is the spirit world 
 alternate to dying. When you die, your spirit goes into the spirit world, and you shoot wraiths 
 that add to your health bar. After a certain amount of time, you will return to the point where 
 you died with the health you earned in the spirit world. A very nice way to re-spawn and not have 
 to replay parts of the level. This aspect is, for me, the most innovative idea of the game. The 
 graphics are average and really don't take advantage of the 360, but that is to be expected with 
 a first wave release on a new console. The voice acting is pretty stale as well. The music is good 
 and immerses one into the game. Without giving any spoilers, the plot is wide open for a sequel. 
 There is a strong foundation to build upon, and I think the developers will fix the problems the 
 next time around. The game is fun to play, but it could have been better. I would look at the bargain 
 bin for this, as I did, or rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer1985
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 19, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is not all about shooting. This game is very unique of what it does. There are no ladders 
 in this game, in the game there are walkways which you go on and you usually activate them by using 
 spirit walk to get to where in the control is. Spirit walk is when you use Tommy's special ability 
 to go through ways that you can't in your normal body. Spirit walk is also used to solve puzzles, 
 it might be used to get to another room, or to activate a switch that you couldn't get to in your 
 normal body. Another thing that is so cool about the game is that when you die you are transported 
 to the spirit world which you must shoot some death wraiths to regain health and spirit. One of 
 my favorite things in the game was going through portals, and shooting sideways and upside down. 
 The only bad thing I noticed in the game were the weapons, the weapons were really cool to look 
 at but lacked power when shooting. Flying in the ship was as fun as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdmnymrph
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, when this game was making the trailer circuit, it looked absolutely fantastic. The 
 360 was still fairly new and this title appeared to push graphics to the system's limit The concept 
 of an alien race literally trying to consume the planet and getting to fight back as a Cherokee 
 Indian was engrossing. Throw in spirtwalking, gravity plates, and a multitude of alien weaponry 
 and it was too much to pass up.
  
  This game looks great and has a few puzzles that will have you scratching your head. However, it 
 fails to deliver on gameplay offering little to no challenge. The various aliens can present their 
 share of difficulties, but the penatly for losing a battle is nothing more than delegation to glorifed 
 archery range practice.
  
  Ultimately, it is an entertaining game due to the environments, visuals, and concept, but lacks 
 any sensation of accomplishnment while advancing. The controls are intuitive, but not precise, 
 highly adjustable, but to no real improvement.
  
  As a gamer, challenge is critial. It carries as much importance as feel or looks. As such, this 
 game falls into the sad, sad categartory of Faliure to live up to potential . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 17, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  Prey has gone through quite a long development ride. It was originally conceived way back in 1997. 
 Like the long awaited 'Duke Nukem Forever', I was figuring there was no chance this game would 
 see the light of day. With the Doom 3 engine around, Human Head Studios decided to finally make 
 Prey and now they finally had the technology to achieve their goals. Of course, Prey isn't perfect. 
 But it's a really fun first-person shooter that I think most fans of the genre will have a great 
 time playing, even if it feels like you are playing 'Doom 3' or 'Quake 4's little brother.
  
  In Prey, you play the role of Tommy who is a cherokee native armerican. While at your girlfriend's 
 (Jen) bar, you, Jen &amp; your grandfather are abducted by aliens who use humans for food and slavery. 
 Your goal throughout the game is to rescue your girlfriend from the evil aliens and save the planet 
 along the way. Of course, this isn't the most original or compelling plot. But as the story moves 
 along, there are some decent twists that will keep you interested. One of the big twists (and this 
 isn't a spolier) is that you eventually gain the ability to spirit-walk . This gives you the ability 
 to walk through force-fields and get to areas that you didn't previously have access to. There 
 is some combat while in this mode, but it's usually just used to solve the games puzzles. You can 
 also walk on special walls and 'tracks' that defy normal gravity and make for some pretty awkward 
 (in a good way) moments. I know this was one of the big selling points of the game and like the 
 spirit-walking, it's really only insteresting when it's helping you solve a puzzle.
  
  The other thing Prey does differently than other FPS is the portals that pop-up throughout the 
 game. It's a pretty cool effect, graphically, and makes for some interesting moments. Unfortunately, 
 I didn't feel this little trick was used properly other than a few points in the game. Most of 
 the time the portals just serve as doors to other areas of the map. Other than those few things, 
 there isn't much here that you haven't seen in other sci-fi themed shooters. Most of the time you 
 are just going through dark, creepy looking corridor after dark, creepy looking corridor. I didn't 
 find this to be a fault, but for those of you that didn't like this in Doom 3 or Quake 4, I thought 
 I would mention it.
  
  Even the weapons TRY to be different than the usual fare that is in this genre, but it's only that 
 they look different. There are no standard weapons in this game (save for your melee weapon, the 
 Wrench) , but they all work basically the same as any other FPS. For instance, instead of grenades 
 you have little alien bugs. When you rip a leg off of them, you can throw them at enemies and they 
 explode. It may look different, but it serves the same purpose as grenades do in other FPS. All 
 of the other weapons are like this. A nice little touch is that most of the weapons come with some 
 sort of alternate fire and most of them are useful, even later in the game. I know this game doesn't 
 really sound anything special up to this point. And in reality, it isn't really all that unique. 
 But that doesn't mean this isn't a really fun shooter. I feel games like this are a refreshing 
 change from some of the FPS today that try to be more than what they are. I like running around 
 killing aliens and saving the world. Even if it has been done before in many other games.
  
  Another thing I should mention is the fact that when you die, you never actually die. When 
 you run out of health, you are sent to a 'spirit realm' and you play a little mini-game with your 
 bow and arrows. Your goal is to shoot wraiths that are flying around to regain health. You are 
 then teleported back to almost the exact spot you 'died'. I can see how some people wouldn't like 
 this, as it takes some of the challenge out of the game. I thought it was a great idea as it gets 
 you back in the action really quickly and saves you the trouble of reloading a saved game.
  
  The game certainly looks nice running on the Doom 3 engine. Of course, while playing you will 
 get a sense of deja-vu and feel like you are playing Quake 4 (if you have played that game previously) . 
 Thankfully, the game isn't as dark as Doom 3. There are still parts where you will have to use 
 the lighter (Tommy's tool to light the area) , but it's never gets to a point of frustration. The 
 best part of the Doom 3 engine is the use of lighting and it's in full effect here. There are parts 
 of this game that are absolutely gorgeous. Then there are the character models. The models of your 
 character (when you do see him) , Jen, and your grandfather look rather bad when compared to the 
 rest of the game. It's almost like the developers knew you don't really encounter these character 
 models much, so they didn't bother to make them look as good as the rest of the game. Thankfully, 
 the aliens and any other characters you encounter on your quest look great and more like the models 
 that the Doom 3 engine is capable of. It's just too bad the developers didn't go the extra mile 
 and make the girl you are trying to save at least look good. Maybe the best part about the visuals 
 is that there is no slowdown whatsoever. Which as anyone who has played through Quake 4 should 
 know, we should never take that for granted.
  
  The game sounds great, as you would expect. The music is good and all of the weapons sound about 
 how you think they would. I really love the little lines your character says as you are playing 
 the game. It actually reminds me of a previous &amp; famous 3D Realms character, Duke Nukem. Other 
 than that, all of the voice acting is excellent. I really liked the addition of the radio updates 
 from earth that you hear throughout your exploration of the alien sphere.
  
  Prey is pretty short, though. You can blow through it in around eight hours or so. And the multi-player 
 is pretty basic, as it only offers deathmatch &amp; team deathmatch modes. I really like how they 
 distributed the achievements, even if they are a bit on the easy side. The game itself isn't very 
 hard and you get about 700 of the 1000 just by beating the single-player game. So depending on 
 your take on the multi-player Prey offers and your drive to get all of the achievements, this could 
 either be a quick game that you shelve after beating or it could keep you busy for awhile.
  
  As you can probably tell from my review, I really liked Prey. Like I said, it really doesn't 
 do much different than what you have seen many times in other FPS. But to me, that's not a bad 
 thing. If you don't go into it expecting it to revolutionize the genre, I think you can have a 
 lot of fun with it and will enjoy it. Hopfully the sequal will further develop the nice ideas that 
 never really felt like they were utilized to their fullest in this game. I just hope we don't have 
 to wait another 8-9 years for it to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmogoon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I was actually pretty impressed with this game. I mean a GS 7.5 isn't usually anything to get excited 
 about, but after playing this I feel their score was way off.
  
  I know it probably shouldn't be so important for a game like this, but the presentation is totally 
 awesome. Never will you see muddy textures or anything like that here. Everything looks amazing. 
 The lighting is really where the Doom 3 engine excels, and here it looks totally awesome. On top 
 of this, the frame-rate never lets down. This game runs SMOOTH.
  
  In fact I find it interesting why the best looking games run the best. Gears of War is a great 
 example of this. I'm guessing it's a sign of pure investment in development of the games - You 
 can squeeze a high framerate out of any graphics if you just put the money in.
  
  You can tell in this game they wanted to do things a bit differently to other FPS games. And I 
 think they did it well. The game is full of original puzzles, mainly involving playing with gravity 
 and turning things upside down. They're all executed pretty well and are quite impressive to see.
 
  
  The game also uses portals as its kind of trademark. You'll see loads of these things which pretty 
 much act like doors, but it's quite cool when you see yourself through a portal, adding a bit of 
 a wow factor.
  
  I suppose this game has gotten a bit of a negative reception from some people because the game 
 is clearly focusing on being more of a weird puzzley shooter than a pure classic FPS. I can agree 
 there simply isn't enough diversity when it comes to shooting enemies, as there aren't really that 
 many standard enemy models you'll encounter. However there are some pretty cool boss battles which 
 brings the game back to earth, as it were.
  
  Prey also has some pretty neat flying sequences. Well I suppose they're more hovering and shooting 
 sequences than anything - the ships aren't very fast paced. But these break up the action nicely 
 nonetheless.
  
  They took a bit of a risk with the whole dying-but not really dying system. It had to be pulled 
 off pretty well to work properly. Basically when you die you just kind of go to heaven for a bit 
 and wait while you get resurrected at the same place you died. I really felt this system was perfectly 
 fine. All it means is you get back into the action faster - I've no problem with that.
  
  However this system probably contributes to why the game isn't particularly long. Perhaps if they 
 stuck to the standard checkpoint system, the game might last a bit longer. But again I'm not too 
 bothered. Basically, this game to me wasn't as great as FEAR, Half-Life 2, Quake 4, CoD 3 etc. 
 But it honestly wasn't far off.
  
  It's a hell of a lot of fun. As Gamespot said, it perhaps didn't "cash-in" on all its potential, 
 but not to the extent you might think...
  
  Especially since this game can be gotten at pretty much budget price now, if you're a fan of shooters, 
 check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankthelizard
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 9, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a game that was planned for a long time but got shut for the developers to work on Duke 
 Nukeam: Forever. Which is not out yet. Now its been brought back from the dead and now people realize 
 its just an average game with some average multiplayer. The story is pretty basic if youve ever 
 seen any alien abduction movie. Girl gets captured bot trys to save her. So the plot not so good 
 but has some few twists and turns thatll keep you wanting to play. You play as Tommy, Chereokke 
 Indian who hates the place he is living in. So he wants to take Jen his girlfriend away. But beforeanything 
 happens you get abducted by aliens. Now you have to save the world. Early in the game Tommy finds 
 his Inian power so you have the ability to spirit walk through force fields, so this doesnt really 
 change the gameplay much. This power also changes the way you die, when you die you enter something 
 called the death walk. This is basically just a mini-game. Shoot the red wraiths for health and 
 blue for spirit and then you just jump right back to the spot where you died. So this makes the 
 game very easy even on the hardest diffuculty. The achivements are also really simple to get. The 
 single player achivements are just completing the game on both diffucultys and the multiplayer 
 is get 25 kills with each weapon. For example get 25 kills with the sniper and you get 20 points. 
 So all in all this is a good game and at the end of the game it said prey will continue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCCHA
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 9, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: your basic first person shooter with some gravity manipulation elements to it, idiotic 
 enemies make for a pure slaughter, your near invinciblity and ability to never actually get a game 
 over make this game far too easy, fun multiplayer though
  
  graphics: ok but the models look like plastic and clay, good use of a worn out engine
  
  sound: 
 boring music yet good sound effects, the spoken dialogue is not the worst I have ever heard but 
 it is pretty bad
  
  value: unless you plan on going through all of the difficulties and playing a lot of multiplayer, 
 but something else instead
  
  tilt: I didn't like it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Prey is the kind of games that make you glad to be a gamer. Everything is so interactive and fun 
 to do. You can even lift up toilet seats lol. But yeah Im on my second time through and its still 
 fun there are so many things that make this game so good. You can walk on walls, leave your body, 
 you never really die after you get the spirit walk, and the guns are alive exc. The graphics make 
 everything thats going on feel like your there. They did a great job. if had to imagine what it 
 would be like to be abducted by freaky aliens. This is defiantly something that I could see happening. 
 So yeah you need to get this game itll change your life lol.. no seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish_gibbor
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  you can watch my video review, copy and past the text in your browser
  
  http://www. youtube. com/index? unavail
  
  Only took me like 8 hours to beat. 
  
  Graphics 
 - the graphics are a little better than half life 2 on PC maxed out. But not as good as GRAW, Gears, 
 or Kameo. Some pretty cool looking aliens and devices in the game though. 
  
  Sound - Very good sound, good voice acting. Alien sounds, horror all that stuff. 
  
  Physics 
 - nothing remarkable, but stuff moves when you run into it. 
  
  Gameplay - The puzzles are unique and pretty fun to solve. The fighting is fun however you are 
 basically invisible which is TOTALY LAME! I mean what the hell where they thinking man? If they 
 did not have this one mechanic the game would score so much higher. When you die you got to the 
 spirit world, shoot some flying things to get life and then you start right where you left off. 
 If you are fighting a boss and half his life is gone, then you die, you start right where you left 
 off, the boss has half his life missing. They might as well just gave you invinsability, what the 
 hell is the difference? Oh right I have to go to this annoying place and shoot flying things before 
 I continue where I died. Takes the fun out of it. You think why should I ever try, if I die I just 
 continue where I left off. There is going to be a part two, I sure hope they change this and put 
 check points like most games have. That is what makes combat challanging. If you die you have to 
 start all the way back from the last check point. Or if the game is PD0 then you have to do the 
 whole freaking level again. Well most levels did have a half way point. You could choose to start 
 from there. Anyways this part of Prey really damages the game. 
  
  I like how he talks a lot while you are playing. Reminded me of duke nukem a little. 
  
  Story 
 - The story is really good. If you dig Native Americans, especialy the Cherokee tribe and you like 
 sci-fi and especially wierd looking demon aliens, you will like the story. The story is what kept 
 me playing. You get abducted be aliens strait away. 
  
  Value - It is worth a rental. If you can find it for $5-10 pick it up I guess. If someone wants 
 to trade you Prey for one of your burger king games, do it. 
  
  No online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Spartan
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 5, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  In Prey a new ip from Human Head studios you have everthang you need for a great fps. Big guns 
 big enemies and great looking graphics, But it's the way they use this content in new ways you 
 never seen before like Gravity, spirt walking and portals. Ok get this you walking down this massive 
 ship with a gun that is part bullet part alien and your shooting for your life and your girlfriends 
 upside down? You play as a guy named Tommy a simple garage mechanic who has bigger dreams then 
 just living on is home reservation, But the only thang stoping him is his girl friend Jen. Who 
 likes her life on the reservation and wishs tommy could embrace his ancersty and understand his 
 hairitage.
  
  The game start off with Tommy in the bathroom talking to himself, trying to understand why she (his 
 girlfriend) dosent want to leave. As you walk in the bar the story will unfolds into great proportion. 
 Graphics in this game are very well done although you will see texture drop in places like pipes 
 in hall ways some times the overall visuals are great soild lighting effects really show you the 
 360 power and little details like when you are in spirt form and you go through your body you can 
 see your body fade away as your spirt walk go through you. The story it self is really done well 
 with alot of WTF moments will keep you going all the way through, but the sad part about that is 
 the game is short only late about 8-10 hours.
  
  Gameplay wise was ok they had some great ideas but you'll always seem like they could have push 
 this feature more like the gun fire and the way the gun feel while you shooting it feels great, 
 but you seem to fight the same enemys for a while and every time you get to a new one it's over 
 a little to quick and you back to shooting it out with the Hunters (foot soilders) . Also the puzzle 
 are very repetitive giving the way they use the walking upside down downside up is great and using 
 your spirt form to unlock the door you cant get into is fine but i wish they could have brong some 
 more ideas to the puzzle cause they get boring for a while. Sound of this game is on point and 
 is one of the best features in this game.
  
  The music is done by Jeremy Soule (he did The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion and also Guild Wars scores) and 
 he really brings you into the game with his musical score. Also the voice acting it also great, 
 from the voice acting to the area sounds even though aliens talking in english is pretty stupid, 
 it's done well! and some of the best i have heard. Also in this game you dont die! it sound pretty 
 cheap but it make the game alot more fun, but also make it feel alot easier then it already is. 
 When it comes to online play or the name they like to use muitprey , it is where the game takes 
 a fall. Only a couple of game types death match and team death match and also ALIENS V. S. HUMAN 
 CAGE MATCH OFF DOOMMMM! ok maybe not the last one but i would have like to see more gametypes cause 
 the two get borring kinda fast. The frame rate drops more times then normal and makes it hard to 
 get a smooth match going, but on the plus side the achievement in muitprey is very easy to unlock 
 and half of you are going to buy the game for that right?.... right.
  
  Overall there are easy achievements like passing a level! (and know im not kinding) . But all and 
 all i really like the Idea of the story and use of graivtiy the game graphics beautiful and the 
 sound is top notch. I just wish they did more with the way you use it to slove puzzles and mix 
 the action up a little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 3, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  While Xbox 360 owners patiently await the imminent, if distant release of Halo 3, game developers 
 know it's a good time to fill the FPS void for the system, and while Prey has little to compete 
 against in the current market, it still insists on muscling it's way in with a few nice new twists 
 to add to a pretty well-explored formula. While the hype was a little exaggerated, Prey is no slouch, 
 offering up excellent dark, biotech visuals, intuitive controls, decent AI, and even a little light 
 puzzle action.
  
  Yes, puzzles! Well, the occasional one, at least, and not the type to really perplex any player, 
 but enough to take your mind off all the shooting for a moment. Prey is littered with teleportation 
 devices and portals, some simply advancing you into the next room, others creating mini-mazes to 
 figure out. This can be really trippy, especially when two are positioned in such a way that allows 
 you to follow yourself for eternity! There are also ways to shift your center of gravity in a room, 
 and sometimes this is necessary to enable yourself to walk up a wall and onto your next objective. 
 While it's not a huge leap forward for the genre, they certainly have worked to make it compliment 
 the game well, and in some sections you can't help but appreciate it for the nice touch that it 
 is.
  
  There is also the opportunity to spirit walk , whereby (with one press of Y ) you can leave your 
 body, leaving it vulnerable to attack, and scout ahead, walk through force fields to reach switches, 
 or attack enemies. Once again, not changing everything you know about first person shooters, but 
 a handy little inclusion.
  
  Apart from this though, Prey is pretty much a tweaked Doom 3. Shoot the creatures, gain access, 
 shoot more creatures. The plot is nothing fantastic, and the acting is average at best. Hardly 
 that much to complain about though, especially if you like your games with guns, gore, and gross 
 scenes. It's just that the actual gameplay seems a little too repetitive.
  
  It's a shame this was hyped so hard, I can't help but think if they had've just let Prey win fans 
 on it's own merits it would probably have a nice cult following going by now. With a real lack 
 of FPS action on 360 at the moment you really could do worse than Prey. It may be a familiar formula, 
 but it's a fun shooter with a few really pleasant touches.
  
  (Multiplayer unreviewed) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srs_kid
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 2, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Prey is one of those games when you look at them and you like woah this game looks cool but once 
 you play it your like WTF this game is freakin awsom!!!! This is said because it has a unique story 
 mode having to do with aliens. Most fps if they do have aliens there awsome but in this they got 
 some crazy looking things that may make you jump once or twice. Not veichle's really only 1. Multiplayer 
 is so fun it sucks. What i mean by this is its just like unreal tournment and if u havent played 
 it its super fun but lagg. Each room ive been in there was lagg. I dont have it any more because 
 of that but other then those i really reccoomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superdude687
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever wondered what it would be like to be abducted by aliens? If it would be difficult 
 to survive? Well now you can find this out and more in the wonderful world of Prey.
  
  Welcome to Prey for the 360. A game in which you are Tommy, a Native-American who along with his 
 grandfather and girlfriend are violently ripped from the reservation and the very face of the earth 
 by vicious aliens intent on turning you into processed food. Somewhere inside the alien stronghold 
 called The Sphere your grandfather and girlfriend are being held and it is your duty to save them.
 
  
  This game if you did not know already is a FPS (First Person Shooter) with about 23 levels. It's 
 a pretty good game for beginners and for experts alike because after a certain point you can not 
 die but you go into a shooting gallery type mini game. It's a nice addition to this game which 
 is otherwise your standard Shoot, Strafe, Dodge game but it has another new twist, you get to walk 
 on ceilings and walls. Also portals appear and transport you through the sphere at different intervals 
 of the game. The fact that you can't die and only 3 bosses makes the game seem a little short.
 
  
  The graphics in the game are good for a X360 game, as the enemies are creepy looking and the environments 
 are creepy sometimes and just plain disgusting looking (in a good way) other times. Later in the 
 game you'll fly shuttles through very expansive environment. The game itself can be really intense 
 at times and at other times the puzzles can be down right confusing.
  
  This game is definitely a buy especially now that it's $25. So get it now :)
  
  9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 27, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Playing Prey is a lot like watching one of the Friday the 13th movies. You go into it expecting 
 something different, but when you peel back the layers, you find just another standard product. 
 What I mean is that Prey is loaded to the brim with new and original ideas, but none of them are 
 really capitalized enough to stand out. That's not to say that the game is bad (or the Friday the 
 13th movies for that matter) , but it's really just a standard first person shooter after you're 
 done toying with all of the flashy gameplay ideas. You are Tommy, a person with a Cherokee Indian 
 background living a normal life with a girlfriend, job, and family. But you won't accept the ideas 
 and teachings of the Cherokee tribe. You refuse to acknowledge any of their beliefs and you want 
 nothing more than to leave with your girlfriend into the city. One day in your girlfriend Jen's 
 bar, you and everything in it are abducted by aliens. After this amazing introduction to the game, 
 the story declines into a deep chasm. The whole story is wrapped around finding your girlfriend, 
 but since there is nothing else to narrate in between these segments, the story progression is 
 few and far between.
  
  The gameplay is as mentioned before, as standard as they come. You'll have your usual guns like 
 the shotgun, machine gun, rocket launcher, and pistol except that they'll be named other things 
 to try to fool you, such as leech gun and auto cannon. You'll also have your melee weapon, a wrench, 
 when you find yourself out of bullets. But since one of the guns recharges a small amount of ammo 
 every time it is out, you won't ever need to use your wrench. This is only one of the things in 
 this game that make it as ridiculously easy as it is. Besides the gun recharging it's bullets, 
 the one major factor contributing to the lack of difficulty in this game is that you can't die. 
 That's right, no dying whatsoever. Instead you will be taken into some kind of spirit world. In 
 this world you will have a few seconds to shoot down flying creatures which give you health. But 
 even if you miss every single one of them, your health is automatically recharged to 50%. When 
 the time is up, you will be dropped off at the exact place that you died. So you could essentially 
 blast through this entire game without worrying about ever having to play through a section again. 
 Since you cannot die, any tension that the game had during firefights is stripped away. There is 
 no reason to ever panic in this game due to low ammo or low life. It's like this game was made 
 for small children despite the graphic violence and profanity.
  
  On the other side of the spectrum, one aspect that is actually fun and makes this game just a little 
 tougher are the puzzles. You have a power where you can leave your physical body and venture through 
 force fields that your body cannot. While in this mode you will need to flip switches or find secret 
 routes to your destination so you can find a way to get your body through. Most of these areas 
 are very simple and easy. Usually as soon as you leave your body, you will see a bridge to cross 
 or only one force field to go through and find the switch you need. But others aren't as simple. 
 In some you will need to leave your body at a specific location and hit a switch so it will take 
 your body to the desired destination. None of them are particularly brain busting, but it helps 
 add a slight hint of difficulty in the sea of mindless shooting.
  
  Prey does have some noticeable differences from other first person shooters and they are the reason 
 people have been watching this game with a keen eye. In this game, you can mess with gravity and 
 walk on the walls and ceilings and also move through portals into entirely new areas without loading. 
 The gravity part of this game is an interesting concept and something I was dying to see for myself. 
 For the most part, the game succeeded in making it feel authentic. While walking on a path on the 
 ceiling, you can shoot enemies on the ground and vice versa. It's absolutely amazing to be walking 
 up the side of a wall, have an enemy appear in front of you via portal and then you kill him, only 
 to have him fall straight past you to the ground. But my main gripe with the gravity part of the 
 game is that sometimes it made me nauseous. Since there are certain puzzles where you will constantly 
 be switching which way the gravity flows, you'll find yourself flipping in every direction very 
 quickly and it will most likely give you a headache or make your stomach queasy. The portals on 
 the other hand are very cool. Shooting an enemy through a portal in an area that is on the other 
 side of the ship from where you are is awesome. It's really just a gimmick and something that the 
 company could plug their game to, but it's still cool nonetheless.
  
  The last part and arguably the worst part of the gameplay are the vehicle controls. During various 
 parts in the game, you will need to take to the air and the ships at your disposal are horrible. 
 First of all, the controls are just not that good and it's difficult to control where you want 
 to go at times. Second and most importantly, it's painfully not fun. There really wasn't a second 
 of gameplay time in the ship that I enjoyed. While in the ship, you will shoot the same two enemies 
 over and over while flying through seemingly identical corridors and even if you are enjoying it 
 at first, you will eventually be longing for the on foot segments. On the whole however, the gameplay 
 works fine despite the lack of challenge.
  
  The graphics are astounding. There were a few times where there would be some clipping or some 
 awkward deaths with the enemies getting stuck in the environment, but overall it looks simply amazing. 
 I've played quite a few Xbox 360 games, but none looked as good as this one does. The alien ship 
 looked disgustingly beautiful in all of it's ugliness. The walls moved with life and the blood 
 trails on the floors were creepy. The enemies also looked very impressive. There was even a moment 
 or two in this game where I jumped because of one of the ugly looking things coming out of nowhere. 
 One last thing: maybe I just have a dirty mind, but do those things that one of the enemies pop 
 out of look suspiciously like, you know, girls dirty parts? Regardless, it gave me and my college 
 roommates a good laugh.
  
  The sound is mediocre. On one hand, I loved the score and musical selection in the game. The dynamic 
 score throughout the game added another dimension that this game so desperately needed and the 
 various songs in the jukebox also impressed me. Heart, Judas Priest, and a personal favorite of 
 mine, MXPX, made a whole heartedly good professional soundtrack. But I have to get something off 
 of my shoulders. One thing that bothers me tremendously and something I've seen become common in 
 numerous games nowadays is the way the sound increases and decreases depending on where you are 
 positioned to where it is coming from. Now if you are standing right next to where the sound is 
 coming from and you start walking away, it should decrease. But in this game and many others, you 
 can be standing right next to the sound but be looking in the opposite direction and the sound 
 is noticeably quieter. For instance, in this game when I looked at the floor, the jukebox music 
 would be quieter, but if I looked up at the boom box, it got much louder. Am I the only one that 
 has the sense to know that this isn't how sound travels? But I digress. The voice acting in this 
 game was fine at some points and rather embarrassing in others. Tommy sounds nothing like you would 
 expect him to and the way he tries to portray different emotions fails miserably. Tommy's grandfather 
 does however sound like you would expect him to, but in a stereotypical mocking way. No matter 
 what you do with that character's voice, it would probably be wrong so it's a lose-lose situation 
 for the developers. To sum it up, the sound was impressive when it came to the music, but when 
 it came to the quality of the voice acting and the sound effects, it just didn't cut it.
  
  Prey is an ambitious title that deserves at least a rental if nothing else. It has a ton of unique 
 characteristics and it's enough to separate it from the rest of the pack in the crowded first person 
 shooter genre. But those unique characteristics just aren't polished enough to make this game a 
 truly outstanding game. If this game manages to have a sequel, then I think the sky will be the 
 limit and there will be nothing stopping the creativity of the developers. For now however, Prey 
 is a fun and unique, but flawed game that manages to pack a ton of new ideas into a mediocre design. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 5, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, Prey was the first game I played on my xbox 360 and completed for one simple reason. 
 It was the lowest rated game that I got in my initial collection on xbox 360 games. And since I 
 tend to have a problem playing games that I find inferior if I am playing another game that I think 
 is superior, I knew it had to go first.
  
  Now this doesn't mean that Prey is a shoddy product, but it is definitely not going to be everyones 
 cup of tea. For myself it offered some game worthy moments such as the Gravity inversion, nicely 
 detailed environments and a gameplay that was very familiar. The reason for the familarity is because 
 Prey was designed using the Doom 3 engine so the interface was very similar to Doom 3 and Resurrection 
 of Evil.
  
  Now anyone reading this most likely knows that the death system in Prey involves Tommy going to 
 the spirit world and shooting what are called Death Wraiths to increase your health bar and spirit 
 bar. This was nice in preventing reloads since its pretty easy to fall, get mauled or shot to death. 
 But it completely detracts from the sense of urgency or paranoia that such a dark environment could 
 provide. I think this is the biggest detractor from Prey for me. Its perfectly designed to be a 
 creepy, watch the corners experience. Especially with the portal system. Basically enemies teleport 
 in to do battle with you. While it was cool to see an enemy teleport in and turn off the walkway 
 gravity which would cause you to fall off, I really feel they could have done a lot more with this 
 in the game. I also didn't use my spirit form all that much in the game except where I needed to 
 get through force fields or cross to inaccessible areas. There were a few areas where you needed 
 your spirit form to help start some lift or open a portal because you have to touch two screens 
 and its too far to run from one to the other in time. Possibly more incidents like this might help 
 with Mr. Spirit Tommy.
  
  The story line was pretty bland I think. It didn't hold any real surprises and I was able to predict 
 in my head what was most likely going to happen next in the story line. The ending, after the credits 
 was interesting and of course prepares you for a Prey 2. I just hope that by that time 3d Realms 
 comes up with a better way to utilize the game system they have put in place. Prey defiinitely 
 has a lot of potential as a brand.
  
  ***UPDATE***
  
  I recently went back and finished Prey on Cherokee difficulty to see if there were any major differences. 
 I'm glad to report that I did manage to die once and that was before I got my spirit walk abilities. 
 Aside from that the only real difference was that there are no health stations in the Cherokee 
 difficulty. The enemies took a little more damage but since I already knew what to do to beat moost 
 of them so it wasn't that much more of a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thermalcold
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 17, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game on Microsofts Xbox mag demo disc, I thought it looked like a pretty 
 interesting game to play, where else can you jump on walls and walk on ceilings (and please don't 
 say Prince of Persia) ? I enjoyed the wall walking thing immensely, it was not over done, and it 
 shows what next gen consoles are now capable of in terms of what can be processed, as opposed to 
 just walking down a hallway. I liked the graphics, it not easy thing to do to come up with a completely 
 new world such as alien as this was. I certainly had no doubts on my lower resolution lcd tv that 
 the game would look pretty amazing on hi-def. It has a nice learning curve, nothing was thrown 
 at you all at once, it was broken up into little segments and given to you in a nice timely significant 
 way, as this gave learning the game quite easy and fast, which I like in a game that doesn't throw 
 everything at you in a training level kind of way, which gives you time to experiment and do what 
 you learned. As I was playing the game, though, I felt something was missing. I did like the arcade 
 games thrown in to break up the monotony of shooting, it just needed something more. The addition 
 of the shuttle was cool, as it let you fly around a level a bit, earlier consoles made this difficult 
 as it could not do draw distance that well. Either way, it just needed something more, like one 
 of my favorite games of all time, Shadowman, it had shooting, platforming, puzzles, transformations, 
 and NPC's to talk to other than yourself. I would definitely buy a sequel, as I loved the wall 
 climbing and the amazing world that was created for this game, but with repetitiveness, comes boredom, 
 and that would be something that would hold me back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wid
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 17, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  I felt compelled to write this after reading the review from Gamespot. I have just finished the 
 game and it was a great ride.
  
  The good:
  The game looks incredible. Great care was taken to make everything look fantastic and detailed. 
 It was awesome to just look at things and see how everything was just alive. Great monsters and 
 villains. Plenty of jump out moments. Including moments with Art Bell, just a great touch!
  
  I remember thinking, well Tommy may be a whiner, but I get the abducted into space. so let's 
 go with it, when I looked at the sign in the ship in front of me, and thought, well it's great 
 that the aliens write in English, when my buddy noticed, that your spirit guide actually is the 
 one who translates it. It's moments like that which are littered through out the game, the awe 
 moments. Just great attention to detail.
  
  Another great is level design. Level designs are 75% puzzles in the game, not that every level 
 is a puzzle, but it's a trip how they play with gravity, perspective, and size ratio. Just so you 
 know, another great feature, not even mentioned in Gamespot is the areas within each level get 
 larger, so you may start in a corridor but you'll end up on a giant asteroid running around in 
 a giant room-outdoor area. You also fly shuttle craft, which is limited by the room, is still a 
 great way to break up the levels, and add something a little different to keep things flowing. 
 The Spirit walker is a great addition, and makes it NOT like other FPS (Gamespot) . You can use 
 this mode to walk and scout ahead, to attack, attack effectively, to pick up extra ammo, and yes, 
 as Gamespot says, to flip the switch. Spirit walking is a great strategic tool, and a nice change 
 form every other FPS.
  
  The game is just fun, and a wonderful single player comparable if not better than Half-Life 2, 
 another great FPS Scifi Horror. I had slow moments due to repetition in HL2, rarely happened in 
 Prey. Bring on the Sequel.
  
  To be fair, things that could have been improved. 1. Weapon Sound- it is probably the area you 
 can tell not as much detailed was displayed and it showed because a lot of the enemies gun sounded 
 it like plastic. 
  
  2. Writing -Story line, Tommy not getting it. Tommy's only motivation was to save his girlfriend. 
 Grandpa shows him that he can't die buy going to the spirit world. I understand suspension of reality 
 but I think any 12 year old may have gone, whoa.. I can't die now, maybe this is thing is bigger 
 than just Jen. It didn't take away from the fun factor but a little more thought in creative writing 
 could have kept everything including the same, but just informed the audience that Tommy was a 
 little more together than just thinking about Jen. Tommy just whines too much to be a Hero. You 
 just want to scream at the guy, Get laid already, and go save the world! 
  
  3. I have only played the multi on the demo so I will not comment on that yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Carnage
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game and saw the gameplay, I thought it was going to be the next 
 Halo. When I finaly rented it a few days ago I was surprised to see that it still needs some work 
 but could still be a promising series in the future. First and foremost, the graphics weren't truly 
 next-gen. Prey looks a lot like the games that share it's engine, Quake 4 and Doom 3. The organic 
 combined to metal feel has been done before but no where near as Prey has done it, making the whole 
 enviroment seem alive. It goes along with the story but like I've said it's been time and time 
 before. The realy innovative stuff is the wall walking and gravity shifting. I've heard that they're 
 not new ideas but I think Prey has perfected them. The wall walking sometimes makes it hard to 
 aim and the gravity shifting does get confusing once in a while but once you get the hang of both, 
 it will be fine. The story is what I liked most about the game. It was different and it's not often 
 that the main character is a native american. Some of the story ideas have been taken from popular 
 media, like Chariots of the Gods, but there's always a little freaky twist to it. Sometimes Tommy's (the 
 main character) dailog gets a little annoying, he makes comments at a lot of things throughout 
 the game and it makes him seem like an average day teenager. It would have been nice if the developers 
 toned it down a bit. The spirt walking I thought was pretty good fun. It's mostly used for the 
 abundance of puzzles in the game, but thats still good. The puzzles themselves weren't too hard 
 after you've done the first few levels. Another thing I liked about this game is the afterlife 
 mini-game (I forget what it's called) , almost exactly the same as sprit walking but only when you 
 die and you have to kill the wraiths or whatever they are to come back to life again. The story 
 at the end seems a little fast paced but that sometimes happens, I would've liked to see them spread 
 it out longer but it was still good.
  
  Overall the game was good but get lost in the increasing genre of FPS. The loading times can get 
 a little long but they're bearable. It's story was different and borrowed some ideas but perfected 
 them at the same time. I truly do hope there is a sequel that fixs some of the problems mentioned, 
 I belive it could be a hard hitter. One last thing, if and when you beat this game make sure to 
 stick around after the credits for a little surprise ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asher20
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  I went into Prey with no prior expectations at all. I had heard and read very little about it. 
 In fact, my purchasing it was no more than a result of finding it for only $20. I just wanted a 
 solid FPS with updated graphics to go through and for the most part that is exactly what I got
 
  
  You are Tommy, a Cherokee Indian who hates his heritage and wants off the reservation he lives 
 on. He wants to take his girlfriend Jen, but she doesnt want to go, which is the only reason hes 
 still there. At the beginning of the game you, Jen and your grandpa are abducted by aliens. You 
 get free, grandpa dies and your main motivation through the rest of the game is rescuing your girlfriend. 
 The aliens live inside of the Sphere a huge planet-ish thing that is essentially alive. The walls 
 vomit, etc. and there is also a whole bunch of technology that opens portals and enables you to 
 walk on walls via walkways. It gets pretty crazyfor a better story-line descriptions, see gamespots 
 review. Without further ado
  
  Gameplay: 8
  There are very original gameplay concepts in this game. Gravity is something of the past here, 
 because in almost every level you have to activate some special walkways that let you walk upside 
 down, on side walls, etc, and all the while you are being attacked by enemies that are doing the 
 exact same. The portals are also very interesting, they drop you into a level upside down flip 
 you all over the place. The most interesting aspect of gameplay for me was the Spirit Mode (SM) 
 idea. Very early in the game you visit your grandpa in spirit land and he shows you how to use 
 your spirit to do things your body cant. At any time in the game you can go into SM and leave 
 your body behind. In SM you can go through shields and barriers, and find hidden walkways that 
 your body cannot access. Also, when you die you enter spirit mode and have to shoot blue and red 
 birds that give you more life. In a sense you can never truly die or get a game-over in this 
 game. These few main innovations greatly attribute to the value of the game however
  
  take your Dramamine before playing!!!... I had to take several breaks from the game because I was 
 getting slight cases of motion sickness and headaches. Some of the puzzles that you have to figure 
 out, require to drop through several portals over and over again, which results in the screen twisting 
 and turning until you dont know which way is up at all
  
  this is a first person shooter and has some very common stereotypes. The gameplay is still very 
 linear. Go here, shoot that, activate that to do this. Even with the portals it still gets that 
 feel. You are a tough guy, who gets kind of soft in the end and accepts his heritage, etc The 
 weapons arent too varied here either. They are fairly standard types (just in alien form) for 
 the most part. Also the game is very dark. The lightest level was the end. Aside from being a slightly 
 short campaign (8 hours or less on normal) the single player is a decent run through. Multiplayer 
 is another story. I played about two matches of this lag-infested multiplayer and called it quits. 
 It is difficult to kill others in multiplayer and the character models dont look very good at 
 all. The environments are alright, but the models themselves are victim to yet another case of 
 multiplayer graphic dumb-down. Graphics: 9
  The graphics in Prey are some of the best for the 360. Very smooth frame rates make the action 
 flow solidly. The only complaint I have is that the whole game is so dark (as mentioned above) . 
 You dont get a chance to see many of the enemies because you can barely make them out. I realize 
 that they wanted the tone of the game to be eerie/creepy (which they accomplished) , but some lighter 
 levels are always appreciated by me. Sound: 8
  The guns have pretty good sound. The aliens speak English??? I suppose if they are advanced enough 
 they would. Tommy sounds like Keanu Reeves from speed or the Matrixalmost identically. Thats 
 the one thing that got annoying. Instead of finding Tommy to be a macho man, you almost think of 
 him as a spoiled brat/punk. For the most part, the sound is great though.
  
  Value: 6
  If the game were still $60 the value would have been much less, but for $20 it wasnt bad. I definitely 
 think the single player is worth a run-through, but again the multiplayer was not that fun. Also, 
 I purchased the game on a Saturday afternoon, worked all day Sunday and beat it on Monday night, 
 so it wont take very long to go through the game. These two reasons are why I gave this game a 
 Rent it First comment. Rent it for $5 when you have a free weekend, beat it in a few days, get 
 an easy 700 gamerpoints, try the multiplayer and if you still like it, then purchase it. If you 
 can get into the multiplayer then it may be worth it for you. Tilt: 8
  I personally had a very fun time going through this game. I pretty much played it in all my spare 
 time and I do own Gears of War, so that has to say something for this game. Its not the best FPS, 
 but does have some great ideas that I would love to see show up in the next Prey game, but more 
 refined. Definitely of the better FPS for the console. Go out and rent this game, happy playing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastachief2552
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 11, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Prey for the XBOX 360 is fun to play, but once it's all said and done you really have no reason 
 to go back and play again. Prey puts you in the shoes of tommy a native American who wants to rid 
 himself of anything relating to his Cherokee heritage. basically the plot is evil aliens come to 
 earth to harvest humans for various evil reasons. as it turns out your grandfather, girlfriend 
 and you are captured by these evil aliens and taken on to there giant space ship/station/garbage 
 pile. as you would expect its up to you to save your lady friend and the world by blowing up anything 
 and everything. prey isn't your usual FPS the mechanics this game has such as portals, wall walking 
 and using sprit form to pass through certain walls are all implemented very well. However, some 
 levels become confusing because with these elements sometimes prey feels like a puzzle game with 
 shooting in between. Despite the first few easy levels, the difficulty gradually rises until you 
 complete the game although you actually cant die in this game! that's right there are no consaquences 
 for dieing. you simply go to a different plane of exsistance in order to regain health you need 
 to kill spirits, blue ones for spirit energy and red ones health pretty strait forward. while this 
 makes for an easy game it really sets prey back in the balance area, even on Cherokee difficulty 
 the hardest difficulty setting the game is actually very easy. the game has a total of 22 levels 
 getting harder as you go but since you cant die the difficulty doesn't matter. the graphics in the 
 game aren't what you would expect, while from a distance they look good but once you actually get 
 close up to a wall or other object it really starts to show how bad they relay are one thing about 
 the games graphics is the lighting.
  
  For most FPS multiplayer is a must have, prey has the multiplayer but between the lag and the unbalanced 
 weapons you will probably stear clear of this games multiplayer component unless you want the achievements. the 
 game itself has 44 achievements 17 multiplayer achievements and 27 single player achievements of 
 which 3 are secret achievements. seeing as how this game is overly easy i would recommend this game 
 for anyone looking to give there gamerscore a quick boost.
  
  Overall, I would say that prey is a very ambitious game but falls short with both single player 
 and multiplayer but isn't a bad game entirely and definitely worth a rent. You can have a great 
 time and unlock some pretty easy achievement points too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricDietrich
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Though not as graphically outstanding as more recently developed games (after all, 3D Realms has 
 been working on this title for nearly a decade) , Prey indubitably packs a punch in the visual design 
 department, delivering wonderfully slimy and outrageous levels and weapons the likes of which haven't 
 been seen since the Duke Nukem 3D era. In fact, the two games' similarities are many. Like Duke 
 Nukem, Prey's hero, Tommy, is an utter blockhead, and much of the action involves fighting somewhat 
 cartooney alien foes conducting horrific experiments on humans. Puzzles, often involving portals 
 and gravity shifts, are also quite reminiscent of the classic shooter.
  
  Additionally, Prey adds a healthy dash of Native American mysticism to the mix, notably the ability 
 to spirit walk past force fields and other such obstructions. Equally helpful are the spirit of 
 your dead grandfather and childhood pet eagle, who guide you through the world of Prey.
  
  Prey's weapons, though much like traditional FPS gear in functionality, are inventively designed. 
 Many of them are actually alive, wriggling and breathing in your grubby paws as they unleash gushy 
 destruction on your enemies.
  
  In many ways I prefer Prey's colorful and uniquely stylized look to the more polished appearance 
 of games like F. E. A. R. or Half Life.
  
  If Prey can be said to have any flaws, they'd have to be the game's relative brevity and lack of 
 challenge. Since Tommy is easily resurrected, death really isn't much to fear, and enemies never 
 come in overwhelming numbers. In fact, I'd say that compared to F. E. A. R. or Gears of War, Prey's 
 gaming experience is downright relaxing. I definitely have to give the developers props, however, 
 for retaining the PC version's ability to save at any time, an option so lacking in most console 
 games.
  
  Now that this game is available at quite a reasonable price, there really is no excuse for not 
 owning it if you're an FPS enthusiast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakka792
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  One look at Prey and you will definetely want the game.1 hour of playing the game, you get bored, feel 
 like you wasted your money and, want to play something else like Oblivion.
  Story~
  You play as Tommy, a cherooke indian badass that wont admit his heritage as and indian. The C herooke 
 is and ancient Indian tribe with only three people remaining, Tommy, his wise old Grandpa and tommy's 
 true love, Jen. After playing for a couple of minutes aliens arrive and abduct the three characters. 
 Its all up to Tommy to save the day.
  
  Gameplay~
  Prey makes you start off with a wrench, couple levels after you get your fist gun, a machince gun 
 that can zoom in like a sniper and deal a deadly sniper shot, its an alright mix between a machine 
 gun and a sniper rifle. The gameplay is pretty crap.
  
  Graphics~ good graphics, very good.
  
  Sound~ Crap, just plain old crap.
  
  So in the end, 
 Prey is a game not worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eldris
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game I played to completion on the 360. I borrowed it from a friend, so I had 
 all the time I needed to play it after he completed it. Because I got to play all the way through 
 single player, I normally would not purchase this game, but if I saw it in a bargain bin I would 
 still pick it up because of its engrossing multiplayer.
  
  The Single player was what I needed at the time of playing. It was creepy, had great visuals, and 
 was kill almost everything you see gunner. The dynamic of having a spirit form was a nice touch, 
 and though my friends thought it disturbed the game balance, I liked that whenever you died you 
 would simple play a mini-game to get life a spirit back, then come back to life. It cut through 
 the annoyance of having to start levels over again, and made the protagonist seem almost invincible. 
 However, despite this I still yelped and squirmed, trying to keep my guy alive. That is a staple 
 of a game that draws you in, having you afraid for your character's life.
  
  The visuals were very pretty. However, this is coming from a person who only recently made the 
 conversion from PS2 to 360, and am not used to next-gen graphics yet.
  
  There were times that the game did not seem action-packed enough, and there were times that the 
 trudging through levels was tedious, but all in all it was a worthwhile experience.
  
  The terrific part of the game, however, is the replay value in its multiplayer. I am not sure why, 
 but the multiplayer's run and gun, fight and die style shooter is so action-packed and engaging 
 that it compels you to play more and more.
  
  All in all, this game is a decent single player FPS, but a good multiplayer FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commtom
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  remind me a lot of Doom 3 because it get thing at look messed up and hard to play Doom 3 and Prey 
 are like the same but prey it so more cool and cool gear it make Doom 3 look like it was made for 
 one years old so prey is go for players at want a game with a lot of messed up things. be ready 
 because prey can get hard like one day i was playing it i get killed but i didnt how to say it 
 but i find out i get killed from behind so i watch my back from behind and i find what kill me 
 and kill it and prey made me just jump a few times like i was walk down a hall and one the thing 
 jump out and i jumped and the time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mctiernan2002
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Enjoyed the game and thought the first level was amazing when your warped up to the alien ship. 
 The music made it i think. The rest of the game is fun and i really liked the gravity spots everywhere 
 and the puzzles from one level to the next. Completed the game pretty quickly. Good selection of 
 weapons and variety of baddies. Multiplayer is weak, not many players and servers are laggy alot. 
 Would buy the next one though, excellent story line.
  
  Had a feel of Shenmue with the arcade games you can play. Nice ending to the game. Dont want to 
 ruin it for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 22, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Try this game its great in some ways. Prey is an ambitious game. A game that feels like Doom 3 with 
 a puzzles twist. You have access to interesting organic weapons, and a spaceship known as the Sphere, 
 with many gravity defying puzzles for you to solve as you advance. Many interesting features such 
 as SApirit walk, Wall Walk, and Death Walk are present within the game. Being a linear FPS there 
 is limitations, but even with them this game is big on environment. But what makes the game feel 
 less like a shooter and more like an adventure/puzzle game is the Death walk feature. This feature 
 makes it so that when you run out of health, you don't die, but rather are sent to lets just say 
 a different dimension to attack wraiths for spirit and body health. Basically, your invincible, 
 and because of this, it takes all of the strategy out of the shooter element of the game especially 
 the boss battles, making the puzzles your only sense of enjoyment. Another flaw of this game is 
 that it has absolutely NO replay value. The multiplayer is laggy 90% of the time, that is if you 
 can even find a match in progress, and once you finish the single player, it's pretty much a bore 
 fest, even the end of the game the first time becomes bland with the same gimmicks and puzzles 
 each time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mstrchiefpwns
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Prey is an ambitious game. A game that feels like Doom 3 with a puzzles twist. You have access 
 to interesting organic weapons, and a spaceship known as the Sphere, with many gravity defying 
 puzzles for you to solve as you advance. Many interesting features such as SApirit walk, Wall Walk, 
 and Death Walk are present within the game. Being a linear FPS there is limitations, but even with 
 them this game is big on environment. But what makes the game feel less like a shooter and more 
 like an adventure/puzzle game is the Death walk feature. This feature makes it so that when you 
 run out of health, you don't die, but rather are sent to lets just say a different dimension to 
 attack wraiths for spirit and body health. Basically, your invincible, and because of this, it 
 takes all of the strategy out of the shooter element of the game especially the boss battles, making 
 the puzzles your only sense of enjoyment. Another flaw of this game is that it has absolutely NO 
 replay value. The multiplayer is laggy 90% of the time, that is if you can even find a match in 
 progress, and once you finish the single player, it's pretty much a bore fest, even the end of 
 the game the first time becomes bland with the same gimmicks and puzzles each time. Worth a rent 
 but definitely not worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotgun4292
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Prey was a good game but it was'nt great. The graphics were good but didn't show off the 360 potentiel. 
 The gameplay was fun with all the choises of guns and the ability to shoot upsiedown was alot of 
 fun. The single player story was short snd really wasn't that great of a story. XBOX LIVE though 
 this game shines. The online play is great. You coukld do deathmatches on great and most mimportantly 
 it was fun ang great to play. This game was not revolutionary but it was a solid game. There are 
 better games on the 360 right now and this game is worth playing but not to buy it. You will get 
 the full thounsand points in a weeeks time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JCOscar
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Prey is one of my favorite first person shooters, i have seen the graphics and the variety of weapons 
 that the player is aloud to use. This game gives the perfect challange that a first person shooter 
 riquires to have a enteraining side. The enemies are one of the most favorite things that the game 
 has to offer. Wlaking on walls is not somethign that you don't see very often. I have to say that 
 the game just offers a fantastic ability to control the amount of times that have to play this 
 game over and over. If you are a fan of the First Person Shooter youmust take a look to what the 
 game has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willisons
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  THe Xbox 360 game prey had a very strong story, it was new and entertaining. that being said it 
 is time for the negative.
  the game prey was way to short with a story line that could have been told a little better. the 
 ending was really cheesy with a Stargate like portal opening for a future fallow up.
  the multiplayer could be the worst yet to come to any 360 game. sure it had a fresh idea od walking 
 on walls and using the whole map, but the choices were pathetic at lest. the option of only having 
 deathmatch and team deathmatch was a huge mistake. Prey could have had tons of cool games using 
 that feat, but it fell short; they also dropped the ball on different skins to use in multiplayer, 
 it took them 2 months to finally have a download that contained new skins for the multiplayer characters.
 
  over all Prey was all Visuals and no fun.
  Until Next Time
  --Dan the Gaming Man 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 27, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I actually had some high hopes for this game, but after I started playing it, I came to the realization 
 that a Native American spirit world theme interwoven into an alien/sci-fi based plot makes for 
 nothing but a hodge podge, terrible mixture of themes to base a plot on. Talk about a complete 
 LACK of creativity.... uhhh.
  
  The game play was pretty standard fare for a FPS, although I was not particularly fond of most 
 of the weapons. The anti-gravity/walking up walls feature was a neat new twist, however, and was 
 fun at first, but became novel pretty quickly because the overall atmosphere of the game was just 
 lacking in excitement for me. The spiritwalk feature I tought was actually pretty stupid and completely 
 out of element for this type of game, I mean you go from shooting heavy weapons, to astral travel 
 with a bow and arrow.... AGAINST ALIENS FOR CRYING OUT LOUD!!!! The control scheme was typical trigger 
 happy FPS as well.... nothing new, nothing that stood out as unique in terms of gameplay.
  
  The graphics were fairly impressive and were by far and large the best aspect of the game, but 
 unfortunately, nice visuals do not make up for a rather dull and generally uninteresting campaign 
 that starts to get very repetitive and boring rather fast. I normally love a good FPS, but this 
 one nearly quite literally put me to sleep.
  
  All in all a pretty dismal game for the 360, regardless of some halfway decent graphics, lol. Maybe 
 they should have concentrated on making the GAME better instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcmike1942
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 24, 2006 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Prey is the kind of game that looks cool, but once you get it and start playing it, you think how 
 did this make it past the story board phase. Granted it does have a cool story. The bad part is 
 that the game is so long and boring that you never really get a chance to find out that story. 
 The graphics are good, but everything else is rather average. Lots of problems and very slow. Easy 
 to get bored of and just stop playing. The game need to get a kick start and be made a bit less 
 elaborate. wouldn't buy it, even renting seems like a waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystoval
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Very good game too bad is very easy and when you are killed the game send you to a espiritual place 
 to regain you blood a return exactly where you died before and that is no match is not really challenge 
 with this and agragate taht the enemies are very easy to kill the game is a piece of cake so you 
 dont enjoy completly and that is very negative point. If the difficult were higher the game would 
 be excellent. Out of this the game has very good graphics and very good design of enemies and weapons 
 are very innovating the gameplay also is innovating some places you are in the roof ans you can 
 turn this so the gravety doesnt play like in earth. I highly recommend play this game if you want 
 to play some Sci fiction games and a bite of suspense. Some weapons are build in biotech like half 
 life opossing force the grenades are a alien spider that explodes like an acid and some other weapons 
 are like this one so is very interesting the stages yuo can go anywhere in the roof or in the walls 
 so there are a lot of ways is good anf innovative 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Realgamerzz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - 9/10
  Wall-walking, Spirit-walking, Death-walking, and Portals all make this game very interesting, and 
 original. The only thing I didn't like, was flying around in that weird little shuttle.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  The organic weapons, enemies, environments all look very good. You really get 
 the feeling like your in a very strange alien spaceship.
  
  Sound - 8/10
  The sound was good. The voice-acting wasn't bad, and the weapons sound OK.
  
  Value - 9/10
 
  Single player takes about 10-12 hours to complete, which is long enough for me. But I haven't 
 tried out the multiplayer yet, so I can't say if that's good or not.
  
  Tilt - 10/10
  Prey is a very good shooter and is easily recommendable to any Sci-Fi FPS fan out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xenobia1981
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 16, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok, This is by far one of the most twisted games I have ever played. This is not a bad thing. The 
 graphics were impressive, and the sound was well done and fitting. However, the game play is what 
 got me. It starts out like any other first person shooter. You know, one guy against, well, everybody. 
 But then it gets weird. And soon, you have no idea what is going on. All you know is that your 
 grand father is dead, your girlfriend is missing, and you are currently walking on the ceiling. 
 I think the most disorientating thing, but also one of the coolest effects, s when you are walking 
 thru crate portals, but before you go thru, you can see yourself facing a different direction in 
 the room you are about to go into/ leave. If you have no idea what I am talking about, then you 
 need to get this game. You won't regret it, but your senses might. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BamTino024
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 9, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Wow. I have to say I was very impressed by Prey. This game was above average in all areas. The 
 gameplay mechanics were very good. Controls were easy to use and functioned well with the ways 
 you needed to interact with your environment. The weapons were all very cool. You don't use any 
 human wepaons, except of cource for the pipe wrench you somehow remember to cram in you pocket 
 as the aliens are beaming you up into their ship. You will make use of all alien weapons... and 
 these weapons are actually alive. Example: the scope of the basic rifle you will pick up is a little 
 biological eye-looking thing that attaches itself to your eye giving you an infrared scope view... occasionally 
 this little eye will turn back and look at you when you have the gun out but aren't shooting at 
 anything. You will also get some other weapons will cool and create ways of dealing damage. The 
 graphics looked amazing. The amount of detail in the alien sphere was insane, especially since 
 the ship is a living organism and some walls actually expand and contract, like it's breathing. 
 Probably the three greatest aspects of this game were the spirit walking capabality, the fact that 
 you don't really die when you die, and the multi-directional gravity that allows you to walk on 
 the wall or ceiling. WIth spirit walking, you take on your Indian spirit form and can walk through 
 certain doors or accross large chasms and can see hidden things you can't see normally. The death 
 walk feature allows you to go to spirit world when you die, where you can shoot red and blue spirits 
 to recharge your health and then re-enter the real world. Gravity switches allow you to walk not 
 only on the floor, but on the walls and ceilings too, which is very neat. The story is also very 
 interesting. It doesn't seem so far out there that you'll be sitting there saying, oh that's just 
 stupid. It grabs you attention and makes you want to keep playing to find out what happens and 
 why certain things are happening to you. If you have a 360, or even a PC, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 5, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  I have waited bloomin ages for this. i read every preview, especially on Gamespot . My god did 
 Prey look good. The ideas about gravity and portals... This is gonna be good. Doom 3 engine, jesus 
 this really od going to look great.
  
  I bought it on day one. And it looks very nice. Did I say very nice? Yeah it looks good. But I 
 am feeling a tad dissapointed. Ooh look, I can leave my body and walk through shields. Hey this 
 is different. I die and I go to a place where I can shoot things with a bow and arrow to get health 
 and spirit power for my bow.
  
  Ooh look I can walk on the ceiling. And I can lose my bearing s really easy and get shot. There 
 a protal there, lets go through. And where am I? I am standing looking at my back as I am about 
 to walk through and come out 10 feet behind myself..... As I said some really great ideas, but 
 here's my slant:-
  
  Looks very good. Especially on HDTV.
  Very easy to get lost and disorientated.
  Aliens look great. Aliens speak english (seems strange)
 
  You can leave your body and press some buttons or shoot some one with a bow and arrow.
  Multiplayer is hard for me, I get dissorientated to easy then get hammered by some young berk, 
 running backwards through a portal while calling me some names (oh to be young eh) .
  
  I think it is the game they advertised, but some how it's not THE game I expected. Know what I 
 mean? I expected so much, maybe to much. Still a very good game. Still a very good looking game.
 
  Still had a lot of very good ides.
  Still I ain't any good at multiplay.
  
  I do not regret buying it, and I would recommend you have it in your 360 collection, escpecially 
 at the time of writing it's only &pound;29.99 on Play. com PC version is &pound;14.99 (better graphics 
 if your have the kit) .
  
  Buy it. It well worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sardax
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:43 am PT
Review:  First I want to add the specific games where they have taken it's storyline and goal together and 
 mixed it into a Prey-cocktail with loads of extra things what makes this game so perfect!!!
  
  - Advent Rising (an alien race comes to earth to kill humanity)
  - Gene Troopers (the aliens 
 come with their complete race to annihilate humanity and other races)
  - Independence Day ( an alien race comes to earth to kill humanity, but here they come with a mothership 
 that acts like a complete homeworld from where they operate everything)
  - Retribution (almost same story... An alien race comes to earth to harvest the human race for 
 food)
  - System Shock (here you find those slaves who operate machines and if you let them do their job, 
 they won't bother you)
  
  A real focked up game with strange doors and 360 degrees turning rooms where you are able to reach 
 things which you couldn't if the standards were normal (human-like) .
  VERY detailed surroundings!!!! You know immediatly that you are on an organic world... I think 
 that these aliens are bringing their complete planet with them, surrounded by an artificial mechanical 
 shell. Moving from one starsystem to the other, to harvest all life and gained technology... Like 
 the Borg, but a little bit different... (quake 4 is more borg-like)
  This world, like the ring-world from Halo... It's a combi-game... I am sure it would have been 
 very difficult to program this all... My compliments!!!!
  It's dark and light... You even encounter yourself in space!!!! Flying a craft around the huge 
 alien constructions... To figure out where to go next or what to do next... And at least: The way 
 you die... It's not like: YOU DIE, YOU START ALL OVER AGAIN... No! You can switch between LIFE 
 and DEATH, to become a ghost!!! Like in THE LEGACY OF KAIN - RAZIEL... When he switched between 
 the materialistic world and the ghost world, the world around you changed a bit... Places where 
 you couldn't go in materialistic status are available in the ghost world. Without this special 
 ability you couldn't get far... And in this state, you can disable enemies with your ghostly weapon 
 untill your spiritual powers are gone, but you can't die and can still do certain things like opening 
 doors so your material state can finish the job afterall...
  And as in Raziel, you need to gain souls (energy) to make it possible to go back to the materialistic 
 world...
  And when you die, you need to gain souls in order to come back to the place you died in full health 
 and spiritual power... It was a highly addictive game. But easy... I finished it in 3 days... Halo 
 2 for example... The second time I played that, I finished it in about 8 hours... I liked the story 
 so much... Now I can dream it... For Prey, this is different... I don't want to play it again, 
 the story was so compelling, so intense... My dreams are filled with it... One hint: DO NOT TURN 
 YOUR XBOX OFF WHEN YOU FINISHED THE GAME!!!! WAIT AFTER THE CREDITS... :-P It's well worth waiting 
 for it...
  
  Greetings,
  Sardax (a. k. Vantazzy) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brainmachine44
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  i dont usally enjoy first person shooters unless there is a good plot or a interesting angle this 
 one ticked both boxes.
  I think the grahapics are stunning with lots of little touches ,the sound if good and i love the 
 fact you dont die as that keeps me comming back to play it , the enemy AI isnt to bad apart from 
 the fact who ever did the voices LOVEd the fith element !!
  the weapons are also enjoyable as they are living creatures that move and when u stand still interact 
 with u alittle .
  the enviroments are awe inspiring with grand shots of earth along with mad biomechanical coridors 
 with acid spewing anus looking weird tings which all add to the effect your on a strang alien spaceship 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pep3_le_pew
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 2:01 am PT
Review:  i liked the single player of this and thought it was great. it had me laughing and jumping out 
 of my seat at times with its scripted humour and cut scenes. the game itself is short however but 
 the game play is excellent. on-line it is really bad due to people being able to go into rooms 
 once the game has started (i think) , which causes serious lag, u can be stuck in a spot for ages 
 as the screen just flickers and jumps while you try to move (if you stop trying to move however 
 this does stop, but its all about moving and there's no point in standing still. i liked the fact 
 that you could get into a space shuttle and fly around and shoot your opponents from above but 
 its advisable staying away from on-line gaming with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmaster3823
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 29, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  i just finished Prey's single-player and i played a little bit of the multi-player but i didn't 
 like it because it was to dark and i couldn't see my enemys and then i died so i'm not going to 
 talk about that. well okey then, at the single player you start at the casino bar of your family 
 some people try to hurt the girl you love and you all get sucked into a spaceship and something 
 goes wrong in there and you escape and you get some alien guns you go upsidedown on the spaceship 
 literly, well in term of gameplay it's fun at the start but you get bord of it really soon when 
 you are getting bord of waiting for the new weapon to come along. the enemy are really not diffrent 
 some might fly some may be soliders (most of them are) some might be machines, there aren't many 
 boss fights and that's sad. i couldn't say that this is a great looking game but it's nice and 
 the sound is better but still not great. this game was one of the most anticepated game because 
 of it's great tralirs but when you play it it; s not so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixthsquare
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  this game has a great story line but easy game play ,weapons are great and most are original, the 
 online play suck badly. this game reminds you a lot of doom. over all i say got to play this game 
 just not own it. some things in the game like the gravity catwalks and gravity changers are cool. the 
 weapons are also cool ranging from a automatic rifle that doubles as a sniper , to an acid gun 
 to a leech gun. the grenades are cool little insects that if throw will blow up like a frag but 
 if you push the left trigger before you throw it tommy will flip the insect over in his palm when 
 thrown like this it sticks to enemies like plasma grenades from halo. over all this game is good 
 and a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X9MMBULLETSX
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 25, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  Preys concept has been in development for like 10 years but it is now on shelves ready to buy and 
 i think it is a great game. In the game you are a mechanic called Tommy who dosent really like 
 his life and were it is heading etc well not to long after he is sucked up into and alien space 
 ship yeah not what he was hoping for. The game is very fun and near the end you wont be able to 
 put the game down because you want to know what happens next. This is a very good game not amazing 
 but still a fun game which keep you captivated for up to 10-12 hours BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stealth_Cat
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 24, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Prey. A name that fits the description if the game perfectly. The story is very unique and has 
 many twists unlike other games. It takes place on an alien structure that has taken over the earth. 
 The only reason that you are on it is to save your girlfriend, Jen. The best part that makes it 
 so much better than others is because you can use your Native American powers to kill your enemys. 
 Also with these powers you can never really die, you just get sent back to the spirit world where 
 shooting down evil wraith spirits is the only way to come alive again. The gravity flipping switches 
 and mind bending puzzles make it truly interesting and different from others. The graphics are 
 amazing and the sound is pretty good. The only bad part of the game is the multi-player. There 
 is horrible lag in most 8 people games but the hosts with fast connection have no problem. This 
 game is great. Buy it, rent it what ever just play the game. You wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 21, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  Prey is not your usual shoot em up... it combines strategic and puzzling game play to the midst 
 of it to keep you from getting bored! Prey starts of in your girlfriends bar when it is suddenly 
 attacked by some weird craft... you are then in a the aliens space ship when it breaks down and 
 your left alone to tackle what lies ahead on the ship. The game is hugely interactive and puzzling. 
 Like for instance... something may not always seem as a route out of your current location: i looked 
 into what seemed like an empty doorway in the centre of the room as i looked through all i could 
 see was the opposite wall of the room i was in... but when i looked around the other side.... it 
 was a completely different room! The game keeps u in positions like this to make you spectate and 
 look over your environment more than you normally would do if in your usual shooter. Dying is no 
 longer a possibility as there is something new introduced from the makers of Bullet-time ... its 
 called deathwalk . When you die you appear on what seems like this strange planet filled with all 
 these different birds floating around a weak centre spot. You see your corpse rise then smash through 
 the ground sucking you back in to your current location... so dying is no longer a bad thing. The 
 game also lets you take on a different form of body as you play as Tommy the Cherokee. You can 
 switch into what seems like a phantom/ghost. You can use this skill you your advantage. Go through 
 forcefields and deativate them on the other side allowing you to pass through... clear the way 
 of enemies before you enter the room so on and so forth. Prey has a wide variety of some stunning 
 and disturbing imagery
  Stunning: Scenery when you look out of windows and see how well detailed everything outside is! 
 Disturbing: Strange creatures spitting arms and legs and feet at you as you walk by, the slave 
 workers, the fact you see children being killed or killing each other. The games graphics are far 
 from dissapointing! They offer so much realism you feel like you could reach out and grab it (with 
 HD adapters and televisions) .
  The sounds of Prey give off the eerie feel of the place.. sounds of creatures, tortured beings, 
 clanging of metals and outbursts of gunfire all take place around or with you. Overall prey is 
 different... to find out more on it visit the website or JUST BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalHead48
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 20, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I first saw Prey was excited for it to come out. I didn't bother to rent it, thinking that it would 
 be great. The ideas were original and awesome, but the developers, well, didn't develop them very 
 well, I think if they would have released it later, they would have played in the portals, spirit 
 walking, and other cool things a lot more, and in a better way. Also, the fact that you can't die 
 is a major let down. It takes out all of the challenge of the game
  
  Bottom Line:
  This game could have been much better. There are better games coming out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaimzl
Rating: 3.4
Date: Oct 19, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  absolute disaster
  
  lets start with gameplay. so boring so easy and sooooooooooo short. ai is crap they just run up 
 to u and sound the alarm if u let em get away.
  
  graphics. they game actually doesn't look half bad but they half @$$ed it by having lag and many 
 graphical glitches suck as broken pixels
  
  sound was very bland like boom boom boom zing zing zing and my fav doodoododo.
  
  check ur 
 bargain bin NOT WORTH IT
  
  overall this game sucked pretty bad dont buy it unless its under 20 dollars Canadian which is about 
 10 cents american
  
  let me steal some of ur foodz kthxbai 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmeggs41
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Prey is getting fed to the dogs. Why I do not know. This game will mess with your mind. Theres 
 only one word to describe it Twisted . I was very weary to purchase it, especially the Limited 
 Collector's Edition. But I did and Wow graphics were aammaazzing, fairly easy enemies, but twisted 
 environments. That in itself is worth the game. Great FPS. Jeremy Soule did again with the score, 
 Excellent. (select an action below) ______________ Moderate Delete Message Edit Message View Edit 
 History Posted by tmeggs41, Jul 14, 2006 4:39 am ET 0 Comments PrintE-mailCommentTagDigg thisEnter 
 your tags below. Use commas to separate tags.
  Examples: voice acting, star wars, hdtv Save Tags
  Error. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 3.8
Date: Oct 17, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  I regret buying this game; I suppose I learned another lesson to not buy any game that promises 
 anything good. I really disliked the garbage of a spaceship they made up, the same scenery over 
 and over with unrealistic scales to the size of it. Stupid tricks with gravity which people are 
 expect to like, but just make your eyes and head hurt from all the flipping around. This games 
 is too dark, I don't like my eyes bleeding from trying to see through pitch black graphics. The 
 weapons feel really weak and had terrible sound effects for all of them - the rocket launcher which 
 was good and was easy to use. There isn't even a melee attack like in Halo? You can fly around 
 in these clunky, really cheap feeling vehicles in the ship bumping into dark walls hoping to find 
 an exit and end the game as soon as possible.
  
  Their story, the dull gameplay, bad graphics, it all just makes you want to end the game as soon 
 as possible. With Halo, shooting enemies would knock them backwards like you would expect. However, 
 this game the enemies acting like they werent even being hit until they died. Their bodies didnt 
 fly around in the air either, they disappeared. And bullet holes didn't go into the walls either.
 
  
  This game looks and plays exactly like Doom 3. Its enemies and darkness looked exactly like Doom 
 3. And the gameplay, and story just isn't there. Don't rent or even bother with Prey - this game 
 is terrible. They seemed proud of this game by saying in the ending credits Prey will continue 
 . I hope they were joking, no more Indian spaceship adventure tales for this fella. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 16, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  You play Tommy a Cherokee Indian that wants to leave the reservation with his girl Jen. Unfortunately 
 before Tommy can let Jen know his intentions aliens come and abduct Tommy his granddad and Jen. 
 Now on a spaceship Tommy breaks free of his restraints and sets off to rescue his girl. As you 
 can tell, this story probably took all of two seconds to dream up.
  
  Prey has a couple of quirks which separate it from other first person shooters. Firstly portals 
 are used to transport you around from place to place. The second area in which Prey differs from 
 other FPS games is the gravity; gravity on the ship changes so you never really know which way 
 is up or down. If you ever get slightly nauseous playing FPS games this one is likely to make you 
 run to the toilet. At times portals are used to good effect, you can be ported to smaller areas 
 and actually shrunk to fit in a glass, but you will find most of the portals will simply act as 
 doorways; however you can see and shoot through portals from the other side. The gravity aspect 
 of the game offers much more. You will see walkways which enable you to walk up walls and onto 
 ceilings. Portals and the gravity can work in tandem as some portals will transport you to rooms 
 you have previously visited but the gravity will be reversed. It can all become quite disorientating.
 
  
  The level design is very straight forward which means Prey relies on gun battles to keep you playing. 
 The Aliens have the ability to use the portals to appear in your room, sometimes they will appear 
 behind you so you have to keep you guard. The aliens are armed with the same weapons as you, if 
 you are visible, even a long way off the aliens will still be able to pick you off if you stand 
 still for too long. If you are out of the alien's line of sight they may sling a grenade over in 
 your direction. All of the enemies are quite easy to deal with whatever the situation.
  
  As with all FPS games, weapons play a major part in the game. Prey is no different but their execution 
 is probably quite different to anything you have seen before. You start the game with a pipe which 
 you will be able to dispatch your first alien hunter, then you will acquire a rifle which acts 
 pretty much like a machine gun. There is a scope on the weapon which can be used as a sniper rifle. 
 As this is an alien weapon it looks a bit strange, the whole game has a half metal, half organic 
 tissue type look. The gun is no different. The grenades are small creepy crawly creatures that 
 you find crawling on the floor. To detonate you pull off a leg and throw it, if you turn them over 
 you can lay them as mines or use them as sticky grenades. More weapons become available later in 
 the game such as grenade launchers, acid guns and rocket launchers, all pretty standard stuff for 
 the FPS genre. There is a leach weapon too which enables you to leach different types of power 
 from terminals around the spaceship. Depending on the type of power you have leached the gun will 
 fire different projectiles from hot plasma, to electricity to a freeze ray. Since the enemy is 
 never very difficult to deal with many of the weapons are over powered and don't really offer any 
 additional benefit.
  
  As you progress through the game Tommy becomes aware he has the ability to spirit walk. In spirit 
 form you are armed with a bow and arrow, one shot will kill a warrior alien. The main advantage 
 and the only time you need to use the spirit walk is to get past force fields. In spirit form you 
 can still collect ammo which is useful and you can still interact with various buttons and switches. 
 The norm is to use spirit walk through force fields and when on the other side switch them off 
 so you may pass in normal form.
  
  Should you die, you will go to spirit world, here you must fire your bow and arrow at targets to 
 recharge your health and spirit energy, after doing this for 20 seconds you will be sent right 
 back to where you died. Death isn't a big deal and this also does away with all the saves you would 
 normally have to make in other FPS. If you decide to stop playing you simply save the game at that 
 point and finish playing.
  
  The multiplayer accommodates up to eight players in death-match and team death-match. Maps are 
 well designed and the use of portals is much more effective here than in the single player campaign. 
 Unfortunately you cant play split screen you can only have multiplayer games on Xbox live or via 
 the system link.
  
  Ultimately Prey is a decent FPS but it doesn't offer much of a challenge. Any FPS fan will have 
 played better games that Prey before but the portals and gravity twists do make Prey interesting 
 if not entertaining. If you're an FPS fan and you want another game to get stuck in to, Prey will 
 delivery the goods, just for a limited time only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mugen76
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 18, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it, Prey was the game to watch at E3 2006. This project was scrapped in favor of others 
 at 2K Games and was revived to great fanfare and anticipation. So much for all that. Prey is the 
 classic example of a cookie-cutter game that doesn't have much else going for it aside from a couple 
 of interesting gameplay elements. The sad fact is, this game could've been good, but instead the 
 game feels rushed and has a lot of ideas that should have been expanded on.
  
  You start off as Tommy, a Cherokee indian who wants a life outside the indian reservations. He 
 tries (and fails) to convince his girlfriend, Jen, to leave the reservation with him, when all 
 of a sudden, the classic alien invasion occurs. You get sucked up in a tractor beam onto the alien 
 vessel, and try to find a way out. Unknown forces free you, and it's up to you to find your girl 
 and save both her, and Earth in the process.
  
  This story has been recycled so many times, it makes Castlevania's storyline look fresh. They've 
 been doing alien invasion storylines since the original War of the Worlds was on the radio on that 
 Halloween in the 1940's.
  
  Gameplay is standard for your typical FPS, which is what this game amounts to. What the developers 
 did to set Prey apart from the pack was to add certian portals and gravity twists around the ship, 
 so no room is exactly the same twice, unless you're backtracking. This adds for some gameplay that 
 could have been potentially fun, and it was for me for the first couple hours.
  
  Another gameplay element that was added was the spirit walk. By pressing the corresponding button, 
 the screen turns blue, and you walk around with a bow and arrow filled with spiritual energy (the 
 Indians are big on the spiritual stuff) . The sad part is that, like so much else in the game, it 
 could've been so much more. All the spirit walk amounts to, though, is puzzle-solving and walking 
 through force fields. This idea I liked the most, but it wasn't expanded on enough.
  
  On the topic of spiritual stuff, there's one more gameplay element that brings the whole game down: 
 the Death Walk. What happens is that when you die, after you get the Death Walk ability, you go 
 to this realm in spirit form, and you shoot red and blue colored demons. When you get sucked back 
 into the hole in the middle, you go back to exactly the same place you were before you died, unless 
 you died falling off a cliff, then you start on the edge of it. This little element is one of the 
 worst ideas I think I have ever seen in a video game. The Death Walk takes all the challenge out 
 of an already easy game, and, while I don't know about everybody else, I like to have some challenge 
 in my games.
  
  Graphics don't make good use of the Xbox 360's power. I don't know about other people, but I think 
 I saw these environments before on the original Xbox. The environments, while gross and creepy, 
 are a minimal upgrade from the original Xbox.
  
  Where most Xbox games shine is online, and this one is also disappointing. There can be major lag 
 problems with the engine, and it's just not any different from Halo or Perfect Dark Zero. The game 
 is also WAY too easy. You can beat it in a day with no problems. A lot can be said for longevity, 
 and this game has none.
  
  Only die-hard FPS fans need apply to this game. It's just too cookie-cutter and recycled from some 
 of the same gameplay elements. Sometimes, it even tries to be Halo. I knew Halo. I played Halo. 
 You, sir, are no Halo.
  
  A 2 out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyaballikl
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 15, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Prey is probably the craziest idea I've ever seen in a game. Discussing with my buddies, we came 
 to the conclusion that whoever created the story did it on a dare, like I bet you can't make a 
 big money game with Indians and aliens out in space! But here it is. You play as this Indian who 
 has rejected his culture, but you get abducted by aliens who harvest humans for food. The main 
 goal in the game is to get your girlfriend back. Really, there's not a ton of incentive there, 
 not enough to go all the way through this alien space station, but frankly, you've got nowhere 
 better to be!
  
  Although the story line is weak, the little bit of voice acting is fairly solid. Also, if you need 
 drive to get through the game, the achievements are pretty easy, as you gain one after each level, 
 then one at the end of the game, and another 65 pointer after you defeat the game on Cherokee mode.
 
  
  The control in the game is about as solid as controls in an FPS can be. There's a bit of auto aim 
 featured, which really helps you get the head shots, and the weapon switching and other controls 
 work well, not really much to say there. Prey is a bit lacking in the weapons department. It's 
 got some cool ones, but could use a bit more destructive power, or maybe just a bit more variety. 
 The ammo placement in the game is very well designed. You'll never run entirely out of ammo, but 
 you'll come close a few times towards the end.
  
  The environments are absolutely wicked. With high detailed environments backing up some beautifully 
 creepy rooms and hallways, in addition to some absolutely gigantic parts of the ship when you're 
 flying around, it really sets a great atmosphere. Some parts are pretty disgusting, too, like a 
 hole in the wall that looks like a giant anus that opens to form a doorway for you, even gives 
 a nice sound effect (your character voices his disgust the first time he sees things like this) . 
 The enemies, like the guns, are a bit lacking in variety, but the few there are look pretty friggin 
 cool.
  
  Some wild stuff exists in the game, like magnetic walkways that allow you to walk around on the 
 walls and ceilings (these also provide a good strategy, as you turn them off while enemies are 
 on them, the enemies fall to their deaths!) . Then, as there are a lot of Half-Life 2 style puzzles 
 in the game, there are spots on walls and ceilings where you can shoot to set the gravity onto 
 that wall, to get around high obstacles and whatnot. After a certain point, you can also enter 
 the spirit walk, where you leave your body and can not only walk through energy fields to flip 
 switches and turn them off (although you can't open doorways in spirit walk) , but there will be 
 hidden walkways that are only accessible in spirit walk. You also cannot be hurt while in spirit 
 walk mode, but you can shoot from your spirit bow, which gets replenished when you collect souls 
 from dead enemies.
  
  One possible major down or major upside (depending on your personal preference) , is that the game 
 is VERY easy. After you get passed like the second chapter, if you ever die, you go to death walk, 
 which is where you get about 30 seconds to shoot these death wraiths flying around you to replenish 
 your health. If you get just 1 red death wraith, you get to return to life right near where you 
 died (unless you were in a transport vehicle) , and keep going. When you beat the game and play 
 Cherokee mode, you'll be shocked at how the difficulty doesn't really go up. I think all the enemies 
 stay about the same, but you don't get any health power ups, which only really hurts you during 
 the second chapter when you can't access the death walk yet, but it's not that hard. I think I 
 actually died less during Cherokee mode than my first time through!
  
  Achievement-wise, just play through twice (once on each difficulty) to get, I think, 740 points. 
 Each play through is short, only about 6 hours, if you take your time. There are online achievements, 
 but I didn't play much online. Playing multiplayer, there are some pretty cool strategies with 
 the gravity walls and such, but you'll have more fun with bigger named fps' online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BillytheDeviant
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 13, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  PREY. That's the name of a game that I've known about for a long time. I saw previews for the game 
 in old PC Gaming magazines. They showed a game that is completely differant from the one I played, 
 and am now giving a review for.
  
  Prey unfortunatly went through a long development process, and through that process the game had 
 to be re-made quite a few times. What we are left with now is... well it's a totally kick ass game! 
 I am quite pleased to have played the game, and now I am ready to review it.
  
  Prey stars a character named Tommy, a Cherokee indian who basically doesn't give a damn about his 
 heritage. He lives on a reservation, and hates it. His plan is to finally convince his girlfriend, 
 Jen, to leave with him forever. Before he can do that aliens attack.
  
  Everyone is abducted, and now we are left wondering What the hell is going to happen? The abduction 
 scene is quite lengthy, and gives you a good impression on the alien race. They are attacking Earth, 
 and killing many innocent people. They are going to have to pay for this!
  
  Somehow Tommy escapes, and now he is on a mission to save his girlfriend, and his grandfather. 
 This is just the beginning! Things continue to get crazy as you play into the game. Ever played 
 a game where you could walk on the walls? How about one where you can teleport through small portals 
 scattered all throughout the levels? Ok, how about this : Have you ever played a game where you 
 can change gravity and walk on the ceiling? In PREY, you can do all that!
  
  The graphics are great. It's the Doom 3 engine, and the levels are more open and quite detailed. 
 Everything has a metalic/organic look to it which makes for some pretty disturbing imagery. Expect 
 to see tons of stuff oozing, and spitting out junk. Lots of gorey stuff too. It's incredible.
 
  
  This isn't your typical FPS. The weapons are literally out of this world! There are no pistols, 
 SMGs, shotguns and Automatic Rifles. Instead we get weapons that the aliens have created themselves, 
 and most of the times the weapons look to be living creatures!
  
  Forget about getting a gernade. How about a creature that explodes after you twist of a leg! There 
 is also a weapon that allows you to absorb parts of the surrounding to change up which blast you 
 can shoot with it. One minute its a freeze cannon, where as the next it blasts out powerful lightning 
 charges. The weapons are quite creative, and each one has both a primary, and secondary feature.
 
  
  Now let's move onto the most important part. The storyline. Oh my god! It's a FPS title with a 
 good story. Not Halo good, but still very good. I was quite involved with it as I played, and shocked 
 and surprised at the many twists that I encountered. It's hard for me to not spoil anything, but 
 you really have to play the game to see what happens. Near the end you won't believe what happens!
 
  
  It was features like that that kept me entertained for a solid amount of time as I played through 
 the storyline. I only got stuck at one part, so the game isn't too hard. It throws tons of enemies 
 at you, as well as some crazy bosses. It's a hell of a lot of fun.
  
  Then there is multiplayer. I played online Live and it's quite enjoyable. The game supports up 
 to 8 players in one match, so expect to kill a lot quickly, or die. I played some matches earlier 
 tonight and did my fair share of ass kicking. It's because of that that I also earned some of the 
 games many achievements. Most of them are unlocked by playing through the storyline, but there 
 are also some for multiplayer kills. It's actually quite easy to do the achievements, as long as 
 you put in the time and effort.
  
  So to conclude, PREY is a wicked title. Tons of action. A great story. Kick ass multiplayer. It's 
 well worth the purchase as it should last you quite some time. I thoroughly enjoyed it. Can't wait 
 to see what is next... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman3838
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 12, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is alright. It is a bit on the weird and strange side. I have to say this is the first 
 game that you have to walk through a sphincter door and shoot bung-holes that spray a brown substance 
 on you. There is also a lot of blood and gore to go along with it. Besides that the game is a good 
 first person shooters. Good creativity went into the game to come up with the look of the game. 
 It takes place on a ship, but it has a lot of different creatures and scenery. I would recommend 
 renting this game, before going out and dropping $60 on it. 7 - 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AL13NK1LL3R
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 9, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  holy crap.. the story line is soo good.. and the puzzles are fun and there aliens above u, below 
 u, it everywhere... the graphics are soo good.... when u play, it like u totally in the game and 
 u dont think what goin out of the world ex.. the game... it awesome and sometimes it hard to decribe 
 this game.. lol
  there portals and it dont even load when u go though the portals.... i dont know how i ended up 
 here and there.. but it like a huge world in one sphere.
  
  the problem about this game is acting.... when u in spirt world and see your grandfather, the actin 
 is soo bad.. like it talks then stop but the body motion is still goin and u have to wait untill 
 the next words comes up... but if u in anywhere it perfect actin, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamieanimal
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 9, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  The language was bad so turn down the volume if kids near. But if no kids are around crank it up, 
 cover all windows and jam through the game. It was really intense. Which surprised me that I got 
 more chills from this game than any other game or movie out there. I definately recommend this 
 game to any adult out there. Never thought it would end, everytime I thought I was done I wasn't. 
 So don't shut it off after the credits role. I played the online quickmatch. Nothing like Halo 
 2. lots of lag and the characters moved like a lagged out modder in halo 2. I will try it again 
 cause I did have fun with it just that the multiplayer online was kinda corny. Great game over 
 all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razoroo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  This is an FPS with a difference. Atmospheric in graphical detail and tone, Human Head's long developed 
 game has finally arrived. This game in ingenius in many aspects but it doesn't quite cash in on 
 its own potential which is a waste. There are amzing puzzles which mess with the player's mind, 
 such as gravity walls that allow you to run up walls and walk on ceilings. You can scale small 
 planetoids and alter gravity. The alien ship in which the game is based is a Bio-Organic starship 
 with pulsating walls and mechanical devices merged into one. This feature extends into the weapons 
 you use. The rifle's secondary function for example, has a sniper scope that is a tentacle that 
 latches onto your eye. Gross, but damn cool. The story is good and so is the voice acting. The 
 tale follows a native American named Tommy who is abducted by aliens along with his girlfriend 
 and grandfather. You must work your way through the ship in an attempt to destroy it and free Jen, 
 your loved one. Throught the adventure, Tommy learns to respect his heritage that he has shunned 
 all these years. He gains the abilities of his ancestors which allow him to delve into a spirit 
 realm. This astral projection ability is the basis for many of the puzzles. These gameplay elements 
 are done well and look amazing with the morphing levels and so on. The use of teleporters is amazing 
 at first but you'll start to get annoyed with the numerous enemies popping out of them.
  However, the actual combat in the game is pretty basic, and the weapons, although imaginative, 
 lack any depth or oomph . They're just not loud enough to be satisfying to use. Speaking of sound, 
 the music is excellent and the voice acting good but the alien voices sound cliched and stereotypical 
 for agressive aliens (who all seem to speak English with gruff voices) . The single player mode 
 is an experience worth.... experiencing due to its fantastic set pieces and story. The multiplayer 
 is very basic with only Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch modes available. The maps are brilliant 
 tho but the gameplay is let down by tremendous lag.
  Overall, the game is very good but lacks in replay value. Its probably worth a rent, or at least 
 use it to show off the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ff7nation
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 7, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Rich here again and this time its gonna be short and sweet. Taking a look at the game called Prey 
 fro the xbox 360 and let me tell you, this game is great. The combat is still the standard FPS 
 of run around and shoot bad guys, but with a twist... literally. The enviroment is fully functional 
 in that most areas can be fliped around. If you shoot a gravity pad on the ceiling, you will trigger 
 the room to flip so that you are now on the ceiling. This is cool, however the enemies can do it 
 as well, which leads to some interesting and hard fights. Besides this awesome feature, your main 
 character tommy (whom is an charokee indian) can use his spirit form to walk through certain walls 
 to activate switchs, and even attack enemies with his bow. This feature alone deservs respect, 
 because it makes for some great puzzles. Other then these two amazing aspects this is a pretty 
 stand FPS, now the weapons =D The weapons in Prey are fully organic and actually alive, which sets 
 them apart from anything else out there. Most have duel uses as well or even more. The most interesting 
 gun is the Leech Gun, which can do what its name suggests, leech different powers. There are different 
 nodes around the game (plasma, freeze, electric, and a laser) each node gives the leech gun a different 
 attack, but only one may be used at a time. All of the effects are extremely powerful, so this 
 balances out in the end. Another interesting weapon is the gun that you get from a boss, its actually 
 his arm. Im not recalling the name right now so i shall call it the boss arm lol. The boss arm 
 can be obtained from the first fight with the giant satan looking sub-boss. You must first go into 
 a room and then wait for him to stick his arm in to shoot you. At this time you activate the laser 
 sheild, which in turn cuts his arm off. The primary fire of this weapon is essentially that of 
 a gatling gun, but the secondary is a super powered grenade launcher. It takes a few tries to get 
 the arc of the grenades down, but this gun does some serious damge, and has the second higest ammo 
 capacity in the game. Some misc. things are you guiding bird Talon who flies around to help you 
 solve puzzles and actuvate switchs. Talon also from time to time attacks enemies, not to do damage 
 really, but more to distract them so that you may kill them. So if you enjoy walking on walls, 
 flying in space, using your spirit to kill things, good puzzles, and some of the coolest weapons, 
 prey is for you. I strongly suggest this game for anyone that likes doom or quake, because it has 
 a strong feel of both games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shasam712
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 4, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  *DISCLAIMER! This game has been reviewed in Standard Definition. Any graphical issues suffered 
 during the game apply to SD only, and will not necessarily occur when playing the game in HD.*
 
  
  There are a few games that seem destined never to come out. Duke Nukem Forever, Starcraft Ghost 
 and Prey, to name a few. But wait, Prey is out! Who would have thought it. So what is it all about 
 and is it any good.
  
  The story of Prey is so simple it is unbelievable in this day and age. You play the role of Tommy, 
 a member of the Cherokee tribe, who just wants to get off the reservation with his girl and go 
 find a new life somewhere else. Shes not keen on the idea and neither is Grandpa. Then, while 
 enjoying a drink in the bar, you all get abducted by aliens, to be used as their food. While you 
 are being processed and moved through the ship, you are rescued by what you will later find out 
 is a resistance member onboard the alien ship. You then set off to rescue your family, methodically 
 taking out anything that looks important on your way.
  
  The character of Tommy is not very interesting. During the game you get the power to spirit walk, 
 allowing you to leave your body and travel through force fields. Tommy, initially denying that 
 all this mumbo-jumbo exists continues to keep that opinion even after he learns this amazing power. 
 Its a lapse such as this which makes you doubt the games integrity. Also, despite all of Tommys 
 perseverance in finding Jen, his girlfriend, you get very little emotion from the character.
  
  Continuing on with the Spirit Walking theme, you also receive Talon during the game, your pet 
 bird that died when you were young. Talon then conveniently translates everything from the alien 
 language into English, including the enemies limited vocabulary, which consists of Hes over there, 
 Shoot him! and Grenade!!!! along with a few other generic FPS phrases. Talon will also land 
 on switches, meaning you know exactly what you are supposed to be pressing to get through an area.
 
  
  Perhaps this is where one of Preys biggest problems resides. The game is linear, in fact it is 
 beyond that, it is super-linear. There is no deviation from the path, not choice as to what you 
 do next, you simply walk through the level, shooting at the predetermined enemy encounters and 
 moving onto the next room (where the enemies will come in as soon as you turn upside down or walk 
 down a narrow passage) . This is a structure that many people thought was lost back in the PS1 days. 
 Yet, here we are with a game that offers no reason to replay it, other than the achievements of 
 course.
  
  Along with that, it is impossible to die in Prey when you get the ability to spirit walk. Unless 
 you are very bad at the game, which you would have to be to die in the early stages, then you will 
 get to the point where you get the spirit walking power. From then on, every time you die you go 
 to some form of shooting range. All you then do is shoot the red beasts to receive health and the 
 blue for spirit power. After about 15 seconds, boom, you are instantly resurrected exactly where 
 you were with no penalties. This spiritual duck hunt takes a lot of the sense of achievement 
 away from the game, as any old schmuck can get to the end of the game.
  
  Graphically, Prey looks great and has some great technical features, but the overall design is 
 slightly jarring. Throughout the game you are presented with a very obvious Organic matter fused 
 with metal theme, it is in every environment and even the weapons. Prey definitely achieves the 
 look and feel of that, but it is not a nice look or feel, certainly not one that I would want to 
 experience by playing the game multiple times. There are plenty of cavities in the ship that you 
 are taken aboard which will often spray you with some very odd looking substances. Couple this 
 with the main colours of everything in Prey being brown and grey, its definitely not the kind 
 of scenery which is nice to look at. One of the big things about Prey, when it was announced back 
 in the day, was that it would include a portal system and lots of gravity effects. Both of which 
 are included, and they each work well to a certain extent. Portals are definitely an interesting 
 concept. You can see straight through these portals to the other side, meaning you can shoot through 
 them or check out where youre going to land before you go through. It also opens up a whole wealth 
 of options for puzzles, unfortunately I counted only two or three while playing through the game.
 
  
  The gravity manipulation works better. Prey features walk ways throughout the game, which allow 
 you to walk up walls and along the ceiling. The game will often turn you upside down and then spawn 
 an enemy, through a portal of course, onto the floor causing you to have a crazy upside down shoot 
 out. Again, this feature works well with puzzles, but there arent too many. During the game, you 
 will also find gravity pads which you can shoot, thus changing the gravitational pull and effectively 
 rotating the room. Obviously, this is specifically designed for puzzles, and it works fantastic. 
 However, theres not nearly enough. Spirit Walking also has some puzzles, and I use the term 
 loosely, associated with it, but they almost always consist of Heres a force field, go into spirit 
 walking mode and walk through, then press the switch that is directly behind the barrier. As you 
 can see, Prey has a great opportunity to be more than just a shooter, but it doesnt take advantage 
 of those opportunities to the fullest.
  
  Speaking of shooting, thats all pretty solid. Preys mechanics work perfectly fine when it comes 
 to shooting, the sensitivity is good, the weapons all work well and the controls are as solid as 
 any other FPS out there. Just like a lot of the other features of Prey, the weapons are one of 
 the biggest attributes whilst also being a negative point. The weapons look awesome, and I will 
 talk about that more later on, and the all obviously have uses. The weapons arent as crazy as 
 they could have been, all this alien technology could have created some really strange guns, but 
 you have all of your standard weapons in there, a machine gun, sniper, rocket launcher and so on, 
 even a trusty melee weapons for those desperate times. One of the problems that I found, however, 
 is that you do not need to reload after a certain number of shots. Although this a perfectly fine 
 design choice, it does take out some of the excitement of multiplayer. Who hasnt had the fear 
 of being shot while you character slowly puts in that new pistol clip.
  
  The single player is also pretty short, you could blast through it in under 8 hours. Of course, 
 youll want to know about the achievements too. Well, a majority can be obtained in those 8 hours. 
 You receive points for finishing a level and points for completing the game. Then you have only 
 one reason to play the single player again, which is the achievement for completing the game on 
 the Cherokee difficulty, but you could easily skip this. The rest of the points come from the multiplayer.
 
  
  Online for an FPS is nothing new. As we all know, there have been some notable experiences, Halo 
 2 being one of the best on consoles. Prey is leaps and bounds behind Halo 2 in terms of online. 
 The levels have a weird rooming system, where each area is separated by a door, which opens dramatically 
 when you walk towards it. It is strange that we have gone back in console FPS online rather than 
 going forward and you will not find it hard to believe that there are few people left playing Prey 
 online anymore, and those that are are generally either new to the game or extremely good. It also 
 doesnt help that you can only play Deathmatch or Team Deathmatch and that there are only around 
 8 weapons in the entire game.
  
  So the topsy-turvy, portal travelling, organic-machine world of Prey is not a terrible game, but 
 neither is it anything special. While playing through the single player is fun, rewarding and has 
 a genuinely interesting story, it is also too short and Tommy is an awful character, I have no 
 qualms about saying that. Prey may have taken a long time to finally get released, but perhaps 
 it should have stayed unreleased until the game could reach to full extent of its possibilities. 
 However, if Prey gave us anything important, it was the announcement of Valves upcoming Portal 
 game, and that is a very good thing indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan_418
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  Prey was a great game. The graphics were awesome, the gameplay was even better. The music and sound 
 effects also add a ton of atmosphere. There are a whole bunch of unique and fun to use weapons. 
 The environments are expertly crafted and the puzzles are intuitive and fun. My only complaints 
 are that A) It's really easy B) the ability to endlessly come back to life makes it feel kinda 
 cheap, C) The Aliens speak English and sound dumb doing so, and D) Multiplayer is only online and 
 system link, with no split screen. Other than these flaws, Prey is an exeptional shooter that simply 
 cannot be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSnake159
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 21, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Preys demo is what caught my attention. It was a fun scifi shooter with some interesting things 
 added in. You play as Tommy a cheroke indian whos home gets invaded by aliens. And of course you 
 end up on the ship and have to kill all of the invaders to save your girl. The cool part is theres 
 special powers that allow you get into a spirit mode which gives you a bow and arrow and allows 
 you to walk through forcefeilds. Although inovative this concept got very repetitive. (open door, 
 turn into spirit, open that door and then go back to human so you can open another door.) The other 
 catch it has is the physics of the ship allow you to walk on walls, this is a very cool idea, however 
 i thought that it could have went much furthur. And after playing for about oh lets say five hours, 
 youll find yourself at the end of the game. Also once you complete it theres not much else you 
 can do by replaying it. Which led me into multiplayer, which would be fun.... but i can hardly find 
 anyone else that wants to play. My guess is thats because theres only 2 options, death match or 
 team death match. Overall it was a good expierence, but you should deffinatly rent it, i also look 
 forword because i hear theres a sequel coming around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 19, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played a lot of Human Head Studios games, but Prey was a nice entry for me. Initially, 
 the game reminded me a lot of Quake 4 for the 360, and if you read my other reviews of FPS games, 
 you will find that I am not a twitch gamer. Hence the reason I am writing this before I finish 
 or tire of the game.
  While still a fps, Prey has a few nice touches for those of us that are not hardcore shooter fans. 
 First, death is only temporary. Each time you die (once you start your spirit journey's) you are 
 brought to the spirit world where you have a limited amount of time to shoot red and blue flying 
 fish (death spirits) , the red refils your life, and the blue your spirit power. Once you are revived, 
 you return to the area of your death... just be warned, your enemies are normally still right there 
 waiting for you!
  Secondly, the above mentioned spiritwalking makes the game more of a thinking type game (don't 
 get me wrong, you aren't going to think to hard) by giving you additional ways to get around some 
 of the puzzles.
  The story is immersive, and for those interested in Cherokee mythology, there is a lot of it brought 
 in and actually done well.
  
  Gameplay - for a fps, this game is great. It won't replace Saints Row or Oblivion on my play list, 
 but its not bad for me. Easy controls, and swift responses for those of us without twitch reflexes.
 
  
  Graphics - Overall very good, although there are some points that could have been refined a little 
 (like spirit walking near your body on occasion it will be half in a wall) This game is gory though, 
 and you will see lots of blood and other disgusting elements.
  
  Sound - Again, I like most of the quality, but occasionally the voice acting gets really corny. 
 Some day more video games will get people that can act (see Saint's Row, great voice acting even 
 with bad lines)
  
  Value - If you like FPS's this may be to soft for you, but it is a quality game. For those of us 
 that don't like them, give it a shot, it's a least a nice look and feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zkeptik
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  In reviewing this game I must mention the others that inspired it since at its core its derivative 
 by design.
  
  When I first played the multiplayer demo at E3, (and won) , I wasn't too impressed. Wall-walking 
 wasn't all that revolutionary, it felt like another 3D shooter gimmick. Plus I've never been a 
 fan of alien/organic weapons. Except for the huge Turok BFG.
  
  My favorite part of the Duke Nukem demo so many years ago was the Indian reservation. There was 
 a fire and rocky Native American homes. So when I played the demo and he went to the spirit world, 
 I was intrigued.
  The music in the beginning caught my attention as well. As soon as the abduction began my interest 
 was piqued. I found the game cheap so I picked it up.
  
  I&amp;#8217; m glad I did. You can tell that they put some thought into the design of this game 
 and it shows in some of the more inspired segments. The death mechanic is a great idea although 
 it is poorly implemented. (If you die you go into the spirit world to play a mini-game shooting 
 some flying spirit manta-rays and re-spawn exactly where you died with a healthy compliment of 
 ammo.) I COULD see this working well in the inevitable sequel. Perhaps if you die and resurrect 
 at your last spot after some spiritually interesting cutscene? The mini-game could use some work 
 as well. I would like to see a wall-painting inspired mini-game where your character goes into 
 a world just like the characters painted by Native Americans in the caves. (Think Ice Age flashback 
 scene.) In order to regain health and come back to life you hunt the different spirits that have 
 taken the shape of those creatures your ancestors used to hunt. Buffalo and other such animals. 
 The background could maintain an Okami-like design.
  
  I see potential in this title that is only limited by the engine they chose to use. Doom 3. You 
 have some flight scenes that were mediocre which were stunted by it's odd control. You didn't have 
 full 360 degree (pun intended) control of your ship. You could only go as far up as your character 
 could look then the vertical axis would lock and you would have to turn around to reorient yourself. 
 Overall these missions felt like a neutered Descent.
  
  As a complete experience this game is enjoyable although the organic alien weapons leave a lot 
 to be desired. Only the rocket launcher feels like it has any power behind it and you run out of 
 ammo much too quickly. Some of the final scenes where the hallways are built around your character 
 were amazing. I&amp;#8217; ve never seen anything done like that in real time.
  Multiplayer is lackluster but I&amp;#8217; m glad I played through it. The voice acting was fantastic 
 and it actually added thoroughly to my enjoyment of the game. Everyone except your girlfriend Jen 
 that is.
  
  If you can find it cheap I suggest you pick it up and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sp00ky89
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 14, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a first person shooter using an updated/pimped out verison of the doom 3 engine. It's not 
 exactly as amazing as most first person shooters, but it is decent, and a bit fun a majority of 
 the time. You play as Tommy, a Cherokee indian with dreams of living the reservation, and living 
 a good life with his girlfriend. The game begins the night he decides to confornt her, and beg 
 her to leave with him. Tommy stares into the mirror, disgusted by his cowardice. You begin control 
 of him as he finishes his rant, and his girlfriend call his him into the bar she works at. He walks 
 out, and we meet his grandfather another Cherokee indian, tells him that He will have much need 
 for me on this night. Tommy ignores this warning, enters the bar, and the crap hits the fan. After 
 getting into a fight with two men who were hitting on his girlfriend, the radio dies, and Tommy's 
 car alarm goes off. His truck is thrown into a bar, and a green light appears from the sky. The 
 light picks up Tommy, his girlfriend, and grandfather. This is just the beginning of Prey, a wild 
 roller coaster ride of extraterrestrial proportions.
  
  After an insane ride through the alien space ship that has abducted
  him, and the only people 
 that matter in his life. Tommy ifs freed, and explores the alien ship in hopes of rescuing his 
 girlfriend. After a few segments of shooting, Tommy dies for reasons that the player can not control, 
 and enters the spirit world. Here he meets his spirit guide, his old pet eagle Talon. He comes 
 to terms with his religion and is sent back to the alien ship with his new spirit powers at tow. 
 Ready to kick some alien butt, and save his girlfriend.
  
  This is when the true genius of prey kicks in. The puzzles involving the spirit world are fantastic, 
 and the narrow hallways, bizarre abominations, and the true organic quality of the ship makes for 
 one wild ride. The fire fights are intense, and they don't just stop on the ground. You can run 
 up certain areas of a wall, and attack your enemies from the ceiling! The game is a bit short though, 
 and can get pretty mediocre at times. I suggesting renting it, since it would only take a weekend 
 to play through. In conclusion Prey is a unique First Person Shooter experience. It attempts to 
 be something new, fresh, and next gen, but it just doesn't cut it all the time. Rent it, and enjoy 
 the crazy roller coaster ride! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing Prey, in the first 5 minutes, I was hooked. You are an Indian in a 
 bar on an Indian reservation. The bar is complete with playable slots and video poker, a jukebox 
 with many different songs, and even a T. V. that you can turn on and watch! It is a very complex 
 storyline that eventually (very eventually) takes place in an alien spacecraft. You battle it out 
 with aliens on gravity strips hanging from the ceiling, miniature planets, and even in small sphereical 
 spacecrafts! The weapona are very different in the way that they are boilogical, almost living 
 creatures that shoot bullets. It is a very good game for the first person enthusiast. It is also 
 a very good game to play for the FPS rookie as well. Now the game is not perfect by far and I will 
 explain now. I said that it was a good game for the FPS rookie because it is almost impossible 
 to die..... perminately. See, every time you die you go to this "underworld" where you have to 
 kill 2 kinds of evil spirits, blue and red. Red ones fill your life and the blue ones fill your 
 spirit life. If you do not kill any at all, you start with half health and no spirit, depending 
 on if you had any to begin with. So without the whole dying and having to start over pressure on 
 your shoulders, it leaves this game almost too easy. The weapons can get a little irritating, and 
 the enemies are as dumb as a box of rocks. The "sniper" rifle is fun but little effective. All 
 in all, its a good game, but with little replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dolphus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 13, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a good game but it still isn't no doom or halo but it does have a big game areas and enemies 
 were you could fight them, and the game sound is amazing that fills the game. The game storyline 
 is good were you have to play the game main character who is Tommy, a Cherokee who wants to forget 
 his way but to leave with his girlfriend, but his world is turned upside down when aliens are harvesting 
 human and he is left with the option to save the world with the power of his ancestor and save 
 Jen. The levels of the game is twisted with walking upside down or walking on the sealing thanks 
 to the power of magnet-ed floors that will help you and teleporters that will send you to another 
 room. The only problem with Prey is the loading of another level and the game is easy to get through 
 the game, so Prey is a rent to some people but a buy to people how are fans of first person shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGateIV
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 12, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Since Halo, there has not been a shooter that redefined the genre as much as Prey. Trapped inside 
 an alien mothership and guided by ancient Cherokee spirits, you play as Tommy, who is on a mission 
 to save his girlfriend from an alien mothership that wants to harvest his people.
  
  You will gather an array of alien weapons, from a demented version of a rifle to a gun that fires 
 explosiove aliens. You will travel through countless portals and locations in search of your girl, 
 and you will face off with an array of deadly alien creatures.
  
  From mutated humans to giant aliens with guns for arms to living walls that throw radioactive 'vomit' 
 at you, you will be both disgusted and amazed by the graphics and details of Prey. Speaking of 
 detail, the alien ship you're in is playing broadcasts from the frightened citizens of Earth.
 
  
  The drawbacks are as numerous as the bonuses. The portal-warping and gravity-bending often get 
 stale, and sometimes complicated. (Strategy guide recommended.) The story is also pretty darn weird, 
 even for a sci-fi game.
  
  One interesting twist is the power you acquire a quarter of the way through the game. I won't spil 
 it here, but it is a very revolutionary element that defines Prey.
  
  All said, Prey is a pricey action shooter that most sci-fi or shooter fans will have a great time. 
 If you're willing to shell out the cash, go for the Collector's Edition. It has extensive concept 
 art and figures, which I found to be really cool, well worth the extra ten bucks. Buy Prey and 
 experience one crazy ride! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bharrison911
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  This was definitely a good shooter for the 360, but it was not a great shooter. The storyline was 
 absolutely horrible and it was a pretty short game to beat. I believe that I beat the game in a 
 little under 9 hours. The graphics and sound were excellent as you would expect. The gameplay was 
 a little rough at times. The use of the spirt of was something new and different and I definitely 
 think that it added something to the game. On the other hand, the gravity pads that were used to 
 get around when you needed to get to a hallway that was say on the ceiling was ridiculous. You 
 would all of a sudden have people shooting at you from the ceiling and you wouldn't all the time 
 know where they were coming from. Made gameplay very confusing at times. It was also difficult 
 at times to understand where you were supposed to go, especially when you were flying the ship. 
 Although it was fun to play, this is not one that I would highly recommend as the first 360 game 
 that you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaWeapon9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  In many ways Prey is a weird case as far as development goes. The normal development cycle for 
 a game these days is 1 to 2 years. Maybe even a couple more for the more higher profile games. 
 However, was originally thought up in 1996. But the development team at 3D Relms had shoved the 
 game aside to go work on Duke Nuckeum Forever . It was about 2 years ago that Prey re-surfaced, 
 and with a new developer in the form of Human-Head Studios . And now, after 10 years in the making 
 Prey is finally out. While all of the original content is mainly still in the game, the game has 
 been revamped and remade with the Doom 3 engine to run the game.
  
  Prey tells a rather different and original story as far as shooters go. You play as Tommy, a native 
 American who lives on an Indian reservation with his girl friend Jen and his grandfather Enisi. 
 Tommy has always rejected the beliefs of his people. Enisi has always tried to teach him of the 
 old ways. However, Tommy just wants to leave the reservation and go out to see the world. The only 
 thing stopping him, is that his girlfriend Jen wont go with him. As she wants to stay. All this 
 is presented to the player rather quickly. With not a whole lot of development, beyond the main 
 subject. Because before long the three are sucked up by an alien space ship. And it pretty much 
 comes down to Tommy trying to rescue his girlfriend. However, in the process ( as you may expect 
 ) you save the world.
  
  The game play in Prey eventually does boil down to your basic shooter. As you go threw each level 
 blasting your way through enemies. However, the game has some unique twists that try to set the 
 game aside from the normal shooter formula. These take the form of Wall Walk and Spirit Walk . 
 In the case of Wall Walk , Tommy can walk on walls in certain intervals threw-out the space ship. 
 There are certain walkways that will lead on the wall, and sometimes the ceiling, and you can walk 
 threw those areas. There is also times when you can actually change the entire formation of the 
 level. In which you can change the gravity pull of the level to the new ground. And the entire 
 level will shift to make that the new ground. During the times, it can be discontenting, especially 
 when you walk from one ground to the other. However, it is a neat effect overall. And helps give 
 the game a different feel in some ways.
  
  The other case of Spirit Walk , in which Tommy can walk out of his body. These are used mainly 
 for puzzle solving. You will find an area that you cant go to, and you can use Spirit Walk to reach 
 those areas. It works well in many cases. However, the one big flaw is when you die. Instead of 
 having to restart a level, you will leave your body and go to the spirit world. Where you will 
 be on a pillar, and you must shoot a certain amount of wraiths that are flying around you to continue 
 on. This effect works in one way, in that it never takes you out of the action. However, where 
 it fails is that it takes all of the challenge out of the game. Because death really has no tole 
 on you in Prey . And while you will have the will to take more chances ( which is good ) you know 
 that there really is no problem with dying. Since the worst that could happen is you will have 
 to sit out for a few seconds.
  
  These new takes on the genre are interesting in many ways. And Prey tries to make them work well. 
 However, they really don't add much to what is otherwise a very linear and strait forward game. 
 In which boils down to a constant corridor crawl threw the space ship.
  
  The action in Prey is roughly 90%, with the other being some light and easy puzzle solving. The 
 shooting in Prey is good, it feels right and you have a decent amount of weapons. However, the 
 enemies you fight in Prey are rather easy. They don't do a whole lot to protect themselves and 
 are very easy to eradicate. It also doesn't help that the game only has a very small amount of 
 enemies. You start out only fighting a couple at a time and having an easy time doing so. The game 
 tries to make things more interesting near the end of the game by throwing more enemies at you 
 at once. However, it doesn't really change the game up much. The weapons have a neat and interesting 
 organic look to them, however, the weapons at times feel under powered.
  
  Overall, from a visual point, Prey is a good looking game. Boths from a technical standpoint and 
 artistic. The game looks very good running on the Doom 3 engine, and all of the different things 
 it does with the engine makes it look rather good in its own favor. The levels overall look rather 
 good and refined, however, where the game looks very good is in the artistic standpoint. It does 
 a decent job with the organic life fixed with metal theme that many games are doing these days. 
 And the native American areas as well as the alien ship looks very good in many ways. Making Prey 
 as rather great looking game. There is some frame-rate issues here and there. However, there few 
 and far between. And if you have played Quake IV on the 360, the other 360 game running on the 
 Doom 3 engine, you know that it could have been much worse. Since Prey didn't perform that well 
 on the 360.
  
  From an Audio standpoint, Prey does an OK job. To its favor, the soundtrack is an amazing on. Composed 
 of a very well made original score, that wells perfect for the game. The dialog is decent and the 
 voice acting is also very well done. With a decent script to back up the game. However, the weapons 
 in the game sound very under powered. The aliens speak English, which is a strange thing, and have 
 bad ascents. The game also has some very few audio bugs, however, there very few. And chances are 
 you may not even encounter them.
  
  After you finish Prey , which will take you about 8-12 hours given your skills in the genre. You 
 are given a multi-player mode online. However, the multi-player mode is rather broken in many ways. 
 The Doom 3 engine has never succeeded in the multi-player arena. And Prey shows this with full 
 force. That is if you can actually play the multi-player, since the online servers are rather lag 
 at all times. With many hold-ups all the time threw out every session. The only reason I could 
 see someone playing the multi-player, is to get the achievements that reside in the multi-player 
 mode.
  
  As far as achievements go, the game is very easy. You will get the majority of the full thousand 
 on your first play threw the game. There is one left over for beating the game on Cherekee ( the 
 hardest difficulty ) . And the rest are achievable in the multi-player. Overall, you can get most 
 of the game achievements rather quickly. And can get nearly all of then within a weekends time.
 
  
  In the end, Prey is a good game. Its a decent shooter, thats delivers a standard experience from 
 what games of this genre deliver. However, its game play issues and different takes that its takes 
 on the shooter formula don't really work all that differently then what the game was trying the 
 achieve. And if the game had done a better job of presenting and allocating those ideas it would 
 have made for a much better experience. However, the game does deliver a decent story, as well 
 as enjoyable game play. And you can play threw the game in a decent weekends play threw. Making 
 Prey a decent game to knock out in a weekends time.
  
  Overall, Prey is a fun and interesting experience. However, its gameplay sticks so closely to genre 
 conventions that it nearly negates the games unigue features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KneeltoErasmus
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 11, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  In Prey you are a native american who dislikes life on the reservation. You want to encourage your 
 girlfriend to come with you and leave but, before you can do so, aliens come out of nowhere and 
 abduct you, your girlfriend, and your grandfather. Next thing you know you are on a space ship 
 trying to find a way to save your girlfriend and get the hell of that ship. The gameplay plays 
 much like Doom 3 & Quake 4 (Which should be expected as it runs on the same engine) . It's nothing 
 all that new, even the idea of aliens abducting people is a fairly old story. The only thing that 
 makes this game slightly unique is the way it plays around with gravity and such. But even that 
 does not save this game from repetitiveness and shortness. The graphics of course are good but, 
 not exactly what I'd call "next-gen". If they can run Doom 3 on Xbox then I'm sure this could be 
 as well (With toned down graphics of course) . But, nonetheless the graphics are good enough to 
 keep you looking around at the environment.
  
  Sound is pretty good, no sounds seem odd or out of place and works really well with 5.1 surround 
 sound. Nothing much more to say about this.
  
  The story is fairly immersive the first time and makes you want to keep playing. But then it suddenly 
 ends after MAYBE 8ish hours. Truthfully, I believe this game is actually sort of an anology to 
 the White men taking over Native Americans. The aliens (white men) come and take them out of there 
 home and kill their family. Even in the game your grandfather mentions that you must forget the 
 ways a white man fights and fight with your native american heritage... This is just my opinion, 
 don't take my word for it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GazzaB
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 8, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  After all the hype I had been hearing about Prey, and the fact that it had been in development 
 almost a decade ago, I thought this game was going to be amazing. But I was wrong.
  You start off in the toilet of a bar, and immediately I knew this game was going to be a normal, 
 nothing special FPS. Its was the feel of the game that immediately hit me, and the fact that already 
 I didnt like the main character. It wasnt that I hated him, it was just that he wasnt a very 
 likable character, like Master Chief or Gordon Freeman is. Anyway, from the start you see some 
 pretty nice graphics. The game seems to be based on the Doom 3 engine, which I dont like at all, 
 but it wasnt too bad. Everything looked good, especially the guns which are all alive in some 
 way. And the levels look very good as well. The game does a very good job of mixing weird life 
 forms with structures. Like doors that are basically mouths. Overall the game looks good, but not 
 the best. Like I said, Im not a fan of the Doom 3 engine at all. I feel it makes games look the 
 same. It makes them too repetitive.
  
  The sound in the game is pretty good. Theres some good voice acting in there, and some of the 
 guns do sound awesome. The music well fits the type of game, helping to create a scary atmosphere 
 at times.
  The whole portal idea in the game isnt bad. Walking on the ground, and then finding out that by 
 walkthrough a portal and your on the roof is pretty cool, but after a while it just wears off and 
 the portals are just like doors basically. There were some puzzles with the portals, but not enough. 
 And the puzzles were complex enough either. A lot of the time I would find myself just walking 
 through a puzzle and working my way out without thinking at all really.
  
  The story isnt bad, but its nothing special. And thats goes for the characters as well. Its 
 a game where I got enjoyment out of it, but I dont want to see a sequel. It had an alright story, 
 but nothing good enough to continue on or build upon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerebyss
Rating: 6.6
Date: Sep 6, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Having just finished the game in normal mode, I can say that Prey is an easy, been-there-done-that 
 before shooter, with the exception of the portal system and the gravity-walking which hasn't been 
 done in a FPS game before (though if you've ever played any of the Ratchet & Clank games you'll 
 be familiar with this as well) .
  
  While the game is fun to play, it gets old fast and the whole organic-machine theme is getting 
 REALLY tiresome. Both Doom and Quake did it better and at least those games had atmosphere. While 
 Prey has some pretty impressive monster designs, some were a little too reminiscent of those aforementioned 
 FPS classics. The weapons are pretty cool all around, especially the leech gun's ability to suck 
 up different kinds of energies (fire/frost/lightning) .
  
  One thing that really bothered me in the game was the LAME VOICE-ACTING. Tommy's and Jen's characters, 
 with rare exceptions, sounded pretty weak in my opinion. The aliens weren't very intimidating, 
 though the end bosses' voices were admittedly better done. I guess I feel like Prey was suffering 
 from an identity crisis, stuck somewhere between being a dark, creepy alien adventure and a campy 
 b-movie thriller.
  
  All-in-all, the game's worth a play if you want something relatively quick and easy; if you don't 
 expect too much it can be pretty enjoyable but in the end, after waiting for this game for the 
 ridiculous 5+ years it's been in development, I was pretty let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 25, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  The Good: Unique setting, very nice looking graphics, multiplayer features crazyness from single 
 player, lots of puzzles and tons of easy achievements.
  
  The Bad: You get lost easily, single-player achievements are no challenge to get, there aren't 
 that many weapons, multiplayer can be VERY laggy.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Prey's path to release is a very interesting one. Originally announced in 1998 by developer 3D 
 Realms, it dissappeared after a few E3s and was originally canseled until E3 05, when it suddenly 
 reappeared and was being developed by Dead Man's Hand developer Human Head Studios. In the game, 
 you play as Tommy, a Charokee Indian who is p***ed off at living at a reservation. He desides he 
 want's to take his girlfriend away from the reservation. Then, some aliens crash the party and 
 take Jen onboard their spaceship. That's when the real fun begins. You set to explore the massive 
 spaceship with topsy-turvy environments that can disorient. You can walk on the roof, and shoot 
 enemys so they can fall up. There are only a couple guns in the game, in addition to your trusty 
 wrench, but they are effective. You also have the ability to spiritwalk, which allows you to walk 
 through barriers and kill enemies ahead of you. You also don't actually die in the game. You simply 
 have to use your spirit bow to shoot spirits that give you life and spirit so you respawn again, 
 where you were. This makes the game pretty easy, but almost too easy. The action is intence and 
 the unique environments keep it fresh, but the lack of a challenge may turn some players off. I 
 haven't tried the multiplayer yet, and I will update this review when I do, but hopefully it will 
 give the game more replayability, but as of this point, it's an easy and enjoyable shooter with 
 unique environments, but all flash isn't enough to make it a must buy. I'd say check it out if 
 you want a solid shooter experience with lots of easy achievement points to be earned.
  
  Update 1: I checked out the multiplayer modes for Prey and have to say that I have mostly positive 
 things to say about it. The crazy environments and portals from the single player game are all 
 in the multiplayer, and it is a well done deathmatch game, but the lag issues really drag down 
 the excitement. When I played, it was very hard to acurately target anyone because they lagged 
 in front of me or behind me constantly. It really got annoying after a while. I did start enjoying 
 the multiplayer after getting a few kills with some of the guns that I haven't gotten yet in single 
 player. Overall, the multiplayer mode helps make the game a tad more enjoyable, but the lag issues 
 can be annoying.
  
  Gameplay: Unique environments and cool twists make it a solid shooter, but not the killer app it 
 was advertised to be.
  
  Graphics: Prey looks great, but it's really more flash than substance.
  
  Sound: The voice 
 action and effects are well done, and feel next gen.
  
  Value: At $60, it's a bit of a stretch. When the price goes down to around $40, it's a worthwhile 
 pick up, but not right away.
  
  Final Thoughts: It's a good game, not great, but good. It's unique enough to check out. It's got 
 lots of easy achievements... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JL2K6
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  prey is a game that has been slightly over and underrated. its basically a somewhat easy shooter. 
 the graphics are much like doom 3. it just barely looks better than Xbox 1's finest. the soundtrack 
 is very good. it is made by the guy who did oblivion's music. are you surprised? the game isn't 
 very long or challenging but you get many achievements by playing through it. it has good moments, 
 but it can get boring at times when you keep going in circles. it is somewhat repetitive. otherwise 
 it is a good game. make some improvements and the sequel will be really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthLad
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 4, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  This game was supposed to be revolutionary, but it's not. The puzzles in this game offer a decent 
 challenge, but it becomes very repetive trying to get through the levels. There aren't that many 
 weapons or creatures and the standard enemy looks pretty pathetic and boring. The story saves this 
 game from being horrible. The shooting isn't really that fun either and the fact that you can't 
 die makes this game too easy. So I recommend renting it because it's so short, easy, and not very 
 good. Hopefully the next one will be better. ( The credits say there will be) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rick_Moni
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 1:49 am PT
Review:  It is very difficult to find innovation in a FPS, and Prey brings you a little of that. It is a 
 game that for some might be underrated, but for other people like me might have the score it deserves.
 
  
  The storyline is kind of the typical **** that we have seen in other Sci FI Shooters, with some 
 interesting twists but not really original, that is not its best aspect, but where Prey comes out 
 with innovation is in the use of the enviroment factors as the manipulation of the gravity. Although 
 that might be confusing in the beginning you get used to it very easily.
  
  Another good aspects of the game it is the sound, wich involves you into the battle, the graphic 
 could have been a lot better I think, it does look as a next gen Shooter, but obviously is not 
 too far from games like Doom 3 that we were able to play in the former Xbox, so, they are not too 
 impressive.
  
  I think prey was an ambitious project, but they missed something in the way, don't get me wrong 
 people, although all this, Prey is still an enjoyable game for those who like FPS, has a good amount 
 of action and some interesting facts that make the game a good try and not a bad buy, but definately 
 it won't blow your head off.
  
  For those who are not related to this kind of games, I think Prey gives them the oportunity to 
 introduce them, because the learning curve is not complicated, still, the game can get very annoying 
 sometimes, but remember, you don't really die on this game, you just are send to the underworld 
 to fight some spirits and then you return to the action right away, in the same place you got "killed".
 
  
  Anyways, Prey is not a bad game, you still should give it a try, it deserves it, but it could have 
 been a lot better, if there is a sequel of this game, I hope that 3D Realms, 2k and Venom fix those, 
 tiny but important, facts to improve the game and we all gamers get a very nice and detailed next 
 gen shooter, that will really blow our heads off.
  
  Thank You. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 31, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  Prey is a FPS developed by 3D Realms. The gameplay here is solid but not revolutionary. It's fast 
 paced, easy to get into, a gorgeous. It's running off of a heavily tweaked Doom 3 engine, and it 
 looks sweet. The games music isn't exactly anything special, however it's fitting for the game. 
 The language used in the game is tasteful, however it pushes the M rating.
  
  The detailed alien world you get to explore is a wonder to look at. Everything from the human characters 
 to the abstract aliens are well crafted. Prey shines in HD on the XBOX 360.
  
  The controls are standard FPS so don't expect anything complected. You've got your basic set of 
 weapons which have multi functions and are easy to adapt to. The problem with prey is that it doesn't 
 take advantage of anything that other FPS do, their isn't any duel wielding or grenade throwing, 
 all though their is grenade launching. The games AI is pretty straight foward... Don't expect them 
 to be remarkable like in FEAR or COD2. Another note the game is fairly easy on any of the difficulties... 
 This is mainly due to the fact that you don't actually die in the game. You're sent to the spirit 
 world to refill your life bar, and your spirit bar.
  
  The only thing Prey adds to the formula is the spirit mode.... It's fun, but it seems more of a 
 chore after a while since the games puzzles are pretty simple. With the puzzles being simple though 
 the game isn't forcing you to complete them, you just do them as you walk by them. Prey is certainly 
 a renter. It could even be a justified purchase if you love FPS games that much. Prey comes with 
 a Multi Player which I didn't try, so you'll have to turn to another review for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 30, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  The most interesting and unique feature about prey is the physics. The gravity walk and teleports 
 are so cool and different and a usable advantage in battle, makes this game way too fun.
  The other great thing about the game is the story and and the main character tommy. It starts off 
 as a man with personal problems and things get worse as aliens kidnap him and his friends. As the 
 story goes on he realizes he was a lot more important then he thought. He has to save earth from 
 evil aliens. The story trek's through a living ship filled with man eating aliens. The only down 
 side to the game is the multi player. Its not that fun or original making it bland and boring. 
 Over all Prey is a good game for any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 28, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Prey tried to deliver something different to the fps genre that would give it a next gen edge. 
 Prey both succeded and failed to do this. The weapons were pretty cool and the gameplay was pretty 
 solid. The things that I thought made this game enjoyable were: Your typical but good storyline 
 that wasnt hard to follow. Voice acting and sound was pretty solid also. The weapons and gravity 
 walls added new features that have never been done before. The things that could of been improved 
 were: graphics, I thought the graphics were ehhhh okay for a next gen game. A. I wasnt all that 
 great and not next gen in my eyes. The multiplayer is different but not what I was looking for. 
 If you like the CoD2 multiplayer (or games similar to that) you probably wont like the multiplayer 
 in this game. I would suggest renting this one first and see if you like the multiplayer. If you 
 do, then buy it, if not then you just saved youself some cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2k6-tom-2k6
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 28, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a picky game as it is very addicting to a few many people as it was too me. The graphics 
 was superb and the gameplay was a bit iffy because when you died you didn't have to start from 
 your last savepoint it took you deathwalk. Sound was good when you shot your alien guns and when 
 your cherokee character (forgot his name) speaks. As the progresses you will start to like it more 
 because i hated the demo and when i borrowed the game i started to do all the achievements and 
 i got the full thousand for it!:) the online achievements are a bit more deeper than you think 
 as you have to kill 250 in team/deathmatch and 25 kills with each gun which was a real pain in 
 the neck to get but it was worth the expierence!:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoGamer06
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 28, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Prey one of a few FPS on the 360 has finally seen the light of day, was it worth the wait is what 
 you may be wondering. The answer yes. It is by no ways the game that it was hyped up to be but 
 it is a fun 5-7 hour blast on board an alien ship. Prey is straightforward despite its use of gravity 
 shift to make the player feel that they don't know what is up and what is down anymore. After the 
 into is over and Tommy (your character) is taken onto a massive alien ship along with his family 
 you are thrown into all the elements of the prey universe that is designed to mess with your head. 
 It is fun as you use portals to find new areas in the game and shoot switches to change what is 
 the the floor and what is the ceiling. You are on a misson to rescue your remaining family and 
 to do that you must explore the ship and find what is behind the strange things that occur at every 
 corner. The game levels are fairly short but the game never gets dull. You will find new weapon 
 upgrades so every few levels you get a new toy to play with. You also have the ability to escape 
 your body via "spirit walk". In Spirit walk you leave your body behind and become a ghost like 
 figure. The game uses spirit walk to solve problems as Tommy can only get to certain platforms 
 though using spirit walk. When Tommy is shot down in battle he returns to Spirit mode and has the 
 opertunity to gain health by shooting ghosts with his bow+arrow. (sounds strange to you.... this 
 IS a strange game) .
  
  ONLINE MODE- has all the tricks of the single player game, using the weird level design to give 
 a twist to the usual death match gameplay seen in most games. It offers a fine deathmatch or teamdeathmatch 
 game online which is a good alternative to something like Call Of Duty or Quake 4.
  
  Conclusion
  
  So the game may be short and not as mindblowing as was expected but it is alot 
 of fun while it lasts. Players won't have a problem revisiting the single player as it is short 
 but has some interesting twists and the story isn't bad. Online play gives it more life after the 
 main game is over. If you have been wondering if this game is worth it then I would recommend you 
 give it a try. The game can be completed quickly so even a rent will let you see everything the 
 game has to offer. Enjoy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RipaX21
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Here is a game that tries to stand out from the crowd, but gets so caught up in it's small innovative 
 gameplay changes that it forgets to provide the aspects that make other FPS fun to play.
  
  In Prey you are a young Cherokee man named Tommy who lives on a reservation with his grandfather 
 and his girlfriend, Jen. Beware, he is a lame hero and all of his toughness comes in the form of 
 a dirty vocabulary. About 10 minutes into the game, you are abducted by aliens. You then go through 
 a fairly long interactive cutscene that is basically a tour of the aliens mothership, named the 
 "Sphere," and then you see a man who plants a bomb, which sets you free. Now you are stuck in this 
 living, breathing ship, with nothing but a wrench... oh yeah, and some spirit powers that basically 
 make you invincible. Yes, that's right folks, Tommy can not die, ever. Everytime you health bar 
 is depleted, you go into the spirit world and shoot at dark spirit with you're spirit bow. The 
 red ones give you health, and the blue ones give you spirit energy. Sounds fun? It is, the first 
 10 or so times, then it jst becomes boring like the rest of the game. The game uses a rinse-and-repeat 
 play style that makes for some tiring gameplay after the first 3 hours. But thats ok, since only 
 another 3 hours will get you to the final boss fight, which is easy enough for a blind quadriplegic 
 to complete. Basically the game turns into hide-and-seek with obstacles. Go into a room, look for 
 a button, press it, go into the next room, fight an enemy (which is drawn from a list of about 
 6 varieties) , and repeat.
  
  Now for some good points. The guns are cool, and each one is progressively more destructive, as 
 you would expect. The all, however, are just derived from you're typical FPS weapons. There is 
 the wrench you start out with, an assault rifle with a sniper scope, a shotgun that fires searing 
 hot mustard, a machine gun with a grenade launcher attachment, a rocket launcher, and my favorite; 
 the leech, which is the only unique gun in the game. If you are expecting this game to be creepy, 
 it is... for about 30 minutes... when you are killing spirit children.
  
  The thing that sets this game apart from the other is its puzzle aspects. You have to use a combination 
 of you're spirit abilities and the ships laws of physics to get through. However, they are used 
 in massive blocks, making them feel unnecessary and annoying sometimes. For instance, you can go 
 through a whole level maybe using your spirit walk once, the next level same thing, then you stumble 
 upon this puzzle that uses everything at once, and then back to the same old same old.
  
  The graphics are done well, nothing that really stands out though. Same with the sound. There is 
 some music in the game and it usually appears in the more intense parts of the game and does a 
 good job of setting the mood.
  
  All in all, this is a solid game, but I want more than solid if I'm about to pay $60. Worth renting 
 since you can beat in a day, and no, the multiplayer doesn't add any value to the game either. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 26, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so we all heard about the great new Prey alien sci-fi FPS. But is it worth the money? 
 That is why im here. What I think the game producers should have done is focus more on the combat, 
 enemies, and weapons rather than so many puzzles. The missions feel as if you need a little extra 
 something. Whats more is that the enemies are EXTREMELY easy. But, I like the storyline. It isn't 
 like a boring old alien abduction story. The environments are really good, but still not enough 
 boss fights. It's an easy way out no matter what. I did like the whole spirit walk and spirit world 
 thing though, and the shifty mind-boggling puzzles (though a bit too much) . The multiplayer maps 
 weren't as good. And the beginning to the middle of the game is reppetitive. So if you're bored 
 and got a little time off, play this little minigame FPS and have fun. But keep in mind that it 
 still is pretty creepy with creatures jumpng out .^ __^. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReStLesslayer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 24, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  I had downloaded the demo for xbox 360 and thought hell yeah.
  So i bought the game but it went from hell yeah to cranky.
  the first five levels were also in 
 the demo so the first levels were very very easy.
  Then about 5 hours playing the game I only wanted to play the game for the ending but it wasn`t 
 that satisfaction of yeah great game.
  so only rent the game cos it`s very short and not worth buying.
  The multiplayer isn`t worth 
 it either it`s offline.
  A rush! but not if 
  You played the game before at a friend`s home or somekind.
  so see this review as a warning 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  this is a short game but it packs a punch. the weapons in prey are awsome but they end up being 
 to powerful and kill enemies in a snap (but the bigger enemies are a little harder with guns) the 
 aliens are great but its weird some talk human. i say this is a bloody game when i mean bloody i 
 mean it. the aliens come in many shapes and sizes here are a few: hunter, hunter elite, hounds and 
 more. now some people think this is a hard game its the easyiest you die you come right back after 
 a mini game. this game you should rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richnamy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 23, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  Prey's story line is very good. There really aren't that many FPS's out there that have a desent 
 story or any story at all. You are a cherokee indian named Tommy and you are in love with another 
 cherokee, Jen. You, Jen and your grandfather get captured by an alien spaceship from the bar that 
 you work at. Now your mission is to save Jen and your grandfather (as well as earth) from god knows 
 what the aliens might do to them. Tommy has a spirit form which has to do with your cherokee heritage 
 which you find all about throughout the game. Just by pressing Y, you can become your spirit form, 
 leaving your body behind. In your spirit form, you can do many tihngs like walk on bridges you 
 can't see in your human form. This is essential to figuring out obstacles in the game. When you 
 die, you enter a spirit world for about 30sec. Here you must shoot red and blue flying "wraiths". 
 (They look like stingray's) The red wraiths represent health for Tommy's human form and the blue 
 represent Tommy's spirit health. You shoot them with your spirit bow and gain that health as quickly 
 as possible before getting brought back to life at the same spot you died. This makes it so you 
 are immortal through the whole game. Some poeple hate it saying its unrewarding, you can never 
 die. Some like it because theres never a reason to put the controller down. The game is filled 
 with all kinds of obstacles that make the game seem very long if you have trouble figuring them 
 out. You are able to walk on walls and ceilings so you have to be aware of your surroundings at 
 all times. It's really cool to kill a badguy who is also on the ceiling with you and watch them 
 fall up. You also do this online with multiplayer witch brings a whole new strategy to FPS online 
 play. The guns in the game are all alien weapons, they all only have 1 problem for me, the sounds 
 they make. They don't sound as powerful as they should. The badguys are pretty cool, there A. I 
 is desent but not spectacular. One badguy, you can shoot off his head and limbs and he still trys 
 to come after you, which is awsome. I wish they did that with EVERY bad guy but they didn't. Prey 
 is a long FPS, it took me maybe 12hrs total, about as long as the Half Life's to beat. It has a 
 great ending which is a must have for a game like this. I think any FPS player should play it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chestnutz
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 22, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is alot of fun and I enjoyed it. The story is bizzare and keeps you playing.
  
  The game is fairly tough, the graphics are great, the reason I think the aliens speak english is 
 because your spirit translates it for you. The aliens don't sound dumb. What is funny as hell is 
 when your guy starts chirping about the messed up stuff going on. I couldn't stop laughing at one 
 point.
  
  The only bad thing about the game is how it drags on and on and on and on at the end. Once you 
 think you're finished, it keeps going. Overall this game is great. I was hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatality4u
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Prey is the story of abductions, lies, deceit, and power. Unfortunately, the same thing can be 
 said about its single player and multiplayer performances. The game has been in development for 
 nearly 10 years now, jumping from console to console before it finally found its home on the Xbox 
 360. The graphics engine that is present is also that which is found in Doom 3 and Quake 4, so 
 needless to say it had the technology to succeed. Yet, despite the state of the art technology 
 and nearly 10 years of development and ideas being thrown around, Prey turns out to be a disappointment 
 offering little more than a regular first person shooter with a science fiction undertone.
  
  At the beginning you find yourself, Tommy, in the bathroom stating how much of a child you 
 are. You soon find yourself introduced to Tommys grandfather and Jen, the love of his life. Tommy 
 is continuing to try and talk Jen to leave with him and get off the reservation forever. Right 
 after you dispense with some of the no so pleasant fellow bar patrons, aliens interrupt your conversation 
 and suck you into their space ship. Along your grand tour through the ship your ride is interrupted 
 as you are freed by an unknown friend and start your journey to save your girlfriend.
  
  Notably there are several things that have never really been done before that makes Prey a worth 
 while experience. Portals are your friend throughout the entire game. The basically act as doors, 
 but they can transport you to totally different areas or just pop you up on the ceiling. While 
 it is a novel concept, one that the enemy really likes to use, you really never wonder if you should 
 take the portal or not. Another effect that is unique to Prey is the use of gravity shifting devices. 
 Throughout the game you will come across portions of lighted walkways and glowing devices which 
 will allow you to temporarily change gravity. These two devices function primarily as the puzzles 
 for the game, but they do not provide much of a challenge to solve.
  
  Since this is a first person shooter, you could already guess that a majority of your time will 
 be spent in battle. The basic enemy, the Hunter, is always equipped with the pseudo rifle/sniper 
 weapon. Although they are numerous they are never too much for Tommy to take out with a menagerie 
 of weapons. Along the way you will encounter several other types of enemies which range from a 
 flying robot to a scorpion type creature with a rocket launcher. The AI of the enemy is some what 
 intelligent at best. It has its scripted sequences where the enemy will flank you with portals 
 and sometimes the enemy will duck behind a crate or chuck a grenade your way, but for the most 
 part they will just stand there and take your fire.
  
  During the course of his fight to save his girlfriend, Tommy learns about some of the special abilities 
 that his Cherokee heritage provides him. One such ability is a spirit walk which allows him to 
 temporarily leave his body and use his spirit to flip a switch. Primarily the spirit walk is used 
 whenever you see a force field, but if you need some more help there is always a symbol on the 
 ground marking the point in which you will want to use it. The other ability that Tommy gains can 
 be best called as life regeneration. If you would so happen to die, you will be transported to 
 a plane, where Tommy will use his bow to shoot flying wraiths. You have around 15 seconds to shoot 
 red ones for health and blue ones for spirit energy. As with every shooter there is always a plethora 
 of weaponry. Your basic wrench will always be with you if you ever run out of ammo, you wont. 
 The standard rifle will pretty much be the weapon of choice throughout the game. Between the fact 
 that ammo is plentiful and the ammo regeneration, you will be using it a lot. You will gain the 
 use of several different weapons ranging from a rail gun with grenade launcher, an acid shotgun, 
 and a rocket launcher. One of the more unique weapons is the lecher. During the course of the game 
 you will encounter terminals with different colors and powers. Red for plasma, blue for ice, white 
 for lighting, and lighter red for stream energy are the types that you will encounter. Each one 
 has its benefit in certain circumstances, but you will rarely need to use it. Most of the enemies 
 in the game will not really require the heavy hitting firepower that you are touting around, but 
 its still fun to use.
  
  Multiplayer in the game is broken at best. The 360 version can only be played across system link 
 or Xbox live. There is a complete lack of split screen multiplayer options, while finding an online 
 game can be difficult. The Xbox live portion, while one would think would be free of many problems 
 like every other 360 version, the truth is quite the opposite. The game is constantly interrupted 
 with lag between players and shooting is even a nightmare. The multiplayer woes are compounded 
 even worse by the fact that there is an utter lack of game play types. It is best described as 
 if they were in a hurry to finish the single player portion and forgot about multiplayer.
  
  Graphically, Prey is neither a resounding disappointment nor a big leap ahead. Although the 
 game will regularly function well, it will get bogged down in specific spots and it even has some 
 walls missing from time to time. From a distance people and items will look really good and close 
 they will look good too, but you will also find that some textures are rough right next to the 
 beautiful ones. The biggest discontent with the graphics is that everything seems to look glossy. 
 While the organic and metal hybrid that you are going through looks good, it would have been nice 
 to see some areas that do not make you want to put on sunglasses to cut down on the glare.
  
  The musical score of the game is nothing that stands out and is constantly falling into the 
 background amid the gun fire and aliens screaming. While the gun fire may all sound unique, it 
 all lacks any sort of emphasis to it. You feel the same weight behind the rocket launcher has you 
 do the wrench. One would expect to hear more of a deep overbearing sound from the rocket launcher, 
 but unfortunately it lacks any punch. One interesting, if not irritating feature is the fact that 
 once you gain the ability to spirit walk, you will hear the Hunters talking in English. While it 
 is sometimes helpful, it detracts from the experience of these aliens being these big bad beings 
 that are bent on destroying you. The real life music that is placed in the game is a fun thing 
 to hear, you should not get used to it, because you will only hear it a couple of times, and then 
 it is lost forever, never to be used to its great potential.
  
  Prey is able to do some things right, but unfortunately it does too many things wrong or half way. 
 While the life regeneration concept is unique, it ultimately makes the game feel far less challenging 
 and gives you practically no reason to play the game again even on the harder difficulty. Although 
 the achievements system is in use, unfortunately they suffer from the fate of an unfortunate game. 
 While a bulk of the points are invested in finishing the game a portion are for multiplayer use 
 only. While this may sound like a good deal on the outside, as each of the achievements is fairly 
 ease to attain, it still means that you have to play the multiplayer. Unless you have a friend 
 and a spare 360 to play the game on, getting the achievements through live is more of a hassle 
 than an enjoyment. While many things are broken, the unique elements make a play through the game 
 once worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  You gotta give credit to a game that offers you some creative pieces. Prey does that, and it does 
 it by having you play with gravity, walk through one sided portals and doing the spirit walk and 
 death walk. I will explain what these are in just a second, but what I want to get to right now 
 is the gameplay.
  
  You play as a Native American named Tommy who gets abducted alongside of his girlfriend and grandfather. 
 You get brought into a ship that seems to be very alive and extremely organic. In a way, this game 
 has the look of Doom but feels more like Quake (but better) . I actually like this game more than 
 both of them. It offers you much more and your character actually has a personality. 
  
  You'll run into many enemy types all ranging from the casual Hunters to the colossal Centaurs. 
 And just for the record, the freakiest enemy is the little girls. I hate them. Anyways dealing 
 with gravity is easy and fun as hell. You will find yourself fighting enemies on the actual ground 
 while your on the celing. And the portals are a trip because you will see a box that see through 
 and you can walk through, but turn around and its actually a portal. Spirit walking allows you 
 to bypass laser beams and forcefields, it also gives you sercret walkways. And then theres Death 
 walk, which is why this game is easy. Death walk is something you go through once you die. When 
 you die, you get brought to this area where you have to kill red spirits to regain your health, 
 but trust me, this is extremely easy. Once you get enough health back you get brought back to where 
 you just died. So in truth, you can never really have a gameover. Plus you are led by an interesting 
 storyline that keeps you motivated to play along with great graphics. Prey's a great game that 
 does have its random flaws, along with a crummy multiplayer but it doesn't dissapoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 20, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Prey had some pretty good ideas for putting some new twists on the FPS genre, like wall walking, 
 portals, spirit walking, death mini games, and organic weapons, but these all are more gimmicks 
 than gameplay.
  
  What I mean is that while Prey lets you do some pretty cool things, these new additions to the 
 FPS genre don't revolutionize the gameplay, but rather simply give you a few neat distractions 
 while shooting ugly stereotypical doom-inspired creatures. The puzzles are easy if not annoying 
 and the wall walking doesn't actually effect the gameplay as much as it does just give you a headache, 
 although it was a good idea to try something different. 
  
  The native american theme was also a nice try, but fell a little flat just like the rest of the 
 new ideas. That is pretty much Prey in a nutshell, cool ideas that all came out half baked. With 
 more complex puzzles, the wall walking, portals, and spirit walking could have made for some seriously 
 delicious puzzle action, but the makers of Prey seem to have been too worried about turning off 
 the casual gamer and thus failed at banking in on thier cool ideas. 
  
  This game does have a good campaign that is pretty fun the first time through. You won't find much 
 to go back for and the MP is beyond broken so do yourself a favor and rent this game. It's a great 
 rental, it just doesn't have anything that gives gamers a reason to play it more than once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathFiend666
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that excels in some areas and misses the point in others. You can really 
 see the quality and time spent on this game but you cant help to wonder why in the 7 or so years 
 didnt they come out with something better then what was given? A strong FPS game but not quite 
 the next gen game we were expecting for Xbox 360. Its not all bad news so lets get down to the 
 nitty gritty!
  
  You play as Tommy, a Cherokee native American who has turned his back on all of his peoples beliefs. 
 Tired of the reservation he lives on, wanting to runaway with Jen his girlfriend and start a new 
 life but Jens tied to her bar and her people. You start off in a dank and some what soiled mens 
 facilities (not the best place to kick off a game but what the heck!) . You make your way down the 
 hall to the bar and you meet Tommys Grandfather warning you of change and in order to survive 
 he must embrace his heritage. Its also here you find some of the games little features, intractable 
 casino machines like poker, black jack and slot machines. With the howling of wolves the bar is 
 ripped apart by alien beams of light and its the Start of Tommys fight for earth, the exploration 
 of the alien Sphere and to rescue his love Jen.
  
  Lets get into game play. Its innovative but theres just not enough of it to really sway you. 
 Portals that bend space and time to take you to your next destination. Found in hallways or in 
 the most unlikely of places behind a stack of crates and the openings of air vents. Youll see 
 an empty crate on the floor walk around the other side to find a whole new room inside it. There 
 are also gravity stairs that allow you to walk up the wall, across the ceiling and any which way 
 they run as long as they have power. There are gravity wells that when shot will flip you round 
 to the direction it pulls gravity. Youll find these throughout the game creating obstacles and 
 puzzles, some easy and some you will need to think about. Most of them cant be completed without 
 Tommys Spirit walk ability. This allows his spirit to leave his body and allow him to go places 
 his physical body can not. When your character dies (thats if the appalling AI can kill you) you 
 a sent to a spiritual plain, where you need to shoot arrows at spirits to revitalise yourself before 
 being sent back. It makes the game way to easy with no real fear of the Game Over screen it allows 
 you to run around with the feeling of immortality.
  
  Plenty of eye candy in this game, it really lets the 360 flex its muscles and gives you an idea 
 of what games will be like when developers get the grips of the machine. The levels are gorgeous 
 youll catch yourself staring at the walls and genuinely sight seeing rather then killing alien 
 scum. But when you do fire upon the aliens you realise just how awesome they look. Its a shame 
 the same detail didnt go into the human characters. The weapons are detailed but just dont satisfy. 
 It really feels like your shooting spit wads. Uninspiring sound and design for the weapons really 
 leaves you wanting more. The sound effects and music for the rest of the game is really quite good. 
 You really got to love Judas Priest cranking in the bar and the soundtrack by Jeremy Soule known 
 for his work in Oblivion and Guild Wars.
  
  Prey allows for up to 8 players to duke it out online or by system link, much like the death match 
 game play of Doom and Quake 4. Whilst I havent been able to really enjoy the multiplayer of this 
 game on Xbox Live due to lag it should satisfy the appetite for any FPS online gamer long enough 
 till something better comes along. Theres really not a lot to this game online.
  
  Its a very solid title giving enough to satisfy your Xbox 360 gaming needs. With great level design 
 and challenging puzzles. A very fresh feel and if graphics float your boat its probably one of 
 the best looking games on 360 at the moment. The lack of decent AI and a difficulty level aimed 
 at casual gamers may deter some and severely shorten the life of this game but the story and game 
 play is still captivating and enjoying enough to warrant you handing over your hard earned cash 
 to play this game. Just dont expect a stellar multiplayer experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_ghost
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 21, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  This review could be start by telling you that Prey was originally shown at E3 95. But youve heard 
 and read that story plenty of times by now. So a better way to start this review would be, Prey 
 is an enjoyable first-person shooter, which leaves some untapped potential on the table. So, Prey 
 is an enjoyable first-person shooter, which leaves some untapped potential on the table. Prey runs 
 on the same engine as Doom 3 and Quake IV, so it looks pretty. Yet, unlike the other two games, 
 Prey tries some new things instead of being a run of mill shooter, and even has a story worth caring 
 about. Preys concepts arent utilized to their fullest, but its still one of the most enjoyable 
 shooters on the Xbox 360.
  
  You will probably never find yourself trapped on Indian reserve that you want to desperately escape 
 or abducted because of alien invasion. For these things you should be thankful. Yet, it is these 
 circumstances, combined with lady troubles that we meet Tommy. Hes a Native-American, which here 
 means someone who ancestors didnt immigrant to the land currently known as the United States of 
 America. Not only is he abducted, but accompanying him are his grandfather and girlfriend. He manages 
 to escape, and plans to help save them and return to life as normal. It would be lovely to tell 
 you this isnt a clich story of saving the world from destruction, but that would be lying. 
 
  
  At some point in your life you parents told you to never lie, but at times its a necessity to 
 lie. If youre playing poker or planning to creep out of your house to a party, lying would be 
 needed for success. However, a videogame review is no place for lying as it would be misleading 
 to the consumer, which is a terrible thing. Tommy is great example for reviews, as he doesnt lie, 
 and so if youre a non-liar you should feel at home with Prey, which puts in Tommys body-which 
 here means you see the world from his perspective not you physically enter the body of an Indian. 
 It also seems like the game is lying to you about Tommy, as he from Indian reserve has the inordinate 
 ability to accurately wield and aim alien weapons. Even stranger is that the guns all fire like 
 standard earth weapons. They fire like human projectiles, but look distinctly extra terrestrial, 
 which makes a great first impression about the graphics.
  
  Now first impressions are often wrong. For example if you saw someone nude on the street, your 
 first impression of them would be they are a mad nudist. This is probably wrong, as they most likely 
 got their clothes sucked off them by a large vacuum. Preys visuals are an oddity in this rule, 
 as they make a great an excellent first impression, but have some discreetly hidden idiosyncrasies. 
 The interesting weapons for example, are placed throughout some repetitive levels. The entire game 
 takes place on a massive alien spaceship, so you cant expect a ton of variety while aboard. Most 
 of the time youre in corridors, which are well lit unlike what youve might have seen in Doom 
 3. Everything in Prey has a great artistic style to it, which means the guns, characters, and aliens 
 all have a nice imagination and design to them. The frame-rate is stable and the game looks good. 
 Preys biggest graphical flaws are its similarity to every other corridor crawl game on the market, 
 which here means games where you spend to much time moving through one way corridors. Thankfully, 
 spirit mode adds some nice blues and glowing whites to the screen, and the Spirit Walk throws new 
 enemies and weapons at you as well.
  
  Death is an interesting idea, the concept that your body dies, but your soul lives. Youre likely 
 to believe its like going to sleep and waking up in someone elses bed, not knowing what happened 
 or how you got there. Death is one of Preys most interesting ideas, as you never truly die even 
 when your character has lost all health youre simply sent to a spirit realm. For a short time, 
 youll shoot different colored wraiths for health and ammo, before being transported back to where 
 you perished. It makes Prey a little too easy, and definitely needs working out. Yet, it does have 
 potential, and is much more interesting and fun then a game over screen. Another intriguing idea 
 in Prey is the use of portals. Generally, if you ever encounter anything walking out a portal, 
 its best that you run away. That creature probably isnt human, and if Star Trek teaches you one 
 thing, its that non-humanoids-which here means things that arent homo sapiens- dont come in 
 peace. This is true in Prey, but like Captain Kirk he fights the aliens. The aliens will use the 
 portals to move around you, but because of the linear tone, the portals eventually feel like doors. 
 
  
  When you hear the words tricks up its sleeve you think of a magician. But in this case tricks 
 up its sleeve refers to two other gameplay twists. There will be no voodoo cursing in Prey. In 
 certain areas youll walk on walls ignoring Isaac Newton and his laws of gravity. Its weird to 
 enter a room and now know whether youre on the roof, wall, or floor. Youre constantly walking 
 on walls to reach the exit, all the while blasting foes out of your way. Another fascinating idea 
 is that one has no belief in something, but can gain its power. As is the case in Prey, although 
 Tommy doesnt buy into mysticism he still Spirit walks. This power allows you to leave your body 
 and walk through force fields to advance through the level. During this time you wield a bow and 
 arrow, which is oddly stronger then a gun. Despite this oddity, its fun and satisfying to zap 
 an alien with an arrow of death.
  
  The word fun by definition it means a source of enjoyment. So if Prey doesnt fully capitalize 
 on its ideas, what makes it a source of enjoyment? First off is that you can walk on walls and 
 flip gravity, which allow for nice puzzles- which here means a way to advance, not something pieced 
 together with bits of cardboard-. Secondly, its portals and spirit walking prevent you from quitting 
 due to repetitive syndrome. Also it feels like something youve never played before. It combines 
 simple puzzles with great firefights and unique gameplay. Its unfortunate that Prey only lasts 
 six to ten hours, but the unlockable Cherokee difficulty brings a welcome challenge. Plus there 
 is a sneak of a Prey sequel, so expect to see it in 2017.
  
  The saying when one door closes another opens is generally about life. Its used to cheer someone 
 up, and you might say it when a friend didnt get that acting job, but his other door would be 
 in adult entertainment. However, in this review it refers to the completion of single-player before 
 moving onto the multiplayer. This is most advisable to prevent yourself from getting owned in your 
 first few matches. Preys multiplayer falls in the same category as Quake IVs in that its kind 
 of fun, but not all that exciting. It only has deathmatch and team deathmatch modes, which can 
 be repetitive. Some excellent maps designs using the walk on walls and gravity ability are fun 
 though. Watching an enemies gun fall upwards is disorienting, and makes multiplayer excitingfor 
 at least a few rounds.-
  
  When one first hears the word alien, we associate green skin, black eyes, and that X-files theme 
 song. Although there is no such song for prey, it still sounds rather nice. The guns have a nice 
 pop to them and so do the rest of the effects. Preys menu has a really good soundtrack, but for 
 some reason these songs arent available during the campaign with the exception of custom soundtracks. 
 The in-game soundtrack is a light orchestral soundtrack, which fits the mood well. Yet, the voice 
 acting is pretty weak. The Aliens sound dumb once you learn to understand their language. They 
 do reveal their strategies, but it sounds terrible and subtitles would have been better. 
  
  If you were to sum Prey up in two words, they would be mixed bag. In this case mixed bag 
 means an assorted amount of things both good and bad, not a bag that has been stirred in a bowl. 
 Its pretty to look at, fun to play, and has an interesting story. But all these positives could 
 have been much greater if it had tapped into potential. Some parts of Prey feel a tad rushed, which 
 is ironic after eleven years of development. Still, Prey manages to deliver a fun shooting experience 
 that fans of the genre are sure to enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cg92
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I was over at my friends house, playing timespliters 2 (amazing) , and whilst i was blowing brains 
 out in multiplayer mode as a gun slinging monkey; i looked up to see Prey. My friend had purchased 
 this several weeks ago yet he hasnt touched it yet. What a fool he was!
  
  An interesting story, yet at times a bit too... eh. Its a standard sci-fi alien takeover the world 
 FPS, with some interesting twists and turns. Whilst trying to convince his girl friend to move 
 out of town with him, aliens suddenly start abducting humans. Hmm. Hold on it gets better!
  Plot 6/10
  
  The gameplay stretchs out more than an average FPS. You're objectives dont simply 
 consist of "Go kill the leader!", at the begginingyou simply progress through the "Sphere" blasting 
 up enemies with a varied selection of weapons. Not only will dispatching the aliens be easy but 
 almost too easy. The punch line: You do not die!. It is almost impossible to lose to this game 
 by the third level as the Death walk mini game will make you practically immortal. By shooting 
 a flying spirit whilst "incapacitated" you will suddenly spring back to life through the help of 
 your ancestors. Other than the fact that you're inperveous to death, the difficulty varies between 
 you're skill: If you can hit your target, or if you can't it really dosen't make a difference. 
 The spirit walk ability can add a certain puzzle element by trying to figure out if you're ment 
 to walk through a laser field as a ghost or go up the ceiling.
  Gameplay 7/10
  
  The graphics however are quite amazing, a high level of detail was definetly put into ths game. 
 The weapons are detailed and very precise, and whilst your foes will be unloading plasma, you will 
 still be drooling at the blood effects.
  Graphics 9/10
  
  The sound effects are quite linnear and will not really change throughout your "spiritual journey". 
 Enemies will still be grunting and howling in pain whilst Tommy will be continiusly swearing about 
 where he is.
  Sound 6/10
  
  The multiplayer may appeal to some however, most will find the lack of content off-putting. If 
 a gamerscore and and a story is what your after, go for this or if not, rent it and be happy. Either 
 way, its a great value for money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydrolite
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 18, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Prey does an excellent job of offering up new concepts and ideas to the FPF genre while giving 
 it an air of familiarity so that most genre junkies can feel right at home. While these new concepts 
 are very welcomed Prey didn't tap into all of the potential this title could have had. Even with 
 that the game stands out as a fun but easy title that should be experienced by all gamers.
  
  In Prey you will play as Tommy, a Cherokee Indian that has turned his back on his Cherokee 
 heritage and wishes to leave the reservation with his girlfriend Jen. In the opening scene you 
 will find Tommy in Jen's roadhouse trying to convince her to leave. As you make your way to the 
 bar one of the games strongest side characters, Grandfather, warns you that a change is on the 
 horizon and that he must accept his heritage in order to survive. While Tommy is trying to convince 
 Jen to run away with him the invasion begins. Tommy along with Jen and Grandfather are abducted 
 into the spaceship and the saga begins as Tommy fights to save them and get back to earth. From 
 here your exploration of The Sphere begins. The plot will thicken and be filled with twists and 
 turns as you fight to save the world. The story is told very well and will wrap you up very quickly 
 if you allow it to. 
  
  While the gameplay is as innovative as a title has seen in recent memory it still dosen't tap into 
 all of the titles potential. Majority of the inovations come to you via gravity and portals. The 
 portals are at their core simply a door way but at sometimes can add some perplexity to the game. 
 Controlling gravity is probably the strongest feature of Prey and can add for some enjoyable and 
 disorienting fun. This plays a major role in the many in game puzzels that you must solve in order 
 to move through the game. The puzzels will range from the straight forward to challenging and will 
 show off many of Prey's key features. The spirit walk is an interesting idea as it allows Tommy's 
 spirit to leave his body and take out enemies with a powerful bow and arrow attack. While the combat 
 portion of this ability is slightly unhandy to use and not a major part of battle it will mainly 
 be used to go where Tommy cannor and also be used to solve Prey's many puzzels. The enemy AI leaves 
 something to be desired as it gives absolutely no challenge. The enemies will come at you in numbers 
 but are all extremly weak. Strategy is pretty much thrown out the with the new death mini game 
 that allows you to return to life after death. In this mini game you will find your self on a rocky 
 plateau as you attempt to shoot down red and blue wraiths in order to recharge your spirit and 
 body health upon reentry in to the world of the living. While this may make for an interesting 
 idea it makes the game way to straight forward for its own good.
  
  The graphics are done exstremly well and gives a glimpse at what is possible on the Xbox 360. The 
 human characters are ordinary at best but gets most of it's mileage out of it's downright gorgeous 
 levels and aliens. At many moments you will find yourself peering out over the scenic but ever 
 threatening Sphere. The framerate goes along without a hitch and makes gameplay much easier and 
 more enjoyable.
  
  The weapon sound effects are weak and don't give any feeling of power behind your weapon of choice. 
 Many of the effects are rather linear and uninteresting but the inner sanctum of the spaceship 
 can offer some very interesting and sometimes semi spooky sound effects. The voice overs do a fine 
 job and are very convincing. Only during times of high emotion does the voice acting falter in 
 the least. I thought the game was very liberal with the language and at times sounds more forced 
 than natural. The most interesting bit of sound takes place in the Jen's roadhouse as the juke 
 box is full of real life classic rock hits such as Judas Priest's "You got another thing comin'" 
 and many other hits that you can click your way through.
  
  While the games may lack difficulty this allows for the game to be a nice two day adventure that 
 you will thoroughly enjoy. Prey didn't capitalize on all of it's potential but offers enough new 
 features to the table to entertain and captivate you until the last level. While there may be a 
 few better shooters out for the Xbox 360 fan's of the genre could do themselves a favor by giving 
 Prey a try and the games interesting new ideas and fresh feel should be enough to keep you entertained. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krapowa
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 18, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the strangest i have ever played. it throws you into a word where you can walk 
 up walls and where there is uncertainty lurking around the corner. the story isnt original. just 
 the good old save the missus tyoe of thing. but the game distracts you from the rather plain story. the 
 graphics, the walking up walls ect. the guns vary differently with the first alien gun having a secondary 
 sniping mode. this works with the gun being alive and sticking a tentacle in your eye and having 
 sniping vision. but il warn you that once you play this game make sure to finish it off. i got disracted 
 and have never finished it so this review is not really a full review but a review all the same. enjoy 
 the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rzais
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 17, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  Prey has an very easy, average, single player mode. When Tommy dies, he ingages the spirit walk 
 to get his life and spirit energy back. The spirit walk avoids the game over screen and thus this 
 game takes very little time and skills to beat . Even on the hard difficulty this games single 
 player campaign is too easy to beat.
  The online multiplayer is always laggy and usually the lag is so bad that this game is not worth 
 playing via Xbox live. Better first person shooters are available on Xbox 360, so go buy one of 
 those if you want to play a better online experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hot_and_Spicy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I am surprised by how many people do not like this game. The game has an incredible single player 
 mode. You are a Cheroke indian, stuck on a sphere like space ship. From the never die aspect, to 
 the crazy portals, this game has tons and tons of innovation. Unfortunetly, all things come to 
 end, and this one comes to an end mighty fast, at just 7-8 hours, this campaign can easily be beaten 
 in a night.
  
  The multiplayer aspect was sort of a disspointment though. I was mad due to soooooooo much lag 
 on xbox live. I have never experienced so much in my life, and that is with the patch too. Hopefully, 
 they will fix this, and in the time being, this game is just fine for the campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 2:26 am PT
Review:  when i first got this game i thought it was going to be one of the best games out for the 360. 
 well it turns out i was a litle wroung. 
  
  THE GOOD
  graphics were great at some moments in the game
  some cool things you can touch in the game (like 
 the tv jukebox and the arcade games)
  its has online
  neat looking wepons
  neat maps
  
  THE BAD
  a litle short
  not alot of weapons
  story was a litle bad but there were some 
 interresting moments in the story
  bad sound half the time
  
  THINGS YOU MIGHT HATE OR LIKE
  only 2 gametypes on xl
  very easy
  only 7 wepons
  not scary
 
  short
  you can download things for the game
  you can sorta live forever
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimD73
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 14, 2006 11:12 pm PT
Review:  While I hardly kept up with the buzz, apparently Prey has been in the making for quite a while 
 now. To think, had it all gone to plan, I would have played this game on my old N64. As it stands, 
 Im playing it on my shiny new Xbox 360. I wasnt really all that enticed when I saw the ads for 
 it, but once I started reading some of the reviews, the innovations in the game looked pretty cool. 
 So I figured it would be a solid choice for a rental and picked it up relatively quickly. Is Prey 
 a game that I feel the need to purchase after the rental? Not even close.
  
  Prey, like any good sci-fi FPS, is about an alien invasion. Like any bad FPS, it also has plenty 
 of spiritual themes and revolves around rescuing your girlfriend. The basic plot is that Tommy, 
 a Cherokee Indian, is tired of his life on the reserve. He is trying to convince his girlfriend, 
 Jen the bartender, to run away with him, but she is too attached to her people. In the middle of 
 a clichd and poorly scripted dialogue, lights appear outside and suck Tommy, Jen and Tommys grandfather 
 into a space ship. Up in the ship, Tommy is freed by rebel humans and it is up to him to rescue 
 Jen and save the world, with the help of his super-Cherokee powers learned from his grandfather.
 
  
  Yes, your super-Cherokee powers. You gain them shortly after the game begins, and they basically 
 make the game ridiculously easy. There are two main powers gained through the ways of the Cherokee. 
 The first is the ability to Spirit Walk, in which Tommys spirit will separate from his body, allowing 
 him to pass through force fields and certain gaps to press switches and activate bridges. Also, 
 you can get the jump on opponents by firing at them with your powerful Spirit Bow. Spirit Walk 
 is neat and all, but the concept is only well utilized a couple times in the story mode, with the 
 other times being simply pressing a switch of something simplistic like that.
  
  The other super-Cherokee ability is the Death Walk, which essentially means that you can never 
 be killed. Every time your character runs out of health, he is transported to the Spirit Realm, 
 where you play a five-second minigame to bring yourself back with as much health and spirit energy 
 as possible by shooting Wraiths with your bow. By not being able to die, there is absolutely nothing 
 to stop the player from going Chuck Norris on the enemies and just beating them with a wrench instead 
 of actually shooting. It removes any shred of difficulty from the game, leaving no need for being 
 smart in any way, shape or form. On the plus side, it means no loading times or lost progress every 
 time you die.
  
  The game doesnt end with the innovations there. One of the main reasons the game was so hyped 
 was the ability to alter gravity. True enough, being able to switch the gravitational pull of a 
 room by shooting a switch is pretty cool at first, as is walking on walls with special traction, 
 but it is used in basically the same way every time. In fact, for the middle portion of the game, 
 the gravity switches hardly appear. The only real use of these portions is near the very end of 
 the game, where some decent puzzles are presented. Other than those, the gravity ability is pretty 
 much wasted in the story mode.
  
  The other supposedly innovative addition was the constant use of portals. Early on, the portals 
 are used exceptionally, with multiple portals in the same room which even have you seeing yourself 
 on the other side. After a while, the game suddenly gets lazy with the portals and they basically 
 become cooler looking doors. Sure, you can shoot stuff on the other side when theyre open, but 
 the same thing could easily have been done with a simple door. Had the gravity switches and portals 
 been used in tandem more often to create solid puzzles, the originality would have been well-used. 
 As it stands, the neat concepts of the game arent well utilized, simply a hook that catches and 
 quickly releases.
  
  Since the innovations arent all that interesting in the end, a nice weapon selection could still 
 make a good overall shooter. The selection isnt bad, with a total of seven weapons. While it may 
 not seem like a high number (especially considering that includes the basic wrench and the Crawler 
 grenade) , all of the weapons have a distinctly different feel to them. While they basically cover 
 each weapon type youd expect in an FPS (rifle, machine gun, shotgun and rocket launcher) , they 
 all look incredibly original. They are all alien technology and most actually look alive. Seeing 
 the tentacles on the rifle move ever so slightly or having the crawler grenade shriek as its legs 
 are ripped off add immensely to the immersion factor. Also, each weapon is satisfying, with none 
 that are significantly underpowered compared to the rest (aside from the always-dominant rocket 
 launcher) . 
  
  However, no matter how good the weapons look, there arent all that satisfying. Recoil isnt an 
 issue in the game due the fact that they are alien weapons, and aside from the acid-firing shotgun, 
 none of them feel all that powerful. Not even the rocket launcher has a powerful feel to it, especially 
 later in the game where the common enemy is the heavily shielded and rocket-equipped Harvester. 
 The sound effects on the guns are also fairly standard, and the gore they cause isnt noticeable 
 enough to make much of a difference.
  
  The game also has a shuttle that youll be able to use every so often in the single player game. 
 The problem with this little addition is that it is never satisfying at all. The flight controls 
 are a tad spotty, but the problem is that the boom from the rockets just isnt nice enough to make 
 any of the flight sequences worthwhile. They also suffer from being quite repetitive and having 
 no major twists in their mechanics. Just blow stuff up and go through the door, occasionally stopping 
 to shine your pointless tractor beam.
  
  As for the enemies in the game, they to follow the repetitive pattern. There is basically only 
 one kind of foe for the third fifteen levels, which is a basic hunter with a blaster rifle, the 
 first weapon you collect. After a while, the rocket-equipped Harveters come into play, and they 
 are more annoying than enjoyable. The enemies arent necessarily dumb, but that fact that they 
 are continually the same makes the whole game somewhat dull. The shootouts are constantly with 
 the same number of enemies with the same guns, and it just gets old after a while. Since you cant 
 die, they also never establish a threatening presence. The bosses are nice, but they are few and 
 far between until the end.
  
  Overall, despite all of the little nuances and unused potential, the biggest problem with Preys 
 story mode is the fact that it can be blown through in about three days playing casually. Once 
 again, since you cant die, there is no real challenge to the game, making the option to play on 
 a harder difficulty pretty unappreciable. The repetitive action sequences and puzzles dont give 
 much reason to go back a replay the game, aside from potential achievement points on the 360. 
 
  
  The multiplayer falls apart as well. The kiss of death right off the bat is that only two modes 
 of play are available, Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch. In this day and age, multiple game types 
 are mandatory for any game that expects to be a hit online. The fact that the game can only support 
 eight players is also disappointing, as the maps seem to be a better size for sixteen players. 
 The biggest problem with the multiplayer is the lag online, which is almost non-stop. There are 
 constant slow-downs in the frame-rate, which make shooting with any accuracy a daunting task. The 
 theme for the game online seems to be shoot blindly, strafe a lot and hope to get lucky.
  
  That being said, the multiplayer isnt a completely lost cause. It can be fun at times, especially 
 with some of the better weapons in the arsenal. Also, the Spirit Walk ability can be used to a 
 much greater effect, allowing you to effective shoot an enemy with no danger to yourself, though 
 it leaves you body fully exposed. Also, a shootout when your enemy is directly above you has a 
 certain level of novelty. The map selection is also pretty good, though some are a tad too big. 
 Still, despite some value, the multiplayer seems like more of an afterthought and is nowhere near 
 as good as the online modes in Call of Duty 2 or Perfect Dark Zero.
  
  Graphically, Prey is a mixed bag. Note that I have only played Prey on a standard television, not 
 with full HD quality. The character animations in the game are downright poor, seeming exceptionally 
 polygonized. This is only applicable to the human characters, as the aliens look pretty good. The 
 level design is where this game truly wins out. The Sphere that you must fight your way out of 
 feels like a living, breathing creature of its own, with walls that look like the inside of a stomach. 
 Granted, the whole deal with Harvesters popping out of giant vaginas on the wall is a little odd, 
 but it is definitely original.
  
  The sound in the game is pretty decent. The score is never really noticeable at all through the 
 entire game, but it is always a good fit. Oddly, the game uses licensed music, such as Hearts 
 Barracuda or Judas Preists Youve Got Another Thing Coming, in the first level, but it only 
 appears once more in the single player game and in one level in multiplayer, which seems like a 
 complete waste. The voice acting is godawful, with a huge amount of melodrama and fake anger, especially 
 from Jen.
  
  Overall, it is hard to recommend Prey for anything more than a weekend rental, because in that 
 weekend you are likely going to exhaust any possible playtime you would have gotten from it if 
 you had bought it. The single player mode doesnt make use of the potentially awesome innovations 
 and is incredibly easy. The multiplayer is a rather weak effort that doesnt compare to other 360 
 games. Still, Prey may well be a solid choice to kill a weekend with. I know it was worth it for 
 me. Not because I thought the game was that much fun, but because it got me an easy 850 achievement 
 points. To buy the game, however, would be a complete waste of money.
  
  56%
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: craig800
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I'll start out by saying that I'm not really a FPS gamer. However, I thought that Prey would be 
 a great entry level title to get me into the genre. For the most part it has done that.
  
  After a short intro into the game that involves the main character Tommy running around his girlfriend 
 Jen's bar. It's not too long before things go a little pear shaped and before long they're being 
 abducted onto a mysterious fleshy alien ship.
  
  The controls in Prey are relatively easy to pick up. Not much different from any other FPS you 
 would have played and anyone who's familiar with the genre will have no problems with them. 
  
  The gameplay is really a mixed bag, on one hand you have the combat. Which is for the most 
 part, just point and shoot until everythings dead. You can pretty much just survive by running 
 backwards and blasting the enemy down. However Prey does encourage a little strategy with Tommy's 
 unique "Spirit Walking" ability. This is pretty much just an outer-body experience where Tommy 
 steps outside his body to explore other areas of the level which are often off limits to his human 
 form. Alas, this sort of feels a little half baked. Apart from the compulsory Spirit Walking to 
 walk through force fields to press buttons, you really don't need to use it for anything else.
 
  
  The puzzle's in Prey were a bit of a highlight for me. It's also a chance for the game to really 
 step out of the ho-hum shooter mode and into something that can, at times, be quite challenging. 
 You'll be turned upside down and the roof will become the floor and the wall become the roof etc 
 etc. It can get a little disorientating but really adds to the atmosphere of the game.
  
  Prey's graphics are mostly pleasing to the eye. The fleshy textures look amazingly gooey and realistic 
 and the whole design of the ship is very intricate and at times, astounding. The frame rate is 
 quite steady and throughout my experience with Prey i didn't notice any slow down. The only drawback 
 for the graphics are that everything looks great while your moving but when your standing still, 
 things can often look a little jagged and ugly.
  
  Prey was mostly a fun, interesting experience and definately a bit of a twist on the FPS genre. 
 I enjoyed it's story, even though it was slightly predictable. The game felt very well put together 
 and didn't majorly stuff up any part. It doesn't have a lot of replayability though. Once you've 
 beat the story on both difficulties, you'll have little reason to go back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoungerob01903
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely LOVE my FPS, iv played Doom, Quake, Walfenstine etc and they are great games but this 
 is some new, something a little special.
  With all FPS you are only aloud to go within certian confines of the game, this is no exception, 
 but the fact that you can walk on walls and detach your self from your body and spirit walk makes 
 this different in a much better way.
  From the out set the graphics were some thing else, smooth, clear, no re texturing (halo2!) , just 
 fluid grace which is very pleasing to the eye.
  The game play is so easy to pick up i reckon that there is a learning time of about 15 minutes.
 
  One of the greatest things is the fact that they have not over complicated the controls.
  The storyline is fab, no one else has come up with some thing quite as diverse as this. Its normally 
 the usual Marine of solder that fights the bad guys, but no where have i seen a native american 
 used which makes for a really good story, and it also makes alot of sense wit the plot.
  The one over riding down side is a big one! 
  When i played quake and doom it was irritating 
 when i died ALL THE TIME on hard modes, but with prey it IRRITATING that you can not die, it make 
 the game too easy.
  Where you might need a certain level of skill to complete doom or quake on hard, any joe can complete 
 this not proving any level of skill.
  I can certainly recomend renting this game if your after that achievements, if not buy it and wait 
 for the patch (Big lag problems in multiplayer modes) .
  Game on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsn187
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  prey was an alright first person shooter i liked how the brought back the doom 3 engine. although 
 in prey i found the game play very short and the multipleyer was alright it could have been alot 
 better. The story line wasnt the best thing going but it was alright. Once you started playing 
 prey and after the first hour or 2 you relize that there is only 7 missions left so you might as 
 well just beat the game already. The game was extremly too short for my liking. The graphics are 
 amazing and i liked how the made the boxes and doors that lead to different rooms but most of all 
 is that fight ablilty. The first gun you get is alright you have enough ammo to last you but once 
 you use the sniper it takes 5 shots and your full ammo is which is a bit ridicoulous they could 
 have made it just a bit better. however if you want a game that you can just abolish people in 
 prey is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pookers47
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  Prey was one of those games that fell victim to the high amount of over hype. Why overall disappointing 
 it has its moments and certain elements that if emphasized and carried out better, could of made 
 for a more original and refreshing experience. It's hard to believe that this game was in production 
 for nearly a decade, though it was on and off, only to get a disappointing result. The game tries 
 too hard to be something new and interesting and over all fails while still implementing some neat 
 ideas. These new factors would include the use of portals in real time to travel through out the 
 games semi-large yet linear environments, following the pattern of other first person shooters. 
 Another neat idea is the way they tried to make use of different types of gravity. There would 
 be certain tracks in which you walk on against gravity which seems cool at first glance but is 
 overall too simplistic and can control a little tacky. When it comes down to the look and feel 
 of the atmosphere, the game nails it right on the spot. The ambiance is very much foreign and of 
 what one might expect an alien ship to look like. It has a very organic and eerie feel to it with 
 much of it moving life like. The enemies are also quite diverse and horrific looking but reminds 
 you a lot of doom 3. Though some can be quite agressive, the A. I. is very poor. The story of the 
 game is a little bit better than what I expected with a few surprises but nothing special and overall 
 way too short. You play as Tommy a Native Indian who wants nothing to do with his heritage but 
 is forced to embrace it in order to save his girlfriend, Jen, when they and a whole bunch of other 
 humans are abducted by, you may have guessed it, aliens. The shooting in this seems to lack that 
 certain X factor of solidness when it comes to FPS, much similar to Doom 3. There are only 7 weapons 
 in the game, 5 of which are guns while the other two are no more than a wrench that is never used 
 and some crawlers (pretty much the alien equivalent to grenades) which are also not really used. 
 Though there are not much guns they do each have a secondary functionality to make up for this 
 lack of weaponry. Each gun looks nice, orignal and alien-nish but pretty much retains the classic 
 FPS style. There's the acid sprayer (shotgun) , a autocannon (machine gun and grenade launcher) 
 and a rocket like launcher. These weapons tend to get a little boring after a while but they tend 
 to be appropriate for the situation. Another factor introduced in the game is spirit mode which 
 pretty much allows you to sneak around and access specific areas while using your bow to fend off 
 enemies but eventually you can run out of energy showed on your spirit meter. Along with that is 
 the idea that you essentially never really die allowing for you never really needing to save the 
 game and making an already easy and short game even easier and shorter. This pretty much works 
 by when you die you go to the spirit world and have about 10 seconds to fight for your health and 
 spirit energy before you return to the spot in which you died. The graphics in this game are superb 
 and shows off the wonderful doom engine on the 360 not to mention some other neat things it pulls 
 off showing us more and more of the power of the next-gen consoles. Tbe sound is accurate in terms 
 of effects but seems to be slightly annoying and repitative and the soundtrack is nothing special 
 nor memorable. The controls are tight but could of been expanded more since there are two buttons 
 to crouch but it works. The biggest quary with this game would have to be its painfully short length, 
 though not as short as everyone may make it out to be, just not as long as Doom 3 and the multiplayer 
 doesn't save it either. The multiplayer doesn't really deserve too many words other than its boring, 
 laggy, as bad as Doom 3's and pretty much crap. Overall this is an alright game that seemed to 
 be on the right path of innovativity and originality but some where along the lines seemed to fail 
 at that but its worth a rental but not too sure about a purchase at full price though when it comes 
 down to it, can be a nice and enjoyable FPS experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Prey was actually demonstrated for the public eight years ago at E3 1998 and was scheduled to launch 
 just a little while after that. However, focus at development house 3D Realms shifted to the latest 
 installment of their already-popular shooter franchise with Duke Nukem Forever, and well, poor 
 Prey got pushed aside. Years later, the project was outsourced to Human Head Studios and revived 
 using the Doom 3 engine. And here we are, with Prey now available for the Xbox 360 and PC. What 
 is ultimately offered by Prey is a standard first-person shooter romp with a couple neat features 
 that dont really pan out as well as they should. However, if youre looking for an easy, fast-paced 
 shooter, Prey makes the perfect weekend rental.
  
  Preys single player mode is all about a Native American named Tommy who looks down on his own 
 culture. Basically, he just wants to get the heck off of his reservation with his girlfriend Jen 
 who, unfortunately for him, is a proud native. This is the first plot device youll run across 
 in the game. It gets a little sidetracked, however, when an alien invasion picks up the couple, 
 along with Tommys grandfather, and beams them in to their massive, half-organic spaceship known 
 only as The Sphere. Thanks to a strange man skulking about inside, Tommy is freed, and the quest 
 to save Jen soon follows.
  
  Preys storyline isnt up to the level of, say, your Final Fantasys and Metal Gear Solids, but 
 for a shooter, its got a surprising amount of depth, and a good amount of effort goes into the 
 storytelling here. Like Half-Life, the story in Prey is told exclusively in first-person, so youll 
 never experience any cinematics in the traditional sense  instead, its presented as though its 
 happening to you, through Tommys eyes. There are a few twists here and there, and they are mostly 
 entertaining, albeit highly derivative.
  
  For a game as highly anticipated as Prey, its a bit disappointing that the experience ends up 
 feeling rather generic. There is a small collection of guns in the game, and although they have 
 a cool, organic look to them, they end up functioning like the genre staples (machine guns, rocket 
 launchers, and what have you) . The enemies in the game are varied enough that youll occasionally 
 need to change tactics to kill them, but there are only an extremely small handful of enemy types 
 in the game, and youll meet most all of them in the first half.
  
  Preys innovations come in the form of portals, gravity tricks and spirit walking. Throughout the 
 game, youll find a portal floating in the air or contained inside an item like a box. You can 
 walk around these portals freely, and theyre paper-thin, but inside the portal is an entirely 
 different section of a given level. You can walk through these portals at will, with no load times. 
 You can also shoot through them to hit enemies on the other side. Your center of gravity may also 
 change when you walk through a portal, flipping your perspective. Its a really neat trick, and 
 its extremely impressive at first. But eventually, the novelty wears off. This is mostly because 
 theres little mystique to the portals themselves  if you see one, theres no question as to whether 
 you should hop in and continue onward.
  
  Another feature in Prey are the occasional gravity pads which, when shot, will shift the center 
 of gravity. So, for example, if you were to shoot one of these pads that was on the ceiling, the 
 room would flip around and the ceiling would become your floor. Its a disorienting and entertaining 
 mechanic, but again, it begins to lose its appeal, as save for a few puzzles, you can really only 
 see one pad at a time, removing any possible experimentation. There are also some gravity tracks 
 thatll take you up walls and across ceilings, but again, these are linear and mandatory.
  
  Perhaps the most significant addition to the standard shooter menagerie is whats known as 
 spirit walking. About twenty or so minutes into the game, Tommy begins to get in touch with his 
 native roots, and gains the ability to temporarily split his spirit from his body at the cost of 
 spirit energy acquired by fallen enemies. Its a neat idea, and it occasionally leads to a clever 
 puzzle, but the vast majority of the time, youll spirit walk simply to get through an impasse 
 (usually a force field that your physical body wouldnt go through) and manipulate a switch directly 
 on the other side. You can also use a bow and arrow in spirit walk, but its effectiveness is limited, 
 as any damage your spirit takes goes directly to your body.
  
  Another product of spirit walking is the death walk. When Tommy runs out of health, you wont die. 
 Instead, youll get transported to an ancient-looking platform, with sprits flying about. You simply 
 shoot these spirits to replenish your health and spirit energy, and about 10 seconds later, youll 
 be dropped in the exact spot you died. If that seems like it would make the game stupidly easy, 
 wellit does. As long as you stick with the game for about 10 hours, its not a question of if 
 youll finish the game, but rather when. 
  
  While the single-player game offers a short but fast-paced run-and-gun sci-fi romp through an alien 
 spaceship, the multiplayer is definitely nothing to write home about. In short, loading up Preys 
 online component is like jumping into a time machine and heading back to the days of Quake III 
 or something. The quick match features take forever to search a game, even during prime hours. 
 And when you finally do get put in a game, the lag is often enough to make it unplayable, as all 
 of the players will be warping around the levels so much so that it becomes difficult to even target 
 them. The gravity pads are included in some of the maps here, but theyll either be activated so 
 often that youll become annoyed, or so little that it proves inconsequential. If youre looking 
 for the next great online shooter for Xbox 360, this isnt it.
  
  The visuals in Prey explore the same sort of sheet metal meets flesh styles that have been done 
  and better  in Doom 3 and Quake IV, which all share the same graphics engine. However, the enemies 
 look interesting, and the sense of scale is impressive. There are a couple moments in the game 
 where youll likely stop and admire the huge cosmic vista that surrounds you. The game also runs 
 pretty good  there are a couple stutters, but this is definitely a couple steps above the last 
 360 game with this engine, Quake IV. The animations are good, and a couple neat visual filters 
 bolster the quality a bit. Its worth noting though, that the game loses a considerable amount 
 of clarity on a standard-definition TV set.
  
  The audio is pretty good, but its unlikely that youll really take notice, as nothing about it 
 really jumps out. The mix is even but lacks bass. The weapon sounds are appropriately sci-fi, but 
 they lack a punch and dont sound as powerful as they probably should. The voice acting is probably 
 the best part of the sound production, with Tommy and Jen coming off as quite believable. There 
 are a couple snags, though; Tommys grandfather is too much token native sounding, and the aliens 
 inexplicably speak English, which is just plain dumb.
  
  Overall, Prey is a good game that, despite its long development cycle and small handful of noteworthy 
 features, just doesnt pan out as well as it could have. Theres some fairly interesting mechanics 
 at work in the single-player game, but it still comes off feeling pretty boilerplate in the end. 
 The multiplayer certainly doesnt add anything, either. If youre looking for a fast-paced and 
 easy journey through a sci-fi universe, Prey should definitely be your next rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShellShocker42
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 13, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  From 3d Realms (Duke Nukem)
  and 2K comes a new FPS thats....... interesting. You play as a Cheeroke dude names Tommy who hates 
 his reservation and wants his girlfriend and grandfather to come with him. Thats dandy til tommy 
 , his gf, and gp get sucked into a space ship with aliens. Yada Yada Yada, save your gf and gp 
 in process.... seems good. But, this type of fps seems like its been done before, and isnt as good 
 as the others. But the game actually does good by its self without the "new" stuff. Graphics arent 
 the best but theyre managable, sound effects are interesting, and its all good. The weapons..... wow, 
 theyre just weird. The doom 3 weapons make this games system like poop.... just kidding. The weapons 
 are ALL alien type. A mechanical/organic type feel. Except for your lighter and pipe wrench though. 
 Online play is goood.... good gameplay mechanics, You got your self a pure and simple good game. 
 If your looking for something new, pass it, but if you just want a game, look at Prey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  i had been waiting on this game for a long time, i thought of all the crazy things they could have 
 done to play with the gravity.... they did a few but not nearly enough... the single player itself 
 is awesome from begining to end but the multiplayer is almost ridiculous. there is only one vehicle 
 in the game and its controls are a bit lacking. this game is perfect for a once through..... but 
 dont touch it again, and you can remember it as being great! if you start going online and playing 
 your complaints will pile up....$4o game easy, as for the $60 pricetag i dunno, maybe if the multiplayer 
 wasnt just 8 people, and they had a co-op mode or something..... but i played through the arcade 
 mode than went to try my luck online and was seriously disappointed, it was pretty laggy and to 
 be quite honest not a whole lot of people were on. but if youre lookin for somethin thats pretty 
 original pick this one up for 1player mode... the begining of the game kept me locked in from start 
 to finish 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxgamer07
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  this game was pretty cool when i poped this game into my 360 it was just cool. it was just so cool 
 to wall walk. and all the cool guns you get just made you happy to buy this game. and when its 
 built on the doom 3 engine you know this game will be sweet. because doom 3 was a good game. the 
 stoy in prey was great. it really got you involved and caring for these characters. but i must 
 say the major draw back is this game is really repatitive and after a while all the cool things 
 like wall walking just got old. and i hate to say this but it kinda got boaring. but thers no reason 
 not to try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jypson44
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I found Prey to be a very fun pick up and play FPS. This is a quick and easy title you can breeze 
 through on a weekend or take your time and enjoy over the period of a couple weeks. This is a short 
 game which is both good and bad. Its great that they kept it pertinent, quick, and exciting vice 
 trying to draw it way out and just end up getting sick of running around killing aliens.
  
  I really enjoyed the world that it takes place in. A giant spaceship filled with aliens, parts 
 of planet earth sucked up to devour, and many little quirks that keeps the different areas new 
 and interesting. Its use of gravity alteration, alternate perspectives, and plenty of simple puzzles 
 makes for a very enjoyable break to the old WWII and Halo scenarios. They are always looking to 
 surprise you with aliens attacking from portals sometimes upside down or sideways to your perspective 
 and little quirks of the space station such as bone/limb vents that gush out harming you when ever 
 you arent paying attention to your surroundings. Also their use of massive environments mixed 
 with your familiar hallways of doom keep the game from becoming monotonous and played out. 
  
  Playing as a Native American who has given up his culture and is forced to one again learn 
 the ways of his people through Spirit Walking is not only original, but gives your character 
 a little bit more depth than your usual faceless soldier or Master Chief. The Spirit Walking is 
 a vital part to your experience in the game and is used to pretty much solve 70% of the puzzles 
 that gravity manipulation doesnt cover. You are able to shoot your spirit bow taking many enemies 
 by surprise while in ghost mode and collect their souls to recharge your bow. Another fun thing 
 about playing Tommy is that he reacts to his surrounding audibly how you or I might if we were 
 in the same situation watching all these disgusting things that are going on around you. The voice 
 acting is very well done, and is actually enjoyable to listen to instead of a burden. 
  
  The weapons are very unique and are as much fun to watch as they are to fire. You have your trusty 
 pipe wrench all the way up to some kind of organic rocket launcher and everything in between. They 
 all have their unique sound and feel to them as well as the ammunition to pick up for them. 
  
  So what it all comes down to, it is worth your 60 bucks? No, Im afraid not. It was a lot of 
 fun to play, but the re-play value isn't really all that high, and like I said before, it's a very 
 short experience. Im glad I rented it, but I wont be buying this title until it gets a healthy 
 price drop, and I would recommend the same to you. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CleveBROWN
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 12, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a blend between Halo, Doom, and Quake. PREY's game play provides fun through killing aliens 
 with a bow and alien tec. ALthough tthe short story mode can bore you quickly the online gameplay 
 is rather fun. Online prey on xbox live is laggy but still fun in its own way. I found the most 
 effective weapon to use online with the lag is the rocket for its large explosion. The game is 
 awsome to kill aliens. There not being offical bosses made it more fun for bosses can turn a great 
 game cheesey. Not playing on the hardest mode is pointless for this game is not hard to beat bc 
 of the spirit mode it is hard tyo get a game over neerly impossable. It''s hard not to love PREY!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r2will2
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of FPS games for a long time. Prey does hit the mark, like most FPS games out there. 
 the weapon designs are incredible and the usage of gravity adds a new element of game play.
  
  That being said, there are some downsides to this game. While it is easy to learn (it took 
 me about 10 minutes to learn the controls fully) there is no real challenge after that. The dark 
 corridors and grotesque monsters reminded me of Doom 3 or Quake 4. And you never really die in 
 the game. The puzzles in the game focused too much on gravity.
  
  Now for some good stuff. The weapons are innovative in design, but more were needed. The enemies 
 were awesome but too few and too far between. I would have like to see more types of enemies and 
 more of them.
  
  Overall, Prey is a good game but it seemed rushed and lacked polish.
  
  Hopefully Prey 2 will be a much more involved and in-depth game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlord2000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Prey is an interesting game in that it is heavily inspired by previous fps with similar themes, 
 Im sure I dont need to say it but I will anyway Doom is where it clearly draws a lot of influence 
 for its visual style.
  
  Well In Prey you play as this Native American chap called Tommy and you start the game in his girlfriends 
 bar he basically wants to leave his ancestral lands but his girlfriend doesnt want to, after his 
 grandfather gives him a lecture about his heritage he beats the living daylights out of two rowdy 
 patrons and then aliens abduct them all and use a crazy ray beam to disassemble the bar.
  
  Okay So without spoiling the game the objective is to get you girlfriend back which as with all 
 young love stories involving flying saucers and crazy alien beasts ends up including saving the 
 planet and quite possibly the galaxy. Nuff said!
  
  Anyhoo the game play mechanics are pretty good, its pretty much a standard fps they try to make 
 it more individual by having biomechanical weapons and a pretty boring portal system, I say boring 
 because well it pretty much is, you have no control over these portals, they appear in front of 
 you at certain intervals in game, and there isnt really any choice to go through a right or 
 wrong portal, it just opens up and you go through it. Sometimes enemies pop up out of no where 
 through a portal that usually closes behind them, mainly for shock value. There is also a gravity 
 pad system used for puzzles mostly, its pretty boring as well, at most it will make you motion 
 sick.
  
  one groovy feature in prey is the Art Bell radio transmissions, and the sound quality is pretty 
 good overall.
  
  The Bosses in Prey are easy to beat even on the hardest difficulty; they are usually just there 
 to give you new weapons or progress the story line. The graphics are pretty good, not overly outstanding, 
 but they do the job, and the frame rate is overall fairly consistent.
  
  Prey is extremely, I would even say a painfully short game I beat this game on both difficulty 
 settings in a shade over eleven hours straight, excluding pee breaks. My final verdict is that 
 you consider renting Prey rather then buying it like I did. Its replay ability and multiplayer 
 isnt really worth buying the game for keeps unless youre really really into that theme of fps.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake1555
Rating: 3.1
Date: Aug 9, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  OK so im reading Gameinformer and i see that Prey got a 9.5. I say to my self wow Ive gotta cvheck 
 this out! But then i went on the lovely website Gamespot only 2 see that it got a 7.5. I thoght 
 that the mixed reviews were wierd but i wanted it any way. Im like half way out the door 2 buy 
 the game when i watch my friend play it a little more and i see that ther is 0 challenge!!! Death 
 walk is stupid and leaves no challenge. I then decide to rent the game. BIGGEST WASTE OF MONEY!!!!!! 
 As the story goes you play as Tommy an Indian living on a reservation. Tommy has a girlfriend and 
 a grandfather at the reservation but still wants to leave. Suddenly you are sucked up into an alien 
 ship called the sphere. You manage to esacape from the aliens grip and are off to save your girlfreind 
 and grandfather. As you jorney on you find that the aliens are harvesting people for food. You 
 then learn that aleins created humans!! Cmon! I mean this is a stupid i dea and totally goes against 
 peoples religions. The story is stupid and game play gets repetitve. There are some puzzels which 
 werent fun but annoying. The gamplay was fun at timesbut thats it. Bad story bad gameplay 0 challenge 
 this game isnt that good. I agree with the people a t Gamespot. I give it a 3.2 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zekere
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 10, 2006 1:40 am PT
Review:  Prey arrives at the right place at the right time . To be honest, it's been since Oblivion since 
 the 360 has seen a descent next-gen game . And Prey isn't the next step up in next-gen gaming, 
 but has its moments , on different fronts . Graphically, it uses the Doom3 engine , which produces 
 nice graphics, quite detailed too , and it must be said, this game even looks very nice for those 
 of you out there who don't have High-Def .The single player game is extremely linear, but quite 
 big, and succeeds in not being repetitive . While the storyline isn't that original, you'll get 
 drawn into it quite fast, also because Prey has a fantastic atmosphere that surrounds you . 
  It is quite a challenge to remain original in first person shooters these days , but Prey contains 
 some new twists , not seen in FPS before . The first is the ability to leave your body and "spirit 
 walk" around . Using this ability, you must solve puzzles to progress through the game . The second 
 is the fact that you cannot die in this game . Actually, this isn't a good thing, as it certainly 
 takes away much of the atmosphere . You can simply rush through the levels bumping into creatures 
 and bosses , dying, and respawning a moment later continuing your fight . Speaking of it, Prey's 
 boss-creatures are well done . The third new thing is the ability to toy with the gravity . While 
 it's a pitty you cannot use this ability everywhere, it's still a cool thing, walking on what previous 
 a ceiling . The physics are great, as rubble falls down realistically (as do enemies) . Players 
 who've played Alien Vs Predator games on pc won't find this walking on the ceiling or walls that 
 much of a thrill (playing the Alien was fantastic) , but for newcomers (if that's possible in FPS 
 games) this ability is a nice twist and keeps the game fresh and interesting . The weapons are 
 cool too . While they act as the usual machine gun, grenade launcher and shotgun, they're clad 
 in a nice jacket of alien design . All in all the single player is quite good . 
  On multiplayer front, you get the usual deathmatch and team deathmatch and... that's it, which is 
 a shame really , as this game screams for original multiplayer modes . 
  In the end , Prey is a good game that doesn't break any records but what it does it does good , 
 and it's worth playing through . If there's a game you want to play this holiday season, you can't 
 go wrong with Prey .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKiller26
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 9, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  Prey  Okay so the plot goes these aliens came down on a spaceship to wreck and take over your 
 village somewhere in the Midwest of America. So youre this guy Tommy and you get sucked up into 
 this alien spaceship along with your girlfriend and your grandfather. Somehow you manage to get 
 free and you just want to save your childhood sweet heart Jen. Unfortunately your grandfather died 
 but not long after the start of the game you visit him and he teaches you powers to spirit walk 
 out of your body and through to rooms and places where you cannot reach without these powers.
 
  
  So your on this spaceship trying to escape and save Jen (your girlfriend) your not too worried 
 about earth and like anything alien you can expect some strange looking enemies some have 4 arms 
 some can hover and fly all with some pretty cool weapons. With everything being alien they all 
 have a variety of strengths where some of the bosses can take a full clip from a couple of guns 
 and maybe a grenade or two before they die.
  
  The controls are easy to get the hang of especially if you have played the likes of Doom or any 
 of the Halos in the past. Any regular gamer will get the hang of the controls after 5 or 10 minutes 
 of play.
  
  But the controls and killing of the enemies are the easiest part of the game especially as when 
 you get killed by an enemy you end back in the spirit world blast a few flying red daemons for 
 health and blue ones for your spirit walking as your spirit returns to your body and you come back 
 to life in the same place you died.
  
  As you are on a spaceship you can expect some really weird stuff to happen like aliens come through 
 firey lit portals which appear from nowhere but not only that you can flick switches which open 
 firey lit portals which lead to completely different areas of the level along with gravity walkways 
 and shooting these green gravity enablers which can see you standing on one complete opposite side 
 of the room as you switch the gravity from one end of the room to another. Along with using your 
 spirit walking ability to walk places you cannot reach in human form.
  
  Yes so this game sounds like a whole lot of fun with small spaceships that you can fly and end 
 of level bosses that you have to defeat it almost is but were this game really lets itself down 
 is it is too complex to get from where you start of to where you need to go even after you have 
 killed all the enemies you can find yourself just walking around looking for some portal or some 
 gravity switch it ruins the fun of actually wanting to continue to the next level.
  
  As for the online play its pretty cool it reminds me of Unreal Tournament with some quick walking 
 almost running action and with team games and plenty of maps to get your head around along with 
 a variety of achievements you can unlock providing you keep coming back for online action.
  
  The achievements are cool along with a few hidden ones they give you more points for each level 
 you complete i. e. 10 points for the first levels and 60 points each for the last levels it sort 
 of makes you want to keep coming back to this game.
  
  Graphics 7/10 Gameplay 7/10 Sound 8/10
  
  Overall 7.3/10 Good rental game definitely not worth 
 $60 or 50
  By KilleRMuRd0cK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fr33km4n
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 9, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  When Prey was restarting it's production (it was cancelled in 1998) , everyone was all hyped up 
 about the game's never-before-seen features. But when it was finally released, it never lived up 
 to it's hype.
  
  In the beginning, Tommy, Jen (his girlfriend) , and his grandfather. They are all part of the Cherokee 
 nation, but Tommy feels like he should be out exploring the world. He doesn't leave, because he 
 doesn't want to leave Jen behind. The story leads off into something predictable; aliens come and 
 suck everything into it's spaceship. Tommy breaks free and has to watch several people endure gruesome 
 deaths, including his own grandfather. His job is to save Jen, and the world.
  
  The gameplay is what makes Prey different from other FPS games. Three new features have been introduced 
 in the game; wall-walking, death-walking, and spirit-walking. There are special platforms that 
 let you defy gravity and walk on them. When you die, you enter a mini-game where you need to restore 
 your physical health as well as your spirit health. You can also leave your body to accomplish 
 tasks you can't physically do. Your variety of weapons include machine-guns, bombs, and other sorts 
 of strange weapons. All of them are made of organic life, oddly. Too bad the game is only 5 or 
 so hours.
  
  The graphics are completely life-like. Tommy's enemies look so real, it's kind of creepy. Aliens 
 have ragdoll physics so that you can cover their whole body with realistic blood. Most of the time, 
 the walls are made of organic life, so when you hit them, more realistic blood comes out. These 
 visual effects have definitely been seen in other games. The graphics aren't the best I have seen, 
 but atleast they look great.
  
  This game would definitely be just a game to rent. Unless you enjoy playing with the free figurines 
 and looking at the art book in the LCE Edition, just rent the regular edition. The game is taking 
 me a very short time to play. More experienced players will be able beat it in only 4-6 hours. 
 I recommend skipping this game and play the upcoming Half-Life Ep. 2 for the Xbox 360. It comes 
 with a free portal game that is better than the portals in Prey. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VooDoo1144
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  I was a little hesitant to buy this game... I mean... it is kinda like turok in a way. I finally 
 fell to the pressure of seeing all my freinds on my buddylist playing prey and not playing Chromehounds 
 with me... so I took the plung and bought it.
  
  The first thing that struck me was that this game feels alot like Doom3... mainly due to the use 
 of the engine and the general lighting and such in the game... it looks pretty good... not the best... but 
 still really good. The walls have the sheen of bio slime on them, the way you can almost feel the 
 humidity and smell the awfull oders is really intense. the weapons however look very bland and 
 don't really give you a sense of power like other games do... you really just find your self saying... uh 
 oh... bigger guns mean bigger baddies.
  
  The sound is top notch... I think the real selling point for me was the walking commentary by the 
 main protagenist... and the colorful metaphores really add to the authenticity of the game... and 
 the radio segments are really great... almost to good, as I tended to stop everything and lend a 
 ear to the whole thing.
  
  The gameplay can either be very fun or very simplistic... early in the game you really have no drive 
 and tend to face small challenges that never seem to give you enough to chew on... you will get 
 sucked in... but you are gonna have to wait awhile to get there.
  The Gravity puzzles are not as crazy as others would have you believe... but they are still a fresh 
 and fun way to mix it up... I found myself really getting vertigo as the walls shifted and I was 
 now on the ceiling instead of the floor... this was really the best part of the game.
  
  The overall multiplay is where I really like it... it brings me back to classic deathmatch in all 
 the good ways... the weapons still feel kinda crappy but I love the portals and the gravity puzzles... but 
 the flying things really don't have much of a use... not as much as single player.... but this is 
 a great game on Live.
  
  Overall I will say that you should own this game... and with a serious lack of good titles for the 
 360 coming out before fall... you really don't have much of a choice... I like it and I am picky 
 as hell!
  
  Mike 
::::::

::::::
UserName: babaikas
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  Overall the game was great puzzles were a bit too easy not as challenging as you would think and 
 so far I didnt see if there was an achievement for going the whole game without dieing which would 
 have been good. I think what would have made it better if there were more puzzles it was good but 
 they were to simple going into spirit form and going through a barrier switching going back i think 
 it would have been better to be more complex. Also it was good how the weapons never needed manual 
 reloading. Xbox Live was good not so much lag fun and easy. Singleplayer ended a bit strange after 
 going through so much to end like that which kinda bothered me. Overall I think you should rent 
 it becuas replay value is pretty low 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sotnick955
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 8, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  Prey had a resemblence to DOOM, but it was certainly not a copy. It was original with it's spiritual 
 twists. There was a spirit that allowed you to be in two places at once which really helped you 
 survive. Another esential part of survival was the place where you traveled to after you died. 
 You had to fight off evil spirits in order to return to the mortal world. It was a new idea that 
 made the game seem more "real". At least as real as a Sci-Fi shooter could feel. The only complaint 
 that I had about the game was that the weapons and enemies coudl have been more developed. It seemed 
 that the creators spent more time on the levels and not evough time on the characters and weapons. 
 The levels, however, were supurve. They included many puzzles that had you walking on walls and 
 turining off gracity. The game was excitign and different. And by the wya, Jen is hot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cartman86
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 7, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  I have been anticipating Prey ever since it was first shown in it's new form a couple E3's ago. 
 The demo was released a couple weeks before the game came out, and it just solidified my hype. 
 Then the sad truth came out. The game is not as amazing as we all thought.
  
  First off it's probably nice to talk about the good. Well the technology that has always been associated 
 with the game works perfect. Portals, weird gravity etc all show up as promised. Without them the 
 game would be very mediocre. Another feature in Prey is death. There basically is none. When you 
 lose all of your health you play a short minigame where you shoot creatures to get your health 
 back. In about 10 seconds your done and back right where you were. An interesting feature that 
 makes the game a little too easy. The graphics are among the best on the PC and Xbox360 at this 
 time, and the sound effects are hard hitting and fit well. The voice acting is good as well.
  
  One aspect of the game that was reported on often was the main character Tommy. Who just happens 
 to be Native American. That's just another innovation in the game. It's pretty rare to see a video 
 game use Native Americans as main characters (despite the fact that its an alien invasion game) . 
 The story is nothing special. Tommy doesn't want to live on the reservation, but his girlfriend 
 wants to stay. Out of nowhere aliens abduct Tommy, his girlfriend, and his grandfather. Tommy must 
 set out to rescue them. Fairly straightforward, but it does have a few unique twists (that take 
 their cue from some very good games) that some may not expect.
  
  Despite the unique twists in the gameplay the feels like it's missing something. It could be because 
 its very short, and very easy. The portals never really do anything really amazing beyond the first 
 hour in the game. It really shows that this game could've used another 4 or 5 hours added on with 
 some more unique puzzles. There isn't a ton of character interaction (Half-Life 2 any one?) , so 
 you don't really care for the character as much as you could. If what happens in this game involved 
 the Half-Life 2 character it would've been far more effective (for example) .
  
  Another disappointing aspect is the multiplayer. It only allows for one player on screen and is 
 extremely laggy with anymore than 5 players in one room. Precision can be very difficult even with 
 only 2 people playing. There are few maps and only deathmatch modes. I don't want to dump on it 
 anymore, but it would have been nice if they put time into developing a unique multiplayer that 
 took advantage of the portal and gravity tech that they obviously worked a lot on.
  
  Overall Prey is still a fun and unique game that will obviously spawn many similar games. For me 
 it just goes to show how much Halo benefits from having a good multiplayer mode. Yes the game could've 
 used some more time in the oven, but that shouldn't deter anyone from at least giving it a look. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakotan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a short review cause I agree with everything gamespot says but the scoreing its due more 
 then that I think and I dont think gameplay is to bad and not to easy either. This game does have 
 some of the most awsome ideas I have ever seen in a FPS. The story is awsome.
  
  The only thing I can not condone of is the involement of children thats one reason why I will not 
 try FEAR.
  
  I think children need to stay out of these type of games if you must have let it known that they 
 died at some point but thats it. The developers use of kids is only thing that sickens me about 
 this game and is only reason that I give Prey a 8.9.
  
  Go buy it and play it and enjoy takeing out those aliens that have killed those kids.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyrolator
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This game past my expectations, from what i have heard and read from. From other people that have 
 said, this game is too short, this game dosent have good graphics, this game is too straight foward, 
 blah blah blah. A lot of negative comments, i got to admit i was thinking crap!! This game is not 
 going to be good, but when i played the demo and people were telling me well if you liked the demo, 
 you will like the game. That simple, it is one of those games. And well I just recently beat it 
 and i was actually really impressed. Especially with the story, the graphic are good but i wouldnt 
 say they are the best. but you will love the things they did with it. One things clear is that 
 this game is not bad, i think it will fall along the lines of being an ok or great game. Ive played 
 all the great fps out there and its safe to say this is not a bad game, in my opinion its a good 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beenofalus
Rating: 4.2
Date: Aug 7, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I am a huge 3drealms fan, and I have been waiting for Prey since I first 
 heard about it nearly ten years ago. With that being said, perhaps that is why I am so disappointed.
 
  
  Prey itself was a cool idea... Although games have evolved a lot since 1995. So it is your basic, 
 "I hate my life, oops aliens are here better go kill them, save my girl" from back in the day.
 
  
  The game is just not complete. The game is short, very short, and boring. Lots of puzzles for no 
 reason. The gravity addition, which should have been a huge selling point, isn't cool enough to 
 outweigh the cons. It's actually kind of lame. The portals are cool, but that again, doesn't last 
 more than the first two times you use it. Aside from those two things, Prey offers nothing new 
 to the genre.
  
  You've probably read all you can read about this game so I'll just give you my thoughts on why 
 this game is not worth your money.
  
  1. Dated- FPS has evolved big time since this game started. No cool gadgets, no vehicles, i'm not 
 even sure there was a map.
  
  2. It's like it's from 1995 - same as #1, but you guys, this really is like Duke Nukem timing. 
 The way it looks, the way it feels, the way it plays out, the gimmicky guns... not exactly on the 
 same level as say, even the worst of the WW2 games out there.
  
  3. The new stuff just doesn't cut it. Gravity/Portals, yup, and that's it. Once you do it the first 
 time you are amazed, then you are left with the rest of the game.
  
  3. The graphics, despite what everyone says, are not that impressive at all. There's hardly any 
 cinematic scenes, and there's not a lot of detail to anything. Just looks like a bunch of crap 
 with moss and blood. Honestly you guys, I don't know how you are giving this game 8+ for graphics.
 
  
  4. Sound - they made a big deal out of the soundtrack. Well it's not that intersting, and the gun 
 sounds are really cheap. The voice acting isn't too bad actually.
  
  5. No split screen, and the multiplayer LIVE is laggy as hell. Granted, that will be fixed at some 
 point, but with the cheap weapons and boring level designs - you wouldn't be into it too long.
 
  
  6. Hype - the game had so much potential, and it just didn't come through well. It would be like 
 if Fable took 30 years to make and Oblivion was a regular 3 year ready to go game. You would think 
 Fable was complete crap!
  
  I guess all I can say is that I am disappointed, and some of you giving this game 9+ ratings, I 
 highly doubt you will still be playing prey in two months from now, nor will you want to give it 
 a try in 6 months... and that's why 9+ ratings are for. If you guys give a game like this 9.6.... 
 what are you gonna give a truly great game? Then we will be debating why is Halo 3 just one tenth 
 better than Prey, when it will be a much larger, better-done, and more exciting game than every 
 aspect of PRey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenlong
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 7, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  way back when a game was anounced called prey. jul 11 2006 nearly ten years later people finally 
 got to play this game and i overall thought that it was fun but only for a short time.
  
  first off llet me tell you i had a fun time with this game. playing through was fun and the story 
 started like **** and stayed that way till the end were it got really good and very interesting 
 but at the same time when it got interesting it ended and with a cliff hanger ending that will 
 make you wantto see wut happens next. 
  
  prey plays like your standard fps but it throws in some things that attept to make the game more 
 interestng. these things include portals and being able to change gravity. unfortinatly since the 
 game is so straitforward the portals are basiclly doos but glow yellow around them. changing graviy 
 is in my opion the best part of the game. chnging may want you to shoot blue switches that will 
 put you n that part of the wall or ceiling. then ther are small blue platforms or walkways that 
 will allow you to walk you up on the wall and ceiling.
  
  unfortanitly the enemy disign in prey is dispicible. a child could beat this game. also (altho 
 i think its a neat idea) the deathrock shhoting wraits to get spirit energy or health then sends 
 you right back were you die unless you fell off the edge of a platform. overall prey is a very 
 easy game.
  
  getting acheivement points is even easier the the game itself. everytime that you beat a level 
 `you get acheivment points you get acheivment poits for beating the game and acheviment point for 
 beating it on cherokee mode
  
  if there is anything that is top notch about prey is the audio. at the starting there is a jukebox 
 full of tunes not very good ones just like a rundown bar would have. then when the bar is beeing 
 ripped apart it plays a good song that fits that part. in the sphere you can stop by radio hot 
 spots and listen to art bell and the voice acting is awsome. the only problem with the audio is 
 the weapons all sound weak. and this game has alot of pointless swearing.
  
  the graphics arent really next gen and the fram rate really dips when bullets start flying but 
 overall it looks nice. 
  
  if youre looking for a fun fps game to play over the weekrnd its worth the rental just because 
 it is fun but it isnt worth 69.99. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rastamandaz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 7, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best First Person Shooter game for the Xbox 360, if you liked Doom 3 or 
 Quake 4 this game will suit you perfectly.
  
  Its pretty easy to play, nice controls and never die thanks to your side kick.
  
  Graphics 
 are absolutely amazing, and the game features really make it more exciting and puzling.
  
  Change the gravity to over come your obstacles, or spirit walk to activate switches that Tomy cant 
 reach.
  
  The weapons you get to use are like never before, and the creatures are just so amazing.
  
 
  This game is definately worth buying, Im currently compleating it again for my second time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasren
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 7, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  This game was Great!! i loved it.... Had a Cool story.. Fun to play... Was Innovative and Creative... 
 its about a Character who gets abducted by aliens. u enter this really well built ship.. to try 
 to save your girlfriend... the ship is HUGE must i add... plus i like the whole idea on using gravity 
 and what not they played with gravity alot in this game... for example your runnin down a path.. 
 ur acually on the wall or what not and the enemies can be above and to the side of you... its a 
 Really good game... i loved how everything was sooo bazaar... And loved the portals... My only complaint 
 is i wish it could have been longer.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I recieved this game as a present otherwise I would have only rented it. It took maybe 10 hours 
 at most to complete the single player game. It had a few hang ups, like one time I was flipping 
 the gravity around and got stuck having to restart the whole level. This is because I didnt ever 
 save because techinically you never really die. I must say I like the death in this game. It stoppeb 
 me from saving every 10 minutes and I never had to replay the same thing over and over again besides 
 the one stuck glitch. 
  
  The biggest problem I have in this game is no coop, terrible laggy multiplayer, and no split screen 
 multiplayer (this is unheard of for a console FPS) . I was going to play a quick skirmish with a 
 firiend when he was over, but no option to play this. I cant believe this, it should be in the 
 definition of a FPS. 
  
  This game needs a patch and a patch quickly. The graphics are definately from the doom engine as 
 many things look familiar. 
  
  Overall I would say this is not worth $60, not even $40 right now. Wait for it to hit the bargain 
 bin, heck, there might even be a patch for it by then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 15, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I can honestly say I hadn't bothered to look up any info about Prey because I was expecting another 
 Doom 3 or Quake 4. When we downloaded the Prey demo for the Xbox 360, all I could say was "wow". 
 For a demo, it was fairly long and there was even a multiplayer feature to it. I was in awe of 
 it, and wanted more.
  
  Prey begins as the main character rambles on about his feelings for a girl, and how helpless he 
 is when trying to tell her how he feels. Tommy is a Cherokee Indian and he has no love for his 
 heritage. All he wants is to take his beloved Jen and leave the reservation, but he can't seem 
 to tell her.
  
  In what originally seems a regular night at the bar, a couple of guys start harassing Jen. Tommy 
 comes to her rescue when all hell breaks lose. A gigantic alien mothership pulls out the roof and 
 starts sucking everything in through a tractor beam, and in go Tommy, his grandfather and Jen. 
 
  
  Although the whole alien abduction and human harvesting assembly line is very similar to what we 
 see in Quake 4 for the transformation of humans into Strogg, Prey manages to be a little more on 
 the creepy side as the aliens intend to use people as food or slaves. Humans are being transported 
 in slabs, hanging like pieces of meat. Tommy spots a stranger setting a bomb that causes the assembly 
 line he was in to break. He falls and comes lose, thus beginning his quest to save the world.
 
  
  At first glance, the ship's inside is nothing short of disgusting. The whole thing is a mix of 
 metal and organic parts, and Tommy's reactions to his surroundings provide a bit of comedic relief.
 
  
  The weapons are equally mechanic and living, and it's worth stopping for a period of time just 
 to watch the idle animations on them. The entire arsenal is pretty imaginative. There are grenades 
 that look like mechanical spiders, which you activate by pulling one of their legs out, and guns 
 pulsate as if breathing. The first weapon Tommy finds has a tentacle that comes out and attaches 
 itself to his face to be used as a scope. How cool - yet creepy - is that?
  
  Tommy will also discover new abilities within him as he finally begins to embrace his ancestor's 
 culture. They are pretty... out of this world. You're supposed to be fighting this alien invasion 
 with your spirit powers, using a bow and shooting arrows at things in the spirit world? I mean, 
 when you think about it, it sounds really silly. But in the end, it's a great concept. 
  
  The Spirit Walk happens when Tommy's spirit leaves his body. As a spirit, he can go through force 
 fields and still interact with objects or collect ammo. Certain paths are only visible in spirit 
 mode, so Spirit Walk is very helpful for environmental puzzle solving, such as deactivating the 
 force fields or other obstacles that get in his way. You can also engage in combat as a spirit 
 with a bow as your weapon.
  
  Aside from Spirit Walk, there is also the Death Walk. Once Tommy learns this ability, instead of 
 dying you will be transported to the spirit world where you get to shoot red and blue ghosts to 
 fill your health and spirit, before you are pulled back to your body.
  
  Tommy also gains a hawk spirit guide that will help him fight and understand the aliens.
  
 
  The alien technology offers some more interesting tricks. There are walkways spanning across walls, 
 floor and ceiling that allow you to defy gravity and completely lose sense of which way is up. 
 There are little shuttles that basically materialize around you, allowing you to fly inside the 
 mothership, and it's in these situations that you realize how big the place is. And then there 
 are portals that let you peek and shoot into other areas, and that at times remind me of a wacky 
 puzzle game called Narbacular Drop (particularly where you have Tommy standing in front of one 
 staring at himself) .
  
  Graphically, Prey is spectacular. The details on everything are quite impressive, be it the wrinkles 
 on Enisi's face or the living flesh look of certain parts of the ship. The layouts of the different 
 areas don't seem repetitive, and there are places that truly show the magnitude of this alien harvesting 
 structure.
  
  The sound is a really strong point, as the environmental sound effects really set the mood. The 
 squishy sounds coming from those membranes that spit out acid or eggs are truly gross. Little things 
 like weapons reloading, doors opening, switches clicking are just perfect. The voice acting is 
 outstanding and comes across as natural, particularly Tommy and his swearing. 
  
  The music is by far my favorite thing, especially the one from the loading screen. It just hits 
 you as epic right away. But at the bar, you get to play some cool classic rock tunes in the jukebox, 
 and later on you will find it again in the ship. In fact, you find the whole bar. Unfortunately, 
 you only get to hear "Don't Fear The Reaper" once in the entire game.
  
  Overall, Prey is somewhat short, but there are plenty of achievements to get, and the online multiplayer 
 feature will probably keep you going for a long time. I mean, what other FPS lets you walk on the 
 walls and ceiling?
  
  The adventure as Tommy through a ship echoing with screams and pleas for help, where ghosts seem 
 to possess children and humans are transformed into aberrations is truly one of a kind. But when 
 you finally reach the end, they even reassure you: Prey will continue...
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=prey 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gray_E_Gray
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 5, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  First person shooters have taken quite a step since the 360 has come out but this shouldn't be 
 the best it can work out. This is just a typical "save the world" shooter with aliens. Some of 
 the features like being able to leave your body is very innovative but is just an EXTRA hook to 
 grab you. The graphics are decent but don't help you visualize the true intensity of what is really 
 going on. The controls are choppy and riding vehicles can sometimes be disastrous. The weapons 
 aren't all that most gamers would crack them up to be and the main character is questionable also. 
 The puzzles are something that really caught me. It's something that is original and raises the 
 attention of FPS gamers. The story is decent but just doesn't feel like a breakthrough. I'd say 
 just go with renting it or nt even that. Borrow it from a friend or try a demo. This game isn't 
 worth much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 7, 2006 1:34 am PT
Review:  You control Tommy, a Cherokee Indian who wishes to leave his reservation to find a bigger & better 
 future for him & his girlfriend Jen. On the flip side, Jen doesn't wish to leave the reservation 
 & her bar. So, after Tommy tries convincing her to leave & fails, and after he beats up two drunks, 
 Aliens come and began invading the planet kidnapping everyone inside the bar and surrounding area. 
 It's up to Tommy to save himself, his people, his girlfriend, and his world.
  
  Its a simple first person shooting game with a small armory of weapons which include an assault 
 rifle, a heavy machine gun, rocket launcher, grenades, etc. However, all these weapons are "organic 
 weapons" meaning that, for example, instead of it being a normal frag grenade its actually some 
 small alien that you rip the leg off and throw so it blows up... in other words your ammo is living 
 just like in Oddworld: Stranger's Wrath. You must press buttons, crouch, jump, and all those goodes. 
 Early in the game you are given the ability to have your spirit leave your body, who is equiped 
 with a properly named "Spirit Bow", and run around through force fields and what not. 
  
  What seperates Prey from other standard FPS? Well for starters you can walk on walls (which was 
 pretty nifty even if it did give me vertigo) and it helps give way to fighting enemies - for instance 
 sometimes you'll be shooting at them upside down. Secondly, you can rotate certain rooms by shooting 
 these pads. Finally, when you die your spirit goes to some spirit realm where you can shoot these 
 blue or red wraiths to regain health and after a little while you come back to life. Though that 
 part was pretty cool and helped in some points, it really did take away from the challenge.
  
  Throughout the game there are these spore things on the floor that if you walk over them you 
 regain a little bit of health. Ontop of that there are these health station things that give you 
 more health then the normal spores. 
  
  So what were it's problems you ask? Well, like I stated early you can always come back to life 
 no matter what - even though it was cool, it made the game far too easy. Secondly, the game is 
 pretty short - I had it beat in two days. Finally the ending was unrewarding: Tommy saves the world 
 even though Jen dies, he goes to the "Spirit World" and talks to his dead Grandfather & Jen's souls, 
 then you see Tommy rebuilding a bar that resembles Jen's and this alien chick walks into his bar 
 (you meet her in the middle of the game) and she explains that other "good" aliens heard what he 
 did and they want to meet him and a space portal opens up.. and guess what? Tommy steps in and sets 
 the stage for a Prey 2.
  
  I will admit, the idea of aliens coming to earth, taking humans and feeding them to their powerful 
 leader is always a cool idea and Prey sure does it in a cool and violent way. You see bloody humans, 
 you'll see humans cowering in dark corners mummbling to themselves from insanity, you'll see many 
 humans being hunted and killed right in front of your eyes, hell you'll even see CHILDREN getting 
 killed. So thats definitley cool and adds points thanks to the violence factor.
  
  As for online play, I don't have X-Box Live Gold so I can't review it. Sorry guys.
  
  The graphics 
 are the same as Doom 3 or Quake 4.. so by now I'm not really impressed, and everything is pretty 
 damned dark. Sure everything looks cool and half organic-half metallic, but it's an engine thats 
 been used up. Use Oblivion's engine, then I'll be impressed.
  
  The music & sound FX were pretty right on. The guns sounded powerful and satisfying, and the music 
 changed from actiony to Indianish when you went into your spirit mode. The best part about all 
 this was the voice acting. Tommy had such personality and acted so real that I connected with him 
 on a personal level, and the way he interacted with other characters was cool as well. Like for 
 instance if you found a crazed human and killed him, Tommy says "It's better that way friend." 
 or sometimes when he gets hit he will curse. I liked it.
  
  To sum it up, I do not think this game was judged fairly. It has its moments of repetivity & easiness, 
 but its really fast paced, has a cool story, the main character is almost as cool as Duke Nukem 
 himself, its violent as hell, and the action is pretty awesome. I give it a solid 8.1 with a thumbs 
 up :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameboy360
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  First of all, even if you dont like the gamplay or find it it somewhat tedious, just hold out out 
 because its worth playing all the way to the end.
  The gameplay is that of Quake and Doom. You run around and pump aliens with tons of lead, or in 
 this case whatever bio-hazardous chemical is in the gun when you find it, and then you well..... kill 
 stuff. But beyond that there are some of the coolest and smartest puzzles ever seen in a game. 
 A big part of the game involves hyper realistic physics ranging from asteroids with there own gravitational 
 pull to panels that must be shot to activate, or should i say flip, gravity on or off, or side 
 to side, if that makes much sense. Sometimes i actually feel myself getting a little motion sickness 
 like those kids in Japan (akwardly enough they get motion sick ALOT) But the problems are that 
 the combat gets dull and your enemies have super aim, but thankfully when you die you play a little 
 minigame where you must shoot down spirits that fill either your health or Spirit energy.
  Now with the graphics. If you've played Doom its like that but instead of taking place in pure 
 darkness the graphics really show themselves off in pretty wide open areas than just dark crammed 
 corridors. A really nice feature is the 1 dimensional portals. You can shoot and walk right through 
 them streaming you into a totally different zone. I really dont see any problem with the graphics 
 at all.
  I'll give the value of this game a pretty high rating for its like much like good ol Doom but with 
 some nice added features even thogu its not very original.
  Overall this game was great and i definately cant wait for  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadude1083
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 4, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  I rented Prey thinking that it would be a mediocre first person shooter in the vein of Quake 4 
 and Doom 3. What I got in return was something far more engaging than either. To start off, Prey 
 has been in development for over 9 years. Thats a long time. 
  It has a lot of cool features that have never been touched on before, such as walking on walls 
 in the single-player and multi-player games, switching gravity, leaving your body to shoot people 
 in your spirit form, and using the games portals to go somewhere totally different, with no load 
 times in between. This added on with the fact that it is using the acclaimed Doom 3 engine, makes 
 a nice package. 
  
  The single-player portion of the game will take roughly 5-7 hours to beat. The game is very good 
 with rewarding you with achievements (basically every time you have to load) , and having you go 
 back on a harder difficulty for another one. The balance is a little strange though, considering 
 that you cant really die after you receive your Cherokee powers that allow you to leave your body 
 in a spirit form, and go around shooting guys with your bow. When you do die, you have to use this 
 bow to shoot down enemy spirits to replenish your health, and then you are back in the game.
  
  The multiplayer is a different story. In concept, running on walls, good achievements, switching 
 gravity, and leaving your body in the spirit form should all add up for some fun online. right? 
 Well, add in some game crushing lag, and only two different modes (Team Death Match/ Death Match) 
 and it can get old really fast. You can choose what character you want to look at, and hop right 
 in. With so many connection failures and lag problems, they really need a patch as soon as they 
 possibly can. That, and maybe some download maps in the future, and you may have a fun Xbox Live 
 experience on your hands.
  
  Does it have the polish that a game with 9+ years of development should have? No. Is it still a 
 really fun game? Yes. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcoholado
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 3, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  This game had a high potential. People who is kidnapping to an enourmus mothership, full of aliens, 
 and creepy stuff. OK, from now you must save the world... and your girldfriend of course.
  But.... PREY has a lot of problems.
  1. The graphics are good, but after two hours the aliens 
 rooms are very similar, with a lot of recycles areas. Corridors and rooms. Corridors and rooms. 
 You say: i have been here". Sometime you are in an open area and that is refreshing. 
  2. The foes. In an alien videogame, foes are the key. But we have here few foes, just four o five 
 types, they have a lower resolution than the environment, and they die too fast, and too easy. 
 Same foes, all the game. And stupids.
  3. This is a FPS, but you dont "feel" the game as a FPS. You can not destroy stuff in the mothership, 
 and the developers trying to make this game between a sci-fic FPS and adventure genre, they missed 
 both.
  4. Riddles to easy and boring. 
  5. Tommy is a JERK.
  6. The indian stuff is not cool. 
  7. The story could be great. But it is a mediocre one. You 
 almost never talk with anyone. How can we make a story without chat?... Just walking along portals 
 and corridors. Gravity stuff?... nothing special. 
  8. This is a short game. 10 hours, with low value to plat it again.
  9. Multiplayer: WORST LAG 
 EVER!!!. Forget it.
  10. Rent this game. You may have fun, seeing the alien stuff, the nice graphics, some good ideas, 
 but the final tilt is mediocre.
  11. Save the world and forget soon this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniaclepc
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  The graphics are fantastic! The idea of being virtually free to participate when I choose is a 
 relief as well. There is no time limit, unlike a certain flight simulator game, or having to worry 
 about when I press a series of buttons, like a game where a girl hoofs it through the jungles. 
 It's a relief. The game play is rather easy. This game is addictive. I actually managed to get 
 my family to watch the scenes in the beginning, where the humans are having their fluids removed. 
 I realize I have only gotten started with this game, but of all the games I have played, this has 
 started out the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemlyn
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  While Xbox 360 owners patiently await the imminent, if distant release of Halo 3, game developers 
 know it's a good time to fill the FPS void for the system, and while Prey has little to compete 
 against in the current market, it still insists on muscling it's way in with a few nice new twists 
 to add to a pretty well-explored formula. While the hype was a little exaggerated, Prey is no slouch, 
 offering up excellent dark, biotech visuals, intuitive controls, decent AI, and even a little light 
 puzzle action.
  
  Yes, puzzles! Well, the occasional one, at least, and not the type to really perplex any player, 
 but enough to take your mind off all the shooting for a moment. Prey is littered with teleportation 
 devices and portals, some simply advancing you into the next room, others creating mini-mazes to 
 figure out. This can be really trippy, especially when two are positioned in such a way that allows 
 you to follow yourself for eternity! There are also ways to shift your center of gravity in a room, 
 and sometimes this is necessary to enable yourself to walk up a wall and onto your next objective. 
 While it's not a huge leap forward for the genre, they certainly have worked to make it compliment 
 the game well, and in some sections you can't help but appreciate it for the nice touch that it 
 is.
  
  There is also the opportunity to "spirit walk", whereby (with one press of "Y") you can leave your 
 body, leaving it vulnerable to attack, and scout ahead, walk through force fields to reach switches, 
 or attack enemies. Once again, not changing everything you know about first person shooters, but 
 a handy little inclusion.
  
  Apart from this though, Prey is pretty much a tweaked Doom 3. Shoot the creatures, gain access, 
 shoot more creatures. The plot is nothing fantastic, and the acting is average at best. Hardly 
 that much to complain about though, especially if you like your games with guns, gore, and gross 
 scenes. It's just that the actual gameplay seems a little too repetitive.
  
  It's a shame this was hyped so hard, I can't help but think if they had've just let Prey win fans 
 on it's own merits it would probably have a nice cult following going by now. With a real lack 
 of FPS action on 360 at the moment you really could do worse than Prey. It may be a familiar formula, 
 but it's a fun shooter with a few really pleasant touches.
  
  (Multiplayer unreviewed) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mish55
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 1, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a Sci Fi first person shooter. You play as Tommy, and cherokee indian who wants to leave 
 the reservation and start a new life because he hates it were he lives. He, his girlfriend, and 
 his grandfather get abducted by a giant spaceship of wierd aliens. 
  
  Tommy somehow escapes and you have to find your girl, and grandfather.
  
  The game leaves you 
 in a fleshy like hallway with wierd walls and animals.
  
  The thing about prey thats different from other fps is really nothing but the strange gravity defying 
 space ship. There are portals in the game that take you to different perspectives of the spaceship, 
 either up on a wall or on the ceiling. It can be really cool until you realize the portals only 
 take you were you have to be and you cant use them when ever you want. 
  
  The portals are kinda like doors. They just take you to the other room, or in this case another 
 point of a room so you can either keep traveling or do puzzles. This makes the game very linear.
 
  
  The game is indeed linear. Theres never any backtracking and is a straight forward game. You kill 
 the occasional enemies, do the occasional puzzle, and uncover parts of the story (which is pretty 
 decent)
  
  The graphics in prey arent excellent but are nice. The character models arent really appealing 
 and nicely detailed, but everything else is. The weapons are all fleshy animal like beings of the 
 aliens. The space ship is a mix of organic matter and metal. The game looks good but it looks kinda 
 identical to doom or the chronicles of riddick, which were on the 
 
  
  The games soundtrack is really nice, you got some famous rock songs like "you got another thing 
 coming" and i believe "dont fear the reaper"
  
  Tommy talks alot in this game as you progress, making witty comments that sometimes get annoying 
 and you want him just to shut up. 
  
  Prey is a decent FPS but is too linear to keep playing over and over again, and is just a straight 
 forward FPS that isnt really difficult either (when you die, you can get back to life playing a 
 mini game and return to the exact place you die....)
  
  Prey does have multiplayer that is occasionaly fun but wont take you off battlefield or halo2. 
 The multiplayer is really quick, a little to quick, kinda like quake (so its gonna be hard to snipe 
 and shoot with people dashing through) . The multiplayer makes use of the gravity defying antics 
 of the singleplayer, which is cool and makes you wonder why other fps multiplayers dont use this 
 amusing trick.
  
  Prey is worth a rental, or unless you gotta have. Once you beat it a few times, and play the multiplayer 
 for a while, prey isnt gonna be great as it was anticipated to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myspaceluva
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  prey is won of the most scary and uncensored game. makes alien vs predators look like cake dude. 
 if ur da kinda guy who likes aliens and action and adventure dis is da game 4 u. and der is a wepon 
 that will blow ur mind away der r orange things on da top dat look like darts but are bullets. 
 now lets talik about the graphics. amzing especially in da ship. it is also nice how u can die 
 and come back doing spirit mode. but if ur the kinda person who get dizzy easily dis is not ur 
 game. sports peeps dont try dis at home. if ur more of a sports peep dont try u wont know ur rite 
 from left 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 1, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  no offline multiplayer, cmon now!!! single player is pretty average. nothing about this game makes 
 it stand out from the croud. after playing this game for about a hour i got bored... really bored. 
 online mode can be fun at times but rarely. weapon selection is weak. (grenades are kind of cool 
 though) . now dont get me wrong, this game is ok, but given all the hype about this title i expected 
 alot more. honestly, i think the storyline is stupid and the enemy AI seems a notch too slow for 
 my taste. in the end, id recommend a rental but trust me, in a couple months this game wont even 
 be thought of any more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CartoonWorldVGM
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 1, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  After 10 years of development hell, Prey is now avalible on store shelves. I tried not to get my 
 expectations too high, because I had a feeling this would be a straightforward shooter. It is definetly 
 straightforward, but it has lots of new and innovative gameplay elements that combine into the 
 most ambitious FPS ever made. Every new gameplay innovation this game tries: portals, gravity, 
 and Indian powers are all so well executed and never get old, but there is one exception: the Death 
 Walk. I loved how it never broke the flow of the story, but I hated how it took all the challenge 
 out of the game. Nevertheless, Prey's single player story mode is the most fun I've had with my 
 Xbox 360 so far (besides Oblivion) . There is even one moment that is so emotionally devistating, 
 it made me come real close to crying. I did shed tears and shuddered even while I was shooting 
 alien scum afterwards. The multiplayer is very bare bones, but there is still fun to be had. Overall, 
 the single player is worth every penny and must not be passed up. Those wanting lots of multiplayer 
 options may be disappointed, but Prey is without a doubt the best FPS on the 360 and one of the 
 best games I've played all year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampOrdinator
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a good action game. Sadly its not as good as it could have been and while this game does 
 some very inovative things its sad to see it be so mundane in all the other areas. Prey starts 
 off with a bang with a really well directed cut scene and a really masterfull use ofDon't Fear 
 the Reaper.". The story starts off with you ( tommy ) talking to yourself in the mirror. After 
 quarreling with his cherokee grandfather for a bit you learn that Tommy wants to leave the reservation 
 and his girlfriend does not. This is the initial conflict but bigger things happen and thats pretty 
 much not an issue. Your character starts off rejecting his heritage but later accepts it and thus 
 gains SWEET INDIAN POWERS!!! You heard me right... what your cherokee and you dont have these powers? 
 Well you better double check buddy. Newho these powers include Spirit walking in which tommy can 
 leave his body and solve some rather simple puzzles. And while these are pretty cool at first it 
 gets old rather fast. The other ablillity and one of the most inovative things about prey is its 
 death walking. When you die no you dont see a blandyou got pwn3dmessage insted you are sent 
 to arock" where you must fight ( shoot arrows ) at the dishounored dead in order to earn your 
 right to live. Now your revived no matter what so you can just hang out. But depending on how many 
 red ( health ) or blue ( spirit ) wraiths you shoot depends on how much health or spirt you come 
 back with. And while this is cool at first its gets pretty annoying and thus makes the game to 
 easy. If they had put a health system it might have created more tension and less intent to just 
 run in and die. While prey delivers on the graphical front it seems that prey overall does not 
 deliver where all fps's should. But it doesnt mean its not worth a rent. Preys inovations and neat 
 quirks are definitly somthing that should be seen and definitly somthing that mature gamers will 
 enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReviewWriter
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  I've Read that This game has been in the works for a while...
  Well if Someone came to me with the game idea of A Non-religious Native American going to space 
 to save his girlfriend... 
  
  Yea That Pretty Much Speaks for itself~
  But "Prey" is a game definitely worth playing and you'll notice as you play the Good graphics, 
 and innovative ideas.... 
  
  And Here Is what everyone waits for: The Bad.
  Now first i'll say that if the Good Outweighs the Bad by a Large Amount then I'll Ignore it.... Which 
 I did For Prey.
  
  But You will Hear people say that it gets Repetitive, it's too easy, cheesy storyline, bad ending,, 
 few weapons (more like 5) and the one you will always hear is .........................
  
  You Went all the Way to Space To Save Your Girlfriend And She Winds Up Dying Anyways.....
  
 
  That's My Cue.... Peace, It's Been Good.... Cease Life.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwadsworth
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for Prey for sometime as xbox 360 releases (for the moment at least until September) 
 same to be far between enter Prey at first you may think this is just run of the mill doom style 
 shoot them up . Well you be right partly, you soon find yourself on the ceiling wondering and small 
 asteroids in a box!!!! At times this game did make me feel ill (that cant be good) 
  
  But after you have gotten used to be hanging off a wall you be fine. In this game you are guided 
 by your dead grandfather (who died in act 1) and you get to use your sprit powers oooooo freaky 
 
  
  Prey is a good shooter but not the best you cant help thinking your playing an add on to quake 
 or doom there are some nice touches to this game and some good puzzles.
  
  Enjoyable yes but not really ground breaking a little too easy and short if you need to gain some 
 game points fast this is the game for most gamers will finish the normal mode in one sitting 
 
  
  Online is there allot like quake 4 in style again god game but there will be better 
  My advice would be to play the demo first or rent it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 19, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  In Prey (the game that was in development for 10 years or so...) , you play as Tommy, a Cherokee 
 who is tired of being a Cherokee and wants to break free from the Cherokee reservation, and doesn't 
 want to leave without his girlfriend Jen. The problem, however, is that Jen wants to stay there, 
 for it is her home. Tommy also has a grandfather, who wants Tommy to start believing in the Cherokee 
 ways, and wants him to stay here, as well. And by the way, Tommy works with Jen in a bar, just 
 to let you know where the setting is right now. But anyways, after he picks a fight with these 
 two guys who were flirting with Jen, a spaceship (later known as the Sphere) takes Tommy, as well 
 as his grandfather and Jen (and maybe those two other guys that are knocked out, but they aren't 
 important, anyways) . As Tommy somehow breaks free of these pods, and sees his grandfather get killed 
 quite instantly, it's now up to him to save his girlfriend (a la Super Mario Brothers) , and, quite 
 possibly, the world from further chaos (even though he doesn't want it) . However, he also must 
 get in touch with his Cherokee ways, and will have to learn what he learned from "the war", as 
 he'll need them. I think I've said enough, so here's my review:
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Gameplay: Well, here's what I'll say right now to start this part of the review: Prey has amazingly 
 fantastic ideas for both gameplay and level design to make the first-person shooter genre still 
 fresh and making this game spectacular itself, but still has its faults. But anyways, let's talk 
 about the good news of this game. Well, like I said, this game has great, interesting ideas to 
 make this game seem original. You want examples? I'll give you examples! Well, first of all, early 
 on through the game, like around the third level, you have a special power that has to do with 
 your Native American heritage: Spirit Walk. This power lets you have a bow-and-arrow (called Spirit 
 Bow, I think) as a weapon, and is used to go through security doors, special walkways, and become 
 unnoticed by guard and not detected by security lasers. You have a spirit gauge, which is the ammo 
 for this interesting bow, and if you get hit, or if your floating body gets noticed and is hit, 
 then you will automatically go back in your regular body. But anyways, Spirit Walk is used really 
 for the puzzles of the game (which mainly, or rather in this case, has to do with flipping switches.) . 
 Other neat ideas would be the use of gravity in the game. There are these gravity walkways that 
 are used in order to get from point A to point B, and they practically defy the law of gravity, 
 for you can end up walkng on the wall and ceiling, and can be used to get an even easier kill toward 
 these aliens. And speaking of laws of gravity, there is another neat trick with the levels that 
 defies it even more: these pads with three hexagons on them. What's this have to do with gravity, 
 you ask? Well, if you shoot these pads, then you will be able to walk on the side the pad was on 
 (for example, if i shoot this type of pad on a wall, then I will be able to walk on the wall) . 
 What makes this game even crazier are portals, which isn't really anything that affects the gameplay, 
 but instead just makes the level design even cooler (however, there is one point to the game where 
 you must go through a "maze" of portal doors to finally get out of the twisted room) . As for new 
 ideas that somewhat failed, well, there's only one I can think of: the Death Walk, which is the 
 other power you get at the third level. The point of this special power is that once you die, then 
 you'll be on a floating rock, and, in your spirit form, shoot these flying creatures known as "evil 
 spirits" in a certain amount of time (when Tommy's body goes, and, depending on what kind of evil 
 spirit you strike (reds are health; blues are spirit) , will somewhat heal you, even though you 
 already have some health once you die) . Don't get me wrong, though; I found this idea to be interesting 
 at best; it's just that Death Walk makes you feel indestuctible or not being able to die, which 
 makes the game itself feel easy. Besides, you have frequent health spots and a sort of dumb AI 
 (that, or just easy to kill in terms of the enemies' health) , so it's possible to not die at all 
 in this game. But, to clear things up, I'll talk about the weapons you use. Well, first off, its 
 a small variety of weapons, for you have a crowbar, an alien-esque rifle, little alien bugs that 
 are similar toward grenades, a leech gun (a gun that can be used to kill enemies in different ways, 
 such as with energy bullets, a freeze ray-like ammo, eletric, lightining-like beams, etc., depending 
 on which ammo-box-machine-thing you "leech" out of) , a gun similar to a gatling gun (or something 
 like that) , but doesn't really look like one, an acid gun, and a gun that uses big, firey bullets, 
 but they're all still pretty neat. Another thing to talk about in this game is the flying saucer 
 sequences. You see, these special kind of ships that you ride can in has a tractor beam to grab 
 and pull objects and enemies, while your other weapon is just regular shooting. Really though, 
 I just wanted to tell you about the saucer's cool powers and how it is used throughout the game 
 (puzzles and enemies) . And finally, just in case you wanted to know, another thing you obtain in 
 level three is Tommy's pet bird who died a long time ago. He's not really used for much; I think 
 he is only used to read signs and to let you know where enemies are, if they attack (I just thought 
 he was a cool add-on) . Overall, though, I would really love to rate this game higher, but I just 
 wished there was more length to it, and didn't have to be so easy. And so I stick with the score 
 I gave it, but I'm hoping that if they make another game that was similar to this, and had great 
 ideas like this, that it would be better. Still, though, this isn't a game to miss at all if you 
 have a Xbox 360 or a computer that can run this game. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics: This game is Xbox 360 material indeed. This game looks superbly dark, trippy, and sci-fi 
 esque. And that's all it needed, too! The level design just looks fantastic and creative, and the 
 guns just look wierd, but in a good way. I felt the character models, though great-looking, could 
 look even better, and I wish Prey ran just as smooth as the PC version. Other than that, it looks 
 simply amazing. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound: The sound has a lot to do with the voice-acting, and I can just say the voiceovers are 
 decent at best. I guess most of the characters sound okay, but the aliens just sound dumb and/or 
 cheesy, especially since they speak english (I'd rather alien moans and screams, please) . But, 
 otherwise, voice-acing is okay. The story could emote and interest you at that, but could be hit 
 or miss to some other people. However, sound effects are pretty crafty or just plain great (guns 
 and footsteps sound cool and/or realistic) . And thumbs up to a neat soundtrack, as well. Overall, 
 the sound is above average, at best.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 Value: The game took me about 10 or so hours to beat, but it could take you even shorter (8 hours 
 at best) , and the Cherokee difficulty (or whatever difficulty you didn't play through) isn't anything 
 to play through again. Multiplayer is good enough to try out, for it could get some people hooked, 
 and other people not hooked. However, it is said that online is laggy at spots, and it is. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Tilt: Overall, I'm not sure if you should buy this right off, really. Instead, I think anyone 
 who has an Xbox 360 to rent it instead. It has ideas that should be tried out by all standards, 
 and may interest most of you. However, if you really must buy it, then you should at least check 
 out the online and offline multiplayer before thinking about actually buying it. But really, I 
 reccommend renting it instead of buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justin_Allen
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 31, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Prey is the long awaited First person shooter from 2K Games, Venom Games and Human Head Studios. 
 The game was originally introduced in 1995 and was kept on the developing back burner for many 
 years. Finally the game what was, at one point, canned is here and unfortunately it in fact does 
 disappoint.
  
  Many players of the Doom series complain about the games repetitive dark environments and monotonous 
 feel. The gameplay, however, is thrilling and does well to reach it's primary goal and scare you 
 even though the game does suffer this problem. Prey suffers from the same problem that the Doom 
 series does but, unfortunately, the gameplay does not make up for it. The game itself is way to 
 easy and the story just feels hilariously juvenile and paper-thin.
  
  The story in Prey is over-the-top and not engaging in the least. You are put in the shoes of Tommy, 
 a Cherokee warrior not ready to accept his fate as earth's savior. This is the stupidest premise 
 Ive ever heard in a game. Ever. The 'rebellious' Tommy does well to piss you off the entire story 
 through and the whole thing just feels like a paper-thin mess and an excuse to make a game. Now 
 believe me when I say Im a big time first person shooter fan. Therefore yes, I know that we are 
 not to expect a lot from the story in our games of choice but this is an absolute disgrace. It's 
 absolutely boring and when it takes away from the game THAT is a problem.
  
  So far Ive been doing my best to make this game sound bad. However, there are some good aspects 
 to the game. First off the actual gameplay to be found here isn't bad. It is fun in that you'll 
 enjoy mowing down enemies if only because of the awesome weapons you'll get to do the job with. 
 Unfortunately weighing this down is the fact that the enemies, including the bosses, are an absolute 
 breeze to fight and your weapon selection is quite small. There is a sparse total of seven guns 
 and Tommy's spirit form bow. The game does feature some unique ideas like spiriting walking and 
 the use of portals but they both feel very under utilized. Spirit walking is basically just leaving 
 your body to cross a path flick a switch and move on with Tommy. And there are no fun puzzles to 
 be found involving portals. Just walk through and continue.
  
  Without online play this game may not be worth the money you would spend on a rental. There is 
 almost no value to be found in a game that lasts under eight hours on your first run through. After 
 that, save for the fact that you are an absolute achievement whore, you will find no reason to 
 play through the game on Cherokee difficulty. The game is boring in spurts to the point where it 
 may make you want to stop playing.
  
  The online play in Prey is an absolute joke. With nearly no variety in maps and no different weapons 
 to choose from you will have a tough time wanting to play online. If you do find the will to do 
 so you may have trouble, almost every match I played in was quite laggy while other top online 
 titles don't lag at all for me. Overall there is almost no fun experience to be found in the online 
 mode which is key for shooters like this one.
  
  The graphics and sound in the game are fairly well done. The graphics are done by the Doom 3 engine 
 and, while they look nearly identical to that game definitely have a bit more detail and make everything 
 look a little bit more convincing in the dark environment. The sound, unlike seemingly everything 
 else is the game, is utilized quite well. There are little details you'll notice like Fear the 
 Reaper playing as the aliens begin to abduct you. And all of the guns have their own unique sound 
 effects. Unfortunately you don't hear much of these good things throughout the game and the aliens 
 speaking English sound absolutely horrible.
  
  Overall the game may be worth the rent on a boring weekend if you're absolutely bored out of your 
 mind. It might last you a day of playing and maybe you'll find something memorable. Other than 
 that, unless you're an achievement whore or a rich guy with nothing else to do, Prey should not 
 be touched with a ten foot poll. Do not purchase under any circumstances. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoreCowbell6924
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 30, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Prey offers an somewhat interesting story, especially for the genre with some unique gameplay elements, 
 but is not without its share of problems.
  
  The graphics in Prey are great and well done. The framerate takes a few hits here and there, but 
 isn't a big deal. The lighting is really well done. Textures look nice even up close they look 
 decent. Character models look a little wierd, but its not a problem. The weapons have a unique 
 look to them and at first they may seem kind of stupid, but after awhile they'll probably grow 
 on you.
  
  The sound effects are pretty well done. Footsteps sound good enough. Some of the weapons sound 
 like they're for panzies, and some of them sound awesome. The voice acting is surprisngly well 
 done and they fit the characters well. Aliens sound stupid, but its not a problem. Tommy's character 
 says a lot of stuff throughout the game and it all seems right. 
  
  There is little value to be found in Prey, with a single player campaign that your probably not 
 going to want to do more than once or twice. The multiplayer can't support more than six people 
 with out a ton of lag. There isn't anything to the game if you don't have Xbox Live, unless you 
 use system link. The achievements don't require much to get, but may keep you interested in the 
 game for a little while longer. Sixty bucks just isn't the right price for this game or any game 
 for that matter.
  
  The singleplayer campaign starts you off in a bar and you get abducted by aliens. You then end 
 up in outer space and have to fight your way off the ship and save your girlfriend. The story is 
 told entirely from Tommy's perspective, you never see a point of view other than first person from 
 Tommy's eyes. The game tries to make it feel more like your Tommy in that way, which is interesting, 
 but not really necessary. The story remains interesting throughout the game and contains some small 
 twists, but the ending may be a dissapointment similar to Halo 2 (not as bad) leaving you wanting 
 more. The gameplay is very straight forward run and gun style first person shooter. You probably 
 won't encounter more than three enemies at once until the last few levels. Even if you die you 
 just enter deathwalk which puts you in your spirit mode in which you're armed with a spirit bow, 
 and you have to shoot death wraiths to fill up your health and spirit; red death wraiths for health 
 and blue for spirit. Spirit enables you to walk though certaint obstacles that your normal self 
 wouldn't be able to get through or around. You will need to use spirit mode to solve various puzzles 
 throughout the game and a helpful hint would be if you see an area marked with a sun; you should 
 enter spirit mode and see what you find. The unique use of gravity in Prey is interesting, and 
 adds a new elements to the gameplay, it really doesn't feel like it was used to its full potiental. 
 Thats probably because you don't fight to many enemies at the same time. Portals have appeared 
 in plenty of games before, but none that I can think of that you can see and shoot through the 
 other side of them like in Prey which is cool, but nothing too special. Prey brings some unique 
 mechanics to the table, but doesn't put them to their fullest potential. 
  
  The multiplayer of Prey is pretty straight forward. It combines almost all the gameplay quirks 
 of the singleplayer, with a faster Quake like deathmatch. The fact that there are only two modes 
 in the multiplayer deathmatch and team deathmatch doesn't give a lot of variety in the gameplay 
 either. The level designs can be interesting but end up being really repetitive after awhile. The 
 multiplayer only supports eight players which isn't that many, but if any more players were in 
 the game the game wouldn't even be playable online. Its rare to get in a match with seven or eight 
 people and not have it lag like crazy. If the multiplayer wouldn't lag all the time it would be 
 a solid multiplayer shooter just like the singleplayer is.
  
  Prey is a solid first person shooter with a good story and some unique gameplay elements, though 
 they aren't put their fullest potiential make it a worth while game for at least a rent to any 
 first person shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkorn360
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Prey is what you would call a "Diamand in the rough" of most FPS's not only because it's gorgeous 
 but it is just flat out unique in the sense that nearly every aspect of this game is something 
 never done before in a Shooter. First, I would like to focus on the length. A lot of rumors and 
 flamers have been whining about how short the game was but i must say that is complete and utter 
 BS. This game is not determinable by how long it takes to beat because no FPS have EVER been INCREDIBLY 
 long.. Halo 2 was 5 hours and it is still the top Xbox game. 
  
  Just from about two seconds into the game you realize the power the 360 has to offer and the incredible 
 amount of detail put into every little nook and cranny. So you ask yourself, why is everyone complaining? 
 Gamespot gave Prey a 7.5 with generally weak points like "Uhh it was straight forward" or "too 
 easy" but these points are not strong and are flat out wrong because ALL FPS's are stright forward 
 and linear that's what makes them all so great... you press the button.. something dies this isn't 
 a stratedgy game for god's sake. And there are difficulty levels that you can choose to play on 
 if you want to go on on how it's too easy try CHEROKEE mode then try to say that. Overall the real 
 reason why people don't like this game is because the main character is an Indian, and it's threatening 
 to have someone how isn't a White Male as the main character. However I don't have a problem as 
 playing as a different race but a 7.5 score by GS proves people actually do...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogiants46
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 30, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  It seems like 2K Games "Prey" has been in devlopment for quite sometime. The game follows the story 
 of an indian man who lives on a reservation and is suddenly abducted by said aliens. He breaks 
 out and is on a path to destroy the aliens and find his girl that has also been taken.
  
  The game looks really good. Lots of shadows and lighting effects blended with some solid (if not 
 a little small) enviorments. All the explosions and such look good and it's definely a solid looker.
 
  
  The sound design is also strong, a nice solid soundtrack that is a little bit underplayed I guess. 
 But also great voice acting and some boomy weapon sounds. The game takes all the necessary steps.
 
  
  The game just eventually falls a little short though. The game play is decent but nothing out of 
 this world. Some of the things they try to do work spectacularly, but then others fail. The game 
 could have been more, but as is .. it's a soild achievement, even if we were expecting and hoping 
 for a little bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjcarrington
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 30, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  
  Amidst the dirge of poor summer game release schedules, Prey appeared to be a shining beacon of 
 gaming goodness. Due to the lengthy development history of the title and an early playable demo, 
 the game and its release date has been a a hot topic this summer season. For better or worse, Preys 
 overall high production values combined with stale gameplay and minor issues create a marred, yet 
 passable game. 
  
  The visuals of Prey are for the most part, incredibly impressive. The overall texture quality of 
 the game is quite good and the models move and interact in a fluid manner. The lighting effects 
 in the game are also quite good, the game relies on colored lighting and organic elements, as opposed 
 to lots of very dark rooms like Doom 3. The explosions and weapon effects are also superb, in particular 
 the visuals of spirit walking are mesmerizing. The overall look of the levels is passable, although 
 more variety throughout the second half of the game would have been greatly appreciated. In reality, 
 most levels in the game (besides the spirit world) are either internal or external spaceship, you 
 never really get the sense that you are progressing deeper into a hostile alien base. Organic elements 
 are included in the decor of all the levels, but nothing sticks out as being particularly memorable.
 
  
  The sound of Prey seems to be fairly inconsistent. The voice acting through the course of the game 
 is superb; the voice and visual presence clearly combine together to make compelling characters. 
 The music heard through the course of Prey is also decent and manages to avoid the trite heavy 
 metal that is featured in most FPS these days. At the same time, I cant help but think too much 
 time was spent on the Prey theme and too little on all the other music of the game. The native 
 american flair of the music fits the title nicely, despite how undramatic and repetitive it becomes 
 by the end of the game. The sound effects are probably the worst part of the experience; none of 
 the weapons give off the feeling of power or danger. Furthermore, it is pretty clear Human Head 
 skimped on the death sound effects, expect to hear the same exact death cry from Tommy over and 
 over, especially in multiplayer.
  
  In terms of gameplay, Prey gives a fairly generic online and offline FPS experience, albeit with 
 a few minor additions. Although there are some lengthy sections of the title that involve driving 
 a spaceship of sorts, you will almost always find yourself walking around to the next portal or 
 platform while eliminating hostile aliens. Prey also includes some fairly basic puzzles that center 
 around spirit walking but most of these are featured earlier in the game. The main issue surrounding 
 Prey is a lack of good pacing and timing in the single player. A vast majority of the weapons and 
 abilities are all given near the beginning or middle of the game, whereas the second half mainly 
 involves simple puzzles and walking from room to room punctuated by the occasional boss battle. 
 The overall difficulty of Prey also becomes a real problem because a harder difficulty is only 
 available after completing the game. Furthermore, the death system on the default difficulty includes 
 a mini-game that is conceptually quite cool, but makes the game way too easy. The only real incentive 
 for replaying the title on a harder difficulty level is for a paltry 65 achievement points, a fairly 
 questionable time investment.
  
  Regarding the multiplayer of Prey, there is very little to differentiate this title from any other 
 FPS. The game includes basic team and individual deathmatch with approximately 8 or so levels. 
 The balance of the various weapons in a typical Prey match is actually quite good, even the trusty 
 wrench can be a devastating weapon. On the negative end of things, the innovations spoken of so 
 highly in Prey are fairly forgettable during multiplayer. Wall walking is a simple element of the 
 level designs and spirit walking is just another weapon that can be unleashed for those with good 
 aim. My main issue with the mutiplayer aspect of Prey is more in regards to matchmaking and the 
 related network code. Simply put, getting into a game of Prey can be quite a headache, expect to 
 see errors like network connection lost and a game is already in progress a whole lot. Furthermore, 
 the overall network code doesnt help the on-line experience; lag is a frequent problem and being 
 a twitch title, really deflates the overall enjoyment of deathmatch.
  
  All things considered, Prey is a game that despite design innovations, still falls squarely into 
 the first person shooter genre. Human Head studios managed to craft a neat game that becomes tiresome 
 near the half-way point of the single player. The minor issues and overall blandness of the multiplayer 
 also does little to make the game a totally memorable title. Furthermore, Prey has a lot of interesting 
 gameplay concepts that lack development or polish. Prey is the type of game that can be completely 
 and utterly experienced in the span of a week or less and fails to capture any lasting appeal. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coxmartin
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 16, 2006 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are brill, the new idea in the use of portals to make movement more interesting and specifically 
 in how their geometry works. 
  
  The story has also proved to be unusual in that the hero loses his whole family, infact even gets 
 to kill his girl friend. Not the norm but oh, so refreshing for all of this then the tease that 
 there is a sequel planned at the end of the credits.
  
  It is just to easy with the resurections taking a lot of the challenge out of the game.
  
  
 This is a very refreshing game, not one to expect to be playing for a very long period of time 
 as it easily completed.
  
  If FPS is your bag get it, and if your up for online play make sure your upload bandwidth it upto 
 it or you could suffer lag (bet they sort this with a patch soon)
  
  UPDATE: playing this through again I have raised my opinion slightly, still not brilliant but after 
 losing some of the hype it plays better, if that makes sense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  It not too hard to see where Prey went wrong: The Spirit Realm "You Never Die" Feature. This feature 
 was cool at first, but you soon notcied how much it helps when your in the worst moment of the 
 game, and you CAN'T DIE. This made what could have been the hardest boss fights into the easy breezt 
 battle where you just shoot him til you die, fight the spirit realm stuff that you can't die from, 
 and then go back and shoot him again (rinse and repeat) . Now lets break up my review into sections, 
 shall we?
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The game's graphics were very well done and probably the best I have seen for the DOOM 3 engine. 
 The graphic style also set the mood for the death and estruction this game has very well. My only 
 compliant is that some of the background objects didn't feature enough polish as the stuff you 
 see else where, and sometimes it ruins your experience in the game.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  The gameplay is pretty well done and works great with the run and gun this game has. Of course, 
 as the DOOM 3 engine, you can't help but get daja-vu from how the game plays exactly like DOOM 
 3 and Quake 4, all the way down to the multiplayer. Speaking of multiplayer, I have to say I had 
 a blast with it at first, but with the only two selections of multiplayer being Team Deathmatch 
 and Deathmatch, it gets old REALLY fast.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  The music in the game was pretty sweet, and also introducwed me to the band "After Midnight Project" 
 and their song "Take Me Home", which is now my #1 song for summer 2006. besides the sweet rock 
 music and beginning scene of the game, the music actually takes a back seat for most of the game. 
 There is a ton of parts where no music is ever playing and all you hear is the monsters growling, 
 which gets repedtitve. 
  
  Value: 4/10
  
  Rent this game. that goes for achivements lovers as well. The game's easy campaign can be done 
 on normal and hard in about 3 days, and the multiplayer achivements only take a good group of 6 
 people to achive quickly. The game's value also takes a major hit from the multiplayer being very 
 laggy online, even with only 4 people in the game. Yes, sometimes the servers work, but most of 
 the time, you are stuck in the same position for 15 minutes, and the Host just kills you over and 
 over and over.....
  
  Tilt: 8/10
  
  I personally loved this game. While I sya rent it to others, I bought the game and am quite pleased 
 with it. Prey has earned it place on my Xbox 360 shelf, along with games like GUN and Tomb Raider: 
 legend.
  
  Overall: 8.0/10
  
  Agian, while only worth a rent, the game is still amazing to play through and I definately recommend 
 it to 360 owners looking for a quick weekend FPS game to playthrough..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supa_natural888
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 30, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  Prey is a good game that could have been great. The game play is good with a great story line and 
 the portal system in this game is great the fact that you can walk on walls and ceilings adds to 
 the fun. Also you when you die you don't have to start the level over you go into the spirit world 
 and shoot these red and blue creatures to gain back health and spirit and when your done you start 
 right where you left off. The game is easy and does not take much skill the AI in the game is weak 
 and never a challenge. The graphics are amazing the character models look great and the environments 
 are extremely well done. The sound is awsome with a great soundtrack but the aliens speak English 
 and it's kind of weird but then again this whole game is. Xbox live for this game is pretty solid 
 but does lag often. If anything rent this game it can be completed in a few days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatality1565
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 30, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  Yeah the first five minutes are a little boring but once the aliens come, it starts to get very 
 interesting. It might be a little like Quake 4 and Doom 3 but it still has a lot of new substances. 
 For example the gravity pulls on each side of the wall. Also the new portals and box mirror portals 
 are new too. Some of the bad things I thought was that a main character dies too quickly in the 
 story which basicly disables y ou from getting to like and care about it when he dies. So really 
 PREY is a great game. You should probably rent it first in case you don't like it though. Yeah 
 it's a small review with not much details but there are a lot of other reviews waiting to be read. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stokey777
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  (POSSIBLE SPOILERS) When i saw the screens for prey i said alright it look like it could just run 
 of the mill... but just playing it today i see i was very wrong! Theres only one thing i could find 
 about the game but it seems like they had to put it this way but prey seems alot like doom3 and 
 Quake when eccept its about 9 times better to me any way..... all in all the games great and ive 
 only been playing it for what one hour? i dont have much more to say maybe i should go on a rant 
 am i at 100 now? Any way I love how some weapons are living but what i hated was with those two 
 kids and one impales the other whats up with that ew... and just plain evil too and yeah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SMOKEMNHALO2001
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Prey is the best fps I've played in a long while. The biggest thing about PREY is the gravity puzzles, 
 at times you'll need to shoot (or "activate") an anti-gravity switch to swap the gravities level, 
 allowing you to walk on the walls and cielings. and there are gravity paths that will atuomaticly 
 allow you to walk along the walls. The weapons fells a little limited, you have the gun that you'll 
 use the most, the cool gun that doesn't have enough ammo, and gernades. You don't EVER have to 
 reload guns, this is good, because your enemies don't play around. even on normal (there is no 
 easy settings, sorry noobs) the aliens will prove to be a worthy foe, they'll dodge, take cover, 
 and even try to flank you time by time. But you don't have to worry about too many enemies, the 
 types of aliens are low, you have the fighters, workers, and attack dogs. You gotta love those 
 attack dogs. And before you ask, yes the warp tunnels are cool and they really do work. The odd 
 thing about PREY is its multi-player. One can vs friends on live and system link, but you can't 
 play on a single 360. Why? I don't know, you just can't. multi-player is very weak, on live you 
 move normaly, problem is everything is twisted. Players I faced moved faster than they would in 
 the game. But trust me, after playing the single player, you won't care. the graphics on the 360 
 isn't the best, it still doesn't look as good as OBLIVION, or GEARS OF WAR. But it is by far, the 
 most fun, and addictive fps I've played since HALO 2. The story will keep you coming back, but 
 the rewards for finishing the story on both deficulties is weak, I'm not going to say how weak, 
 but it's weak. It's weaker than HALO 2s' ending. But that's ok, this is a must buy game for those 
 with a 360, loves fps, and/or loves a story that makes sense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  The Good  
  - Like Doom 3 / not as scary though
  - Spirit form / Gravity flipping / Warp holes
  - No Death approach
  - Animated Weapons
  - 
 Ship Design / Art
  - BlackJack / Poker / Slot machine were fun
  - Art Bell radio show was a nice addition
  - Save Anytime
  - Multiplayer is ok
  
  The Bad 
  
  - It seems to have been rushed / nothing really stands out
  - Puzzles get tedious and boring
  - A 3D map would help
  - Story is not so good
  - Characters 
 look old-generation / not acceptable
  - Character dialogue is pretty bad especially the main character
  - Only 65 Achievement points 
 for playing the whole game again on Cherokee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  In prey you play as an native American called Tommy who's planet got attack by aliens, the story 
 is fun and very good and intresting, worth playing till the end..... which has a suprising ending.
 
  
  GOOD- The portals and gravity controls are wicked and unique, the story is intresting and well 
 putten together, stunning visuals and specile effects
  
  BAD- To easy, to short (Cos its too easy) quite abit linear but there are some challenging parts 
 here and there
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Prey is a FPS thats like no other, you get abducted by aliens who, they say, planet the humans 
 there millions of years ago, the unique part of the game is its Portals and anti gravity controls 
 which are quite bazzaling and you never get tired of walking through them and saying at the other 
 side whoo 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Buityfull graphics and background desins, but the charecture and weapons desgins aint that good, 
 so the maybe of the next game they could work on that?
  
  SOUND:
  The weapons sound fire is'nt that good, they sound weak and not that intresting, and the aliens, 
 speck english for some reason, the only alien whos suposse to speck english is the final boss, 
 cos shes human
  
  WHY SHOULD I BUY THIS GAME?
  Prey is defently a great game that needs to be played, its got an intresting story thats not found 
 in quite alot of FPS. highly recomened too any FPS fans and Sci-Fi fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neverender
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 28, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  Original review here...
  http://www. mattbrett. com/archives/2006/07/prey-review/
  
  Let me start by admitting that leading up to the release of Prey, I couldnt have cared less about 
 this game. Actually, I feel the same way now having beat it. But while I was playing through the 
 campaign, I loved it! That doesnt make sense, does it? Let me explain
  
  Prey is an old school FPS that is this weird mix of super futuristic, alien fighting thats familiar 
 to those types of games. But adds in a spiritual aspect while you play as a Cherokee Indian named 
 Tommy. Tommy hates being a Cherokee and wants nothing more than to get off the reservation. His 
 wise old Grandfather ends up dying (relax, it happens in the first 5 minutes) and Tommy finds himself 
 on his own. All of the sudden hes pulled to The Land of the Ancients where hes confronted by 
 his Grandfathers spirit and his spirit guide - Talon, a hawk he used to have as a pet when he 
 was young. Weird, I know. To make things even more bizarre, Talon accompanies you through the majority 
 of the game. He helps distract the baddies so you can get a clear shot or guides the way if youre 
 not sure where to go or what to do. But to take weird up yet another notch - when you die, youre 
 taken to the realm when you play as your spirit while your body is suspended in light. You have 
 to use your bow to shoot down the evil spirits which give you health and replenish your spirit 
 abilities. And finally, at any given moment, you can leave your body and enter spirit walk. This 
 comes in handy when you enter a room that is guarded by laser sensors or force fields. You can 
 simply walk through them and disable them - theres usually a switch within a few feet. All of 
 this together just seemed like such an odd combination. But surprisingly, it works well and makes 
 for a very unique experience.
  
  Prey looks outstanding! Considering its built on the Doom 3 engine, which is now over 2 years 
 old and running on a console - it is quite the visual feast. Characters and enemies look pretty 
 awesome, but the environments are just wow! As you would expect from a game based on the Doom 
 3 engine, youll find yourself in many poorly lit, metal hallways with nasty, wet, organic things 
 pulsating and making squishy sounds. But none the less, everything looks awesome and surprisingly 
 not identical to Doom 3 or Quake 4. Normally, gorgeous visuals come at a high price which usually 
 takes its toll on the games overall performance. But the Xbox 360 doesnt flinch and runs Prey 
 beautifully. I recall only seeing 2 or 3 slowdowns, none of which lasted longer than a few seconds.
 
  
  One of my favourite composers, Jeremy Soule scored Preys soundtrack. So youre in for a treat 
 in that department. Youve heard his work before is youve played The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion and 
 Morrowind, Guild Wars or the KOTOR series, to name a few. Ive actually been listening to the soundtrack 
 for many weeks as it was released online some time ago. Anyway, aside from the beautiful orchestral 
 score that sets the mood, thats lots more to admire in the sound effects and voice overs. To sum 
 it up - everything but the weapons sounds good. Actually, correction - Every weapon with the exception 
 of lightning Leech gun sounds totally weak. You find yourself with a ridiculous arsenal of massive 
 alien weapons, I expect them to sound huge. But unfortunately, they dont. During the entire campaign, 
 the character you play (Tommy) makes subtle observations and sideways comments that will make you 
 laugh out loud almost every time. That and the random **** when someone catches you off guard. 
 My daughter was sitting on the couch watching me play when Tommy yelled out Lets see how you 
 fuckers like it! Me after quickly pausing the game: Oh, uh, yeah this isnt really a kids game 
 sweety. That Tommy has himself one dirty mouth! He drops the f-bomb left-right and centre. But 
 believe it or not, I didnt find it to be overkill in the least. I laughed (or at least chuckled) 
 every time! One of my favourite moments, that I actually happened to catch while capturing the 
 video footage happened while walking down a super dark hallway. I flicked on my lighter (in place 
 of a flashlight - and yes, you can have your lighter on and hold a gun at the same time!) and Tommy 
 mutters Man, its so dark in here. Im doomed. Doomed! Hehe, get it?
  
  Gameplay wise, Prey is everything you would expect from this type of shooter. See my Quake 4 review 
 for a list of common traits. However, they have stepped it up a notch, or at least half a notch. 
 The AI seemed a little better. They would often hide behind things or run around corners once you 
 start shooting at them. Which is better than just standing there taking it or continuing to charge 
 at you.
  
  Im proud to say Ive had my portal cherry popped, and it was great! Although, not as cool as what 
 Valve has in store for us. Prey uses portals as gateways to different rooms, or some times simply 
 the opposite end of the room youre in. They occasionally spawn without warning and out pops some 
 baddies. There were definitely some cool moments when jumping through a portal and landing on the 
 wall and having the view rotate around as you fall to your feet. The first few times, I almost 
 tossed my cookies. Actually, Tommy does at one point. But you get used to it.
  
  Adding to the cool factor are gravity altering switches that you can shoot to change the orientation 
 of the room. And lit-up walkways that give you the ability to walk on walls and completely upside-down. 
 Makes for some interesting firefights when youre standing on the roof shooting down at dudes, 
 or vice-versa. Theres examples of all of this in my gameplay video - so be sure to check it out!
 
  
  The multiplayer component is extremely weak. Theres good old Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch and 
 both are a waste of time. Its fast and frantic, run-and-gun action that simply doesnt stand up 
 to todays standards. Its boring, old and felt quite broken. Players seemed to float or skip across 
 the screen making them a little hard to hit. Needless to say, I could only force myself to endure 
 a few matches before shutting it off.
  
  Since the multiplayer is so terrible, I expected the Achievements to be fairly difficult or at 
 least require you to play the campaign through a couple times. Not really the case, though. I racked 
 up 665 points simply by beating it on normal difficulty. You only get an extra 65 if you beat it 
 on Cherokee (hard) , which is hardly worth the time youll spend playing the entire campaign again. 
 I might rent it again a few months from now if theres a dry spell, but I wouldnt consider buying 
 it.
  
  All in all, the single player campaign was a lot of fun. It was cool playing around with the gravity 
 altering switches and walking on the walls and ceilings via those crazy walkways. The portals were 
 also pretty neat, especially when exiting one that is on a wall or ceiling - you end up falling 
 to your feet while the view rotates to the new up-right position. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillEmAll114
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  prey was an okay game. The graphics were pretty good but it lacked a little in gameplay and story. 
 While the story was interesting. They could have added more depth, twists and given the characters 
 more depth. Tommy's girlfriend could have had more parts were you were with her. She could've helped 
 tommy out in some parts of the game.
  
  The game was also pretty easy. You never really died which made it very easy. When you ran out 
 of heath you went to this world were you had to shoot flying demons with a bow the gain your health 
 back.
  
  With some time the achievements are fairly easy to get.
  
  I reccomend renting it (which i did) . You can beat the whole game and play alot of multiplayer 
 in under a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Japanese_Jade
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 27, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Prey is both for the Xbox 360 and PC. I'm writing my review based on the Xbox 360 gameplay. You 
 start off as an unproud Cherokee on a mountain reservation where you, your Grandfather, and your 
 Girlfriend are all together in a bar on a rainny night (creepy) . The tension builds up when the 
 drunks at the bar harass your Girlfriend and you get into a Bar Brawl. Afterwards, an emergency 
 message is broadcasted on TV about Green Lights are appearing in the sky (Destroy All Humans, lol) . 
 You, your Grandfather, and you Girlfriend are abducted by Aliens onto a Space Enviornment called 
 "The Sphere". You must protect you family by all means and escape back to Earth but in your case, 
 save it...
  
  Prey is outstanding. Its fun, its awsome, and worth renting. Why did I say rent? This game isn't 
 all that its cracked up to be. The controls are great and easy to remeber, the Graphic are amazing, 
 but that all doesn't make up for the Laggy Multiplayer and lack of weapons in the game. Basicly, 
 there are only five guns in the game but seven slots. One is for your handy dandy wrench and the 
 other is for those crawler gernades. This game is very unique in physics. Your able to walk on 
 walls, reach high heights, Defy Gravity, change gravity, etc. I found this game mildly interesting 
 but its on of those games that can only last you up to three weeks max. 
  
  The Online Feature is very horrific. Your health gauge isn't visible, the frame rate is Doom type 
 (they skid all over the place like stiff army soldiers flying everywhere) , there are limited Characters 
 to use, the lag is unbearable (and the room carries a max of eight people!) , most of the maps are 
 either to small or too big, and finally, it only supports DeathMatch and Team DeathMatch. If you 
 were looking forward to a good multiplayer in this game (if you haven't played the demo) , you are 
 so out of luck.
  
  The Character and Setting Design is outstanding in this game. The come close to real. There is 
 no Xbox 360 shooter that comes close to reality like this one. They also colaborate with the physics 
 in this game as well making it a fun and awsome game to experience.
  
  I strongly recommend you rent this game. Its good, its awsome but you can beat in within a 5 day 
 rental period, achievements and all. Basicly, you can never die in this game. Everytime you do, 
 your able to fight the dishonored dead and return 20 seconds back from where you died. I'd give 
 this game a 8.4/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasonEFowle
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 27, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  Well i was really hoping this would be good and from what i had heard and seen i thought it would 
 be but IMO i was wrong and Prey on the 360 was abit of a let down. The first problem i have is 
 this game offers no challenge of any type what so ever you never feel the need to try hard or do 
 things like aim for the head or dodge for that matter your health is really unlimited this IMO 
 is crazy i understand this is a run and gun game and should be fun but all games should offer some 
 degree of a challenge. My second problem is the developers have come up with some good ideas like 
 the portals and gravity walkways and done nothin with them really these never affect the gameplay 
 apart from the odd enemy falling upwards they might as well not be there and the portals are nothing 
 more than fancy doors this was a real waste of what could have made this a instant hit. My third 
 problem is the very basic level designs most of the game is spent in dark tunnels with steel doors 
 and the odd test lab now and again i think we have all been here before. And the guns are limited 
 and offer nothing new really you have the standard assualt type rifle with a machine slash grenade 
 launcher and the obvious rocket launcher type weapon tho its not all bad the acid gun is fun but 
 works the same as a shotgun and leech gun is just a laser rifle really with a twist on finding 
 ammo. One thing that Prey has done very well is the story i won't go into this though so not to 
 spoil it for people reading the review but its very good and interesting top marks on that side 
 of things. Now on to the multiplayer side of the game were Prey really should have stood out from 
 the croud but lets its self down because of a lack of game options and no split screen settings 
 everyone likes to play we friends they know ok xbox live is good but i want to shot people i know 
 in the back not strangers apart from that it is nothing more than ok really its fun but does nothing 
 games before have not already done.
  All in all i don't think Prey was very good it seemed a little unfinished to me really and there's 
 much better FPS out and coming soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jer_OC
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 27, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  I wonder how many people may have been offended by this game? I know tha in the USA Natives ae 
 treated differently then hey are here up in Canada. Now I didnt find too many totally racist things, 
 but there was the odd tidbit here and there that gave me a twinge of regret, now I say regret because 
 of all the racial troubles we have, someting with ammunution for people that take it for more then 
 it is, ie: like how a game can overshodow good intentions... I can see where the wanted to go with 
 this game, and some of th Native Spirit options in the game show off what they were indeed doing.. 
 On the other hand, with the tensions and fighting here in Canada with the Natives reclaiming land 
 and bloddshed on both sides, I wonder how much research the creators did if any, and that is my 
 oint I suppose,, the game is good, but at what cost?
  
  ... incase anyone may have been wondering, I am the peace-loving, seeing-no-colors in anyone type 
 of person, and it sadens me when I see good work, go wrong.. cause I know there are already people 
 using this as ammnition for other motives .. and that is the sadest part... 
  
  Ohh.. and you should probably rent the game cause you will breeze through the levels.. I have yet 
 to try the multiplayer (which will come today) but I can't imagine a typical doom style game (multiplayer) 
 makin a difference to cause a purchase rather then a rental.
  
  peace all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonLizard
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 26, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  PREY
  
  It's a good name for a game with sweet ideas and flashy style but it turns into "prey" with some 
 minor issues. 
  
  Don't take this the wrong way because I really like this game but come on!!!!! I need more!!!!! 
 First and most important thing you need to know about this game is it's length which is way to 
 short. 
  
  8-10 hours to beat the game for you. There is no co-op which would extend replay value and no offline 
 multiplayer!!! Maybe the 1 thing that lowers this games stature. 
  All that aside....
  This game has sweet design in weapons and ideas such as walking on walls and ceilings via gravity 
 controls or the unique portal system. (These effects are really fun in multiplayer as well) 
  The game play itself besides the portals and gravity walks is standard run and gun with a few vehicle 
 parts thrown in, but the weapon design is well done and the computer A. I. makes it enjoyable.
 
  
  Let's talk Multiplayer
  
  Multiplayer is only via xbox live and is only 1 player which is disappointing because the multiplayer 
 is fun and could have been the new halo! But it isn't because it has only a few levels and only 
 2 variations! (deathmatch and team deathmatch) If they had made it offline or supported more per 
 xbox this would kill!!! The way it is now is great but it does suffer from some lag and the lack 
 of say capture the flag is disappointing.
  
  SO..... my final word is this.... You must play this game!!!!! Maybe not own it but you would be 
 cheating yourself if you didn't at least rent it and if they can fix some of the problems for the 
 inevitable sequel then we have a gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arc_Angel2k4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  saves (or does not save) girl, add aliens, guns, giant space ship called the spheir and native 
 american cheereoke side storyline and you got prey. The game looks and feels great with awsome 
 character models and great realm graphics all in all it works. Prey offers some unice things such 
 as portals and shifting gravity. One good/bad thing is the no game overs, if and when you die you 
 are taken to a minigame like place where you shoot down spirits to regain life and spirit before 
 you are sent back. This may ruin replay value if you are a classic FPS fan like Quake 4. The story 
 mode is not long or short but a medium time to complete. It is shorter than quake 4 and doom 3 
 for the PC. The wepon selection is not great but every wepon does its own cool thing and they all 
 look great. This game is not very difficult because the lack of the "game over" but it is still 
 very fun. The Mulitplayer is where its value comes back and for all you reputation ppl yes 1000 
 rep is easy to get. Online is fun for quick deathmatches and stuff but i play cromehounds so that 
 is more online play for me. All in all this game is more of a buy then a rental if you like FPS 
 and you liked doom 3 and/or quake 4. As for the controls they are simple, Gameplay is great, soundtrack 
 leaves much to be desierd but voiceacting and the sounds of the guns are good. The game holds alot 
 of value of you in to the multiplayer well untill F. E. A. R comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hungfar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Prey has been a loooong time coming but I will say it was worth the wait. Prey is a pretty standard 
 FPS that utilizes the Doom 3 engine (to great effect) but introduces some new elements to the genre. 
 First there are the portals. These are basically wormholes that appear in the environment which 
 lead to entirely different areas that are kind of "inside" the area you're in. It's actually a 
 pretty cool feature but it doesn't affect the gameplay whatsoever. Secondly, there are the gravity 
 defying walkways. These basically allow you and your enemies to walk on the walls and ceiling. 
 And while this doesn't affect the gameplay too much either, it is pretty awesome nonetheless. 
 
  
  Prey's presentation is quite impressive. This game definitely looks "next-gen" and has some very 
 good licensed music that is used to great effect. The weapon sound effects don't sound very powerful, 
 despite the fact the weapons look really neat and kinda yucky. The visuals are quite slick and 
 fortunately the frame rate doesn't suffer too much for it. 
  
  Aside from aforementioned newer features, Prey is a standard FPS through and through. That doesn't 
 mean it's not fun or impressive in it's own right. If you liked Quake 4 on the 360, then you should 
 REALLY like Prey because they're similar games yet Prey is far superior. Check out the demo if 
 you're still undecided! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanrodriguez
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 26, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I bought Prey the same day I bought the RTS for LOTR. I was so excited I even got the special edition 
 with the pewter figurines ( I know I'm a geek) . If you read my review of LOTR you know I didn't 
 get a chance to play Prey. I actually really enjoyed it once I sat down and started playing. The 
 play control is top notch and the graphics are equal, if not better, than the standard home PC. 
 The use of portals and gravity switches makes play fun and new. I don't know about the rest of 
 you but I'm pretty sick of UT's run and gun monotony. It's nice to have some new tricks. Anyways 
 the only reason I don't give this game a higher review is the lack of a mutiplayer campaign. The 
 only way to play vs. is to do so online. I'm not sure who's brilliant idea this was but they should 
 be shot in the head. Don't get me wrong it's worth playing but it's like watching an amazing movie 
 just to have the whole thing be a dream sequence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clayartist32
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 26, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  This game is lots of fun. My friend rented it for his 360, and I played it for hours. My friend 
 was afraid I was gonna brake his 360. But back to the review. The graphics on this game are simply 
 amazing. The sound is perfect, and creepy. The gameplay is pretty good, but it suffers from the 
 monotony of most FPS games. Luckily there are a few added things, such as the spirit walk and death 
 walk. The only probelm with this is that the death walk is far to easy, making it nearly impossible 
 to lose. I dont really think its worth the $60 you have to spend, so Id wait till you find a used 
 one or the price goes down.
  
  Aside from a few minor things, Prey is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxpayne10
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 25, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  The game flat out rocks. The game reminds me of Half Lifem with the weapons and the scripted events 
 that occur during the game, but these events are more bloody and twisted than Half Life. You start 
 the game in a bar and then move to an alien ship, the ship is huge. All that waits on the ship 
 is loss and evil aliens. The portal system is as innovative as they promised and the gravity will 
 leave you a little disoriented for the first few times. The game is long, but not hard to beat, 
 the puzzles are obvious. The game isn't original, but it is solid and adds to FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrebuiltKiller
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome i think it has a really good story line and i love the online play i think 
 that it is awesome and something that is good is that you get to climb on the walls and get upside 
 down and also i like the weapons and the way that they ended it is awesome that they are going 
 to bring out another part of prey. Also a cool thing is that on the online multiplayer you can change 
 your appearance so then not everybody looks the sameway. My favorite weapon is the shtgun and also 
 a cool thing about the game is the weapons i think that they are amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kash_1095
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Prey for XBOX 360/PC is a very fun and unique first person shooter, that will keep you busy for 
 the weekend.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in Prey is easy. There's a few straight forward fights, a few easy puzzles, and some 
 unique stuff. The fights in prey are very straightforward, since the enemys will spawn right infront 
 of you or to ur side, no they wont get behind you or anything fancy like that. Then there's some 
 puzzles that arent too hard, you wont be stuck on a puzzle for hours or anything like that. Then 
 there's the unique stuff such as:
  
  Wall Walking - A replacement for the ladder, allows you to walk on walls, ceilings etc.
  
  
 Gravity Flipping - When shooting a switch Allows you to flip gravity.
  
  Spirit Walking - Allows you to enter the spirit form and allow u to go where ur psysical body cannot. 
 A sweet idea, but is usually just used to flip switches past force fields.
  
  Death Walk- What makes this game so easy, when you die you are transported to a rock where you 
 shoot red (health) and blue (spirit) wraiths. And ull spawn back almost exactly where you died.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in this game are awesome. But it basically looks like a suped up doom 3, dark corridors 
 and everything. The weapons look... weird but act like regular fps weapons. Framerate is usually 
 steady, it hitched up in one area (i like to call it "the cube") , but otherwise its all good.
 
  
  sound:
  Voice acting is good. Exept for Jen, god dammit whenever she speaks i want to stab her voicebox. 
 Music has a nice epic score, and there's some licenced music too, in the bar at the beginning of 
 the game.
  
  Value:
  This game isnt too long, so ull be done by the weekend. The game will last you about 5-8 hours 
 and there's probably no reason to go back to it when you're done.
  
  Over all Prey is a fun game and it should not be missed.
  but its a recomended rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 25, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Okay, stop. I just wanted to say that like in my previous reviews, I have said this before. Great 
 designs are often copied and the copycats are never as good as the originals. Killzone copied Halo 
 and it turned out to be a decent game, Terminator 3 War of the machines copied Battlefield and 
 that was a disaster. However, this time around, it was Doom 3 that was their next target. Prey 
 strives to be all the glory that Doom 3 was and theres a history lesson behind it. First announced 
 ten years ago by 3D realms, (the same people who brought you Duke Nukem) Prey was soon shoved in 
 the back seat because 3D Realms wanted to work on Duke Nukem forever, which still is yet to be 
 released. However, it was announced again a few years ago with a new publisher and soon made its 
 way onto the next-gen systems. Prey strives to be a Doom 3 but fails miserably. However, that dosent 
 mean thats its terrible, its just an average game and nothing more.
  
  The story revolves around a man named Tommy who is a Cherokee Indian and who also wants nothing 
 to do with his heritage. He lives on a forgotten reservation with his grandfather who is the only 
 link to his bloodline. He wants to get out and see the world but wants his girlfriend whose name 
 is Jen to come with him. However, she likes life on the reservation and dosent want to leavego 
 figure. Anyways, one night, there are reports of strange lights in the sky that cause mass panic. 
 The Alien ship attacks the reservation and wants the people only for food. Tommy is captured along 
 with his grandfather and Jen. He witnesses the death of his grandfather and wants revenge, and 
 to get his girl back. This is a very uninteresting story with uninteresting characters if you ask 
 me.
  
  Graphics- 8/10
  Take the Doom 3 graphics engine and make it a little better and youve got the graphics on Prey. 
 Its still looks a little sharper but everything from the character models, to the environments 
 to the special effects to the lighting effects look so similar to Doom 3 that I just assumed that 
 they used the Doom 3 graphics engine. Theres also some framerate slowdown which is something Doom 
 3 never had. Still, the game does look nice and the special effects are cool enough but this game 
 still looks like an Xbox game, not an Xbox 360 game.
  
  Sound- 7/10
  The sound is decent enough. The voice acting is good, the sound effects in the environments are 
 good, but the music isnt that great. In fact, I cant tell if there was any music. The sound effects 
 are yet another way that Prey tries to mimic Doom 3. Doom 3 had some creepy sound effects that 
 made me jump so many times I lost count within the first fifteen minute. The sound effects in Prey 
 however, are not so creepy, they just gross me out. If you ask me, this is pretty sad.
  
  Gameplay- 7/10
  Yet again, this is yet another way that Prey tries to mimic Doom 3. To start 
 off, Doom 3 was a pretty straightforward game but Prey is even more so. All you do is move from 
 point A to point B and kill anything is your way. You may need to flip a switch or something but 
 it dosent add too much variety into it. Ironically, even the huge amount of weapons adds almost 
 nothing since I could practically beat every level with the basic rifle. The levels are too small, 
 and the designs lack imagination. At least you can carry a gun a flashlight at the same time. Oh, 
 wait, my fault, its a lighter that only lasts two seconds and takes like twenty to recharge. Plus, 
 you dont even need it.
  
  I do have a few positive points about this game. When you die, you go into the mystic world where 
 you fight condemned souls. You then return to the normal world. That is cool since you practically 
 cant loose. When you go into spirit mode, you can pass through anything and activate a switch 
 to get by something. Furthermore, the controls are pretty good, the camera is good, and the weapons 
 themselves are cool. I also like the gravity effects. Being able to go on a wall, kill a soldier 
 on the ceiling and watch him fall to his death and the real floor is awesome. The portal effects 
 are awesome too. When a portal spawns, you can go from one room to the next, and these portals 
 can be anywhere.
  
  In the end, prey is a decent enough game but it just wasnt all that it could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montynana
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 25, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok so hearing about prey and all the hype i was so waiting for it at the counter of blockbuster 
 to come in and finding out chromhounds came out at the same time i thought was great a full week 
 of ignoring my love and putting some extra hours on my system right. Wrong this is about prey so 
 let me stay on topic. The game started off with so much potential graphics seemed decent at and 
 the storyline seem interesting enough. although i thought the monsters were kool and walking on 
 walls throught portals and on giant rocks that actually simulated gravity pretty good if u were 
 to be on a big rock gravity was stronger then if u were on a smaller one. I loved the fact that 
 the voices were actually pretty good the swearing and anger in tommys voice was quite realistic 
 and so was the girl although i would have liked a little more screaming when she was part of the 
 monster but ah well the game was kool i liked the fact that u didnt die but u did have to fight 
 for energy it was a new and i think quiet good idea. There was only one real problem. The game 
 was way way to short i spent no more then 7 hours on the game although i did not play it in cherokee 
 level but i would say if u can get this game for 29.99 when the price drops i would say it is a 
 must have in your collection, due to the multiplayer aspect nothing like getting shot from straight 
 above to get u angry lol. i say it is a must have but a must have that u can wait until the price 
 drops or u find it used but for now i say go out and rent the game it is good u will have fun. 
 If u like doom and quake well this is the game although unlike doom there is an end to the enemies 
 in a room thank good for that but ya. It is short but it is fun for the time u play it hell i will 
 buy it when the price drops just not now. oh ya just to ruin it for you the girl and gramp die 
 he drives the sphree into the sun and at the end he goes to another world with the girl that was 
 suppost to die but instead survived and it is said there will be a part two because he goes with 
 the girl even though he should have stayed home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidey008
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  Prey is one of those games that captures your attention during the first 10 minutes of gameplay. 
 Once you get into the story of Prey, you are hooked.
  
  The graphics in Prey are great, although I'm not a big fan of the Doom 3 engine. To me Prey uses 
 the Doom 3 engine graphically better than any other game uses it. The enemy AI was the only downfall 
 of this game. The AI is really bad considering how long this game has been in development. The 
 game was too easy to get through and made you feel that you had accomplished little when you passed 
 a stage.
  
  I havent played much of the multiplayer in Prey, so Im not rating this game on that.
  
  Prey 
 is a great game, but doesnt last long. There is little replay value unless you like multiplayer.
 
  
  I was entrenched in the exciting plot of Prey and the simple but fun gravity puzzles. The story 
 was rock solid and made me feel like I had been abducted by aliens myself. If you like FPS, give 
 Prey a try.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike04016
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 25, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  The Real problem with this game, was it's difficulty. Dying has almost no effect on the game. In 
 boss fights it will heal it to half health, but all that prevents you from doing is killing a boss 
 with the wrench. This game had many revolutionary ideas, but most came out half baked. 
  
  The puzzles were generally too simple. Go through the barrier turn the barrier off. The ones that 
 are more challenging really have no basis on what is going on in the game, and to solve them you 
 just have to walk around for a while, until you figure it out. The portals were interesting, but 
 as has been said many times, were way too linear.
  
  On the positive side, it is a fun FPS, with interesting guns. Although it lacks a splitscreen multiplayer, 
 the online is extremely fun. Putting you in situations where you'll be shooting people on the ceiling. 
 Beating the single player is something to do when you're bored, but If you have xbox live, and 
 are in to first person shooters, I would definitely recomend getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc002
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 25, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  Alright, the visuals are impressive, but the rest of the game just isn't. It doesn't quite get 
 off the run way too successfully.
  
  I bought this game the day I got my 360 specifically because the store was sold out of Chromehounds 
 and the sales person seemed pretty excited about it -- excited about Prey, not about being sold 
 out. But when I got home and poped it in I regretted it within the first 15 minutes.
  
  Okay granted I only played for less than half and hour, but that's how bad the game is... it couldn't 
 even make it pass the 30 minute marker, which is a monumental marker, if you think about it, saying 
 a lot about something if it can't keep you interested even for that small amount of time.
  
  The problem was mainly, as stated, that it's too much like Duke Nukem. Simply put, it just 
 feels like the old Duke with a new coat of paint and a few new tricks. The grim and slum-like setting, 
 what with the backwater reserve the hero is dying to get out of, and the old-fashion, solid, but 
 worn-out alien invasion will remind the player of Duke Nukem 3D's dingy getto streets, seedy bars, 
 and generally low-bred scum-filled dystopian chez-toi, complete with ravenous aliens trying to 
 kidnap the Earth's rightful babes.
  
  So: visuals: good; sound: good; playability: good (reminds me a bit of Halflife) ; atmosphere: horrible 
 -- and what's the point of having all that nice stuff if you don't have good paper to wrap it all 
 in. 
  
  After all, kids, it's what's on the outside that really counts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 25, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10
  
  The multiplayer in this game is very fun the singleplayer is also very fun but can gtet repeatitive 
 because you do basiclly the same puzzles over and over again. Another thing that sucks in this 
 game is that you can almost never die because you just keep going into a death walk mode every 
 time your body dies you just go into spirit mode and shoot these spirt type things and then you 
 can get health and spirt energy its just way too easy even on the hardest difficulty.
  
  graphics 10/10
  
  Amazing, absoultely amazing graphics there just stunning and the frame rate 
 stays very smooth
  
  Sound 7/10
  
  The sound is good the weapon sounds are cool but the thing that annoys me is that the aliens speak 
 english it sounds very stupid when they do.
  
  Value 7/10
  
  The game is too short, way too short took me around 4 hours and i was taking it slow to admire 
 the amazing graphics. The game does have value because the multiplayer is almost as much fun as 
 quake 4. The achievements in this game don't help either i got 800+ points in the first day...
 
  
  Tilt 10/10
  
  Very very fun multiplayer and the i liked the single player story get this game if you are an achievement 
 point addict or if you like good multiplayer FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 24, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I wasnt overly excited for this game but it sounded kinda cool with all the portals and gravity 
 stuff so i rented it. I was very dissapointed. TO the point where im not motivated to finish the 
 single player. Im a little under halfway done and it still feels way too easy. It seems like the 
 game throws one two or maybe 3 enemies at you at a time. Its embarrassing. And Even if you do die 
 you go through a little shooting gallery and spawn right back where you died. It removes almost 
 all challenge from the game. The 2 things that keeps this game from being a complete disaster is 
 the unique guns and the gravity walkways. portals, etc. This game feels an enormous amount like 
 quake 4. Except it isnt challenging at all. The only challenge this games offers is the puzzle-like 
 levels. They are confusing and offer no hints or objectives at all. The graphics do look very good. 
 Despite the player models looking like **** The online is a slower quake. I prefer it over quake 
 personally. But it is a lag fest and the host usually wins. The game had potential but a series 
 of bad flaws ruined it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 24, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  Prey has a solid ground to work with. a 360 shooter game with great graphics and different concepts 
 to gameplay make this game good enough to dabble with. 
  
  Story - You a young man who wants to get out of a Indian reservation with his girlfriend. problem 
 here is she doesn't want to leave. his grandfather shows up one night and tells him "you will need 
 me tonight" confused he ignores the info not knowing what lies for him.
  
  Gameplay - gameplay on prey is almost so standard, it doesn't give any imagination to the game. 
 weapons are not original and besides the ability to move from wall to wall and go threw teleportation 
 walls, this game is simple as can be.
  
  Online play - WoW!!! this was the worst thing i ever played. LAG to the EXTREME! to this day i 
 have not found a reason for the lag. all other games currently playing online are fine.
  
  overall - achievements with time are easy to get and its a good enough game to RENT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 24, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  This game had so much potential but they fell short. The story to this game is different from so 
 many games with the indian thing going on and then all the sudden it turns in to a cyber horror 
 game. Well don't ask me for any story details, I don't pay attention, oh you are trying to save 
 your girlfriend. OK so this is so close to being Quake with a twist. The main thing about this 
 game that sets it apart is the portals. There are these portals that open up and you can look through 
 them like a window and shoot through them before you enter. There are all of these other portals 
 also that you came across but the game does't take advantage of the potential. First with the portals 
 there are a few puzzles that use the portals but they are very limited to simple tasks that kind 
 of get repetitive. For the most part when you use a portal it is just a passage to the next room, 
 other times it is used to open the path to proceed to the next room. It is ok but very repetitive 
 with no real excitement value because it is so monotonous. One other problem with the game is the 
 lack of action, there is more portals than enemies almost. When you encounter a enemy 25% of them 
 you can walk up to and kill them without them noticing you. When you shoot at one the rest do not 
 react at all. Very few of the enemies even make a effort to attack you at close range. There are 
 so few enemies to even deal with you usually walk in and stand still pick them off and walk out. 
 The next set back is the deathwalk. This allows you to have no skill to play. If you die you shoot 
 a couple colored birds and you are back where you left off. It is impossible not to beat this game. 
 You can hit a enemies once and die come back and do it all over again till he dies, very lame. 
 So this is what made the game suck not to mention the guy cusses for no reason 85% of the time 
 and says some dumb stuff anyway. The good stuff in this game is good but very limited. The graphics 
 are incredible except for the good guys. The environments are great looking. The controls are good 
 also. One of the coolest parts are the gravity walks and the fact you can shoot a button and the 
 gravity of the board changes. This was very fun. The jukebox was also great but was not used at 
 all it would have been fun to mess with it more. There is also some other great ideas that were 
 awesome that they only used once or twice. So like I said sooo much potential. I hope I am not 
 leaving anything out. So let me just give you the quick opinion. Great looking game that did not 
 come close the the actual greatness that it could have had, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royalpierre
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 24, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  This game is flat out sweet. Yeah it's not the greatest game ever made but it still is a good game 
 worth its credit. How many interesting things are in this game that are not found in other FPS. 
 You got the portal system which in my opinion makes this game fun and different. The idea of shifting 
 gravity is awesome. It's makes the game unique and offers a wide variety of ways to kill your enemies. 
 Plus walll walking is sweet, how many times have you wished you could walk walls. Plus dying is 
 a thing of the past, you can just kill wraiths and go back to where you where. No need to reload 
 back to where you were and this allows you to take more risks. The best of all is the spirit walk. 
 This is just flat out cool and it makes the game so much bigger and complex. This game is a good 
 FPS that you to try out. The multiplayer could be better if more people stopped playing Halo 2 
 online and started playing this online, but I understand I still play Halo 2 online. And that's 
 what I am saying, you cannot compare this to Halo because Halo is uncomparable. You have to have 
 an unbyassed opinion when playing this game and appreciate what it has to offer and not try to 
 point out all the things that are different than Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belladog1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 23, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Like most, I couldn't wait to get Prey. After downloading an enormous amount of preview video content 
 during those quiet times at work (much to my employers disgust) , I decided this would be THE game 
 to get for '06. I must say, whilst a GOOD game, it's one that you will probably forget fairly quickly.
 
  
  When I downloaded the demo off Xbox Live, I thought it was cool, although easy. This is a good 
 indication of the game - it remains similar. The enemy AI is poor, with pre-programmed patterns 
 (not very clever ones at that) appearing in some of the creatures, however this doesn't render 
 Prey a bad game at all. I think most would say they had fun playing Prey, and that's it's best 
 feature.
  
  Don't let all the talk of the AI get you down, if you like the Demo, then you'll like the game.
 
  
  Great environments, cool story, funny dialog, great times. If you're a diehard FPS veteran you'll 
 find this game easy. I actually liked the way it wasn't too hard, as it kept the game progressing 
 well, and I never got bored.
  
  I'd recommend as a buy to entry level gamers, probably a rental to a veteran as you'll pass it 
 over the weekend (approx 8 hrs gameplay) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeftonesXIII
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Well i beat prey last night and ive got to say not exactly blown away by it but not dissapointed 
 either. The portals and gravity walk ways makes the game play more interesting and the story is 
 pretty good to, but to think this game has been in development since '97 is just crazy. Obviously 
 they put alot of thought into this game but the value of the game doesnt quite add up to the amount 
 of time they put into it. Also, the gamespot reveiw was on and off a bit on this game, yes the 
 death walk feature is pretty cool but it does make the game to easy at time, especially when you 
 go against a boss and it doesnt really matter if you die 50 times the bosses health stayes the 
 same and it just takes away from the difficulty of the game. When i read that the gamespot people 
 didnt like how the aliens talked sayingall the aliens speak english and sound stupid doing so" 
 i couldnt help but laugh as the aliens in halo speak english and sound a whole lot more stupid 
 but i guess when your games name is Halo you get a bit more lineancy because of the fan boys. I 
 do think that one more thing that hurt this game is just how long it took for this game to come 
 out and then just blow right through it. When it takes you this long to make the game and publish 
 it people will always be a bit harsher on it . But then again, this is also a classic case of to 
 much hype put into the game but to me, it was a pretty good game even if it did have its short 
 comings, but its my opinion and so id give this game about a 8.0 but nothing more.
  Till the next 360 game i get....
  
  ~ xBloodRavenXIII ~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pimponaholiday
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 23, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Well this game was pretty good, it did entertain me a lot and all but it was just a complete run 
 and gun game. This game is totally worth the buy but it still fails in comparison to games like 
 Halo or G. R. A. W. It just lacks the challenge except for it's puzzles.
  
  Graphics- Doom 3 engine graphics of course but it still did a lot more with it than Quake tried. 
 Still kinda kept in a close quarters area and you rarely get out into a big outdoorsy kinda place. 
 But even so the graphics engine pumps out some nicely polished stuff. 
  
  Concept - Well it does have the whole portal and gravity defying walk-ways and other things, but 
 it's still too much of a linear game to really give these awsome new ideas any life. Still a really 
 good idea all in all and I give them hella props for doing it.
  
  Story- Good at first lacking in the middle and kicks some major ass at the end.
  
  Negatives- 
 The main thing that bothered me was the simple fact the bad guys were always too dark and I never 
 did get a good look at them. I couldn't see them half of the time and when I did I was getting 
 shot up pretty hard.
  
  Positives- From warping onto a tiny planetoid to shooting a bad guy in the back of the head who 
 was in rom of me by shooting through a portal, I loved this game and I won't get rid of it.
  
  The MP sucks; majorly laggy, and the whole replay value is about the same with Doom 3 and Quake 
 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undercoverdeath
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 23, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  What intially drew me to prey was the fact that up, wasnt really up anymore, playing with gravity 
 seemed like a very interesting gamelay idea, and it is, but thats about the onlything that distinguishes 
 it in a good way from other games in its genre. The spirit walk just makes the game WAAAY too easy, 
 combined with the poor AI, its just a walk in the park. The graphics in this game are great, as 
 long as you are indoors, as the doom 3 engine is excellent indoors, but tottal crap outdoors. The 
 controlls are simple and straight forward, and the sound is excellent. The storyline is the straightforward 
 hero dosnet want the job of saving earth, yet is forced too. But the single player portion of the 
 game is just too short. I beat the game in 2 sittings. it probably took me about 10 hours. Multiplayer 
 is just too bug filled right now to enjoy, so unless you plan on dealing with all the crap of multiplayer, 
 the games tottal paytime clocks in at around 10 hours, at one play though, and 25ish if you play 
 the game again on hard. Just joining a game in multiplayer can be a task, as i was dropped before 
 i even reached the lobby over and over. It took me over an hour to get a game i could play the 
 first time i logged on. Once in i was found with lag so bad it made the game unplayable. Frustrated 
 i searched for a lagg free game. I eventually found one, and the multiplayer s awsome, but its 
 just so hard to find a game that has no lag. I would reccoment this game for rental, until they 
 patch the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 23, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  Prey... I'm at a loss as to how to start this review, so I'm just gonna jump right into it...
  Prey is a pretty good game, that takes lots of great ideas and kinda doesn't come through all the 
 way with them (I'm looking at you, portals) . The game is simple, fun and kinda short... The trifecta 
 with most modern RPGs it seems... This isn't a bad thing at all, but it definitely doesn't impress 
 as it could have. The one truly innovative thing in the game is how you "die". When your health 
 bar drains, your spirit is thrust from your body and into some weird world where you have to arrow 
 down red or blue wraiths for health or more "spirit juice" as I like to call it. After a short 
 time you're thrust back into battle.
  
  While the aforementioned addition may seem like a cheap way to escape death and get through the 
 game quicker... Well, yeah... It is. But it's SO much better than having to start over a checkpoint 
 or *shudder* the beginning of the level... Either way, the mechanic fits well with the game and 
 also turns out to be brilliant, albeit, quicker/easier to beat the game.
  
  Some other gameplay mechanics are the no reloading weapons, the wall walking thing, and portals... And 
 to a lesser extent the flying in the pod thing... All of which work well within the game, but none 
 totally revolutionize the genre by any means. The first few times I wall walked I was really disoriented, 
 but then I thought it was a great time to be sideways in the air shooting guys on the "ground". 
 There are also a few parts where you have to shoot these things to make the gravity switch walls... That 
 is something that is very cool, but very disorienting. All of these things are fun in their own, 
 but the game doesn't use them to their full potential in the long run.
  
  Prey obviously looks fantastic... I never ran into any bumps or frame rate drops. The game just 
 chugged along with it's beautiful self. While I'm sick of the FPS in the dark thing, the game still 
 looks great. Considering this is the exact same engine that gave us Quake 4, the game looks a lot 
 lot lot better than that one did... And I thought Quake looked pretty sharp.
  
  The sounds are all top notch, including the voice acting. I have no complaints, nor was there anything 
 really spectacular... But the sounds are distinct enough that you know what's happening and realistic 
 enough that you believe them... It works.
  
  The game is on the short side... Probably around 8 hours or so for the single player. Not short 
 with todays standards, it seems, but hard to make it worth the $60 entry fee. Multiplayer is fun, 
 some of the levels are great some are just ho-hum. The ones that use portals, wall walking and 
 flying pods are among the most fun. Hopefully we will see some add-on levels in the near future... And 
 a fix for some of the slow down (I didn't have much trouble with slow down, but I did have some 
 trouble entering matches) .
  
  Overall, if you're an FPS fan, you gotta at least rent this game. It's nothing terribly new, but 
 it's new enough to be interesting and stand out among it's peers. Since there is obviously gonna 
 be at least one sequel, hopefully they will improve everything in the game to a true level of greatness. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer4ever2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 23, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  Prey delivers you the great graphics such as lighting and the surface of metal and flesh. The game 
 is pretty easy on Easy, so I think most first-person veterans might start at Normal. The game is 
 more linear than games like Halo but it is fun and also has some puzzle elements that are not too 
 hard to solve. If you like games like Doom, this game is a very good choice which has also a good 
 storyline for a first-person shooter which is clearly based on action instead of tactical.
  As I said before. The multiplayer is not fun at all with low framerate etc.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 22, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Everyone has fears. Heights, snakes, bugs, tight spaces, you name it, someone has it. One of my 
 greatest fears (besides Mickey Mouse) is alien abduction. Sure, it's far out there, but if it does 
 happen, we're screwed. In Prey, a Cherokee named Tommy finds out the hard way that aliens do not 
 come in peace, but rather to hang us on futuristic meat hooks and ram razor sharp spikes into us 
 to harvest food. After a little introduction to our alien aggressors, you get to grab a bunch of 
 weird looking (but powerful) weapons and deliver a proverbial kick to the junk to the ugly mofos. 
 The game has a Doom 3 meets Area 51 feeling to it, so there's lots of dark, creepy areas full of 
 nasty creatures aiming to hunt you down. You do have a lighter to help navigate the darkness, and 
 a neat little armory full of cool toys to delve into, but Prey's greatest feature is the ability 
 to manipulate gravity. There are glowing pathways that allow you to scale sheer walls, oftentimes 
 fighting upside-down or sideways, which is a clever concept, especially when grenades are involved. 
 There are also rooms that have panels that rotate the room in various ways, which is the base of 
 a few simple puzzles, but the novelty of launching rockets at an enemy who looks like he's walking 
 on the wall is not to be missed. Another gimmick in Prey is the Spiritwalk and Deathwalk. In Spiritwalk, 
 you leave your physical body behind to explore areas Tommy can't reach, pass through force fields, 
 and snipe enemies with a Spirit Bow. It's a good idea, but feels pretty unrealized, as it only 
 comes in handy in predetermined circumstances. Deathwalk will automatically start once Tommy loses 
 all his health. Here, you have to use your bow to kill different colored death wraiths to restore 
 your health and Spirit energy before coming back to life. It's a good way to avoid the frustration 
 of lots of cheap deaths, but lessens the tension of the game, since you always have it ready to 
 use. The controls are well done, responsive and intuitive, and you can map your favorite guns to 
 the D-Pad like in Doom 3. The graphics are eerie and sharp, and look great in 1080i. The audio 
 is generally good, except for your grandfather (who sounds like the Martian Tribal chief from Futurama) 
 and the Hunters, who are basically a rip off of Halo's Elites. It's strange and pretty stupid to 
 hear an alien yell "Grenade!" or "Drop your weapon!". Speaking of enemies, there's quite a few 
 types, ranging from the aforementioned Hunters to flying robots, multi-legged rocket shooting freaks, 
 and several huge boss monsters. Overall, Prey delivers a summer movie blockbuster in playable form, 
 with its harrowing firefights, gravity-based puzzles and great atmosphere. If you need a good, 
 but relatively short and easy FPS to kill some time, Prey fits the bill nicely. And about my fear 
 of Mickey Mouse, just don't let him show you his "Magic Kingdom". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 007Master7
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 22, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  it took the first 2 hours of frustration but after that the story started to unfold and the story 
 was really good and the gameplay started to get action packed and have a variety of enemies and 
 there was never really a dull moment after that. multiplayer is laggy and terrible but the single-player 
 is worth renting for. one of the most original stories I have seen.. really good.. the puzzles 
 with the gravity manipulation were pretty good.. but in terms of FPS with puzzles and action blended 
 together the Half-Life series is and will always be king. it is definately worth a rent.. but do 
 not buy it whatever you do.. there are only 2 difficulties and the game is still pretty easy on 
 both of them. and the replay value is.. not present.. first time through the story is old news. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkstar_Sinada
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 22, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Prey has been in the making under different title names for nearly a decade. The hype has been 
 huge and the expectations high. So does it live up to all the anticipation? No.
  
  The Single Player of Prey is really where the game is at. Interesting concepts are plentiful, such 
 as portals, wall-walking, the way death plays a role, and many others. For the first part of the 
 game, you'll be amazed at what is going on, it messes with your mind. But after the cheap thrills 
 wear off, it's just a Doom 3 port. The engine is very outdated, and there are many downsides with 
 it. The guns don't feel very powerful, and the combat never seems too intense.
  
  Most of Prey is indoors on the spaceship, and the graphics look pretty nice. Many disturbing things 
 happen, and they look good enough to really land the point home. The sound effects are nice, and 
 the scores of music make the game rather epic. Overall, the sound department has everything covered.
 
  
  The game is real short, like most FPS campaigns. We're talking around 5-8 hours here, depending 
 on how much you like to stare at alien environments. There is a hard difficulty to add more gameplay, 
 and an achievement that goes with it.
  
  With all of Prey's innovative concepts, Multiplayer seems like it would be a lot of fun. It would 
 be, except for one major downfall: Tons of Lag. Not a little skip here and there, complete frame-rate 
 deduction and complete 4-5 second pauses. Sometimes the matches are decent, other times I just 
 laughed and waited it out. Also, the game is on the short side for weapons and levels, and only 
 two game modes: Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch. A patch is rumoured to be in the works, which would 
 considerably change many opinions.
  
  So overall, Prey is definately a rental. The Single Player can be completed then, and the multiplayer 
 gets old fast. If a patch comes in the future, this game will be much, much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellymae
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 28, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  Prey is a really good FPS. You play as Tommy a cherokee native who is somewhat disillusioned about 
 the whole native thing. When he, his girlfriend, grandfather and the whole bar they were standing 
 in at the time gets sucked into an alien spacecraft, he quickly awakens his inner cherokee warrior. 
 It turns out to be an interesting ride
  
  The OMG that was amazing: reverse gravity, portals that appear out of no where, wall and ceiling 
 walking.
  
  The good: The gameplay is brisk and the controls are tight. You are shooting something almost immediately. 
 Even when in spirit form (which you will be in, alot) you have a cherokee bow that does damage 
 to your live enemies. The weapons themselves are ok. They are definitely off the beaten track, 
 some of them do huge amounts of damage, although at times your pipe wrench is a much better tool, 
 and one of your weapons is a live animal that substitutes as a grenade. The Graphics are wicked 
 sick. Due to the quality of the graphics you can really get into the game. The soundtrack is good, 
 but the sound itself, well we will get to that in a minute. 
  
  The just ok: The gameplay is very simplistic, which is unfortunate, because there are moments of 
 brilliance in this game that should have been played upon more. You move forward, you have very, 
 very limited environment to explore, you pick up assorted weapons, you use assorted weapons, you 
 flip switches, you kill things, the end. Oh, you make the odd trip to the spirit world, but it 
 seems more to have been thrown in as an aside than an integral part of the game. The game is easy, 
 waaaaaaaaaaaaay easy, like a 6 year old kid would be able to play this if it were not for the gratuitous 
 violence. 
  
  The downright annoying: Ok, the first couple of times an alarm goes off, you find the off switch 
 and it's all good. The next 20 or 30 times you set off an alarm, you want to jab yourself in both 
 ears just to make the sounds stop. The alien voices are bad. Drop your weapon human is a phrase 
 you are going to come to despise before this game is over. Your spirit guide is another thing that 
 is going to start to annoy you fairly quickly. At one point I actually tried to shoot it. The game 
 has glitches. It is running on the doom 3 engine and like both doom 3 and quake 4 which runs on 
 the same engine, there are a couple of fairly big glitches. I lost half a background for about 
 5 minutes at one point and I got stuck in a wall which required a reset of the game. thank god 
 I save lots. 
  
  This game could have been, and probably should have been game of the year. What it seems now is 
 just rushed. It is a very good, but not great game. I do think it was worth the purchase price 
 and I will play it at least once more on the difficult setting and see if that makes a difference. 
 It comes in at a solid 7.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tony13ny
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 22, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  INTRO: After seeing the lower than expected score from Gamespot on Prey, I decided to rent it from 
 Gamefly instead of go out and buy it. The game only took me about 7 and a half hours to beat, so 
 im glad i didnt buy it. Its better as a rental then a buy, but just because of its length. Now 
 onto the review!
  
  GRAPHICS: This game had amazing graphics. Especially if your playing on a HDTV. They are crisp 
 and clean looking. The lighting effects will especially blow you away. The game is pretty dark 
 most of the time, so you get a good look at the lighting effects coming through vents and the works, 
 and they are all spot on. The blood effects and everything are very realistic, but there are some 
 screens and things in the game that they just didnt put much work in to make look good (they were 
 just blurry colors) , which took a little bit out of the experience. The use of motion-capture 
 also made all the human characters have a very well... real look to them. I thought this game had 
 some of the best 360 graphics ive seen to date.
  
  SOUND: Prey doesn't really play much music throughout the game, just at loading screens, the title 
 screen, and during the credits. The sound effects for enemies were pretty good. The only thing 
 that could have been better were the mutilated humans which sounded like a pig snorting. The screams 
 and voice-acting was good, although I found Jen's voice to be annoying that really had no effect 
 on the game. You also notice while playing the game that the aliens speak english. This is due 
 to your little falcon Talon translating it. It sounds weird seeing them speak english . All of 
 the sound effects in Prey were pretty damn good, especially for the alien enemies.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Prey has solid controls that you always feel comfortable with. The guns you use are all 
 alien weapons, giving it a different twist from the normal FPS where you use real weapons. This 
 also gave the developers a chance to make some creative weapons, which I felt they did a good job 
 at. My only complaint about the gameplay itself was that you can't die. Whenever you do, you transport 
 to the land of the ancients where you just shoot some wraiths with your bow and tada, your alive 
 again. Speaking of that, the game also throws in the ability to spirit walk. By pressing "Y" you 
 leave your body and can pass through barriers and other objects blocking your way. In this form 
 you also possess a bow. This doesnt do much more damage then your gun, but when you wanna get quick 
 kills without being seen its pretty useful. The story in Prey starts off exciting, slows down alot, 
 then gets really good towards the end. I wasn't too into the story until the end. The story for 
 the mostpart is good. There are also vehicles in Prey. Well.... one vehicle. Its not very fun. I 
 found it just frustrating. The controls were clumsy and the camera never seemed to wanna cooperate 
 with me. In my opinion the vehicle didnt add anything to the game, it was sorta there just to say 
 "see we put in a vehicle!". Back to the no-dying thing, i felt that they threw way too many enemies 
 at you at one time because of it. They took advantage of the fact that you could never die to make 
 certain situations filled with enemies to the point of you dying once or twice before clearing 
 the room. My complaints aside, Prey has wonderful gameplay!!
  
  OVERALL: I would say Prey is the best FPS out for the 360 at the moment. Its 6-9 hours of gameplay 
 is too short for a purchase in my opinion. I say this is a better rent ONLY because of the length. 
 It also doesnt have much replay value. After beating the game you get a hard mode, but unless you 
 thought the game was that great its not worth playing again. Overall Prey was a solid experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tatton777
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  I just hate to see great games do poorly in the sales realm. I almost didn't buy Prey because of 
 the GameSpot review. Usually Mr. Gerstmann's reviews are spot on, but I really disagree with the 
 7.5 he gave Prey.
  
  Prey was creative, different, and just plain fun to play. The weapons were cool, the storyline 
 had "Holy ****" surprises in it, and the puzzles were excellent also.
  
  The length of the game was good (about fifteen hours for me) , but I will put in another ten playing 
 it in Cherokee mode just because I liked the world of Prey.
  
  I know this review is short, but I just wanted to put my two cents in.
  
  Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 27, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  i was pretty disapointed the game is too short... levels r like 10 mins long and there are only 
 20 of them and at least 5 r just times u talk to indians that r dead and r less than 1 min long... 
 i was like WTF... the story is dumb and the eniemes r the same ... all and all its boring and uninspired... 
 cant believe this game took so long ot make...
  
  the guns r boring and feels like the same old same old.... basically tom is a cherokee and is ashamed 
 of that fact wnts to leave and gets obducted by aliens ... that kill his grandfather and want to 
 do the same to his girlf firend he must embraces his cherokee ways to save her... it sucks.... 
 i want the achievements os will keep playing but this is almost as bad as dare I say rumble roses? 
 or X-men 3? O did i mention that game took me 5 hrs to beat
  
  If u dont have XBox live gold account which i cant use at college, then game is useless because 
 will not let more than 1 person play per system... meaning no splitscreen multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyro185
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  My favorite sci-fi shooter yet on the 360. The "spirit walkiing" is a great, though its uses get 
 repetitive (walk through the forcefield, turn it off) , the weapons are cool looking and sound pretty 
 sweet too. The gameplay is sorta like halo mixed with quake. When you "die" instead of the infamous 
 "game over" screen you go into a little mini-game in order to regain life back. This is pretty 
 cool, but it takes the difficulty away extremely. You can pretty much jump off a cliff and regain 
 full health exactly where you were. It was a fun game. I rented it and beat it in about a day, 
 so I say rent it for a quick new experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgmagic2000
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I personally liked this game very much, but it's true that the game is way too easy, even on Cherokee 
 mode. The story kept me interested to the end, if it weren't for that, this game would have scored 
 very low for me. Took me about 10-12 hours to complete, but I did stop and look/listen at all the 
 extras the game had to offer. Multiplayer didn't really appeal to me, the servers seemed a bit 
 too laggy and just wasn't as fun to play as some of the other multiplayer FPS out there. Great 
 story, great music, and I'm looking forward to a sequel. I'd recommend renting, after finishing 
 once, you'll probably never play it again!
  
  8.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackw2k6
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  great story mode but bad lag on live and no split screen
  
  ok... so you start off looking into a mirror talking to yourself in a local bar. your an american 
 indian called tommy of the cherokee tribe, and next thing your being abducted by aliens. its not 
 actually as bad as it sounds though. what could quite easily have turned into an average FPS actually 
 is a gaming spectacle with a great storyline, solid graphics and is all round fun to play. however 
 on live the game is quite dissapointing as their is alot of lag with games of over 4 players and 
 hopefully their will be an update out soon to stop this.
  
  portals? great innovation or a desperate attempt to change the FPS genre
  
  I actually enjoyed 
 the inclusion of portal very much. it brought a new light upon FPS gaming. one where anything is 
 possible, sure, it takes a while to get used to (as tommy finds out in the game, as he is sick 
 from all the gravity modifying going on) but overall is alot of fun as you find yourself looking 
 through a portal at none other than you looking through that same portal. its like looking through 
 a mirror! but not.
  
  the soundtrack for prey is also very atmospheric which gives the player a sense that something 
 will be lurking behind every corner (which very often is true)
  
  overall prey is a great game with a storyline with so many plot twists and that also makes the 
 player feel as if they are actually part of the story. my only regret with the single player is 
 i wish it could have been longer. other than that i have no complaints.
  
  see you in prey 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_m_a_n
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 21, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Prey could of been so much more, instead its a meagre FPS with some very nice touches which could 
 of potentially made it into a truly great game. 
  
  The storyline to Prey begins on earth where you take control of a cherokee called Tommy who wants 
 to move out of his homeland with his girlfirned Jen (who is reluctant to leave her roots) . Tommy 
 doesnt care about his heritage (which his granpappy keeps banging on about) and just wants to leave. 
 All is forgotten quite quickly though as UFO's start beaming up people all across the globe with 
 Jen, Tommys granpappy and him along with the whole of the bar they were sitting in!! You then find 
 yourself being transported around a ship hearing blood-curldling screams along the way, you somehow 
 manage to escape though, thanks to a mysterious helper. It is then up to Tommy to rescue Jen and 
 his granpappy back from these weird alien beings. The storyline is not exactly great but it does 
 feel like you are actually on a mission rather than walking round aimlessly during the game. 
 
  
  You soon run into the aliens themselves after seeing your granpappy being killed and manage to 
 get hold of some weapons. The weapons in the game are your usual rifle, shotgun, rocket launcher 
 and although there isn't a huge variety they have been themed to suit the alien ship from where 
 you picked them up from and are quite amusing.
  
  One of the best gameplay elements of the game is the portal system from which aliens will suddenly 
 appear from and if they stay open you can go through them. Basically its like a rip in the game 
 where you can just walk through a portal and end up somewhere else on a ship. The gameplay is pretty 
 linear though and although the portal idea is great, you won't be wondering too far without having 
 to go a certain way all the time. Another good aspect of the game are the gravitional walkways 
 you will run across and you will find yourself walking along ceilings quite early on in the game 
 and it is a bit disorientating at first, especially when aliens start warping in while your upside 
 down. These are good ideas which makes Prey different to all the FPS you have played before.
  
  Even though your granpappy dies very early on in the game, he is still important to the game. 
 Tommy finds himself in the spirtual world early in the game where his granpappy is now residing. 
 Here he gives Tommy a special "death-walk" power where his spirit can detach away from his body 
 and can walk through things Tommy can't, such as force fields and fire. This has a huge effect 
 of the puzzle elements of the game and most of them are based around this. One interesting feature 
 that this power gives Tommy is that when he dies he goes to the spirtual world where you play a 
 mini-game to keep him alive. However well you do, you will return to where you died and continue 
 on with the game making it impossible to die. This makes the game feel a bit arcadey and also quite 
 easy when you don't have to worry about starting a level again.
  
  The variety of aliens is noticable too with only about 6 or 7 in total and it gets a bit monotoneous 
 during the latter part of the game. The game itself should only take about 5 - 6 hours to complete 
 and never really gets challenging even on the hard level. The game uses the Doom engine and therefore 
 graphics are good quality but the sound could of been made a bit scarier. 
  
  You can also play Prey on Xbox Live with up to 8 players in one game, when I tried it, it was a 
 bit choatic and quite laggy with the maximum amount of people but it was addictive fun. Not much 
 variety on live, its either deatchmatch or team match, although to be fair, this game suits deathmatch 
 more than any other game type and any more options would of been pointless. The achievement list 
 is pretty simple as well and you can rack up around 800 points by finishing the game on both difficultly 
 levels and the rest are gained through xbox live.
  
  All in all, Prey is a bit of a weak FPS and although the portals and gravity walkways are great 
 ideas, they fail to live up to their potential and therefore the downsides of Prey are more noticable.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: umbrae
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 21, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  At first, Prey is an exciting game with some unique gameplay elements like Spirit Powers and Portals. 
 However, it has a little else to offer. The graphics are good (worthy of the 360) and the sound 
 it good. The story, although a little cliche', has some interesting twists, but does not do much 
 more than place you in this ship killing aliens.
  
  Your stomach will need to get used to the way gravity works in the game and the escher-ese quality 
 of level design, but overall it is just another shooter. Spiritwalk is used nothing more than a 
 way of making you find a key without retracing your steps. Deathwalk makes dying mean very little 
 other than a small delay in the action. It should have been structured more like a walk with different 
 layouts. A better name would have been Deathcircle since you just spin in a circle and shoot things 
 until you get sucked up.
  
  I was very impressed by the demo, but once you get past that part of the game it gets repetative 
 fast. The game is enjoyable, but not really worth the X360 full price of $59 (usd) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oilwater8
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  The story in prey is actually quite good later on in the game. you are tommy a cherokee indian 
 who does not respect his heritage.. Yet.
  
  The basic gameplay in prey is shoot and spirit walking puzzles. Some other puzzles are tough there 
 is a cube room one that was difficult to understand beforehand. It runs on the doom 3 engine but 
 plays better than all of the games that use its engine including doom 3 itself.
  
  The graphics are great in this game awesome lighting shading, and some nice looking gun/character 
 models. The models look very good on the guns they have a great amount of detail and are very original 
 and none really feel alike. The lighting is amazing in the game. Simply moving a few steps lighting 
 will change very well. The characters look pretty good too there bodies are in proportion and the 
 skin tone is great. On another note the level design is quite good with good looking everything 
 as well as portals. The effects are quite nice in prey though gun effects arent too great but disinegration 
 effects are stunning.
  
  The sound in prey is also great. Good retro sounds. For the most part good voice acting. Some licensed 
 music. And some pretty good sounding guns and effects.
  
  Value in prey is pretty good the multiplayer isnt bad some lag here and there but like quake 4 
 but better. And i would play through the game on both cherokee and normal maybe even a third time 
 its great.
  
  Tilt is good in prey basic shooting game stuff though and not very complex with puzzles usually.
 
  
  all in all prey is an excellent game with some good value i highly reccomend renting it or possibly 
 buying it. See you in prey 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desertspartan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 10, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  The phrase "I'm invicible!!" Comes to mind when playing Prey, basically because you can't die (as 
 such) . There's no such thing as a game over, when you do "die" in the mortal realm you are transported 
 to some far away rock where you have to shoot "dishonered souls" to regain your life and "spiritwalk" 
 power. After about 20 seconds you'll be transported back to the mortal realm. Even if you don't 
 shoot the souls you'll still not get a game over. This is probably the games main problem. I mean 
 it may be frustrating when you've got far in a game then you die, without being able to save, but 
 in Prey there's no need to even save unless you want to stop playing. This is the only major problem 
 with Prey in what is essentially a pretty good, albeir standard FPS. 
  
  The gameplay is fairly average, although the idea of portals are pretty interesting, since you 
 can shoot through the portals, which is sort of new to this game. The whole gravity switch idea 
 is also a nice idea since they're sometimes used in puzzles: for example to may need to shoot something 
 which will flip the room upside down or on its side. The gravity walkways also work well and are 
 sometimes used in puzzles as is the "spirit-walk" ability, which is when you come out of your body 
 in your "spirit form" and are equipped with your "spirit-bow". There are also some puzzles that 
 don't used the gravity stuff for example: pushing some sort of bomb in to destroy some organic 
 stuff leading to a door. None of these puzzles are particularly difficult or interesting, for that 
 matter, but they do add some surfistication to the game. 
  
  This game is essentially a shoot 'em up. Because of the deathwalk ability you can be as "Gung-ho" 
 as you like. The enemy AI is certainly nothing special, the enemies will occasionally duck into 
 cover or lob a grenade your way, but as I said nothing special. The campaign is about 10 hours 
 long with 24 levels, although 3 aren't really levels. Long, easy and fun. 
  
  The online is fun, but is often laggy, which can be awfully frustrating and annoying. The mode 
 is still worth checking out though, simply for a multitude of weapons and a few good maps and of 
 course the achievements.
  
  The graphics are pretty good. Prey does the whole mechanics and metal fused together thing really 
 well with good looking environments and everything looking really sharp. The weapon design is nothing 
 amazing, the machine gun (with the grenade launcher) is the best looking in my opinion. The enemies 
 look ok, look pretty alien and there are some interesting designs. I suppose they could have been 
 a bit better, but there are no rough edges, although the frame-rate occasionally drops a bit in 
 some vehicle sequences and when there's lots of enemies on screen, but it's managable. 
  
  The Sounds is good. All the weapons sounds different and quite realistic. However, after a while 
 the enemies sounds stupid as they speak in english and sound like someone burping words. The voice 
 acting is pretty mediocre, your girlfriend, Jen, sounds really bad, with her whiney, nagging voice. 
 Tommy (you) and his grandad sound pretty good and the bosses also sound good and alien like. 
 
  
  As I said the game has a good, long campaign, and a few online modes which are worth checking out. 
 The achievements are really well balanced between the single and multiplayer. Basically, you get 
 most for completing the campaign and some for getting certain amount of kills, amount of kills 
 with certain weapons e. t. c. 
  
  Overall Prey is a stardard, fun to play, FPS, which is worth picking up. It's nothings particularly 
 special, but worth it, with a lengthy campaign and good online modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndpntbll
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is great!! I love the graphics and the Doom 3 engine really looks great. I love the spirit 
 walking and the puzzles you have to solve. I also like the fact that you have to play a mini game 
 to live after you die! So inavative! I feel cheated however when it comes to the difficulty... It's 
 a game ytou can beat in a day... and i did! But the game would have been alot better if it was a 
 little harder. I love the radio updates in the middle of the levels great feature! I also liked 
 the vehicles and the way the character was created and his reaction to everything. Great job! Could 
 of been a little harder though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty_3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 20, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  
  this is my first ever review of a game so ill try my best to give you my verdict. 
  
  Gameplay: I thought this game had great gameplay the gun battles are top notch if at times a little 
 to easy. the Enemy A. I is pretty sloppy in places but you dont really seem to notice with all the 
 action thats going off at once. Im 50/50 over the spirit walking minigame i like everyone else 
 found it pretty easy and not being able to die properly can take some hours of the game. The wallwalking 
 is great although sometimes you wonder whats going off or your upside down. 8/10
  
  Graphics: These are some of the best graphics ive ever seen the guns look real the shadowing and 
 lightning affects are well executed the level designs are mindblowing it spins you out sometimes. 
 Character models give the game that extra boost of realism deffo top marks for graphics. 10/10
 
  
  Sound: Not much to say about the sound apart from it sets the atmosphere and mood of the game which 
 is good. Basically does its job well 9/10
  
  Value: Once you finish the game on normal mode there is an additional mode called "Cherokee" this 
 mode is kinda the same apart from theres hardly/ no health pick ups anywhere which means you have 
 to do the spirt minigame every 5 mins which can get boring and annoying. Ive yet to play the online 
 portion of this game but ive heard its laggy and not all that fun. hopefully there will be a patch 
 released in the future. 7/10
  
  Closing comments: Overall i found this game excellent although there is a few things id like to 
 see an improvement on. e. g spirit walking ,game length.... apart from that this game is great ill 
 give it 8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isayama
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Sure, Prey may seem similar to Doom3 and Quake4 and it does, but by a little. When you begin the 
 game you start off in your girlfriends bar trying to convince her to leave with you. Grandpa is 
 also there. You beat up a couple of drunks, then when it starts getting good, a alien ship rips 
 off the roof over your heads and sucks you in with it's beautiful light. 
  You -Tommy-, Jen and grandpa are trapped on these dangling platforms and are being taken to an 
 processing ground. Suddenly, an unknown man places a bomb on a reactor and you fall to a pit and 
 you're free.
  Find your girlfriend, grandpa dies, blah blah blah. Anyway let's get to the points.
  
  ~Pros.
 
  1) Graphics are stunning
  2) Defying gravity! (Awsomeness)
  3) Portals that pop out of know where, and are carrying some amazing creatures on their way to 
 kill you
  4) Puzzles are easy but fun!
  5) Spirit walk is cool
  6) Tommy will yell out some things if he sees something very weird, which adds more characterization 
 to the game
  
  ~Cons.
  1) Almost too easy, even on normal
  2) Puzzles could be a bit more complicated
  3) Weapons seem too much the same
  
  Overall: 
 Play this game and learn to love it :P You may want to just rent it though, once you beat the game 
 on normal, there's not much else to do but play it again on hard mode to unlock gallery art. Yet 
 again, go out and buy it, as the wait was totally worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexisonfire828
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 20, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Alright, the header says it all, but don't get me wrong this was a really enjoyable game, it had 
 most things that I expect in a game along with some pretty innovative ideas to improve the FPS 
 genre. The story was new and fresh, following the story of a Cherokee Indian named Tommy who gets 
 sucked up into an orbital alien world. The new and interesting gameplay idea's that I liked was 
 walking upside down, the gravity on the small rocks or spheres and especially the Spirit form. 
 All that put aside this game gave most people easy gamers points as you can breeze through this 
 game in about 7 hours and unlock 23 gamerpoints when you're done. In Cherokee mode the challenge 
 ups itself by not giving you health pick me ups of any sort, but still really easy considering 
 the fact you can't really die, you'll just come back to life again and start ripping the aliens 
 apart. The voice acting was good although I thought the alien race could've been done A LOT better 
 and more creativity put in to them. Now the part I really liked about this game... multiplayer, 
 now this was fun. You can play in multiple levels in cluding the roadhouse where you start your 
 game in, there's a couple other levels aswell, but the mostly played level is Roadhouse so get 
 used it! The achievements are actually a challenge this time around having to kill 25 people with 
 each weapon your able to pick up and of course a total of 250 kills in Deathmatch and another 250 
 in Team Deathmatch to rack up a total of 6 acheivements (50, 125, 250 in Deathmatch and same in 
 Team Deathmatch) . The online portion of the game is great, I thought so anyway, but there's not 
 too many people playing this online. It's the same old people you've seen in any previous game 
 you'll play. All in all I agree with Gamespot's decision of the score they gave it. It is a good 
 game, there's no denying that, but the decision to buy it is questionable, a definite rental though! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth41465
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 20, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  Starting off in this game you feel and the the amazing graphics grip on you but then you realize 
 that there is much more to this game than just great graphics. Its biggest and most fun to play 
 feature are the gravity lifts and the endless portals to different realms of the sphere. It gives 
 great depth to the game. It has a wide assortment of weird alive weapons and quite a number of 
 enemies. A gripping native amerivan story also adds th the pros of this game. Could there be a 
 black sheep amongst this great game. The answer is yes. I completed the game in a good 4 hours 
 making it way too short and the multiplayer is somewhat fun but very frustrating at times because 
 of the horrid lag. There is also not enough assortment of types of matches in the multiplayer game. 
 Deathmatch and team deathmatch are the only existant types of games. Overall Prey is a very fun 
 game with some flaws that bring down some of the greater aspects of gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Autolycus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  After reading the review that Gamespot has. I am going to have to disagree. While the level design 
 in linear, there are so many other things you have to pay attention to, that it isnt very apparent 
 at all.
  
  The weapons are well... typical FPS weapons, but I believe 3D Realms did a great job overall. Some 
 guns use "AMMO" stations which are stuck on the wall and arent all that easy to find. You "LEECH" 
 off of them which means you spend less time running around looking for AMMO (which is always a good 
 thing) . 
  
  Though the alien thing is getting old, the story is actually entertaining. The swearing is top 
 notch and the attitude of the player is something you would expect from the party that made one 
 of the best FPS ever (Duke Nukem 3D) .
  
  Personally, I think there are enough difference between Prey and a NORMAL FPS, that makes Prey 
 worth owning. The multiplayer is top notch and the whole portal thing adds a strategy not even 
 thought about in a FPS. I give 5 stars to 3D Realms for completing their difficult to program game 
 and keeping the story great. They spent a lot of time focusing on detail and it shows. 
  
  - The story is great (up there with HALO 2, but still alien based) .
  - The weapons are interesting, 
 but could still be better
  - Level design is great
  - Visuals are fantastic
  - Overall time spent on production, fantastic.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supershep
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 3:50 am PT
Review:  Publisher: 2K Games
  Developer: Venom Games, Human Head Studios
  Platforms: Xbox 360 and PC
  Players: 1-8; 8 Online
  
  You're put in control of a Cherokee 
 Indian named Tommy, who is pretty badass right from the get go. You start off in a bar, which your 
 girlfriend Jen owns, and is the setting where you and the bars occupants (excluding the two you 
 just defaced with your wrench) are plucked from the earth into an alien spacecraft, where youll 
 spend the rest of the game, the whole 7 or so hours...
  
  To protect yourself and save the world, your going to need some serious weaponry to take these 
 alien bastards on, and thankfully that's what your given. You've got your trusty wrench from the 
 start of the game to help out when your ammo is low, but it doesn't cause that much damage, making 
 it useful only in the first level or so. You soon obtain a machine gun/sniper riffle hybrid off 
 of your first Hunter, and you'll use it a lot throughout the game. Some of the other weapons you 
 obtain are, another machine gun which fires a lot more faster and dishes out more damage than the 
 hybrid, you also pick up an acid gun which works like a shotgun with acid rounds, a leech gun which 
 has 4 different modes of fire, which include fire rounds, an ice beam, an electric pulse, and lastly 
 a constant ray of energy, all modes are great given the right situation. There's also a rocket 
 launcher for dealing some major damage and grenades. Now these aren't your regular grenades, these 
 are actually alien bugs that you pick up early on in the game, and to 'pull the pin' so to speak, 
 you rip off one of the creatures legs which is pretty sweet the first time you see it. That about 
 sums up the weapons, i felt they could've added a few more to the mix, but the game is very short, 
 so i don't know how well that would've worked. These weapons are biomechanical, so most animate, 
 and look pretty cool e. g. while running around with the acid gun, you see acid dripping out of 
 the gun, and the bug grenades are squirming in your hand, which is quite neat, and really brings 
 the game to life.
  
  The levels in the game are fairly generic, but no one really expected the levels to be very diverse. 
 There are 22 levels in total, with a couple of them not really being 'levels', more like little 
 training sessions that introduce Tommy to some new abilities, such as being able to leave your 
 body via 'spirit walking' (kind of like an outer body experience) , and the ability to wield a bow 
 when in 'spirit mode' and also being able to cross over to the 'spirit world' whenever you die. 
 Now that little feature (crossing over to the spirit world when you die) is bit of a hit and miss. 
 It works well enough and i think it was a good idea in general, but i think it makes the game a 
 little too easy, as you spawn back to the exact same spot you died in when you recover. To recover 
 from your wounds and get back to your mission to save your girl and the world, you have to shoot 
 down 2 different types of wraiths, the red will restore your health and the blue will restore your 
 health/fatigue in 'spirit mode', these a fairly easy to shoot down. Spirit walking works quite 
 well and adds a lot to the gameplay because when your in this mode you can walk though force fields 
 that Tommy couldn't, then flick a switch that'll bring a force fields down, allowing Tommy to pass, 
 you can also get some stealth kills while spirit walking too ; )
  
  The game looks great overall thanks to the use of the 'Doom 3 Engine' and the art direction (which 
 i love) . The game runs at 30fps and mostly maintains that throughout the game with the occasional 
 hick up here and there, but for the most part it's perfectly fine, but 60fps would obviously been 
 a lot better. Some of the textures are great, such as some of the pulsing segments on walls, and 
 some of the metallic objects, there are also a fair share of low res textures, seen mostly on the 
 character models and the environments, but that's hardly noticeable in motion. The lighting in 
 the game is great, objects and characters cast convincing shadows and the environment looks colourful 
 from all the lights/glows, though don't think the game is a bright one, the game is mostly very 
 dark, though not to the point where you need a flashlight like in Doom 3. Given the fact that the 
 D3 Engine is a few years old now and the Xbox 360 is a brand new piece of tech, you'd think that 
 at 30fps and some low res textures that they'd apply some anti aliasing, but it doesn't feature 
 any at all, which is disappointing as the 360 is definitely capable of providing it.
  
  The game also supports multi-player, both online and offline. The offline mode is crippled in a 
 way for most, as you can't play offline without the use of more than 2 Xbox 360 consoles via link 
 cables and two TV's also, it's bit of a shame really.
  
  Well this games been a long time coming, it's been in development since 1997 and was even cancelled 
 at one stage, but the wait has been worth it. Overall i thought the game was great, if your a fan 
 of Doom 3 or Quake 4, then you'll love this. The introduction of portals offer something unique 
 and further enhances the gameplay combined with the spirit walk. Though the game is a short one, 
 i think it's worth the price of admission. If all mentioned in the review doesn't sound like a 
 game you'd play, then maybe the easy 'gamer points' up for grabs could tempt you into giving it 
 a go, as the game isn't very difficult.
  
  Gameplay - 7
  Graphics - 8
  Sound - 8
  Value - 7
  Tilt - 9
  
  Final score: 7.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unrealxhunter23
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 20, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  When i first heard about preys return, i was a little hesitant to accept it as a game to my collection. 
 Finally having played it i have learned to go with my first impressions, thoughts, or just opinions. 
 The game was an ordinary first person shooter, a simple run and gun through everything. The portals 
 had everyone hyped, as well as wall walking and everything, but features alone cannot save a short 
 single player and crappy multiplayer. 
  
  The campaign (if you will) was very intense. I personally found it to be one interesting event 
 after the next. It kept me playing the whole way through. From being abducted to running around 
 in the ship, it was a very fun experience. Then... you get to the end. Well, first of all, the ending 
 was kind of weak, in my opinion. It ended kind of softly. Second, it was way too short! I didnt 
 expect it to be the same day when i finished the singleplayer. Although it was fun, the ending 
 sure goes a long way. I didnt find myself saying, ''wow that was awesome'', like most games.
  
  Next, the multiplayer. Two words: Its unplayable. Thats it, theres way too much lag to even 
 think you can enjoy it. 
  
  Overall, the multiplayer is supposed to keep the game alive after the story ends. Unfortunatley 
 the story ended too soon and there was no multiplayer (not even split screen!) This was a big letdown... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrameX
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 20, 2006 12:41 am PT
Review:  Prey is the newest first person shooter on the 360 that pits you as Tommy the young Indian male 
 who saves earth from an alien invasion to cleanse earth of the human infestation and conquer 
 the planet. As the story goes, Tommy lacks appreciation for his ancestry and believes that it is 
 all fake, what he doesnt realize is that he will need the power of the ancients to defeat his 
 enemies. Tommy will need to hop through portals, kill with living weapons, turn into a spirit, 
 trust his dead pet eagle from when he was a boy and listen to his dead grandfathers wise words 
 all while trying to save the women he loves, as she is being held captive in the alien structure. 
 While on paper this sounds like a great idea, it lacks a few fundamental things to make it a great 
 game.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  While at first glance this game may appeal to you as the great shooter of this summer dont get 
 your hopes up, your not going to miss it if you dont play it. While the story is great the game 
 itself is not the greatest. It feels rewarding to step into your first few portals and it feels 
 even better when you pick up a new gun and see all the parts of the gun start to move like an insect 
 but after a few hours this is going to get boring. The portal engine is a great new innovation 
 in gameplay and it does add that one key element that allows it to stand out from other games in 
 the FPS genre, but it doesnt give enough options to make it as good as I hoped. The gravity defying 
 gameplay that they talk about will more likely give you a headache then anything. Its cool when 
 you see the bar from a side angle but once youve seen one angle and then looked at it upside down 
 or on its side, youve seen the game. The ship controls are passable at best but does nothing in 
 the way of make me want to use them, I never once put a smile on my face when the ship wrapped 
 around me and I started to fly. I think this is probably one of the weakest aspects of the game, 
 and sadly this is the one aspect that will probably keep you from buying this game. Also I would 
 like to note that some of the scenes feel like a cheesy late 80s to 90s horror film that clearly 
 look fake (if you have played the game refer back to the scene with the ghost girl on the school 
 bus) and take you out of the new technological feel that it gives you.
  
  Graphics:
  
  In light of the fact that they are using the Doom 3 engine that has been used in games such as 
 Doom 3 and Quake 4, I give this the highest rating only for the cinematic feel in most of the games 
 scripted crucial scenes. You can definitely tell this game uses the Doom 3 engine though which 
 I personally hate it. All of the games using the Doom 3 engine have that look about them that bugs 
 me in a way that is an indescribable torture to view. The NPCs always look to fake and scripted, 
 while the main character always looks too mechanical. I feel as if Prey could have been more in 
 this department if they took the harder road and created an engine specific for this game, other 
 then that of the portal technology.
  
  Sound:
  While this game looks nice the sound is even better, I wont spoil any of the story for you but 
 when you get to the We all fall down scene, you will get an eerie vibe. The sound is what got 
 me the most with its mix of ambiance and uplifting classic movie soundtrack that you would find 
 in most horror action movies today. The sound wont win any awards and it isnt something that 
 we havent heard already in todays great selection of games, but it is definitely a winning part 
 of the game and gives it the bonus it needs.
  
  Bottom Line:
  
  If you dont have the cash to get the game right away, save the money and rent it if you can. It 
 is definitely worth it for the solid story, but it is not worth your $59.99 plus tax (USD) just 
 to say you owned it. Also, the reason why I have not mentioned multiplayer is because it is unbearably 
 laggy and is almost impossible to play, while I have joined a few good rooms it is still extremely 
 laggy almost all of the time. If you have played doom 3 or quake 4s multiplayer you have played 
 Preys, it just has the portals and other aspects of the single player, but at its heart its just 
 a sugar coated quake 4. Stay far away from multiplayer and you wont have to regret trying it out.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: catherinebryant
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Make no mistake I would recomend that anyone who reads this should at least rent the game. This 
 game is not very long and should be pretty easy to beat in two days, or if determined in the first 
 sitting. This game isn't very hard either but even if you die you just enter a mini game making 
 you shoot as many flying Ghots as possible then you're right back where you died. The graphics 
 in this game are pretty good. They won't exactly make you drool but they are better than most if 
 not all curent gen games. As you progress throught he game you get more and more weapons to use. 
 Some of these weapons are very cool and are satisfying to shoot while others won't be used at all. 
 Most of the puzzles are not very challenging and if you are having trouble with them it shouldn't 
 take more than ten to at most twenty minutes to figure them out. The story isn't bad at all but 
 it isn't very god either. What really makes this game worth playing are the gravity and portal 
 effects this game constantly throws at you. It's pretty cool the first time you shoot some one 
 on the ceiling but realize there actually on the ground and youre on the ceiling. The game does 
 have two small bosses (if you want to call them that) but are not hard. In this reveiw I havn't 
 said very many good thingsabout the game but make no mistake I still think many should try this 
 game out at least. Many of you would agree with me that there have been a lack of FPS games recently, 
 and this game kinda scratched an FPS itch I'v been having. So whether you rent this game or buy 
 it you should be reletivly pleased with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rentfn
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited for this game, after looking at the E3 trailers. Its use of portals seemed new 
 and exciting. The game has been a slight disappointment to me. The Graphics make the world look 
 really good, but the puzzles boarder on flat out lame. How many times do we have to push the egg 
 and make it blow away vines from a door. What were vines doing on the door anyway? Some of the 
 puzzles are so lame you dont think of the answer because its so simple. So you are walking around 
 for 20 minutes before you realize what you are looking for was right behind something. Overall 
 the game is fun but some of the puzzles just make me want to pull my hair out cause its the same 
 thing over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  First off, If a company is releasing a shooter these days, certain bars have been set by other 
 franchises that demand to be lived up to, if not surpassed. Prey had some truly great ideas on 
 how to do just that, but fell short of glory in more ways than one.
  
  The story is kinda weak. You have this disenfranchised cherokee dude who's in love with the local 
 bar maid, but can't tell her. Just as the two engage in a heated talk about their love, aliens 
 invade earth and capture you, her, your grandfather and apparently quite a few others to experiment 
 on. Until this point, Tommy (main Cherokee dude) has rejected his heritage as psycho-babble and 
 has tried everything to get away from his meager upbringing. 
  
  As soon as the Aliens invade, however, Tommy becomes this Ultra poweful cherokee warrior guy complete 
 with ancient indian abilities that allow you to operate in spirit form, outside of your human body. 
 I will admit, some of the puzzles that are presented for this spirit ability were quite clever, 
 but more often than not they became repetetive and linear, just like today's average shooter. 
 
  
  2K added some cool gravity manipulation physics that made for fun, but like the spirit form puzzles, 
 gravity manipulation seems repetitive and linear like today's average shooter. After delivering 
 Oblivion and all of the good sports titles, one has to wonder where 2K got the OK to release this 
 one. 
  
  The weapons are kinda cheesy. The creatures and AI characters are pretty basic and few, levels 
 are short and linear and the graphics, story and controls just leave you disappointed in mediocrity 
 once more. Will CliffyB ever set us free?? WSill Gears of War ever be the game we've been waiting 
 on?? I hope so, becase Prey certainly wasn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booomer69
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  No i dont own this game i rented it. I found this game incredbile awesome and inovative. The achivements 
 are mad easy. The single player is above decent. The mutliplayer is fun to a certain point... It can 
 get boaring fast. What makes this game so damn awesome is the gravity it makes you think that you 
 got baked ( smoking hydro ) before you played the game but the reality is that one didint thats 
 the GAME :D
  Its incredible trippy its kinda like halo2 got wasted in a party and got tottaly baked, But yeah 
 of course its not as good as halo but its really inovative and its truely worth a $7 rent ^__^
 
  -B69- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crow114
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 19, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  I will now break my review into sections.
  
  Graphics:9/10
  The graphics in this game are absolutly stunning. The graphics were smooth and innovative with 
 a wide varitey of awesome effects such as those of the wallwalking and the spirit world.
  
  Sound:8.7/10
  The music in the game seems apropriate. Along with the sounds of the various creatures, 
 on a side note: at points in the game the sounds are rather ominous and creepy.
  
  Gameplay: 9.3/10
  The gameplay is easy to just come in and pick up. On average it should take 
 about 10 minutes if that for you to pick up the controls.
  
  Innovation:10/10
  This game brought a lot of new ideas to the table. One of these ideas is that you can affect the 
 gravity in rooms and walk on the ceiling and kill someone and instead of just falling in front 
 of you the plumet to the floor from the ceiling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emo_worm
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  So Prey is finally here after a long road in the development stages. Is it worth it though? I would 
 definitely say yes, but only a rental or a borrow. The games length and more importantly, difficultly, 
 really keep it from being outstanding. Alot of reviewers are saying youll make it in 10-12 hours, 
 be planning for 8. I stopped and listened to all the Art Bell radio clips and still had plenty 
 of time to spare. 
  
  The premise, well these guys should be given an award of some sort for creativity. The story starts 
 out with a Cherokee Indian named Tommy. You assume the role of Tommy, who wants nothing more than 
 to get his girlfriend off the reservation. Tommys grandpa and girlfriend Jen, want to stay. Jen 
 owns the bar you start out in, which is quickly rattle with an alien abduction. You then fight 
 your way through the alien ship to rescue your girlfriend, and save the world. 
  
  The difficulty, well, there is none. Death really has no consquence of any sort as you are instantly 
 transported from where you died to the "Spirt Realm". Here you just shoot down flying creatures 
 with your bow and arrow, gaining back the health you lost. You are then thrown back right where 
 you died. Enemies you injured before death stay at the level of health you left them at. So really, 
 theres no point in the game you are gonna say hey, ease up.
  
  The portals are executed very well in this game. It is pretty fun just to get lost looking at them 
 from the side and not be able to see them, turn a bit OH there they are. But admittedly, these 
 portals couldve been so much more. There is usually just one leading you right where you need to 
 go. Wouldve been nice to see multiple portals with a destination unknown. There is one point in 
 the game where you see thousands of portals, but they all close up and only one is left. 
  
  The walkways are a nice change of pace from the norm. Youll see a walkway and it leads up the 
 wall and onto the ceiling. Staying on this walkway you will be changing gravity with it. Its pretty 
 cool and can allow for some good ambushes as when you jump you go to the correct gravity, so you 
 could pop down right behind someone and blam. 
  
  There is gravity changers in here as well, but never in a combat squence. There are they for puzzles 
 only. Walking into a room you may see a giant gap that you couldnt jump over. More often than not, 
 look up and youll see one the the gravity changers. Shooting it makes the ceiling the new floor, 
 allowing you to pass. 
  
  Sometimes youll come to a forcefield, and be unable to go through it. This is where a technique 
 you learn in the game comes in handy. Its Spirt Walk, with just a push of a button your soul leaves 
 the body and can pass through things you normally couldnt. 9 times out of 10 though, youll come 
 through the forcefield, and right on the other side is a button to deactivate the field. 
  
  Weapons in this game are pretty to look at, but are pretty much you standard affair for a FPS. 
 Every weapon is one from the aliens, so you wont be holding any Colt 45s or such. Even though they 
 are alien weapons, they still functions as their earthly counterparts. Your main gun is a burst 
 machine and secondary use is a sniper rifle. Most every weapon in the game has a secondary function. 
 The grenades can be set as mines or just thrown, rocket laucher launches or creates a forcefield. 
 Theres about 7 weapons in all. 
  
  Multiplayer was more or less included just because of the genre. There is death match, team death 
 match, and ... thats it. Theres about 7 maps in all. The mulitplayer lags more than any 360 game 
 Ive witnessed thus far. If you are going to play, stick to 4 players. It can be fun though to set 
 up traps with your body hidden somewhere and sniping people with the bow. But all in all there 
 are better games on the system to be had on Live. 
  
  Without these setbacks, this game couldve been one that goes down in the books. Maybe in the sequel 
 they will improve these things. Oh yeah, they definitely leave it for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveku27
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  All I kept hearing about this game was its too easy and its not long enough. True it was an easy 
 game, and true it wasnt very long, but the game itself is solid and the story has a nice little 
 twist at the end. I picked this game up not really expecting much after reading several reviews. 
 However, I must say I was plesantly surprised. The story is really good and actually has more depth 
 then Oh I have to save my girl now. 
  The gameplay in my opinion is where this game shines. The graphics of the alien ship and your weapons 
 is amazing. You are on a living vessel that moves and even attacks you. YOur guns also move and 
 shift making them seem alive. Also, you can walk on friggin walls!! Yes it may get a little confussing 
 at times, and yes you might get a little dizzy (joke) but the game works very well. The only downer 
 about this game is the fact that you cant die. You get transported to this spirt world where you 
 gain back some power and then go right back to where you "died". This really takes away from any 
 real strategy and duck and cover moves since it really doesnt matter if you die. But, overall, 
 this game and story where well worth it to me, and the length was standard... about 7 hours or so! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aromon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a game that changes everything. Not because it wields stunning graphics, and not because 
 it has new types of gameplay. It is a game that will give you a new FPS experience, while still 
 holding your awareness that your playing the standard mechanics and control layout of an FPS. Isn't 
 that what a new game is supposed to do? It's not supposed to create a new genre while still feeling 
 like an old one; it's supposed to provide a new experience while still providing true genre gameplay. 
 Prey executes this perfectly. You will have your standard mechanics and enemies of an FPS (Although 
 Prey's dominate the competition) , but you also have next-gen graphics along with spanking new next 
 gen gameplay. Such things as portals, gravity walks, and living weapons provide a surreal experience 
 to an awesome game. Even more, you can spirit walk, which means you can leave your body in one 
 spot and take your spirit, let's say, through the force field, unlock it, then go back to physical 
 form and pass through. These, of coarse, get more and more difficult as the game goes on. One thing 
 I really like about Prey is the overall presentation. Everything seems polished and perfected, 
 not one glitch or undeveloped thing about the game was ever present. I love it, and I am sure you 
 will too. Enjoy and happy gaming.
  Aromon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: books84
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the better games for the x-box 360 to date. It has some of the best visuals 
 I have seen. But it the story and just the overall feel of the game leaves something to be desired. 
 It may be just me but i kind of don't like how you are led by the hand through the game. You should 
 probably rent this game before buying it. It is one of the most visually stunning games that i 
 have seen so far. 
  
  The whole concept of the game is fascinating and fun but lacks a certain quality that could make 
 it rival halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpiritEmu
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  You begin the game in a bar, playing as a Cherokee Indian named Tommy. You can choose from songs 
 in the bar and play a couple of arcade games ranging from black jack, poker, slots, and a pac-man 
 like game called Rune Man. When you, your girlfriend and grandfather are abducted by an alien ship, 
 it is up to you to save them, later on in the game after you get your "powers" you find another 
 group of indians called "The Hidden" who were abducted a thousand years ago and managed to escape 
 and fight the leader figure The Keeper. They tell you it is up to you to save the world and to 
 kill the mother.
  
  Throughout the game you can find radio broadcasts from Earth that tell you what is happening. Some 
 are hidded and others you see on the way to your objective. The level design is good but is linear. 
 The textures seem to be updated from the long delayed demo on XBL. I'm not going to spoil the ending 
 for people who have not played it, but it sets you up the for the second game, which there should 
 be since at the end it says Prey will continue or something of that sort.
  
  It is a great game, and the multiplayer is better than Quake's and it is kinda like Doom 3 for 
 the Xbox. You can choose own character out of about 7 different models. The weapon are as same 
 in the mp as in the game. The achievements are not that hard to get as long as you play multiplayer 
 for a week or two.
  
  Back to single player, the death walk and gravity walk are new things brought to gameplay, but 
 the puzzles aren't as mind-blowing as it says on the back of the case. Very simple just change 
 into spirit walk across walkway, press button, flip switch, etc. Gravity walk is wierd when first 
 doing it, just like the portals. When Hunters come through portals on gravity walks, once shot 
 and killed they fall to death, so fun.
  
  All in all the game is a decent game that didn't live up to the hype, I recommend buying it but 
 atleast rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaleGringo
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  FPS games are pretty much a dime a dozen, and it's a refreshing break to see one break the mold 
 of mediocrity, especially on the 360.
  
  While not perfect, Prey will definately keep you interested in the SP campaign mode and give you 
 some MP bang for your buck (more on this later) .
  
  The biggest benefits of Prey that I could sum up for you is learning to walk again - walking on 
 walls, the spirit walk, and even the counter-difficult death walking. Each adds its own flavor 
 to the game, and that changes this from another run-of-the mill Half Life / Doom / Quake knock 
 off into its own brand of physics-twisting fun.
  
  ***** GAMEPLAY *****
  The SP campaign is very decently put together, and of moderate length. If you wanted to pick nits, 
 it's not flawless by any stretch. Take for example the portions where gameplay forcibly stops while 
 Tommy interacts (or is interacted with) an element in the game, even if you've heard it before 
 or aren't interested - there's no way of skipping it. Add to that the halfway-obscene load times 
 for the levels... so much for staying in the zone. One thing that games have done in the past is 
 incorporate cutscenes to mask load times, and in this case I'm not sure if that would work so well 
 but, I suppose it's a tolerable tradeoff.
  
  MP is an entirely different expereince altogether. It's fast-paced, much the way you'd expect from 
 a Quake-like game, but the walkways and changing gravity and perspective keep it fresh. The sad 
 part is well known - only 8 players and only two game types (for now) , and the lag on the games 
 can be noticable, even with only two people. If there was anything I learned from online play on 
 the 360 though, it's hold out as long as you can. Infinity Ward came through big on Call of Duty 
 2 making it a decent online experience after the atrocious launch performance in MP. I'm hoping 
 Human Head can pull the same upgrade, and if they do, that'll help performance.
  
  ***** GRAPHICS *****
  As with most interior FPS games, this one is done primarily in one-point 
 perspecitive, and it does a fine job at that, mainly. It can be a bit hard to adapt to this viewpoint, 
 and it shows some glaring weaknesses in the human, Earth-based levels like Last Call. Further, 
 the faces, textures, and shapes on the human models are a bit... flat? But the real beauty of this 
 game is in the alien environments, and that's where it shines. The surreal environments will keep 
 you guessing which way is down, if there is such a thing.
  
  ***** SOUND *****
  An appropriate orchestral music score and sickening bodily function sound effects work well with 
 echoes and the otherworldly schema in the game for a satisfactory audial experience. The game also 
 has some quality benchmark moments that will be remembered for quite some time to come, such as 
 the first minute or so of Blue Oyster Cult's "Don't Fear the Reaper" as you are first being abducted 
 playing through on the stereo. Classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bundesligaBM
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game based on hype I was hearing without playing the demo or reading a review. 
 I wasn't upset... it took a few moments of gameplay before I got into this game. The game has some 
 neat ideas for FPS genre but the fact that you can never die, and the game isn't very long I finished 
 this after grinding it out in a few hours... I wanted the game credit for NCAA 2007. 
  
  The story was good and the graphics are sound are on par with the other FPS on the 360 that are 
 good.
  
  I would recommend this game as a great rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mammago
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  Quite apart from the excellent graphics, which have a distinct half-life 2 feel to them early on, 
 the gameplay is just fantastic! Complete with the mind-blowing aspects of portals, gravity-altering 
 mechanisms and spirit-walking, this game has everything an FPS should have (i. e. non-stop action) 
 but more! 
  
  Think of it as an extremely good combination of Halo*, Quake 4 (the entire game just reminds me 
 so much of it) and Vexx (the puzzle-solving aspect) .
  
  The brilliant graphics, combined with the music, and immersive storyline just kept me playing it 
 for hours on end. Although not particularly challenging, this could be considered a good thing 
 - the relative easiness with which you dispatch your enemies allows for a rollercoaster of action, 
 and keeps the story flowing non-stop. This gives it the distinct feel of not just a game, but a 
 likeness to a film in some ways.
  
  All in all, an excellent piece of work - congrats to 2k on a great game.
  
  
  *I say Halo 
 rather than Halo 2 because of the excellent storyline, which Halo 2 did not possess, and the excellent 
 music, which Halo 2 also did not possess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocularinvasion
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 18, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  While Prey tries to introduce new elements into the FPS genre, most of the new game play mechanics 
 only serve to make the game easier. While Death Walk is nice, it takes most of the challenge, and 
 therefore most of the fun, out of the game. The ability to mess with gravity is interesting but 
 only makes for the simplest of puzzles. I feel that this game was more of a testing ground for 
 these new game play features. Perhaps in the sequel they will have figured how to properly use 
 them.
  Graphically, the game is quite good however the environments and enemy models do get pretty repetitive.
 
  Overall, this a good game to rent because you can beat it and get all of the achievements in a 
 weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo_456
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  I love Prey the story line is just fantastic. Game play is just out of this world, with all the 
 puzzels and stuff that has in ther and belive me there are alot of challengeing ones as well. The 
 sound oh my god just impresive sound track to Prey is brillaint voice casting for the main chars 
 just brillaint. Graphics are just Oh my god drool the guns are alive which is just brillaint. The 
 sourroundings are just awesome every thing is alive, the enemies are just freaky looking. Defying 
 the laws of gravety just simply breath takeing and the portals that will take you to differnt areas 
 are just so much fun. All in all Prey is a FPS like no other if you want a game that has solid 
 game play perfect graphics and a story like you have never ever seen befor then deferntly get Prey. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ELBline
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 17, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Prey is another fps for the 360. It's got solid graphics and you can interact with lots of things. 
 The thing that sets this from other fps's is the story it's been used before, but the way they 
 go into so much detail of how things work in the alien world is amazing, it's truly original. Not 
 to mention all the awsome futuristic weapons you can use. The only negative thing about it is you 
 have to solve a puzzle everytime you go through a door which is really discouraging and really 
 slows down the game. Otherwise it's the best fps on the 360 except for Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazeDragon132
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 17, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a unique game. You take an Indian guy trying to take his love away from the Indian reserve, 
 and he gets taken away by aliens. Sucks, don't it? 
  The Single Player shines in this game. The guns work like in Quake or UT, it should not take much 
 to learn about theme. The story is what makes the single player worth playing, the mix of Indian 
 with aliens work. You will want to rent it just for the story. 
  The Gameplay has it good points. The gravity you see in Prey make it one of the best gameplay features. 
 It feels like something other games haven't done right yet. The portals are cool to look at, but 
 they are useless in Single Player. Might as well put doors in it. You can also control spaceships 
 in this game, but it is nothing we haven't seen before.
  Multiplayer has got great potential. It really feels good because the portals are useful for shooting 
 and gravity can play a big role in it. Quake style gameplay is always good. Now for the servers, 
 the servers are horrible. It will lag if you have 5 or more people on there. This has no excuse 
 for it. Plus, only 2 modes make Multiplayer lacking in alot of things. 
  Achievements are also a joke in this game, they can be gotten in 3 days...
  So all in all, Prey 
 does single player right and sucks at multiplayer. It isn't worth 60 bucks, but it is worth a rental. 
 Wait till a patch comes out to fix multiplayer. I can't give a game high praise if it does not 
 have both good singleplayer and multiplayer.
  
  Pros:
  -Gravity
  -Portals 
  -Sci-Fi theme mixed with Indians
  -Solid Gameplay
  -Great Story
  
  Cons:
  -Portals useless 
 in singleplayer
  -Laggy Multiplayer
  -Only 2 Multiplayer modes
  -Too much cussing
  -Not enough replay value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineTears
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  If you understand it from many point of views you'll see this game tried hard to make you enjoy 
 it which isnt bad. The way you mess with gravity is fun and interesting to look it, Since it is 
 original by the way. The portals were awesome I found myself going back and forth just to see how 
 impossible it seems, Though the review gamespot gave may be harsh the only part that is true is 
 that the portals might as well be doors but I find that to harsh... Yes they may serve as doors 
 most of the time but it's a cool feature they added and it's graphical candy since no other game 
 on current gens can pull that off. Weapons are fun to use but play as weapons from other shooters... but 
 again this is a graphical candy and just interesting ways to change the usual. You will enjoy the 
 game, I suggest hardcore gamers who want the whole package just to get collectors edition because 
 you love them Then get it, But if you are casual gamer just get it normally or rent it. I for one 
 just have the money to get the limited edition so I was like the hell with it. So I got it. You 
 will enjoy the game though I wish it was longer. I am not writing this review as an opinion because 
 I do love the game and I would've given it a nine or a ten if I had to but I think it deserves 
 an 8.9 since the game play has new make up and has fun ideas that were put into it, Graphics are 
 good and will remind you of doom of course, A great sound track very soothing and fits with the 
 main characters origin, Value is easy achievements and a couple of unlockables. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: houli252
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  I hadn't really heard much about Prey until I heard about all the hype on here in the forums. Once 
 the demo came out, I downloaded it and gave it a shot and wasn't really impressed with how it played. 
 But don't let the demo fool you.
  
  Prey is a game that you have to get into to appreciate. You can't play it for 15 minutes and expect 
 shear awesomeness. The game takes a bit to get going and when you actaully do start to play, you'll 
 be compelled to finish the story and also get the easy achievement points. 
  
  The graphics are pretty good, but not anything spectacluar like Oblivion. When I see this game 
 it makes me think of Doom 3. It reminds me of it in so many ways with the corridors, the weird 
 ass monsters that come into it. But the one thing Prey has that Doom doesn't is a story. The story 
 isn't really the main-focus of the game but it does compell you enough to want to know more. The 
 characters are also pretty well incorporated and not just people that you play with or as. The 
 sound is pretty good with the alienistic weapons and footsteps and noises that you'll hear. The 
 controls are your typical FPS except for grenade which took me sometime to get used to which is 
 "X" in this game. The AI isn't anything great. They'll cover if they're getting shot at, and the 
 thing that made this game easy was you could never really die, you went on these Death Walks, i 
 think their called, and you just shot these birds to get health back. So you'll never see a 'Game 
 Over' screen anywhere in this game.
  
  I wasn't really impressed with Prey, but I wasn't disappointed either. I'd definately recommend 
 that you at least rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgeorge36
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 17, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  From what I have read, Prey has been in the works for at least a good 5 years, if not longer. For 
 something that has been in the works for that long, I can honestly say that I expected more. The 
 makers of the game do have some great ideas that could have been put to better use. 
  The whole wall walking thing does make for some great gameplay, and some of the puzzles do require 
 a little thought in them. The games looks absolutely beautiful, but it just seems that there is 
 something missing. After only a few hours, chapter wise I am halfway through the game, so hopefully 
 the chapters get a little longer and more difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjharney
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  So I just finished Prey in a weekend having rented it out. I am glad I chose to just rent it.
 
  
  I want to mention as well at the outset that I am not someone who just discards a game if the online 
 component isn't up to scratch and I don't consider replay value (or satisfaction for that matter) 
 to rely on multiplayer features. In addition to that, I didn't go online with it so I can only 
 review the single-player experience, which I think games should be judged on anyway.
  
  Prey has a cool story. Prey has some cool ideas. Prey makes an effort and in many ways is not just 
 another FPS. It has a truly 3-D feel all through the game thanks to clever use of anti-gravity 
 wallwalks and the main vehicle in the game, an airborne pod. The story irritatingly focuses on 
 the 'save my girlfriend' plot paradigm for a while but keep the faith, it gets a lot better. The 
 whole biomechanical tech thing is a bit done but the guns look and sound pretty cool.
  
  But they don't FEEL cool. The enemies are okay but I was never really happy to nail one. The pace 
 never seems to really pick up. Some of the puzzles are pretty frustrating as with one noticeable 
 exception they aren't too clever or interesting.
  
  Part of this is because of the death/resurrection idea you've probably heard about or can read 
 about in the gamespot review. For someone like me who is no FPS hotshot or top dog but is willing 
 to keep going if the game is enough fun it was just an excuse to keep firing away with little attempt 
 at finesse. I think mainly the problem is rooted in the ultra-long development cycle though. The 
 game just doesn't have a snap to it.
  
  However there are very cool ideas in this game and there was thought put into the story. I am not 
 a fan of the protagonist at all and find him a bit boring but other characters in the game are 
 cool. Overall it's worth the rental and I for one hope that the sequel if it happens delivers on 
 a lot of potential.
  
  Gameplay - Feels a bit like Doom 3, it's all fairly decent. The puzzles aren't great.
  
  Graphics 
 - Although the design is generally not fantastic on an artistic level, some of the scale and ideas 
 of the parts of the alien craft outside the corridors are pretty cool. In terms of sheer graphical 
 sheen, it looks great.
  
  Sound - Game sounds very good, though Jeff makes a good point in the Gamespot review: the Aliens 
 sound dumb. Voice acting is otherwise pretty good though I think Tommy is just naturally irritating.
 
  
  Value - As I mentioned above, I didn't go online but as a single player experience, it comes across 
 as a bit too easy, never feels as much fun as other games in the same genre, and is pretty short.
 
  
  Tilt - I didn't really take to it but as I say worth a rent, particularly if you're at a loose 
 end for a couple of days. Looking forward to a possible sequel more than I enjoyed the game itself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khankster
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 17, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Right off the bat, this is NOT next-gen, as others have already stated. 
  
  The opening scene to the game may actually send shivers up your spine if you watch it in the dark- 
 it's simply awesome. The graphics are the most impressive aspect of the game, there's no doubt 
 about that - nice textures and detail. The audio is decent. The gameplay is sparse, so are the 
 guns; you pound the crap out of a few aliens, then you move on through endless corridores interrupted 
 up by a room here and there. It has interesting moments for sure, but in the long run it feels 
 a bit sparse. I like the theme and the mixture of Indian stuff with futuristic alens and all that, 
 in spite of the fact that it really doesn't make total sense, but hey - it's different. The really 
 wierd thing, is that you go from this old Indian/Western setting to a futuristic alien setting, 
 yet somehow, from a source unknown, 80's Pop Rock starts blaring to the tune of Heart, Judas Priest, 
 and Ted Nugent. Gagh! But what really sent this game into the abyss for me was when I found myself 
 trapped endlessly in rotating gravity rooms with seemeingly no way out; it wasn't clear just exactly 
 what the heck you're s'posed to do there - and yes, I shot the blue jets a lot. In the meantime, 
 here's some Judas Priest and stuff. Hahaa!!! And the gravity concept? It's "ok"- nothing to write 
 the folks about. The bird who's supposed to help you along the way is frequently useless, and makes 
 a very un-bird-like noise.
  
  Add to this the fact that the multiplayer is NOTHING like I expected (which was a better Doom 3 
 and a better Quake 4) , and the value just starts sinking quickly. The guns are weak and the gameplay 
 boring and uninteresting. In fact, I feel like the Multiplayer was just a bone thrown in for the 
 sake of claiming the "Xbox Live Enabled" tag.
  
  It'd be a tough call, but if I had to shove this game on either side of the success bar, it would 
 fall slightly under.
  
  Rent it first. Once you get past the awesome graphics, there isn't much reason to buy it for $59.99. 
 (In my case, all that was available was the Collector's Edition which cost $79.99+tax) . All flash, 
 not substance.
  
  Meh. *rolls eyes*. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helldemon47
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Everyone expected great things out of Prey. It was supposed to be this fantastic shooter that had 
 so many unique ideas. To a degree, it is. The shooting action is solid and the gravity and portal 
 aspects are a refreshing new addition, but you will begin to realize this is just a standsard first 
 person shooter. That said, it's still fun and most people will really enjoy it.
  
  In the single player, you play as Tommy, a cheroke native american he hates the reservaton where 
 he lives. He wants to leave with his girlfriend, Jen, but she refuses and says she is bound to 
 the land by her heritage. Tommy's gandfather shows up and warns him of things to come, and Tommy 
 just blows it off as crazy superstition. Soon enough, however, Tommy, his grandfather, his girlfriend, 
 and his entire bar and taken by an alien ship and, when Tommy escapes their grasp with the aid 
 of a mysterious stranger , it's up to him to save his girlfriends and, eventually, the world.
 
  
  The story is good. It has a few interesting twists in it and you will feel a sense of satisfaction 
 when you beat the game. The voice acting is good, although some of Tommy's lines are delivered 
 with a sort of half-assed tone and you can hear the a difference in some of his lines that sound 
 like they were edited together.
  
  The gameplay is, as I said before, solid. All the weapons have a unique look to them (they are 
 alien weapons afterall) , but some don't seem to have the "kick" that you might expect. Some weapons 
 even feel underpowered. That said, you will come to rely on and appreciate some of the weapons 
 and their abilities. 
  
  Some other unique touches to the gameplay are spirt walk and death walk. While in spirt form, you 
 can pass through force-fields and fire a powerful bow. However, the spirt walk is used in to much 
 of a striaght foward fashion. It's mostly just used to pass through and shut off force-fields, 
 though there are some more interesting sequences where you will need it. Death walk in a cool idea 
 that sometimes works and sometimes doesn't. It's nice to not have to save every few minutes since 
 you'll just pop right back into the game 20 seconds after you die, but death walk can become really 
 annoying, espically in the games hard mode. You will die quite often against harder foes, so you'll 
 death walk 4 or 5 times in about 2-3 minutes, sometimes almost immediately after you respawn. 
 
  
  When you're done with the single-player, there is multplayer that is worth looking at. It only 
 standard deathmatch and team deathmatch, but the level designs and use of gravity and portals make 
 it fun, if not somewhat disorienting. A game can support up to 8 players and the action can get 
 pretty frantic. If everyone has a good connection, the game runs really smooth and is extremely 
 fast paced, much like Quake's multiplayer. However, should one perosn have a bad connection, there 
 will usually be serious lag and make the game almost unplayable. I only had lag in one of the eight 
 games I have played and hopefully a patch will come along at some point to address this probelm.
 
  
  In the end, Prey is worth checking out. If multiplayer is not your thing, Prey is atleast worth 
 a rental. Some times the gameplay may get alittle boring, but the unique ideas and promising storyline 
 make up for it. If you do like fast paced multiplayer action, this game will definetly suit you. 
 Just make sure you have a good connection or you are going to have a miserable time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikichris20
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 17, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  The long awaited game Prey is finally upon us and I for one am fairly pleased... well with the single 
 player mode that is. You play as Tommy a Native American who's belief in his Cherokee bloodline 
 has diminished. Playing from there you meet up with you girlfriend Jen, who is the bartender, then 
 you deal with a couple of drunks who get a little too friendly with Jen. After that BAM! out of 
 no-where you are abducted by aliens and taken to a both organic/mechanical world in which you narrowly 
 escape death. From then on your goal is to find your girlfriend and make it back to Earth ( sounds 
 easy enough...) ; I don't want to ruin any more of the plot for you but there are some very interesting 
 twists and turns along the way. 
  As for the game itself, it looks great and the sound is top-notch. They did a great job with making 
 it feel like you a truly lost on a planet because the scale of the game is massive. As for the 
 weapon choices, there are not that many to choose from but they are all so diverse that there really 
 is not a need for more weapons; plus each also has a alternate fire which is usually something 
 completely different for the regular shot fired by that gun. One downer is that you need to progess 
 through the game pretty far before most of these weapons will be available to you. The AI is nothing 
 really to scream about, they will either throw a grenade, duck for cover, or try taking shots at 
 you. It's not the worst AI I have ever seen by any means but I did feel like I was getting way 
 too many open shot where the enemy was not even moving. There is a nice variety of enemies however 
 and you have to apply different techniques to bring them all down. By far the most interesting 
 in innovative concepts for this game are the gravity walks and portals. Just as both of the names 
 imply these devices allow you to defy gravity by walking upside down on roofs, walls or just pretty 
 much any surface. It's really fun to shoot an alien from the ceiling when he doesn't even know 
 you are there ( I just hope you dont have motion-sickness because it really messes with your perception. 
 ) Portals are the same way, you jump in one and just like that you are in an entire new place; 
 it's really fun to toss a bunch of Crawlers (grenades) in the portal and see what happens. My biggest 
 complaint about the game is that it is just too easy and short, I finished in about 10 hours. On 
 top of that there is no game over screen, instead you going into another realm shoot some flying 
 things for health and in about 20 seconds pick up right where you left off. Still, the 10 hours 
 I did get out if it were a blast.
  Multiplayer seems like it was an afterthought to the developers. The levels don't seem like they 
 had multiplayer on the brain much when they were made; although the gravity belts and portals make 
 things a bit more fresh but it just didn't keep me interested for very long at all. On top of that 
 there are some very bad frame rate issues that need to be addressed. I was looking for a game to 
 stop playing Call of Duty 2 online for but I think Prey compares to Perfect Dark Zero's multiplayer 
 better. 
  One thing to remember is this game is rated M and contains some serious gore and adult situations, 
 so if that is no something you (or you children ) are interested in then steer clear of this game. 
 All in all, I say give this game a rental and try it out. You will find it won't take you long 
 to blow through it but who knows the game may grow on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: games_lord
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  The game has been hugely inticipated during these few years and it is not quite as I wanted it 
 too be but it's still a solid first person shooter.
  
  The game is hugely innovative and has a ton of variety but the shooting gets dull and lacks depth. 
 The game starts great with fantastic presentation.
  
  The game is quite short and there is hardly any replay value. There is a multi-player mode but 
 it isn't that great. 
  
  The graphics are great throughout but there is some slowdown during big fights. There is fantastic 
 lighting throughout and the environments are usually very detailed but it can get ugly in spots 
 and look unconvincing for a xbox 360 game. 
  
  The game sounds fantastic with excellent sound effects and solid voice acting.
  
  Overall this 
 game is solid but needs to be longer and more depth to be a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donalbane
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 25, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  Prey has a lot of things going for it; it's the best application of the Doom 3 engine to date, 
 it's got a unique character with some never before seen gameplay elements, the level design breaks 
 some new ground, and it's story and voice acting are above average. 
  
  However, despite the great use of the engine, it's really just another 'cyber- demon' corridor 
 crawl reminiscent of Doom 3 and Quake 4. Can this engine be used for ANYTHING else? My favorite 
 parts of Prey are the locations that don't remind me of these older, gloomy games. 
  
  You can't really die, which doesn't really help the game's sense of tension. What's more, the game 
 adjusts the difficulty to your level of play automatically, thereby robbing the title of any sense 
 of anxiety or accomplishment from your kills. For example, I fought a large tank like creature 
 and died a half dozen times chipping away at his health gradually while being reincarnated instantly 
 each time I fell. Although this sure beats reloading the game and doing the same thing again and 
 again ad naseum, the player won't feel that he did well or rose to the challenge. It's as though 
 the game was designed to limit frustration, while simultaneously limiting the challenge and subsequent 
 feeling of accomplishment. There is a higher difficulty option though, so that's nice.
  
  The Native American aspect, while fresh in some ways, is just an excuse to give the hero some abilities, 
 and little more. There really doesn't seem to be any social commentary here, which was a surprise 
 to me. I guess I thought the game would deal with racism on some profound level, but no... it's 
 just window dressing ultimately. Spirit Walking makes for some interesting puzzles though, and 
 I like Talon, your hawk spirit guide, who follows you around to translate alien symbols and distract 
 the occasional enemy. You don't control him... he's just with you all the time and helps out on 
 his own.
  
  The wall walking and warp gates are really what differentiate this title. There are some moments 
 where the player is taken aback at how cool they are, other times where they are simply the doors 
 to the next area, so they are really hit or miss. The wall walking allowed the level designers 
 to try some never before seen ideas that are novel and fun, albeit disorienting. Really, the levels 
 themselves are the stars of the show, and FPS gamers should at least give the demo a shot just 
 to see why they are unique. There are occasional vehicle segments, but since they don't incorperate 
 the aforementioned level design innovations, I just felt like getting them over with so I could 
 proceed with the more satisfying on foot portions.
  
  I enjoyed the story more than most FPS games... although the story takes the back burner to the 
 novel level design. The abduction at the beginning was a great way to start the game, and going 
 off into the ancestral spirit realm is a welcome change from the inky blackness of the alien vessel. 
 This game is at it's best when it's not aping Doom 3. It's got enough to help differentiate it 
 at times, but on occasion you won't be able to tell the difference.
  
  So Prey's single player is fun. The multi player, however, feels like they took a game from 10 
 years ago (when the game was originally conceived) and added some new graphics and a few level 
 design gimmicks. There really isn't anything to recommend here. I think that the multiplayer really 
 reveals Prey for what it is... a creative twist on level design from yesteryear. Really, Prey is 
 old school at it's heart. It seems that 10 years ago this concept would have been an instant classic, 
 but now the industry has progressed to the point where if you are in a giant system of dark scary 
 hallways 90 percent of the time, it's going to seem dated no matter how many little gameplay novelties 
 they throw at you. Nevertheless, the novelties have real promise, and I'd like to see them fleshed 
 out, possibly in a sequel. Hopefully Tommy will be abducted by aliens with better illuminated, 
 more spacious space crafts next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666_NOTB
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Prey first emerged in 1996, since then the game has gone through countless transformations. Finally 
 here in 2006, gamers now have a chance to get their hands on the game. 
  
  Story
  
  Through the game you play as a man called Domasi, who is a Cherokee nation Indian. You have a grandfather 
 called Enisi, and your girlfriend Jen. You first start out the game in a bar, were you character 
 is trying to get a hold of himself. Domasi loves Jen, but can never get himself to show it to her. 
 All in all, he doesn't really have any guts. You soon meet up with Enisi, who is your grandfather. 
 Enisi believes in all the Cherokee gods, while you don't. You even tell him "I don't believe in 
 that **** and proceed to carry on. Domasi is a very ingnorant and stubborn character, often wanting 
 to do things in his own way and often ignores the advice of others. His behavior will eventually 
 bite him in the ass. Starting off on the story a ship appears overhead while you're in the bar 
 and starts sucking people up. You're taken through stages of the ship with Jen and Enisi, but you're 
 able to free yourself when a stranger plants a bomb and dislodges you from the platform you're 
 attached to. Now, you have to go and save Jen from the aliens, going through level after level 
 in very innovative levels and defeat the alien empire to save the Earth. Or as your concerned, 
 Jen, for the most part.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Prey offers very neat levels. Throughout the game you will run into portals, where you leave from 
 one room sudden into another part of the ship. Totally throwing off everything. It's unlike anything 
 you've ever seen. You also go through and activate gravity switches, which enables you to run on 
 walls and the celeing while your enemies are below. That and the very similar Wall-walks, which 
 are essentially walk ways on walls that you run up. You will encounter various puzzles in Prey 
 that force you to think outside the box, often performing a "spirit-walk" to send you through energy 
 doors to activate a switch that will ensure your character to move on. Throughout the game I never 
 felt it get old or repetitive, something new was always happening. The guns in Prey are unlike 
 any I've ever seen. They are truley unique in their own ways. When you load up the game and play, 
 you'll see for yourself.
  
  Graphics
  
  Prey runs off the Doom 3 engine, and the whole world feels like Doom 3 and Quake 4. Which in my 
 opinion, really hurts this game. It seems like you're in another part of the Doom or Quake universe. 
 I would have rather seen this game in the Unreal 3 engine. Other than that, the graphics in the 
 game are absolutely wonderful in some parts, and "meh" in others. The game does encouter the occasional 
 frame rate drop but the game is still very playable. The game needed a little bit more Anti-Aliasing 
 too, in my opinion. Overall the graphics are pretty solid.
  
  Sound
  
  The voice acting is what I really love about the game. While most other games really lack, you 
 really feel a part of the experience of the game. Probably one of the best titles out on the 360 
 in the sound division. I will say though that the noises that the Kreepers make is annoying as 
 hell.
  
  Value
  
  Ok, here's the scoop. You can run down and beat this game in 6 hours no problem. It took me 2 days 
 to get through. Played 3 hours the first day and 3 hours the second day. So, if you don't have 
 Xbox Live or friends to play with, this is a case of the perfect rental. Have Xbox Live? Then this 
 game might be for you. If you're looking for everything that's in the campaign, then you'll feel 
 right at home with this game.
  
  Overall I will have to give this game a 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perryjd1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 16, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a fun game that has some really good ideas and cool new concepts that add alot to the first 
 person shooter. The graphics are the pretty standard looking doom 3/quake 4 style, with a bit more 
 of the biomech look to it. The story is a bit on the short side only taking a few hard hours of 
 play to beat, but it has a very cinematic feel to it. The gravity/portal thing is a great twist, 
 but kind of left unexplained (not a great loss, but would have added a bit more toi understand 
 why they have them.) The control is easy to pick up and fun to play, but is pretty standard and 
 run-of-the-mill. over all a great rental if you need one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerdo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 16, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people have been waiting for Prey for a long time. Now that it's finally out, it's being 
 met with mixed reactions. After playing through, it is easy to see why.
  
  The gameplay makes prey almost like any other generic shooter in the market, but they threw in 
 a few cool things like walking on walls and using the spirit form to solve small puzzles. It makes 
 the fighting more interesting when the enemies can be shooting from anywhere. You can even walk 
 up the ceiling yourself and shoot down on the enemies in certain places! Aside from all that, the 
 multiplayer doesn't have much to it. There are a couple places where you can run around on the 
 walls, but it really doesn't make it a worthwile multiplayer experience.
  
  The graphics might seem a bit underwhelming at first, but the game has been in production for a 
 while and we can't really expect all games to be on the cutting edge of the next generation. However, 
 there are some small details that really make this game cool.
  
  I've playing far too many shooting games where you just run and shoot. Prey follows a similar formula, 
 but adds quite possibly the best thing they could for advancing the story and character development. 
 The main character, Tommy, is almost always talking. This really adds a new feel to shooters. In 
 other games, the only talking was in the cinematics. Prey brings storytelling to the next generation 
 as everything is in first person, and you can look around during any part where there is talking. 
 The way Tommy talks during battle really adds to the emotion during many points in the game.
  
  Overall, Prey created an amazing single-player experience. It does a good job at making the 
 characters more interesting than in most other shooters, and the music really helps give the game 
 an epic feeling at some points. Other than that, the multiplayer was just tacked on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themtman
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jul 16, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a shooter which really resembles Doom 3, it tries to be Doom but fails terribly. The game 
 has a great sense of atmosphere and backround. Very great and amazing environments but after a 
 while they start to look the same. It is a linear game and the mulitplayer is just trash. I like 
 the idea of the walking on the walls and spirit walk but after you do that for about 5 minutes 
 it gets really repetitive. The game is very easy which makes no replability and the only reason 
 to play the single player is for the achievements you can get about 600 in one play through the 
 single player and the multiplayer achievements will only take about 5 hours or so, just rent it 
 to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MASTASHAKE117
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 16, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Ok so finally after a very long wait Prey is finally out, and despite all the hype when it comes 
 down to it. It's not all that great. Upon getting the game from GameStop and oputting it into my 
 xbox, I immediately started playing. At first I thought the game was great and the one thing I 
 liked the most was the graphics and amazing lighting affects. The first night I had the game I 
 reached level 15 out of 22, so it isn't the hardest game you will ever play. The puzzles get annoying 
 at times which will be the only thing that will slow you down and maybe a death here and there. 
 The A. I. is BAD. They basically stand in front of you and let you kill them. One thing I noticed 
 about the A. I. is that the Hunters (main soldiers that you will fight throughout the game with 
 the occasional boss battle) only use one type of gun. They all use the Plasma Rifle thing that 
 can also be used as a sniper, even though you will get better weapons while completing the game. 
 If you played the demo then you know what to expect in the multiplayer aspect of the game. Its 
 laggy and the frame rate drops alot. Like they said in the GameSpot review you can get an easy 
 thousand from this game if you really want to beat the game twice (which I didn't) , the multiplayer 
 achievements can easily be boosted and the secret achievements can be annoying to try and earn. 
 The plus to this game is an ok storyline that will piss you off in the end. If you were thinking 
 about buying this game don't, rent it from gamefly, wait till the price drops signifficantly, or 
 you can just borrow it from some poor sap who actually bought the game. As for me I'm going to 
 trade it in at gamestop because it hasn't been the full seven days yet so I should be able to get 
 my money back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  Well I have to say I wasn't dissapointed in this release one bit. So far every game that has looked 
 to be promising has let me down. (Cromehounds, Over G Fighters, X-Men) Well I guess I just have 
 high hopes for all games which leads often to dissapointment.
  
  Anyways on with PREY, I was happy to have played this one and it kept me interested all the way 
 through. It brought puzzles and killing a bunch of aliens together to make a good gaming experience. 
 With Venom Games using the Doom graphics engine, there is a lot family and a lot of eye candy. 
 I really like the way they mixed the whole metal ship with organic junk together.
  
  Nothing was to hard and you can sit back and kill your way through in around 6 hours. I just could 
 not get into Quake and Doom was just too dark for me, but PREY brought a short but sweet game experience 
 to my 360.
  
  An easy way to get yourself 685 gamerscore points just by playing through the campaign once.
 
  
  I'm not sure if I would recommend anyone to buy this one, But definitely give it a rental. 
  
 
  (I really don't recommend the purchase of a game unless I could see myself playing it more than 
 twice a week.)
  
  Thanks for checking out my review, check out my other 360 reviews as well.
  -Crim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 15, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  I have to say the single player game is something different, but the same as all FPS. This game 
 things go upside down, inside out and round and round. I have enjoyed the game, but the stort could 
 have been a little stronger and more detailed to me. I can not say that the game is worth the NEX-GEN 
 cost... but it is not the worst game you can buy. If you like FPS and a good online multiplayer 
 game like HALO 2.... this game is more of the same in speed and run and gun. The game has weapons 
 that are alive and move with you.... the game is not a total letdown... if you played the DEMO the 
 game is what you download... nothing holding back. The game in my opinion is a good buy... with the 
 let down of a GRAPHIC VISUALS and a few things to improve the sound. The whole idea of having an 
 XBOX 360 is to be in the "NEXT GENERATION of sight and sound.... and GAMEPLAY". This game looks 
 better on PC and runs smoother. My other opinion is that this XBOX 360 version should have been 
 pushed back about a month or two to make this a great buy. PREY is not terrible, just should have 
 been more than a port. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: map1273
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 15, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Pretty good game. The graphics are good but the pc version seems to look a bit better if you have 
 a good system. The story takes a while to pick up after the beginning. It's pretty much just a 
 run and gun game until near the end. I wish the story was more spread out throughout the game ,maybe 
 like after every level have a bit. The gravity effects look great and add more uniqueness to the 
 game. that is what separates it from being just an average shooter. I like the different variety 
 of weapons, each one serves its purpose. There's not a lot of boss fights. The variety of enemies 
 is not a lot. You're pretty much fighting the same tings throughout the game and it gets a bit 
 repetitive. I haven't had any framerate problems like others seem to have had, runs pretty smooth 
 overall. The action is pretty slow until the last 4-5 levels or so , then it gets pretty hot and 
 heavy. I would like to see a sequel but just add more story and make it a little longer .Good game 
 overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zmgrinder
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 15, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  The beggining of Prey is the best part of the whole game. The abduction of Tommy, his grandfather, 
 and his girlfriend is the best part. The mood of the level is perfect for the abduction. Then the 
 part where Tommy is being transported through-out the ship is also very good. Then it gets rediculous. 
 The levels get repetative, the gravity walkways make things all confusing, and the spirit walk 
 is rediculously stupid. Then the really bad part... The multiplayer. The multiplayer is terrible. 
 It is un-smooth and very difficult to kill people. The maps are poorly created and the addition 
 of the gravity walkways make the map about 3 times bigger and confusing and the large amount of 
 teleporters dont help either. The graphics are good and this game reminds me of doom 3. Although 
 for a game that has been in development for 10 years it looks like it was in development for 1 
 or 2 years. If it was in for 10 it should be mind-blowing. The game is pretty good for maybe a 
 week, but if I had the choice again I would not buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _LEGIONS_
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  ... and it somewhat did. I love the setrting of the aliens mixed with native mythology. IMO, it 
 was the first time I felt "abducted" in a game by aliens.
  
  My only disapointment is that the game feels like a cross of Doom 3 and especially Quake 4- which, 
 to my taste, are average to good game, but not quite the level of excellence of AAA titles.
  
  The puzzles are fun (maybe because they're easy!) , and the action can at times be intense. 
 
  
  The graphics are really good- however, SOMETIMES they are just flat out bad. IMO, the art direction 
 was kinda perverse, but hey it is an M rated game afterall.
  
  This is game is definitly worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCritic9392
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 15, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Prey follows the story of a Cherokee indian named Tommy. Tommy hates his life on the reservation. 
 He dreams of leaving and taking his girlfriend Jen with him. One day as Tommy is sitting in the 
 bar on the reservation, an alien ship mysteriously kidnaps Tommy, Jen, and his grandfather. It's 
 a great concept, and here's how it pans out:
  
  Gameplay: Despite what it looks like, Prey is a Sci-Fi shooter and not out to scare the crap out 
 of you. It looks like a survival horror game, and even has it's share of creatures, but to put 
 it in the best terms, it's Doom 3 without the scares. That's not a bad thing by any means, because 
 it separates itself from the crowd by throwing in its own little touches. The alien ship has some 
 extrememely weird effects on it, such as portals everywhere. The portals look great, and they can 
 cause a lot of "WTF did I just do?" moments, which Tommy will point out in the game. The game also 
 pays homage to Half Life with it's default weapon: a wrench. It's a ton of fun bashing the alien 
 beasts over and over with it. Of course, it never feels like a rip-off of Valve's award winning 
 series. The other weapons you encounter during the game range from your basic plasma weapons to 
 a frog whose legs you rip off to create a bomb. The enemies range from zombies, to alien soldiers, 
 to antibodies, to some kind of T-Rex thing, and many more. When you die in the game, you are brought 
 to an indian spirit world, where you must shoot the souls of your enemies with your bow and arrow 
 to return to life. The only downside to this is that it makes the game a bit too easy, my only 
 true gripe with this game. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are excellent, and some of the best I've seen on the 360. The 
 enviornments are vast, and detailed, and the character models are as well. Everything looks amazing 
 and alive. Need I say more?
  
  Sound: Here's another great aspect of the game: the phenomenal audio. The voice acting is great, 
 the music is incredible (it's by the same guy who recorded Oblivion) , there's some liscensed music 
 thrown in in the first level as well. The aliens sound great, and every sound it great. The sound 
 is probably even better than the phenomenal graphics.
  
  Value: Aside from the incredible single player game, the game features some amazing multiplayer. 
 The competition is fierce and pretty lag-free. It boosts the value even more than ever. It's great. 
 
  
  Bottom Line: Prey has been in development for ten years and is an experience no PC or Xbox 360 
 owner should go without. It's a top candidate for game of the year, and is by far one of the most 
 innovative and different titles out there. It pushes the limits of first person shooters and simply 
 can't be praised enough. If you've played G. R. A. W. and UNO to death, then you're bound to find 
 an incredible experience in Prey. It's some of the best FPS action one can have, and you owe it 
 to yourself to pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadMan151
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok, now I was really expecting this game to be great, I looked forward to it and despite my best 
 attempts couldnt help but by it on release date. Perhaps my anticipation is the reason that 
 it was such a disappointment, possibly I was expecting too much or maybe it was never that good 
 a game. Whatever the reason, Prey was average at best.
  
  Now dont get me wrong, it was an OK game, the story was good, if a little underplayed in 
 my opinion, and some of the new design ideas did make the game feel like more than just your average 
 shoot and run game, but they just wasnt used enough. The puzzles were simple at best to 
 solve and despite some new ideas  such as being able to leave your body in spirit form and 
 changing the direction of gravity  which sounded great and made for some fun for about 15 
 minuets, the gameplay gets very old, very repetitive, very fast. By the end of the short single 
 player action (and I mean short  it took me about half a day to finish without rushing at 
 all) I was already tiring of the system and the lack of anything new throughout meant that the 
 only reason to carry on was for the story  which, although good, wasnt incredibly 
 compelling and upon seeing the conclusion leaves you with no wish to replay. 
  
  I didnt try the multiplayer, because it needs a gold live account, and I no longer have 
 one of those. It has no split screen functionality so I cant play with friends meaning its 
 chances of replay are practically none existent.
  
  Overall, it was OK, but thats all it was, definitely not worth 45. If you are interested 
 by the new concepts, download the demo, you can get it for free from the marketplace and it is 
 as good as the game gets, play it once or twice, and youve played the game. If youre 
 really interested in what happens next, maybe rent it. Other than that, I would seriously recommend 
 against it unless you happen to be rolling in money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Well this game has the exact same type of shooting as doom 3 and quake 4 , where you 
 have to shoot the monsters a ton of times to kill them , and it really feels arcadey. But the game 
 is truely repetetive , you just keep killing the same stuff over and over and doing the same thing 
 over and over. There really isn't anything that makes the gameplay stand out of the doom 3 - quake 
 4 - arcade crap. 
  
  Graphics - The graphics are extremly detailed but are repetetive as well , everything is grimey 
 looking , nothing stands out. 
  
  Sound - Well there is some horrible quality of voice acting lines , when the main character is 
 yelling the quality becomes horribly bad. 
  
  Value - The multiplayer is extremly choppy and you can't even tell where anyone is , it's horrible 
 ! (there is no lag and it's still that choppy)
  
  Good Tilt - The portals are interesting for a second 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360Halo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 15, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  First of all Prey's campaign mode is too straight forward and easy, even on the hardest difficulty. 
 It has tons of potential to be amazing, because of its interesting portals, and upside-down fighting 
 it's really a great game. Although the Graphics could have used a little polishing. The are points 
 in the game were you do get a good scare, and some of the enemies can be quite challenging, although 
 most of the time, they're a piece of cake. The weapons I found very cool, and unique. The majority 
 of the weapons were organic and alive, and would move around as you would hold them. But there 
 could have been more variety in the weapons. So the campaign I found very good. Now the online 
 mode is not as different from campaign, the only real difference would be your fighting other people 
 and the MAJOR lag. The lag in Prey is quiet annoying, sometimes you could be running around smoothly 
 and hten out of nowere you would be so lagged that you can not move an inch. VERY annoying, especially 
 when you see an enemy and you want to kill him/her but you can not because your lagged. So about 
 85% of the time playing on live you might be lagged. Other then the lagging on XBL it is actually 
 very fun, and intense. The matches can get so evenly matched that you will be neck in neck through 
 the entire battle, which is great. The achievements you unlock on live are cool and easy to get, 
 so you should have no problem reaching 250 kills, because some matches can go up to 100 frags and 
 unlimited time. So Prey overall is a really good game on and off live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evanwolves999
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that was released at the perfect time. At first I really didn't give 
 prey a good chance... but since it's basically one of the few games released this summer I decided 
 to give it a shot. 
  First off, you have to get over the fact that Prey's graphics are not top notch. It isn't like 
 Human Head is breaking any ground in the graphic department, but they are extremely good considering 
 the engine they are using. 
  The story line of the game was quite suprising. After I finished the game I was actually very emotionally 
 attached to the game and the characters. Usually I don't feel that way about games.... this one 
 just took me by suprise when all was said and done. 
  Multiplayer.... um..... this game only supports xbox live and system link so if you are looking for 
 a game to have everyone come over and play.... make sure you have four xbox's and four TVs otherwise 
 you can forget it. Besides, the single player is what Human Head advertised the game as. Multiplayer 
 was just a throw in feature, they even said it themselves so it is not fair to say its a bad game 
 because of poor multiplayer. 
  Overall the game is great. It is a short, pleasant, and addictive game. Sure the graphics arent 
 the greatest, but the game just feels right by the end. I would definately suggest renting it simply 
 because it is a short game, but seriously give this game a shot. I promise you........ you will 
 not be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fgjnfgh
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I think 7.5 is unfair to a good game like prey. guys you really can't give it a real attribute. 
 I think it's one of the best shooting games on the xbox360. it shocks you with it's new stimulating 
 real life like the moves of the people and with its amazing graphics. I think it's the best grapgic 
 game one xbox 360 compared to oblivion. but one thing isn't just fine or new becuase when you play 
 at the first you say wow this is new I didn't try this b4 but after a while you will notice that 
 it looks like other shooting game shoot enemies bang bang and that's it. but it's cool to play 
 it in the summer if you are not travelling anywhere 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mex4vida
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 15, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a fantastic game. it made me feel like I was playing Duke Nukem again and that is a wonderful 
 feeling. getting beamed up to an alien aircraft while listening to 80's metal was breathtaking. 
 If you enjoy shooters like Serious Sam, Painkiller, Doom, Doom2 and DukeNukem then there is no 
 reason you should not own a copy of Prey. The portals, spinning cubes, mirrors, and gravity shifters 
 make for pretty sick game play. As far as multiplayer goes, I must put my head down in shame. But 
 hey I didnt purchase the game for the multiplayer thats why I own a copy of Halo and Halo2 :) . 
 The weapons are awesoms, especially the alien grenades. Wallwalking and sniping hunters upside 
 down with the hunters rifle is superb. The difficulty could be juiced up a little and the Graphics 
 could use a little work, but other than that I give it 2 thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcsurfindd
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must buy game, most people have tried the demo and simply put there hands down that 
 its too easy or that its not good enough. The game is alot harder then the demo, and the demo is 
 the first 3-4 levels including a tutorial. Well these are the best graphics ive seen on the 360, 
 the game is great, and the story line is followable. I hate following stories but one thing leads 
 up to another and ends up being a fantastic story. You never die in this game, you go through a 
 puzzle to become rezzerected. Its great that you never die, but while your in the puzzle mode and 
 you arent good at it, or cant collect enough health from the puzzle, you might come to hate seeing 
 this screen. 
  
  So far there has been no glitches in the game, even when you rezzerect. I have found no problems 
 at all. The online multplayer is really good, but there is some constant lag. The levels online 
 are a little lame at some points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theman1126
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  This game is very good but seemed like it was not worth spending alot of time on. The only reason 
 i continued to play after i initially beat it was because the achievments were very easy to get. 
 multiplayer is fun because your fighting someone and another guy turns the room upside down. The 
 graphics are very good . The game presents no challenge in single player because after four very 
 easy levels you gain a power ha les you spawn right where you died after you play a little minigame. 
 I would say that if you don't know if you wants you should get it if you have friends to play wih 
 online or offline. i got every achievement after about 3 days. Most games take longer for me to 
 beat. I only paid thiry bucks for this but i don't know bout sixty. (I only paid thirty because 
 my 
  friend is the manager of gamestop.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmattx92
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 15, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  There is only one thing wrong with the game Prey. The amount of hype it received. It was on the 
 top games list above Halo 3! Gamespot was talking about how they have the exclusive demo. Then 
 there were all of the previews were everyone was saying this game is amazing which is defiantly 
 not true.
  
  The portals are more like doors then anything because it is not like they give you any alternate 
 options so you have to choose were to go. The whole changing gravity thing was just for crappy 
 puzzles and nothing more than that. Then there is no split screen which makes it even worse. 
 
  
  So all in all this is just a crappy fill in game to hold people over for greater things like Gears 
 Of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aura_Twilight
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 15, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  Prey has been recieved with mixed reviews from many review sites. Most of the complaints with the 
 game have been its to short of a game. But, to me first you have to realize its an FPS and FPS 
 aren't always the longest games. This game is about an 11 or 12 hour game but, you enjoy every 
 minute of it. You'll probably play through it again after beating it the first time to enjoy it 
 again. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics use the doom 3 engine but, has been enhanced a bit. It looks great and still 
 impressive after a couple of years. Also I noticed slight amounts of slowdown but, only on the 
 vehicle area levels. 
  
  Game play: Prey really tries to be innovative and have fresh ideas in this game. All of them create 
 interesting puzzles to the game. The wall walk, spirit walk, and portals all make the gameplay 
 much differenct and seperates them from other FPS.
  
  Sound: The sound is impressive in this game with great music. My only problem with the sound has 
 been un-needed cursing I don't have a problem with cursing but, this game seems to use it just 
 for fun and serves no purpose. 
  
  Multi-Player: This is my one problem with the game the multiplayer seems rather average. The shifting 
 gravity actually seems to make this more difficult to play and hard to shoot when someone is upside 
 down looking at you. But, the weapons are good and provide a decent amount of depth. But, the lack 
 of other modes besides Death Match and Team Death Match hold it back. 
  
  Overall its a great game. Besides nothing much else is coming out this summer so its a great addition 
 to your collections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dgrimes14
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  When taking a first glance at Prey for the Xbox 360, many would think that this is just another 
 uninspired first person shooter. Prey runs on the Enhanced Doom 3 engine which may seem a little 
 outdated, but Human Head managed to do some remarkable things with the graphics. Sure it may not 
 be the prettiest next gen title out there but it is comparable to the 360's finest looking games. 
 The game does a very good job of making you feel like your in some kind of living organism with 
 the slimy textures, mixed with the metallic surroundings. 
  
  However, Prey does something completely different from games like Doom, Quake, and all the others: 
 It innovates on the genre. Prey takes all the good things away from the now classic experiences 
 of Doom and Quake, and adds in it's own spin on things. It introduces many new concepts such as 
 portals and changing gravity on a whim, while adding an excellent storyline to back that up. Thats 
 right, Prey has a good storyline, one that you will actually care about. At first it may seem like 
 like your average guy saving his girlfriend storyline, but it gets much more complex than that 
 as you move on. To emerse you even further into the story, the weapons are all unique to the alien 
 race and offer interesting gameplay, but sometimes don't feel too rewarding to shoot.
  
  The main character Tommy's Native American background also adds an interesting take on the gameplay. 
 When he gains his spiritual powers, he gets the ability to do things like spirit walking ( a maneuver 
 which lets him leave his body to pass through force fields, and sneak up on enemies) and the death 
 walk. The death walk is a very interesting idea that will prevent all the controller throwing moments 
 that you may be used to in certain games. It works like this, when you die you are sent to a spirit 
 realm and have to take down two different types of wraiths with your bow and arrow. They are either 
 blue or red, and depending on which one you hit, you will gain extra spirit or health powers for 
 returning back to the mortal world. This is an excellent new feature in games, and I would hope 
 to see other game developers to explore this concept of eliminating the game over screen that many 
 of us hate so dearly.
  
  Overall this game is highly recommendable, and is sure to get you out of the summer gaming drought 
 blues. It offers many new, interesting, and innovative gameplay elements and looks pretty doing 
 so.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonage007
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 15, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  Prey is a very solid FPS. It brings all the qualities to the genre as any other game such as halo 
 with even more innovative features. Wallwalking is one on the new features in this game. It is 
 always put to good use to take advantage over enemies that r beneath u. Also the teleporters add 
 a new twist to the gameplay and force u into tight puzzels that u have to work ur way out of. As 
 for gameplay overall i would give it an 8.2/10 simply because it kinda feels weird at times. The 
 online experience isnt anything to enjoy for hours on end since the lag is so horrible in most 
 matches. But im sure that will be gone when more players begin to play. The story is a little bit 
 loopy but if u have a good thinking cap u will figure it out. Im currently still going through 
 single player and planning on completing it on both difficulties soon. Yea its that easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGFINE
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 4:26 am PT
Review:  The good: Alot of new gameplay twists like gravity walks, portals & the spirit walk, it's surprising 
 how much of an influence they all have on the game. The storyline is interesting & makes you want 
 to play just to see how it all ends. Lots of very original weapon ideas & map ideas. Lots of interesting 
 puzzles to figure out.
  
  The bad: Only ok graphics, has extremly laggy multiplayer, no manual reloading & no human weapons 
 what so ever, it only has like 8 weapons.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is great, such things like the spirit walk, throwing gernades & how gravity 
 can change at the click of a button all help make this game feel differant from other FPS's. Online 
 multiplayer is extremly laggy & dosent really have any aim assist, so it becomes really usless 
 & just dosent feel real. 8/10
  
  Graphics: The doom engine did it's part, the game looks great, it's not the best looking game mind 
 you, but it's definatly isent the worst. I havent noticed any framerate problems but as I said 
 before, multiplayer lags like a you know what. 8/10
  
  Sound: I found the voice acting was great in most parts, the guns sound as you imagine they would. 
 Everything has a destict sound pretty much, the whole evironment make it's own sound. I found nothing 
 that really stuck out, It sounds well good... It definatly isent bad. 9/10
  
  Value: The single player it self is worth 2 runs through, but the multilayer really leaves something 
 to be desired. If they fix the multiplayer I'll consider changing the score. 7/10
  
  My Tilt: Since this game has one of my favorite single player experiances (2nd best on 360 IMO) 
 I love it, & I think it's worth a by. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garethross
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 15, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  This probably isnt going to fill you for a while if you'r missing Xbox Live! but if you do this 
 game is'nt to be missed witha fair world ranking system that works and does it well.
  
  Its obvious when they say this is the Doom III engine and they mean it but this has been improved 
 on a great deal and I can see the sequal using what ever engine was used for Quake 4, I just hope 
 its not to far away in the future till we get our hands on the next installment.
  
  With 8 amazingly huge multiplayer levels it will keep you searching for the enemy then sometimes 
 eveyone turns up at once.
  
  Thier are a few bugs in the game including durring a slightly lagy multiplayer sound odd sounds, 
 and the odd glitch here and thier which ive found in both the demo and the full retail copy on 
 the Xbox 360. gamevideos_com its in three parts and has had 1,200 viewers in the last 12 hours 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newuser84
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 15, 2006 12:20 am PT
Review:  Prey, another FPS shooter which doesn't really have anything appealing about it and the online 
 and story mode is bland and just not worth the rent. It has polished graphics but gameplay repetiveness 
 and nothing unique about the game. I'm very disappointed as this game had potential to be good 
 with it's many features/ ideas but weren't put in to the right context. But hey the multipler and 
 story mode where u get to walk on the wall and stuff like that is pretty trippy and basically like 
 a rollercoaters when you're high. I would suggest to just rent and don't buy no replay value. Xbox 
 live stinks their are only two types of matches and their not fun to play. No innovative ideas 
 in live just feels like a cheap unreal tournament. Their isn't much to do in this game. Many more 
 appeling titles out right and as far as i"m considered just waste of after the first hour very, 
 very dull........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TakaNui
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 14, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Amazing gameplay with tons of interesting and slightly challenging puzzles. Great time 
 using tons of different organic alien weaponry. Mixes many things up with gravity shifters and 
 portals which are quite amazing. There are amazingly no load times as you walk instantly from one 
 room to another in a blink of an eye. It also has sometimes laggy multiplayer. 
  
  Graphics - The graphics are incredible with very smooth smooth framerate except at the slightest 
 of times. Though the game has slight texture issues on some walls the effects are spectacular.
 
  
  Sound - Incredible sounds, the aliens have their own language which personally I think is incredible. 
 The weapons have a very organic sound to them to that just match its shape and power.
  
  Value - This game has a ton of value though it is just really another shooter. It has the most 
 amazing story I've ever seen. The story I truely think if it wasn't made into a game it would've 
 been a great movie! It has the potential!
  
  Tilt - Great story, interesting puzzles, and incredible graphics.
  
  Overall it is an amazing 
 game with terrific graphics, the Limited Edition comes in a metal tin with 2 figurines, a concept 
 artbook, and a download of the Prey Soundtrack. I haven't got it working yet but I'll try. This 
 game is a buy for shooter fans looking for something new out of the ordinary. Outher than that 
 its at least a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixx6
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  the game itself is way to easy and short to beat, 8 hours max. I hope the venom games and human 
 head studios are already working on some down loadable content and add ons. Otherwise this game 
 is a waste or time and money. beside that the game was ok. I thought bye playing the demo that 
 this game had a lot to look forward too, but the promise of some really good space time distortion 
 was really short lived do to fact that they forgot about it really early in the game. The Cherokee 
 difficulty is really no harder then the first time through the game , you just don't have any health 
 refills. In The Cherokee difficulty im even moving fast through the game then the first time. i guess 
 i'm really hard on games fall so short of what they could have been! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_10001
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 14, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Prey is fantastic game thats very easy and way to short. Lets look at the gameplay first. Prey 
 had some good things going for it with portal technology, gravity flipping, Death Walk, and living 
 environments and weapons. The portals were cool at first your in a big room with a little glass 
 case which contained a little spore looking thing. You then go through a portal and your inside 
 the glass case on the spore, but sadly situations like this are few and far between. Gravity flipping 
 is probably the best unique feature of Prey you use it often. You go into a room your on the floor 
 then look up or to the side and there is another floor with a portal on it an enemy coming out 
 standing on that floor shooting at you. 
  Another unique feature of Prey is Death Walk and Spirit Walk where Tommy, the hero of the game, 
 can leave his body, in spirit form, to sneak ahead unseen. This started out good also but slowly 
 faded away to the point of its only use was to get passed a force field and press a button to turn 
 it off. Death Walk also seemed good at first as you didnt lose progress after you die, but losing 
 progress after you die is what makes these games difficult. Death Walk made this game so easy that 
 if some enemies couldnt fly you could beat the game with your pipe wrench. 
  The living environment was good but the only thing this added was an excuse for some hazards and 
 weird walls. The weapons are all good but none of them are completely gratifying. You hit something 
 with an explosion and they live they just keep coming, as oppose to being staggered. Shoot enemies 
 with a machine gun they just stand there and shoot back without seeming to take damage until they 
 die. Speaking of enemies, the AI is all right but for the most part the enemies are pretty dim.
 
  The multiplayer is pretty standard, Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, and only available via system 
 link or Xbox Live.
  
  The graphics are overly pretty descent throughout the game some textures could have used some polishing 
 but thats life. Also the frame rate never dropped even once, something that cant be said for 
 many games. Next, the sound. What can be said for the music, not much. When there is music its 
 usually good enough and the opening music on the title screen is probably the best in the game. 
 The voice acting is about as good as it can get, sure some parts sound corny, but blame that on 
 the writers.
  
  Now, as for the value of this game, it will probably take you 12 to 15 hours to play through. There 
 is really no reason to play through a second time on the second, and only, other difficulty other 
 than to get the achievement for it. Speaking of the achievements there are forty-four, and twenty-two 
 of them will be obtained for completing each of the other levels, another for beating the highest 
 difficulty, and the other twenty-one are for multiplayer purposes.
  
  Overall Prey is a good, fun experience that holds much of its potential untapped and is way to 
 easy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerver1
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Prey is an overhyped first-person shooter that has been on development for almost a decade going 
 through different developers and concepts. You play as Tommy, a Cherokee man who does not believe 
 in his roots, but slowly realizes he needs his roots to save his girlfriend, Jen, and the whole 
 world from aliens taking over. The only thing that gave lots of attention and hype for Prey is 
 a different way to go through a FPS even though it remains the same gameplay you seen or played 
 in Doom and Quake. The portals and ramps are what make Prey a special FPS in terms of hype, but 
 they act like normal paths you expect from a run and gun FPS. Another thing that makes Prey different 
 than other FPS in terms of single player is not dying at all. If you die, you go to the Spirit 
 World shooting at least 3 birds (red to recover health and blue to recover spirit) to go back where 
 you died. This concept seems cool at first, but it makes the game easier. Speaking of the difficulty, 
 the single player campaign is kind of easy with enemy A. I. not giving you a fight except for the 
 later enemies and bosses, and average puzzle solving to move around.
  
  The single player is about eight hours long for the FPS fan or shorter and can be beaten in one 
 whole day if you have nothing to do in a day besides playing this game. There is not enough variety 
 of the enemies and the weapons, even though looking weird, are just the normal weapons you see 
 in a FPS such as the rocket launcher, shotgun, assault rifle, and grenades. All weapons in this 
 game do have secondary functions which can help at times during both single player and multiplayer. 
 The story is interesting, but it does not grab you as much curiosity compared to other FPS like 
 Halo and Half-Life. The only unique weapon and way to move around certain spots is spirit walking, 
 which you have a bow firing arrows while firing at your opposition. If you get damaged while on 
 Spirit mode, you return to normal, but the spirit walking is beneficial when moving around and 
 doing puzzles instead of combat.
  
  The multiplayer in this game is what you expect in a FPS even though there are only 2 modes, deathmatch 
 and team deathmatch. It would be cool to see different multiplayer modes, but all of this is only 
 online / system link and no splitscreen. The action and fast and chaotic at times with players 
 trying to kill each other which seems like the best part of the game. You can play games ranked 
 or unranked to face your competition, but since this is a FPS, people want more multiplayer variety 
 and this game does not offer that.
  
  Prey's graphics is based from the Doom 3 engine being beautiful and dark at the same time. The 
 environments, mostly indoor, can be repetitive if you played other games in the genre and it is 
 best played at night with the lights off. The sound is also great with theatrical music at the 
 big moments of the game and different weapons have different sounds and effects. Just like a movie, 
 there is a rock song at the credits, which is okay and not as overused as seen in other FPS like 
 GRAW and Halo 2. The achievements for this game are fairly easy since most of them are just beating 
 the levels and the whole thing on two difficulties, but the multiplayer stuff might take time needing 
 to use all the weapons for kills and playing matches.
  
  In the end, Prey is best suited as a weekend rental, but if you want all 1000 achievement points, 
 this game is a decent purchase. This FPS is also good enough for future professional gaming tournaments, 
 but it does not offer the depth and chaos other FPS have for both PCs and consoles. Any big shooter 
 gets lots of hype, but this game doesn't deliver the hype people wanted and there are better FPS 
 out there depending on your style of playing these games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The game is fun for a while but does get repetitive, theres some good puzzles in the game, even 
 though they do get repetetive some times, and the death mini-game is ok , but after you die for 
 a while it just get's anoying and very repititious. The spirit walk thing is cool but not used 
 to it's full potential, using grids instead of ladders was a cool idea and is used very well
  
  Graphics:
  The game looks great, it uses the Doom 3 engine and it's put to good use here, 
 the framerate is good offline but can get downrite terrible online
  
  Sound:
  The game has a good music score and the guns sound very good as well, there is also terrific voice 
 work in the game as well
  
  Value:
  The game will take you from around 8-12 hours to beat it took me around 9 hours i believe and you 
 can go through it again on cherokie mode but all that does is eliminate health packs. The online 
 play is not that great it tries to go for a Quake 3 arena type of gameplay but doesn't really capitilize 
 on it. There are only 2 game modes online, deathmatch and team deathmatch
  
  TIlt:
  The game is fun for about 2/3 of the way through, the puzzles get repetitive and the online play 
 is pretty bad, but the story is pretty good but get's pretty crazy at some points
  
  Overall: Overall you should probobly rent Prey, the single player campain is pretty lengthly and 
 has it's moments but in games the online play is what keeps you coming back for more but unfortinately 
 the game falls short in that aspect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Preys history is one that you dont hear about too often in the videogame industry. The game was 
 originally announced over ten years ago, but production came to a silent halt when 3D Realms went 
 to work on Duke Nukem. Finally, after about eight years, Prey emerged again and was back in production. 
 Now, the game is out on store shelves and the question that's on many gamer's minds is if Prey 
 lives up the hype. While the game is a solid offering, Prey does fall short in a few parts which 
 keeps it from being what it couldve been.
  
  Prey's story has you playing as Tommy, a Cherokee Indian who works at a local bar on an Indian 
 reservation with his girlfriend Jen. While Tommy lives on the reservation he really wants leave, 
 but he wants Jen to go with him. However, with her family and job on the reservation, Jen is uncomfortable 
 with the feeling of leaving. While this is Prey's initital conflict, the game really doesnt allow 
 much time for it to sink before Jen, Tommy and his grandfather, Enise are abducted by an aliens. 
 While youre main goal initially is to escape, find Jen and go back home, things get much more 
 twisted and serious later on. 
  
  For the first few minutes while on the alien ship, youre trying to find Jen and get back to Earth. 
 However, you're soon taken to the land of Tommy's ancestors by Enise shortly after he's killed. 
 After you get taken to this place Tommy learns how to Spiritwalk, which allows him to leave his 
 body to get to otherwise unreachable places and at times dispose of enemies without being detected. 
 While Tommy gets the ability to Spiritwalk you find out early on that he doesnt believe in mysticism 
 and doesnt go by the old ways of his ancestors. However, he eventually learns to embrace his heritage 
 as you progress through the game, which you find out later on is called The Sphere and is more 
 of a small planet than an alien ship. 
  
  The storyline in Prey may sound like what youd get out of your typical sci-fi blockbuster movie 
 but it gets deeper and deeper as you progress through the game. Like most sci-fi games, there are 
 a few plot twists throughout the game, and Prey does a pretty good job of getting you more enthralled 
 by the story with each plot twist. Its really fortunate that the game has these strong plot twists 
 because there are parts in the game that youll be more concerned about killing aliens rather than 
 focusing on the plot. So while the games story isnt the best youll come across, Prey still manages 
 to create an interesting story and its a lot better than many you encounter in games nowadays. 
 
  
  As far as gameplay is concerned, Prey is about as easy to pick up as a shooter should be. While 
 there are some nice attributes to break up the action, Preys just like any other shooter when 
 it comes down to the core action. Throughout the game youll encounter a number of enemies which 
 include Hunters-the basic enemy in the game who carry the standard rifle, Hounds-fast, agile creatures 
 that will rush you on sight, as well small but tough flying robots almost exactly like the Sentinels 
 from The Matrix movies and much more. While your enemies arent incredibly smart and dont do much 
 other than shoot, toss grenades and take cover, theyre usually pretty fun to battle with. Although, 
 there are some moments that the enemies will get on your nerves when youre an inch from death. 
 That said, you usually wont find yourself getting killed that often by your enemies because they're 
 not too tough to overcome. You'll usually die only when you make a small mistake such as accidentally 
 stepping over a grenade you tossed or getting stuck in a corner. 
  
  In the event that you are killed youll get transported to a rock at the Deathwalk-some unknown 
 spiritual location where youll need to shoot wraiths-blue to regain spirit energy and red to get 
 more health. You have only a few seconds to regain spirit energy and health but once you leave 
 the Deathwalk youre transported to almost the exact place you died. Also, every time youre killed 
 you must do the Deathwalk, so theres really no way that you can actually die. With that in mind, 
 Preys a rather easy game since you dont really need to worry about restarting a level when you 
 die; you just have do a little minigame to get back to the real action. While it makes the game 
 seem less challenging its nice to see something besides the typical "You Are Dead" screen and 
 it certainly beats having to go through most of the same level over and over again. 
  
  But dont think that youll be fighting against enemies weaponless, because Prey comes fully-equipped 
 with a number of firearms. Yet the twist to Preys weapons are that they arent of human origin-with 
 the exception of an old wrench. Every firearm in the game is found in The Sphere and each have 
 theyre own distinct style, but they handle just like the guns youve used in countless sci-fi 
 shooters before. For instance, instead of using actual grenades you pick up living insect-like 
 creatures that will explode after you pull off one of their legs. Another weapon youll pick up 
 in the game is actually the arm of one of your enemies, so the style of each weapon is quite different 
 from what you may expect. Also, each weapon in Prey has a secondary function, and in some situations 
 these are essential to using that weapon. The weapons themselves include a standard rifle/sniper 
 rifle combo-meaning the gun turns into a sniper rifle when you zoom in, a Gatling gun with a grenade 
 launcher, a shotgun turned into an acid gun with an acid grenade attack and so forth. Each weapon 
 is relatively fun to use, although youll rarely use the wrench, which seems like a throwback to 
 Half Lifes crowbar, only its got little to no use. 
  Now, since Prey is available on the Xbox 360 and since its running on the Doom 3 engine the least 
 you're probably expecting is a good-looking game. Well, Prey not only looks good but it makes the 
 best use of the Doom 3 engine yet. While Doom 3 and Quake 4 were mostly metal corridors Prey does 
 have a few more outdoor areas and will also let you move around some pretty large areas with lots 
 of space. The best part about Preys graphics is probably the art design on the weapons and enemies, 
 which is quite stylish and organic. The weapons and enemies are all rendered very nicely and, along 
 most of the environments, look very sharp and accurate. Lighting and shadow effects are used very 
 effectively in the game and theres plenty of neat particle effects that really make the game shine. 
 That said, there are some levels in Prey that look rather grainy and smudgy up close. Also, you 
 might notice the framerate dip when theres a lot of stuff going on in the game. But for-the-most-part, 
 Prey runs very smoothly and most of the time looks quite impressive.
  
  While Prey certainly looks great, the best part about the whole game is arguably its sound and 
 audio. The voice-actors and voice-overs in the game are usually strong and theres some good dialogue 
 in a few areas that will really immerse you into the game. Theres also a strong musical score 
 in Prey as well as a few licensed songs-which youll get to hear in the first level. A few of the 
 songs youll hear in the game include You Got Another Thing Coming by Judas Priest-my favorite 
 band and Barracuda by Heart. There are also many strong and effectively used sound effects from 
 the weapons, explosions and other things in the game. In fact, there are a couple parts in the 
 game that just the ambience and the yelling of people and children might creep you out. And its 
 these parts in Prey that work the best and really help it stand out from the crowd. About the only 
 real problem with Preys sound is that some of the enemies sound rather dumb and there are a few 
 moments that youll notice cheesy dialogue, but these moments are pretty rare and very forgettable. 
 
  
  Preys single-player itself is relatively short but for the time it lasts, it serves up some memorable 
 moments. Depending on how good you are, it should take you anywhere from six to twelve hours to 
 beat Preys single-player on the normal difficulty setting. Most of the games challenge doesnt 
 come from the enemies however; more of it comes from the games many puzzles. While the puzzles 
 arent too challenging some of them might take a couple minutes to figure out. The good thing about 
 Preys many puzzles are that they do a good job breaking up any repetition you may feel while playing 
 the game. 
  
  After youre done with Preys single-player the next part to tackle is the games multiplayer. 
 Prey has support for up to eight players via online or system link. Unfortunately, the game has 
 only two multiplayer modes-Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, so dont expect to find anything like 
 Capture the Flag or Territories in the game. Another thing about Preys multiplayer is that theres 
 no split-screen, its just online and system link, so if you dont play online than this game isnt 
 going to offer you much replay value. Another problem with Prey is its online play in-general, 
 which is hit-or-miss. Reason being is because sometimes the game runs pretty smoothly but half 
 the time youll encounter a lot of lag and it can really ruin the otherwise fun matches; hopefully 
 theyll release a patch soon that will fix the problem. 
  
  So, the big question now is whether Prey lived up the hype and was worth the wait or not. In a 
 word, no, Prey doesnt live up the hype. The games definitely good but it definitely couldve 
 been better. The fact that the game is only a few hours long and since theres no split-screen 
 along with plagued online play really sucks out much of the replay value in the game. Despite these 
 problems though, Prey is a solid first-person shooter and while some of the potential in the game 
 isnt fully realized it's still a good game through-and-through and is definitely giving a go. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheInfamous360
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is way to short i rather go play doom 3 on xbox because it don't even look good on the 
 HDTV the gameplay is the same as doom 3 the story is good but the Online Multiplayer is still kinda 
 laggy the sound is good but why the aliens speak english? this game is not a good game to buy though 
 you should go and rent this game for easy achievements like beat the whole game on normal and cherokee (hard)
 
  and also get 50 kills on Team Deathmatch and 50 on Deathmatch they should really make more game 
 types cause it kinda gets boring after while when you keep playing Team DeathMatch and Deathmatch 
 they should had king of the hill, capture the flag or other good gametypes and they should really 
 fix the lag for this game some of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nathan0914
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 14, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  This game is way too over-hyped, there are many things in this game that could have made it better. 
 One big thing is if you play Doom 3, this game is just another version remake of this game. And 
 throughout the game all you hear is people screaming, It gets a little repetitive and annoying. 
 This game should not be a part of the next generation standards on gaming. When using the same 
 doom 3 engine, it is out of date because there are new graphics on everything that appear almost 
 every month. The graphics could have been a lot better. and there are some frame rate issues. Not 
 worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxEmediatioNxX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 14, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  I found that while playing Prey, i was having a grand time. It was fun through and through. The 
 whole game, there was never a moment of dullness or repetition. I thoroughly enjoyed the wacky 
 physics, gravity and sci-fi setting. It added a whole new level to the game. This would be an amazing 
 fps, if only it was longer than 7 or 8 hours. I played through it in one night, and was left feeling 
 half finished. This game would be worth a rental for sure. The Live element is present, but in 
 the most basic form. Simple deathmatch and team deathmatch. So, I say, go rent it, but don't waste 
 your money on a 8 hour game with a couple extra times going through it for replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  Prey starts with you (Tommy) in a low-buget Indian Casino in the middle of nowhere, then you are 
 abducted by aliens (!) Haven't we seen this before? Possibly. In the ship you will encounter live-ammunition, 
 weird physics and infant deaths!
  In Prey you face small and easy challenges every so often, but between them are scenes of innocent 
 deaths, female screaming and anti-gravitational walkways (which can end up to be very annoying) .
 
  Prey runs on an inferior engine to the Doom3 engine (which makes the game disappointing in terms 
 of up-close graphics) . To say Prey is an FPS with aliens and weapons, it not actually that violent, 
 blood sprays from those you belt with a wrench and the aliens die without any bodily excretions.
 
  Voice acting is rubbish on Prey (Tommy is especially bad) and the aliens speak English (which 
 makes them sound braindead) ... WTF!?
  Other than that, Prey is a pretty exciting game to play with a story which makes you want to keep 
 playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty0123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 14, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  This game is an amazing FPS game, it has horror, original weapons and also has some kick ass moments 
 like the first time you walk up a wall or when you fight the very first boss. The game does have 
 some downfalls like glitches in the stroy like you hear from the grandfather loads, and the only 
 thing you really hear from jen is "help me!" or "Oh god no.... noooo!". I think the shuttles that 
 you have to pilot are pretty cool and arnt as powerful as many other shuttles in different games. 
 One thing that is original is that when you die you appear in a new area, in your spirit form, 
 and you have to shoot flying demons, red to increase health and blue to increase spirit. The stroy 
 has been set up quite well like how earth is being captured one country at a time, and you can 
 also find these board things where theres a news crew on earth speaking to people that had hidden 
 from the space ships when they landed and evaded the nightmare. Many things on the game will shock 
 viewers.... i have no idea how they got away with this game because all that happens is kids keep 
 gettin ravaged by demons and aliens. Its sick but also its just like what would happen in real 
 life, most horror games dont include children being turned into ghosts and then the ghost tearing 
 the other kid apart.... Very screwed up i know. The graphics are faultless, the gameplay is awsome 
 and the value is pretty good because of the online play. Very good game, i highly reccomend it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suharar
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the single player campaign, great graphics, great story and some unusual gameplay 
 elements to keep the fps genre fresh.
  The game uses the old doom3 engine but has been heavily modified to incorporate huge environments 
 as opposed to doom3's claustrophobic level design. The playing with gravity and portals are used 
 quite well throughout the game, the spirit walking idea seemed underused and i only used it to 
 get through forcefield doors to push a switch most of the time. There are a few other occasions 
 where u need to use it, especially near the end but i cant help feeling more could have been done 
 with it.
  I liked the weapons in the game, some say there isnt enough variety but i i think theres more than 
 enough, theres one weapon that shoots whatever you charge it with ( looks pretty impressive too 
 especially when charged with plasma ) , ie fire, frost, electricity and some kind of plasma.
  The enemies look very good and dont have the plasticy look from doom 3, i wish there was a few 
 more variety in the enemies but whats in the game are very good, i liked the idea of the spirit 
 guide hawk named talon, he flies around with you attacking enemies to distract them, he can also 
 translate the alien tongue and displays to english. I would have liked some interaction with talon, 
 since you cant communicate with talon and he doesn't communicate with you which makes it difficult 
 to care about your little companion, the reason for this is more clear near the end of the game.
 
  The major downside to the game is the death penalty, there isnt one since you cant actually die. 
 When you do die you are sent to the spirit realm to fight the dishonoured dead which are red and 
 blue spirits which you need to shoot to replenish your health and spirit, the whole thing lasts 
 for about 20 seconds and then you are sent back into the game exactly where you died, the damage 
 you did to the enemy just before you died still counts which reduces the challenge dramatically. 
 This means you dont really care about looking out for yourself since your basically indestructible.
 
  This also means there are no adrenaline pumping moments in the game scared that your going to 
 die.
  The multiplayer was abit annoying for me on the 360, the lag in this game is a real killer, i guess 
 it all depends on the person hosting the game, distance/bandwidth etc.
  I only played some deathmatch, i enjoyed it when i wasnt lagging too bad, what makes this different 
 from other deathmatch games is the portal and wall/ceiling walking. You really need to have your 
 wits about you when playing.
  In conclusion i fully recommend this game if only to follow the story, but for most this is just 
 a rental only.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie666
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  After first hearing about prey many years ago i was delighted to see at E3 a final release date. 
 So the basic story is you are Tommy a cherokee who wants to get of the reservation and see the 
 world with his girlfriend who dosent want to leave. When you first start the looking in the mirror 
 will seem similar to last years top 360 shooter "Condemned". As soon as you enter the bar the music, card 
 games, and television make for great little bonus bits if fun. I had great fun going through the 
 jukebox and finding judas priest and soil. 
  The actual gameplay plays very well, a very much steady framerate throughout ocasionly dips but 
 nothing you should notice. The weapons are imaginitive and great fun specially the charge gun freezing 
 enemies is good fun. 
  The game's look ios a cross between machine and flesh so to speak. The doom 3 engine works very 
 well here anc the artwork has been done very nicely for a good experience. There are several vehicles 
 which just add to the game's appeal. 
  The cherokee spirit mode is a very good idea which works very well with puzzle's (several are a 
 little challenging but nothing that should stop you for to long) .
  The game's length is about 10 hours for the normal player, that said there is xbox live multiplayer 
 here (which gamespots review neglated to mention anything about) but yes there is your typical 
 modes here deathmatch, team deathmatch the normal stuff which works very well and is great fun with 
 a few friends over xbox live.
  
  Overall Prey is a solid FPS which you will enjoy and every xbox 360 owner who enjoys FPS should 
 go out and get.
  (Also just a reminder on xbox live arcade there is a lengthy demo which is worth trying before 
 you buy, Which is of course free) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joespimpin
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 13, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  At first glance Prey is another First Person Shooter (FPS) for the Xbox 360. Where it sets itself 
 apart from others in the genre is in fact the most uninventive features of the game. Because of 
 this Prey is quite easily one of those games you will forget about long before the year is over.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  There are two basic options for gameplay, online and offline.
  
  OFFLINE, is a fairly short single player campaign which gets you into the action really quickly. 
 Unlike some other first person shooters out there, there appears to be a story during the course 
 of the entire game. it would have been nice if the story was more in depth and sadly the attempt 
 in the game to make the main character intresting and allow you to feel what he is going through 
 is more of a miss then a hit. Two major problems with this is the fact that although he is in a 
 alien world and is aided by others he never really gets the hint that there is more involved and 
 than his girlfriend. Also as he learns more and sees things in the game he makes comments, but 
 these comments don't have the sense of dread that should be present in a character in his situation. 
 
  
  There are 22 Single Player levels and they are short and not memerable at all. The key features 
 that are noted to the game such as portal usage and gravity tricks are cool but not used nearly 
 to the depth that they could have been. Puzzles in the game are almost always spirit mode to hit 
 a switch. The biggest problem with the level design is the linear gameplay. You can't go the wrong 
 way or off track no matter what. The portals in the game are nicely done clearly visable in the 
 game, but there is really not much to them at all in the game. I felt like I was going through 
 doors instead of portals because there was no sense of warping in the game. Although gravity tricks 
 are used throughout the game, there is no real usage of it in creative ways. The most creative 
 use I saw was switches on the walls that you would shoot to change the gravity of the room, this 
 would cause you to maybe walk on what was once a wall.
  
  Overall the most disappointing aspect to the single player is the lack of dying. It doesn't matter 
 if you die in the game, you just do a minigame to get health and spirit energy and your back where 
 your body died to begin with. Because of this there is no challenge at all to the one player game 
 and that is very disappointing.
  
  ONLINE
  
  Online is really disappointing and not memorable what so ever, there are only two modes team deathmatch 
 and deathmatch. For those that don't know what those are deathmatch puts you against up to 7 other 
 players and you battle it out to see who can get the most kills. Team death match put you in a 
 team of up to 4 players on each side and as a team you try to get the most kills. 
  
  A couple of big annoyances with the online are the fact there are only 8 maps and there aren't 
 many modes at all. Most people that appear to play the online modes do it to rank up and as such 
 ruin the fun for the other players. Aside from that to play in a ranked game you have to re create 
 rooms after every match, the interface is done to make you feel like they want you to disconnect 
 or something. Really badly done.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The game looks beautiful and is well detailed. I thought there could have been more choices in 
 scenery in the game but it does make sense considering the storyline for the game. In spirit mode 
 the graphics blur too much for my liking and I found puzzle solving in spirit mode was harder at 
 times especially when you had to hit code numbers in to gain access to something. I am playing 
 on a HDTV as well, so I imagine SDTV's will show this even more.
  
  I barely ever noticed a framerate drop at all. The game looks tailored to the system and is pretty 
 smooth. It is easy to identify things and the organic looking textures stand out and gross you 
 out as they should. Portals look good and show no slowdown or loading time in levels. 
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound in the game was good but not great, the music isn't memorable and the sounds 
 of the weapons although are good they don't get the feeling off of destruction that you would want 
 get out of this type of game. There is no intense moments that music compliments. 
  
  Voice acting in the game is bad. There is no sense of urgency or panic in their voices as there 
 should be. The game tries too hard and delivers nothing in the end in this category. Sometimes 
 I think if it was reading text instead of hearing their voices I would have liked the game more. 
 Since the game is over relatively quick, there isn't enough time to get really annoyed by it though, 
 so you will survive.
  
  VALUE
  
  You can pretty much see everything there is to see in a weekend or two. There are about 1000 achievement 
 points to unlock for point lovers. The game is fun on first play through, but there really is no 
 reason to go back to it. The multiplayer doesn't compliment the game's unique take on the FPS genre 
 and could have used more modes of gameplay. This is not a $60 game.
  
  TILT
  
  It is really hard to say rather this game is worth picking up or passing by. The single player 
 isn't strong enough to warrant the purchase, and the multiplayer isn't either. Sometimes I wonder 
 if developers actually play the games before they ship them, because a casual gamer would catch 
 most of these flaws right away.
  
  There is a chance that Xbox Live Market Place could save this title if more maps and modes are 
 made available for the online side. But that yet remains to be seen. 
  
  Because of the weak storyline, short playthrough, uneventful multiplayer and under use of what 
 could have easily set the bar for a game in the genre, I give Prey a very disappointing 7.3 out 
 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E2ESQUARE
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 13, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a fairly standard shooter on the surface. You play as a Cherokee Indian named Tommy who 
 begins his adventure in a bar with his girldfriend Jen and his Grandfather Inisi. Before you know 
 it, Tommy is sucked up into an alien spaceship, his grandfather is murdered and his girlfriend 
 is lost in the bowels of an alien fortress, all hope is lost......... or is it? Prey has a weird 
 but working combination of love, drama and action that fits well with the gameplay itsself, and 
 even though the twists and turns the story takes arent very interesting, it will hold you just 
 until the end.
  
  The Campaign in prey sets it apart from most other shooter games in several ways. The first and 
 most obvious way is that Tommy can call on the power of his ancestors and take form as his spirit, 
 leaving his body and being able to go where his flesh cannot travel. Initially its a pretty cool 
 effect, but it grows thin quickly. This ability to spirit walk comes with a bow and arrow which 
 is used to shoot both spiritual and physical enemies for lage amounts of damage, but its also a 
 bit pointless since guns do the trick anyways. This spirit walking is combined with gravity lifts 
 for some solid puzzels that make the game a bit more interesting. The gravity lifts are walkways 
 that allow you to walk along walls of celings and change the gravity on your body and anything, 
 on the walkway, but leaving natural gravity the same on the original floor. This gives you a chance 
 to attack from above or the side, but more often it just makes for small puzzles. Puzzles in Prey 
 are either good or routine, nothing else. Ocasionally there will be puzzles that require you to 
 leave your body in a location and then cross a barrier or void with spirit mode and by pressing 
 some kind of switch, move your body across to the other side or to another destination. The other 
 puzzles that is most common (about 5 times a level) is simply that you must activate the gravity 
 lift by pressing a level only accessible through a forcefield that you must spiritwalk through. 
 While some of these mini puzzles are intriguing and add a good level of strategy to the game, most 
 simply add run time to the games 8-10 hour campaign and become second nature. On the flip side, 
 most of the puzzles are over easy to solve, and they require obvious solutions. Its a shame that 
 only 3 or 4 of these puzzles actually enchance the game, and it feels a bit dry.
  The campaign scans 22 levels each about 10-30 minutes in length, some that require alot of action 
 and some that dont require any work on the players part whatsoever. The areas of action generally 
 invlove attacking small groups of enemies that move and hunt you like Prey (pun intended) . Problem 
 is, the AI is, like the rest of the game, overly simplified. They can duck, avoid and shoot, but 
 they have noa dvanced squad or team tactics and they are all complete pushovers. Enemies are made 
 even easier by the games innovative but campaign wrecking death system. It works where you die, 
 and you go to the spirit world to try and earn back heath and spirit points by using your bow to 
 shoot wraiths that correspond to your benefits (red = health, blue = spirit power) when you return 
 to life. The problem is, you can hit no wraiths and you will still be dropped directly back into 
 combat with half health, so death has essentially no reprocussions. You lose spirit power (only 
 is you had any to begin with) , you gain back health and you lose no progress in the game. You are, 
 in a sense, completely invincible, and it definetly will have an effect on how you play. With no 
 way to lose, you can run and gun without any tactic and complete the easy game very very quickly. 
 Overall, the idea of rebirth fits the game and its story, and it is definetly an interesting idea, 
 but it breaks the campaign in major ways, and it is definetly a detraction from the otherwise solid 
 single player game.
  
  The multiplayer on Prey has its ups and downs. Firstly, it is only an online game, so if you have 
 teh xbox version and intend to play it with other people, make sure you have Xbox Live Gold. It 
 plays much like Quake 4 or Doom 3 (xbox) did, only a notch higher on the speed. You have your standard 
 variety of weapons: Shotgun, sniper, rifle, grenades, grenade launcher, rocket launcher, wrench 
 (basically takes the place of a knife) . The weapon selection feels very standard, but each weapon 
 does have a nice look and fits the "alien" feel very well. One gun can change how it attacks by 
 absorbing enegies of different elements from speical energy tanks, and it is one of the most unique 
 part of the game. Also, spirit walking plays a much bigger role in the online game. It is a strategic 
 advantage to leave your body and procede with your invicible and leath spirit mode that can both 
 kill enemies and be a safe way to see enemies ahead of your body along your path. The disadvantage 
 is that when you leave your body, it is left open to attack and generally if it is found by another 
 player, it results in death. That being said, the spirit walking is the most unique and best dynamic 
 that Prey has over any other online game to date, particauarly on the Xbox 360. On the negative 
 side, Prey has only 2 multiplayer modes: Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, which seems a bit sparse. 
 Most maps feature gravity chutes and portals (basically doors that only open when a player is near 
 them) , but it all feels very very standard of a modern online shooter. If you really like face 
 pased Quakle or Unreal type action, then Prey multiplayer is definetly the game for you. The only 
 issue is that the servers can lag for you if your internet connection is not stable, and its made 
 worse by the intensity and high speed of the gameplay, particuarly on the Xbox 360. However, wether 
 you are using a PC or Xbox 360, Prey online is a solid choice, even if it isnt going to win any 
 awards. This game should also be a very safe pick for Xbox Live, because with only 4 or 5 other 
 shooters availble right now, this game is one of the best and most enjoyable (aside from perfect 
 dark zero, GRAW and Battlefield 2) .
  
  From a technical standpoint, Prey is very good. All of the guns, enemies and effects sound and 
 look great, and voice acting is frequent, deliberate and top notch. The games alien organic/machine 
 atmosphere works very well even if it doesnt pull off Doom's scare factor. The game on the xbox 
 360 runs at what would be mid settings on the PC, but the difference isnt huge, and unless you 
 have atleast one gigabyte of RAM, the 360 version is a safer bet. The 360 version also comes with 
 achievements for the single player campaign and online multiplayer which are fun to earn, but can 
 be gained very very quickly if you desire to do so. All 1000 points are very very possible to attain.
 
  
  Overall, in this 2006 summer where great PC and Xbox 360 games are running up dry, Prey is a welcmoed 
 addition. it has a good and very solid campaign that has a great deal of polish, and the game sports 
 a fun and fast paced if not sparse online multiplayer. Prey might not last you forever, but it 
 is a very solid game and a safe bet for your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono69830
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 13, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  For the most part this game functions as a good adventure through a fairly well told and interesting 
 storyline. Though it has been on/off of production for nearly 10 years it doesn't seem like it 
 was really well put together. As many have said this game takes between 7-10 hours to complete 
 the first run through, and after that multi-player is short lived, though this game had me entertained 
 it never surprised me in the least bit. Enemy Artifical Intelligence is somewhat lacking and takes 
 away any skill to the game, simply put its a 'run and gun shooter'. In its completion I am happy 
 to get the full 1000 achievement points that are available, though it was not too hard to do so. 
 The best thing about the game is its graphical upgrade when compared to many other first person 
 shooters. 
  
  Last Thought: Rent it, get all the achievements, and return it. This game may look great but simply 
 is not worth its money. I expected alot, but got a little, though it was fun while it lasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BullDogSquad
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Prey was a complete surprise. After playing the demo on XBL I was hooked. The graphics take you 
 to another world while the story keeps you there.
  The Single player story draws you in from the very beginning. Tommy, who wants to leave the Indian 
 reservation with his girlfriend, Jen, will get more than he bargained for. Abducted by the "dark 
 ones" the entire human race is once again harvested for food. Yum, would you like some tea with 
 those ears. The story does a fantastic job of keeping you wanting to play through the game and 
 find out why humans are on the menu. All Tommy is worried about once free in the alien sphere is 
 his grandfather and his love. Though, to get them is a dark road. Tommy realizes who he is and 
 begins to fight back. Graphically the game steps up and plays tremendously well slipping in a couple 
 of spots. It stands up well graphically to its PC counterpart. Though for an FPS it is very easy 
 to get through. This would seem to be a draw back, but really ads to the feel and power of the 
 game. Hardcore gamers will beat the game in about eight hours. The new ideas, such as the portals 
 and gravity make Prey totally different from anything you have ever played. The single player alone 
 was worth every penny. 
  On-line was a lot of fun though "lag" seems to be the word on XBL. Completely innovative and entertain 
 even with a small arsenal at the tips of your fingers. Prey is unlike anything you will play online 
 and is fairly simple when it comes to game play. 
  Overall Prey will not keep you busy for months. The game is a load of fun that will get light after 
 a few weeks. I would highly recommend this hit for any FPS fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Sleepsalot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 13, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  
  Those familiar with the frag-fest style of shooting games such as found in the Unreal Tournament 
 series will find themselves right at home with the frantic pace of Prey.
  
  The reader probably has already heard much about the use of gravity flipping and portals. The use 
 of these may feel gimmicky, but its hard to deny that it really enhances the roller-coaster level 
 of excitement to be had in this game. 
  
  The major flaw in this game is Death Walk. This feature occurs when your character, Tommy, loses 
 all of his health. It starts a mini-game in which you shoot wraiths that swarm around you to regain 
 spirit and health. Because this happens every time you die and you can shoot none of them and still 
 revive with marginal health, it ruins the sense of survival in the game. Those who want to challenge 
 themselves can look beyond this as a flaw and try to avoid death. 
  
  Frame-rate can drop pretty low at some points, but only on one occasion in the later half of the 
 game does it become annoying.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Atmospherically lighted environments are appropriately gory and chilling in the game. Portals are 
 well implemented and the transition from area to area looks seamless. 
  
  Textures sometimes have low resolutions and look stretched, but the majority of the game looks 
 fantastic.
  
  Sound:
  
  The 3 hour long score by Jeremy Soule, who composed the soundtrack for Oblivion, makes his talent 
 heard during this game.
  
  The sound effects are very well done. Even without a surround sound system, you can tell if an 
 enemy is behind you to a pretty accurate degree.
  
  All the weapons sound great while shooting and the explosions leave a nice ringing.
  
  Value:
 
  
  With lacking multiplayer modes (no split-screen) , people may want to stick with rental. Those who 
 prefer single player will probably want to purchase it.
  
  While it's a bit shorter than some other single-player campaigns, it doubtlessly packs the biggest 
 punch.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Downward_Angel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 13, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  I really, really, really like this game. I'm not sure how long it is yet; I'm only a few hours 
 in, but so far the game has kept me interested with the story and (even more so) the gameplay. 
 Walking on walls and shooting at aliens standing on the ceiling until they fall to the ground is 
 an extremely satisfying experience. There are even some mildly challenging puzzle aspects to this 
 game, though it never goes so far as to frustrate the player. And it has shuttles. Shuttles that 
 materialize around you at the touch of a button, and have tractor beams. That is freakin' cool. 
 I haven't had so much fun tossing people around since Psi-Ops. 
  Did I mention that this game is beautiful. I've played at least 30% of this game with my mouth 
 wide open. Everything is so realistic, and things are only super shiny when they NEED to be. (I'm 
 talking to you, PERFECT DARK ZERO) . You really do get the impression of being on an organic alien 
 space ship, floating around over Earth. Much of this game is quite awe inspiring, on both a technical 
 and an artistic level. Alot of it manages to be disgusting and captivating at the same time. BRILLIANT!
 
  I've given the multiplayer a few goes, and it's very entertaining. I got destroyed the first game, 
 but as I learned how to take advantage of the unique environments, I used the ability to walk on 
 walls and spirit-walking to surprise my opponents, and quickly I rose to the top of the pile of 
 frag meat I was shooting.
  
  Overall Score: SCHWING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_pr27
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 13, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  To start, I will say that if you don't spend too much time playing on XBOX Live, then Prey could 
 be a very satisfying experience for you. Unfortunately, for me, I do spend a lot of time playing 
 on Live. That fact, in it's self, leaves me feeling very disappointed. What a let down! I had such 
 high hopes. It's a shame really, because it doesn't seem like it would've taken the developer that 
 much more time and effort to get it right.
  
  So many of the reviews complain about the lack of multi-player game types, or the fact that Prey 
 only supports a max of 8 players at a time. But I don't feel that these problems, though very real, 
 are really what ruin the multi-player experience. Prey's multi-player could support 24 players, 
 and have every variation of capture the flag and king of the hill ever conceived, and still not 
 come close to being up to par. No, Prey's real problems are more basic in nature. Simply put, it 
 cannot do what it claims it can do. It, at this moment, cannot support 8 players at a time. The 
 game is very nearly unplayable with anything more than 6 players on the server. The claims of problems 
 with lag by other reviewers is an understatement. It is terrible!!! Once it starts lagging, you 
 cannot aim accurately, and worse yet, some times, you cannot move. Your character will be relegated 
 to twitching back and forth within an area of about two to three feet. It is extremely frustrating, 
 yet also slightly amusing, because the whole time this is happening, voice communications work 
 perfectly, so you get to share your frustration with the other players. Just one big happy pissed 
 off and frustrated family! 
  
  Ok, enough negativity, for now. As I said at the beginning of the review, the game is a mixed bag, 
 meaning that there is some good to go along with the bad. Ninety percent of the good is in the 
 single player game. It is fun, engaging, and fairly unique. The story won't win any awards for 
 best screenplay, but as games go, it is good. You really do get a sense of what it might possibly 
 feel like to be abducted by ruthless aliens. The graphics are great, by any standard, and the voice 
 acting and sound are good. The controls are also good. Nothing revolutionary, but adequate. I've 
 enjoyed the single player game, but, there are a few things that stop it from being able to overcome 
 the mess that is the multi-player. For one, the enemy AI. It is far from being "next gen". Also, 
 the length of the game, or lack there of. Being that this game can't fall back on it's multi-player 
 to add replay value, the short 8-12 hours that it should take most of you to finish this game are 
 not enough to leave you feeling like your $60 were well spent. And, also, the whole portal and 
 gravity reversing theme is under developed. It's cool at first, but is soon revealed for what it 
 really is, a rather shallow and inconsequential part of the game. The worst part is that it could 
 have been so much more! The concept truly is unique, but the execution is underwhelming. 
  
  To sum it up, despite of a few flaws that keep it from being great, the single player portion 
 of Prey is good and most people will enjoy it. The multi-player, for now, is a mess. To those who 
 love playing online and have already forked out $60, then keep your fingers crossed and hope that 
 they come out with a fix that we can download. Or, play through the good single player portion, 
 then bite the bullet, sell the game back to the store, cut your losses, and wait for Gears of War. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_Unit
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  I just got prey not to long ago and i must say the game gives me chills down my back. It has to 
 be the most creepiest game ive played in awhile, but at the same time allows you to get a new taste 
 of something new. I love how this game has no original stuff in it by that when you die you have 
 to load back up at check points and all and how you can walk threw boundaries when your in spirit 
 mode and etc... In all the graphics of the game are draw dropping as everything you look at has 
 alot of detail in it. Also the weapons in the game are never boring, i love how you cant find all 
 the weapons right at the start of the game but further you make your way thew the game you start 
 to unlock more, so it gives the ability not to get bored with the same gun. The sound in the game 
 is really good, and they have 3D realms has donw a good job in acorperating the sounds in certain 
 events, such as when you fight the wraith child the first time (that was really creeped out with 
 the ring around the Rossie) The thing that makes this game get a good rating is the storyline. 
 There is alot of detail put in the storyline that makes you wanna keep playing the game to see 
 if the main character Tommy will escape this ordeal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rennie1
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 13, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  
  
  Question: How long have we been waiting to finally be able to play as a native from the reserve 
 on board a strange and grotesque organic- like UFO ship using weapons that were Turok rejects?
 
  
  Answer: not long enough -
  
  The only thing missing is an Amish sidekick using martial arts - 
  
  Its as if the game designers 
 played a game where - you throw a bunch of characters from different genres together and draw from 
 a hat - 
  
  when your draw your elements - you must combine them to form a video game - 
  
  They drew - Native American
  - shooter
  - futuristic
  - organic elements of gameplay 
 
  
  A convoluted mess that reminds of Turok but with lesser weapons detail, and a story premise that 
 is just plain "bad" - 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0les02
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 13, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  Playing the demo, I thought this game was really bad, but I decided to rent it anyways just to 
 give the game one last chance. Well I played online for about 3 hours and enjoyed the game. Basically 
 if you like doom or quake then you will like this game. The only negative I can say about the game 
 is probably how the walls move depending on which way you go. But Im sure this may turn into a 
 cool feature if I ever get use to it, but for now it just gives me a headache when I walk into 
 a room and head one way and then the room flips. But one cool feature about that was being able 
 to look up at the ceiling and killing people. Like I said if you like Doom or quake you will like 
 this game as well, it is a simple FPS with nothing to exciting that jumps out, but sometimes thats 
 all we need. Only had lag in about %5 of the games played, so thats not to bad.
  
  Single player I didnt even bother playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceDemolisher
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  7.5 is harsh. However, the reason for this is because it is very, very linear. There is usually 
 only one solution to a puzzle and only one linear path. But for those who arent going to buy it 
 because of the 7.5, dont be put off by the score. There are plenty of neat suprises throughout 
 the game- the gravity flipping twist to the game is great, and the first time you see the sphere 
 you will be in awe. Prey has achieved a great atmosphere by giving the ship and the alien weapons 
 a biomechanical feel. The aliens are potrayed as cold and evil- the first time I saw a human getting 
 mutilated for dissection I was shocked. Kids get mutilated in the game, nothing Michael Jackson 
 will approve of! One irritating thing about Singleplayer is that if any enemies manage to kill 
 you, your character will be sent into this arena where he will fight with spirits to regain health. 
 Because of this, you cant really die in the game and it detracts from the experience. Sadly, the 
 portals work better in Multiplayer than in Singleplayer. However, Multiplayer itself feels tacked 
 on with only DM and TDM modes. The net code is only above average. Nothing revolutionary here, 
 but the gravity flipping and the portals in multiplayer makes it real fun. Prey plays like a movie- 
 in the way that its linear and highly cinematic. Play the demo. and chances are that if you like 
 it, you will enjoy the full game as well. I did. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpttemplar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 13, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 3D Realms did an amazing job of introducing new ideas into Prey such as portals and gravity 
 walkways and ways to change the orientation of gravity. Along with things such as spirit walk and 
 death walk. After playing the game for a while though, the portals act more as doors, making the 
 game a bit more linear, and the spirit walk is only really used at certain moments in the game 
 to solve really easy puzzles. The vehicle parts though can become annoying at some points.
  
  Graphics: This game is very, very sharp and the graphics are quite good. But I think this could 
 have had much better graphicson the XBOX 360 instead of just being the same as the PC version.
 
  
  Sound: The soundtrack to the game is quite good, along with the gun sound effects. The voice acting 
 is better than it is in most games.
  
  Value: The game isn't extremely long, I would say it took me maybe between 7 and 9 hours to complete. 
 I haven't been able to get a match in online, but I've heard taht the online play does lag at points. 
 Although the achievements are quite easy to get (Complete a level are the easier ones) You may 
 not be able to get all of the achievments from the campaign mode on your first run through the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueSundown1985
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  A breath of fresh air in an era of mindless FPS's, it is an imaginative and immersive thrill ride 
 well worth playing.
  
  When I first saw the preview of prey, I initially thought that I had just stumbled upon another 
 cookie cutter fps where I would be fighting a bunch of aliens hell bent on eating humans.
  
  ... well it turns out I would be fighting a bunch of aliens hell bent on eating humans, but 
 thats besides the point. And no its not some Halo / Turok / Doom game that gets itself all confused.
 
  
  The action is so fast paced and solid, and the deathwalk ability keeps you engaged even in death. 
 It eliminates one of my biggest peeves, and thats having to start back over from square 1 and repeating 
 the story. Instead, Prey manages to keep the player continuously engaged with innovative features 
 such as gravity flipping, anti-gravity walkways, spirit walk, and some hillarious voice acting. 
 
  
  The soundtrack to the game is absolutley excellent and your initial experience in the bar, will 
 really make you feel like you're in the middle of nowhere Oklahoma or wherever. All i kept thinking 
 about when the abduction took place was something about cowbells... damn Blue Oyster Cult.
  
  My one gripe with Prey is that there is no split screen multiplayer and the only way to play 
 multiprey offline is to system link. 
  
  That being said Prey's story, graphics, sentimentality, and solid action will keep you immersed 
 until your final encounter with the very creature who has turned your world upside down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Prey wasn't even on my radar for a very long time. In fact, the only reason I really looked into 
 this game was because I thought the name was cool (and still do) . Having said that, I've heard 
 all the hype about how it's a Halo killer and everything. The question everyone wants answered 
 is: Can I finally stop playing Halo 2 online and actually play an Xbox 360 FPS that's worth playing 
 (spare Battlefield.. that game rocks) online? Can the game deliver on it's promise to be a killer 
 app? The answers you seek lie within this review. So, let's get right to the Game Breakdown on 
 this one.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. Environments look very nice, as do weapons and enemies. It truly feels next-gen 
 at every part of the game. Character models could use some polish but that's a serious nitpick... the 
 game is a looker, bottom line. Nice lighting effects (Doom.. take note... here's how it's done) .
 
  
  Sound: Very good I thought. Gun sounds are crisp, and voice acting was some of the better I've 
 heard on 360 so far. Some people didn't like the voices, so it's personal preference, but I've 
 heard much worse. Enemies sound fine. If two guards are near each other they will team to attack 
 you, somehow saying "Freeze" or something to the like in plain English..... best not to ask I guess....
 
  
  Control: Control is smooth EXCEPT for when you need to make a precise jump. Jumping in all FPS 
 games always sucks when it's required, so you have to be wary of that. Targeting is a breeze, which 
 is good because you usually have to target multiple enemies in an enclosed area. Interacting with 
 objects is accomplished with the simple use of the right trigger button. All in all, pretty smooth 
 setup. Extreme use of gravity is a total gimmick cop-out and controls like junk. Should have found 
 easier ways to maneuver those parts of the game.. which is just about the whole game.
  
  Entertainment: Well.... this is a tough one. Ask yourself, how long can you go through waves of 
 aliens while dealing with a horrendous zero-gravity gimmick which only serves to totally confuse 
 you and make you walk in circles for fifteen minutes? If you like that idea, you'll love Prey. 
 The game is fun... but seriously, they overdid the gravity and portal effects to NO END. Portals 
 will simply confuse you in an effort to extend the amount of time it takes to complete the game. 
 I was totally let down by their implementation. If not for the good graphics and the fact that 
 you get to mow down tons of aliens, it would have wrecked the game. As it stands, it comes darn 
 close. Gawking at environments and effects is pretty cool, especially at the part where you see 
 the school bus (this is not a spoiler.. nothing special happens... simply something you notice) . 
 Multiplayer is sparse, with only deathmatch available. Didn't hold my interest for 10 minutes. 
 Dying in the game means nothing, as you just play a little minigame and then respawn right where 
 you died. If you're fighting a boss, his life will still be where it was before you died.... so 
 can you say easy?
  
  All in all, Prey is not a bad game... but it comes nowhere near Halo 2 for multiplayer. The graphics 
 will let you show off the Xbox 360's power for sure, and the experience is a very unique one. However, 
 the game is held back by excessive use of the gravity gimmick, portals, and pretty dim A. I. Is 
 it worth a purchase? If you go that route, I'd recommend the normal version. My collector's edition 
 was overpriced I think. I could recommend the game's regular version for purchase if you're looking 
 for a good FPS, but beware that the game is meant for the single player mode and there really isn't 
 much replay at all. As far as a rental, it's a definite recommendation. Check it out.. it might 
 hook you. The bottom line on this one: Not total crap by a long shot, but killer app? Not quite 
 this time... but an A+ for effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 12, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Great single player! On-line was not good (only my opinion) . Single players music, sound effects, 
 graphics, and gameplay were all awesome! The story is interesting and original and I cant wait 
 to beat it! On-line is a whole different thing. The gameplay is way to fast and did'nt live up 
 to expectations. I was really looking foreword to this game on-line and I thought it would kill 
 halos on-line but it did'nt. More games should be as user friendly as halos on-line. If you buy 
 games for there online gameplay I do not recommend this game. If you Do'nt have xbox live and you 
 just play single player i really recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icy-X
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 12, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This game got so much hype, well I didn't believe into it all, but I did expect more than there 
 is, so I guess I believed in it too much still. Anyways I'll try to keep this some what short....
 
  
  The single player game is decent. The whole gravity stuff and portal stuff are cool ideas and seem 
 pretty cool at first, but rather shortly you'll notice those couple things aren't really any thing 
 special. They don't really change the game experience a whole lot. There is also the Spirit form 
 where Tommy (You) goes into a spirit form with a spirit bow. Personally I really like this about 
 the game, especially for multiplayer, but still it doesn't change the game experience a great deal. 
 Just feels like there is so much more they could of done with those few interesting ideas. Anyways 
 the single player is pretty straight forward and easy. Only about a 6-10 hour long game, so some 
 one could beat this game the day/night they buy it. If not, well it shouldn't take more than a 
 few days (a week at most) to beat the single player unless you don't play the single player much.
 
  
  Well after the short single player, all there really is left is the multiplayer wich is a HUGE 
 let down! First off the only game modes there is is Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch. Those are just 
 the most basic of game modes for FPS games there is, plus so is Capture The Flag wich actually 
 isn't in this game. Surprise surprise! A game without all three of the basic game modes for a FPS 
 not in the game? Anyways this is one reason why the multiplayer sucks (and it would probably still 
 suck if it had more game modes anyways) . The other reasons why the multiplayer sucks... Only up 
 to 8 players..... Lag issues (With 6-8 players in a game it will usually lag so much that it isn't 
 playable really) .... Lack of weapons as you only got the same ones that are in the demo of the 
 game.... And lastly.... For the most part all the maps kinda seem alike. 
  
  More on the maps.... They all are different in a way ofcourse, but each still don't feel that different. 
 This maybe mainly cuz this game is just pure run & gun. Still each map has some thing to set it 
 apart from the others, just never any thing really big. Really it doesn't seem like there is a 
 preference towards any specific maps people wanna play at, cuz they do mainly feel the same. Though 
 one map (The "Shuttle 2" map I think it is) has a vehicle you can get in wich just makes whome 
 ever in the craft pretty much being cheap. 
  
  Anyways bottom line... Multiplayer sucks for several reasons.
  
  Trying to keep this short 
 all I'll say about the audio and graphics is that they are both pretty good.
  
  Overall this game is decent, but as some one who has been playing FPS games for several years... 
 This is NOT what I look for for a FPS game at all really. A short single player that is easy with 
 a story that isn't that interesting? And a multiplayer with lag issues, lack of game modes, plus 
 other problems? Trust me people, this is a rental ONLY! Hell you can get most of the games experience 
 just out of the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrman43807
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 12, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  When I first read GameSpot's review for Prey, I was a little disappointed. I had been looking forward 
 to this game for a while, and for it to get only a 7.5, I was a little heart-broken. Still, I went 
 out and got the game, mostly because I enjoyed the demo so much. To my surprise, I was sucked into 
 the game almost instantly and couldn't put it down until it was over. Although it is short, it 
 felt like it was the perfect length to get its story across. For anyone who is debating this game, 
 I would say wait a while for the price to become a little more affordable, but definitely do not 
 miss this game.
  
  Gameplay- This game is your general FPS with a couple of twists thrown in, such as neat gravity 
 tricks and creative usage of portals. Anyone who liked Doom 3 will be in for a treat, as well as 
 any FPS fan who is looking for something slightly different.
  
  Graphics- When Doom 3 came out, I thought the graphics were fantastic. Now, although a little dated 
 when compared to GRAW or Oblivion, the graphics of Prey are up to par.
  
  Sound- The sound of the same guns going off over and over did get a little old, as with the sound 
 of a locked door or and alarm going off. The music, however, is fantastic, done by the same composer 
 for Oblivion. It always seemed to chime in at the right time.
  
  Value- Again, the game is a little short for the $60 price tag, but the multiplayer adds a little 
 bit more, even though it is still a little big laggy.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- Overall, after the game was over, I felt very satisfyed and can't wait for more 
 games like this in the future: ones with excellent story telling, decent graphics, and excellent 
 music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gothicdragon216
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  So I'm a huge sci-fi fan, and the concept of alien abduction is anything but new to me, but somehow 
 this game captures it well. I'm 3/4 through the campaign, and the challanges keep coming. The game 
 is also puzzling in an almost anger inducing way at times. The textures and details are beautiful, 
 and the sound is amazing. The alien world is easily one of the best I've seen in game or film, 
 and the creatures themselves are well made. As for multiplayer, I'm sorry to announce that my broadband 
 connection is down so I haven't played Live yet, but I'm sure there are other reviews that tell 
 about the multiplay. Get this game for a fresh new game with tons of interactivaty (for a shooter) 
 and plenty of twists to keep your attention. If you want this to be Halo, go rent it, don't buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickrep1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  First I have to say, I dont know what Game Spot was thinking. I know historically theyre very 
 critical of games and generally score things a good one to two points below other sites but this 
 one puzzled me. How can Game Spot give Table Tennis an 8.5 and Prey a 7.5 is beyond me.
  
  After purchasing Prey and playing it for a good three hours, I have to say I was impressed. Lets 
 face it, a first person shooter is a first person shooter and there is very little you can do other 
 than a great story line to revolutionize game play. For me, the idea of moving along gun in hand, 
 taking out enemies while enjoying a cool story is enough to peak my interest and take my money. 
 Prey does just that. Though the story of aliens invading earth isnt new, the developers plot 
 is interesting, adding some fear and humor to the game. The humor is the chuckle you get watching 
 fellow humans run around the ship getting tortured.
  
  What I like best about Prey is the little things it adds to the game to make it appear new and 
 something youve never played before. For instance Im sure everyone has heard about the gravity 
 aspect and I will say I found it to be a fun twist. Its really fun being able to walk up the side 
 of a wall and fight an alien upside down. This makes fighting aliens interesting since they can 
 attack from multiple directions not just front or back.
  
  The other cool addition is the warp points that are everywhere. Though they can be viewed as glorified 
 doors theyre more visually appealing then just plain doors and they definitely add to the feeling 
 that your in space on an alien ship.
  
  In conclusion, I think fans of first person shooters are not going to be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyek_1230
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  Prey is an average FPS, don't expect anything more... It is a good game that's worth playing, but 
 rent it or something first for you may even beat it while you rent it. I beat the whole Single 
 Player in 5 hours.
  
  SPOILERS!
  
  GAMEPLAY- The gameplay is very unique, and that is probably the grand of this game. Most people 
 would say "Oh boy, another human vs. alien game" but it's not like that at all. You, your grandfather, 
 and your girlfriend get sucked into an alien spaceship and you manage to escape. So you travel 
 throughout the spaceship (where most of the game takes place) to free your girlfriend before she 
 meets a spikey death. Along that route, you get to do very cool Spirit and Death walks, along with 
 using a lighter when it's dark, and using very cool alien weapons to fight the hordes of aliens 
 you come along. You also get use to the alien technology on the ship, which includes walking up 
 walls and ceiling, traveling through little portals to get to new places, and turning into the 
 size of a pea on one level. The one fault about the game is that it is very easy, very short, and 
 there's no real challenge. I beat the game on Cherokee mode (the hardest) in 5 hours last night. 
 Yea...
  
  GRAPHICS- The graphics is all it's hyped up to be... typical Xbox 360 graphics, it's just utterly 
 beautiful.
  
  Sound- I, personally, didn't like the sound in the game, and I turned it off in the Audio options. 
 It didn't sound that good, and it didn't match up with what you were doing in the point of the 
 game. 
  
  MULTIPREY- The Xbox Live Prey was very interesting. It was very fun and very exiting. Almost as 
 good as the Single Player Campaign...
  
  Overall, Prey is worth playing. In my opinion, don't waste $60 on it though, spend $5 to rent it 
 for 7 days and I assure you, you will beat it in that time. If you don't, then there's something 
 wrong with you. If you want it for MultiPrey, then I guess you spend $60 on it to own, but for 
 those who just wanna play and beat it, rent.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionreplay
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  When the demo was announced on Live, I quickly downloaded the 1gb demo. I then played the demo 
 through twice. Usually I await Gamespot's review of a game before purchasing, but I knew already: 
 this was going to be good. I am surprised at how low Gamespot then reviewed the game and believe 
 it should be reevaluated by the staff.
  
  I concur with many of the reviewers so far: this has been underated, while PDZ was way too overated. 
 This game has the graphics hook and gameplay hook to keep me at it for quite awhile. Playing a 
 FPS with the zero-G innovations in this game is an awesome treat. The weapons are decent and also 
 as innovative as the zero-G. (For awhile I avoided the green alien spider "grenades" as I thought 
 they were enemies until I accidently walked into one and discovered their usefulness!)
  
  The soundtrack is great with many classic songs. A+ there. 
  
  I am still battling through 
 this game and have not seen its conclusion yet and I hope I am nowhere near the end yet. This title 
 is really a lot of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jrrock009
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 12, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  After spending most of the day yesterday with the game I found it to be a really fun and great 
 game with some great weapons and some amazing innovative wall climbing and portals.
  
  My first impression of the game was its amazing attention to detail with everything in the bar 
 as well and the space ship. I loved how the ship looked as if it was a living breathing creature. 
 The AI was great for the most part with the smarter hunters using tactics against you and taking 
 cover and the giant mutates just swinging their giant sword hands at you franticly. 
  
  I loved how the game just throws you into the story. I thought it did a great job of making you 
 feel like you were on a spaceship and you had no idea what was going on. I loved the little Art 
 Bell phone calls that are throughout the game, they give you a nice little incite as to whats 
 happen on the earth while your floating around in space. I was however displeased with the amount 
 of weapons there was really just the stable rifle, rocket launcher, shotgun (sort of) , minigun, 
 and melee weapon. The leacher however was a cool gun how it would change with whatever pod was 
 on the wall. I loved the lightning mod of the leacher it was awesome to shot someone across the 
 room.
  
  I was a little disappointed with the lack of multiplayer options only death match and team death 
 match there could of been a lot more that could of been in there even like a new mode using some 
 of the portals to their fullest. The multiplayer wasn't really that fast either like other games 
 using the engine. It seemed like a slower version of like quake 4 where you can run on walls. I 
 was also disappointed that on xbox there was only 8 player multiplayer. The xbox 360 can handle 
 more then that why limit it. Push the map size up a bit and have some frantic fragging fun. 
  
  All is all the game was fun, it was something new and a solid shooter with great physics and 
 game play but lacked in multiplayer and replay value.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DjStickman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 12, 2006 1:55 am PT
Review:  I commend the programmers who literally defied gravity with Prey. Prey is easily one of the most 
 innovative FPS games i have played in a long while. With so many twists and turns this game has 
 the ability to make its first timers sick... but that has proven to be a damn good thing. But not 
 only do you have this awesome physics in place but you have a story that is great in its own right. 
 In the GS review it basicly states that "You are off to save your girl friend and surprise surprise 
 you save earth in the process" which isnt really much the case. All though Gamespot tackled the 
 "Trying to save the girlfriend" part this story does in fact evolve into a deeper more immersive 
 plot. You find out as to why this large sphere has began orbiting and attacking earth, who/what 
 rules it , Why you were lucky enough to survive , etc. with many twists stuck inbetween to make 
 you really want to push on and put a stop to this destructive sphere. Now this has been marked 
 by some as an average run if the mill shooter when in reality i dont see why it deserves such a 
 disowning. This would be where i would explain my title... now from what it seems now days is that 
 if you cant bash your enemy with the butt of your weapon the gameplay is immediately titled poor-good 
 even when developers shift gravity, let you have out of body experiences or simplify death it is 
 still gonna go down as an "average shooter" which is simply... stupid. now i really do hate to compare 
 games but this is just one of thise special cases where it can be like "wtf mate?". Now playing 
 through a game like PDZ i dont think ive ever had such a mind numbing experience with extremely 
 little reward... ever. Now i do admit i have had fun with PDZ multiplayer... but thats it. because 
 when it comes down to its single player story, voice acting and even at times model/audio syncing 
 was just horrific. But I can see why people may not like preys multiplyer because of player limit 
 and sometimes lag, but still there is much fun to be had with the multiplayer with its maps "off 
 the wall" gravity it is an awesome game to play with people... overall i give prey a superb 9.1 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fortune99999
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 11, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Although this game is fun and challenging, I would say its nothing to be amazed over. It has some 
 good visuals only thing I do not like is the anti-aliasing is bogged down due to framerate issues 
 so thats the only graphic issue i would say makes the graphics worse then what they could be on 
 the 360. The gameplay is fun since theres so many different things you can do like, walking up 
 the gravitational walkways, spirit walking, how you die and come back, and the portals.
  
  This game offers two difficulties, normal and cherrokee, you have to beat it on normal to play 
 the cherrokee difficulty. This game is farely short but gives you a lot to do and many tricks for 
 you to figure out. The multiplayer is fun but can be some what laggy at times. This game I would 
 say is a good buy but if your not sure, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 20, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Prey has been up, down and up again on my anticipation meter for quite some time now. The demo 
 had gotten the anticipation going again because of the totally awesome opening and first few missions. 
 After playing that, I really looked forward to the retail release. I hemmed and hawed about getting 
 it on the PC or 360 but in my heart of hearts knew that even though it was not as pretty on the 
 360 as it is on my PC it would still be easier and better to play online through Xbox Live (mainly 
 because of easy voice chat.)
  
  I got the limited edition which is really nicely packaged and includes an Art of Prey book (meh!) , 
 a couple of figurines (What is it with Doom Engine games and figurines? Its not an pen and paper 
 RPG!) and the soundtrack that you can download. I loaded it up to dive into the single player campaign 
 excited to play beyond what I already played through on the 360 and PC demos. The beyond is where 
 things started to falter. 
  
  Despite some people bashing Doom 3 and more so Quake 4, I actually liked both titles. The Doom 
 3 story and scares were pretty well done especially with the character interaction and pieces of 
 story relayed through PDAs. Quake 4 was very much the same only reaching higher on the gross out 
 meter. These are not high art folks. These are your equivelent of summer action movies. Unfortunately, 
 Prey has the atmoshphere, some of the scares and some of the action but it all seems mixed together 
 into a rather weak concoction without much subtance. Granted, the people who thought this was going 
 to be the next Halo really need to get a reality check but I even expected more. At least, Doom3 
 and Quake 4 had excellent pacing where you always felt like you were doing something important. 
 Granted, you are trying to save your girlfriend, Jen, but I could have played Mario for that. I 
 soon realized that I did'nt even care about the girl very much after an hour or so. Maybe Princess 
 Peach has a sister?
  
  Luckily, the motivation to continue through this game is not its story but actually its puzzles. 
 Wall-Walking, Portals, Spirit-Walking, Playing with Gravity and some really trippy levels contribute 
 to some of the most fun puzzles I have played since Zelda. They have taken the standard FPS scenario 
 of working your way through some halls, find a key and exit the level and literally flipped it 
 on its head. Some of these puzzles are really going to frustrate those who like to just keep mowing 
 down wave after wave of BFG fodder because you will often have to just stop and examine your surroundings 
 to figure out how the heck you get out of there. There is no map and a lot of the levels look very 
 similar so it can be frustrating but usually you will feel accomplished once you do figure it out. 
 
  
  What impresses me the most in this title is the graphics. Anyone saying that this does not have 
 "next-gen" graphics either does not have a decent High Def TV or just are not going to be satisfied 
 with graphics until they actually are sitting in your lap giving you a hicky. Sorry folks but the 
 next-gen (which I am learning to hate that term) is mostly going to be about graphics, physics 
 and AI. If you want something more than that pre-order your Wii. The only part I thought the graphics 
 were rather rough was in the first mission in the bar and either that is because it was early in 
 development when it was made or the lighting of the rest of the game masks the flaws. The graphics 
 are buttery rich with an extra dab of Crisco. Best of all you do not need a $2000-$5000 PC to see 
 it all. Here is some perspective: A lot of people (myself included) buy a single video card that 
 costs the same or more than the 360. Some even buy two. Granted, the PC version does have the edge 
 on the 360 version but Acheivement points, Xbox LIve and being able to just pop in the disc and 
 play has its own appeal.
  
  The sound is something that I was really disappointed in. The characters all have pretty good voice 
 acting but the Aliens must have been cast with the same actors from Halo 2. Why do Aliens all speak 
 english and all sound like they are from New Jersey? Weapons and organic granades sound wimpy on 
 the most part. If I am laying into some alien butt I want to hear it ROAR! Not sound like the horn 
 of a BMW Mini.
  
  Multiplayer is again not going to give Halo or Quake Wars any night sweats. This is typical Unreal 
 Tournament fodder. If you are looking for anything more you will be really disappointed. The new 
 twists do add an interesting spice to things that are much needed in online games for this genre.
 
  
  Overall, I am not going to totally trash this game because it is a fun romp while it lasts. Word 
 of warning though... even though the game has just been released I have not seen many people online. 
 If it is going to be hard to find games or if you are not interested in that type of online action 
 then do not give this more than a weekend rental.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 11, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game, very well done. I am impressed.
  
  The 4D rooms where someone can be in a room above you and shoot at you is really cool. The maps 
 are so large and then room spinning makes it very hard to learn the map layout which is good.
 
  
  Though this game is kind of like doom, it's way better. At least in this game you can see what 
 your doing! 
  
  The only thing I have had problems with is the network connection. I continually get network error 
 messages when trying to connect to a game. Sometimes the game is laggy, though that is sporadic. 
 I have played some very smooth 8 player games.
  
  Overall this is a very good game, I would definitely buy it again.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Prey has been a huge surprise for me, I wanst all too sure about picking this game up on release 
 day, but one i thought about it, i decided to get the collectors edition and was it worth it. (even 
 tho i had a rebate for it) prey has great visuals, special effects, and new innovative gameplay 
 ive never seen before. Everyone ragging on the game has probably never played it, or is a super 
 halo fanboy. This game has a great singleplayer with a good story, apparantly setting up for a 
 sequal which sounds great to me! the multiplayer is better then i expected, and i havent got into 
 a game that lagged yet. The devs have already confirmed new download content but have not said 
 what, but no matter what it is im sure its gona be great! the controls are a standard FPS controls, 
 the achievements keep you playing the game over, and theres great sounds and music to go along 
 with it. The A. I might appear "dumb" but if your not obsessed with have genius ai then it shouldnt 
 bother you. all in all this is the best game so far this summer and will not dissapoint 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korn_rox_2004
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 11, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  To sum it up, prey is a great First Person Shooter with great little puzzle solving elements to 
 break up from the large amount of shooting, that goes on throughout the game. I feel they really 
 nailed the mix between shooting and solving and many of the mechanic's make the game a blast to 
 play through. Even though i'm only on level 12 out of 22, i'm already seeing many area that i would 
 like to do over again and make video's of, especially when you start to use a vehicle, the evironement 
 that you first fly through is controlled but will show you just how well put together the game 
 is. The weapons feel very different to your standard bunch, and i wish there was more, the first 
 rifle you get is almost like an assault rifle but pull the left trigger and you have a sniper rifle. 
 All the mechanics in the game are used very often, from soul walk, to walking up walls, and going 
 through portals, and i feel that the combat never really gets very lame. Although on the Xbox 360 
 version i am noticing a bit of framerate problems, but its not enough to make you not want to pick 
 up this game. The graphics are absolutely stunning and the environement is very interactive. All 
 in all if you like First person shooter of more of a Sci-Fi sort, you should definately look out 
 for Prey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJC36091
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 11, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a FPS; its not some big winding RPG like some people want it to be. If you want that then 
 buy oblivion but if you want to run around, kill enemies and shoot stuff then get prey. The graphics 
 are great, especially the lighting effects. The gameplay is also good. It is what i expected; nothing 
 more or less. I had fun with it, even though it could have been longer. It is not as good as Call 
 of Duty but it is certainly better than BFMC and PDZ! It is a solid FPS and in my opinion one of 
 the best on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isick117
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 11, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  This game has been in developement for about a decade. For several different consoles along the 
 way. Although it is being released for booth PC and Xbox 360 there only a few small differences 
 between the two versions, mostly graphical things. Thing is if you have a PC that can handle this 
 game a high setting then you want to play this on your PC if not or if you have a HD TV and surround 
 sound you probably want this for you 360. The game's main character is Tommy. Tommy has betrayed 
 his Cherokee culture and religion. He has fallen in love with a girl named Jen, unlike Tommy Jen 
 loves everything about her Cherokee culture. The story starts off with Tommy in a bar and him just 
 walking around and interacting with the enviorment. You can play a Pac-Man ripoff, play a virtual 
 card game or change the music or volume of the juke box. He makes comments about the enviorment, 
 when he goes to the window, he sees it's raining and he saisThat's some pretty (crappy) weather 
 out there." Or when he walks up to the virtual card game he sais "Worst Indian casino... ever." 
 In the bar, his girlfriend owns, his mentor talks to him about how he Tommy will need him for the 
 journey ahead. Tommy talks to Jen about leaving the reservation but she won't. While two men try 
 to grab Jen, Tommy calls them out and that is when you use your first weapon, the wrench. You can 
 smack enemies with the wrench with a fast slash by pressing the right trigger or a hard power smack 
 by pressing and holding in the left. All your weapons have two firing modes. Like the machine gun 
 that shoots grenades or the assault rifle that can become a sniper rifle. The enviorments have 
 little innovative things like gravity switches or portals. Also a fun mechanic is "Spirit walk" 
 wich allows you too walk through certain windows doors, by just pressing "Y". Although this is 
 used for the usual puzzles you would expect, the real fun is mastering this in online. Although 
 you only get a bow in this form you can pick up ammo for real world weapons. Your spirit life is 
 drained while you move and get attacked, also if you shoot your bow you will ose some of your spirit 
 energy. If your real body is hurt and you are in spirit form you will travel right back too it. 
 Another cool thing is you don't relly die. When you die you get traveled to the spirit world and 
 have to attack the souls you have disshonored. Depending on what color they are ( Blue for Spirit 
 Energy, Red for real life health) , when you shoot them with your spirit bow you will regain spirit 
 energy or real life Health. Music is something I love in a game and Prey will not let you down. 
 it is composed by, the brilliant composer, Jeremy Soul who composed the award winning game "The 
 Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion" wich is one of my personal favorite games, and it has my favorite videogame 
 music. It's fun to use all these in the online especially. At the time of the review I haven't 
 got to play online but the demo was fun except for some framerate issues. If you love FPS's pr 
 something new and you have an Xbox 360 or even PC this is one you shouldn't really miss. Although 
 ten years is a long time, I guess it was worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 11, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  Renting the game is probably the BEST thing to do. This game is pretty much average, and the game 
 is too easy. The really big thing that is a disapointment is that the game could have been good. 
 When they added in that Spirital crap, it just made the game worse! Why in the heck would you want 
 to add that in the game! Sure, it makes it be very, unique, but it will make the game very boring. 
 It's even worse online because your friends and rival will use that power. It even makes multiplayer 
 even more complicated. Plus, haven't we played this similar game before? Ever heard of Doom 3?
 
  
  The graphics is just the only thing to can saves this game. We can all say that it looks like a 
 game we never seen before, but we have seen it before! Why do the aliens almost look the creepy 
 and almost awesome looking aliens from Doom 3, the Imps! Not trying to get toward Doom 3's side, 
 but the game is missing out on the creativity of what the game could have done before. Sure, you 
 got the awesome Portals and all, but you still played this similar gameplay.
  
  Gameplay is just another thing this game has to compare to another game. You got the Doom 3 overlook 
 of the game. I am starting to hate the fact that this game looks like the Doom 3 structure. The 
 only thing that isn't like Doom 3 is when you die, you can come back to life! That's cool, the 
 first time, but after awhile, it can get repetitive. Let's just say that this game has an average 
 gameplay value.
  
  Sound is beautiful. You got the eighties' music to the Aliens' scream. The voice acting sounds 
 like what a GAME should really sound like. It's even more cool when Tommy uses his F-bombs to make 
 you even more into the game. With this element, the game couldn't go wrong... or can it?
  
  The story is just astounding and just gets you hook. You start out in an Indian Bar, really classic, 
 and then you get sucked up into an alien ship and get shipped out of space! You got a mission and 
 save your girl and get back to earth. Is it really good, I don't know because I havent beaten the 
 game yet. Though, it does have mystery, romance, action, sex... I don't know about that, but it 
 does have drunk guys that you can kick their ass with a wrench then watch them die by getting stabbed 
 by one of those weird alien machines.
  
  In conlusion, the game just another way to think about what the games may be in the future. I say 
 it's a great start, but I hope the not all the Xbox 360's First-Person game will be feature like 
 Doom 3. I kinda want it more in Halo style if you catch my drift... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan360x
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  ok let me make this short yet helpful
  
  RENT IT
  
  Ok single player is worth playing, yet very entertaining, but not long enough. With a rentals amount 
 of time you can complete the game. Many things are fun and new in single player like walking on 
 walls, but it isnt very surprizing. Gameplay is pretty good, puzzles can be somewhat frustrating, 
 and the graphics in this great are acualy pretty good
  
  Multiplayer isnt the best. Not worth playing on live too much, but it is very entertaining for 
 a while. Not to many modes to play online, thats what brings the value way down. After you finish 
 the game your done, play multiplayer, but wont last long.
  
  So definetly check this game out, but $60 isnt worth it. But, $7 for a week where you can finish 
 the game is definetly worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legusto
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 10, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw Prey (in 2004) I thought "Meh, just another FPS"
  
  But at E3 '05 and '06 this game began to grab my attention more and more with it's innovations 
 of weapons, gameplay, and all other FPS basics.
  
  So I expected this game to possibly rival the greatest FPS of all-time (in my opinion) , Doom
 
  
  But this game is a complete letdown
  
  Graphics- Even on an HDTV everything looks bland and muddy, do not be fooled by the pre-rendered 
 trailers
  
  Sound- *Smack* *Thud* *Walk* That's it
  
  Value- $60 for less than 10 hours on campaign and a broken down, laggy multiplayer should be a 
 $40 title
  
  Tilt- Portals are cool and work fine, but the load times and horrbile voiceovers really killed 
 it for me
  
  Gameplay- Yes, the guns look cool and different, but I can think of about 10-15 weapons from other 
 FPSs that are way better
  
  Overall, it's alright, but the hype on this game made the developers think that they could slack 
 off. 10 years for this? I coulda sworn this could less than 1 year by it's overall polish
  
  Rent it, but if u pre-ordered it, i feel bad for u 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokurocks2442
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 10, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  When you start the game your grandfather tells you he feels something bad is coming. Eventually 
 theres a big storm and a whole bunch of aliens come and take you to there ship.
  
  This game has lots of detail. You can actually sit and watch people get masacerd by metal poles. 
 As you go through the game you eventually get the spirit teckneke. It makes the game alot harder. 
 The worst thing about this game is how many times you have to shoot the enemie in order to kill 
 them.
  
  The multiplayer can be so laggy that your stuck to a wall. The multiplayer can be fun but even 
 if you have a good connection and the other player doesnt your still gonna lag.
  
  The graphics are ok but they could be better. When you start the game and look at the sink it looks 
 like ps2 graphics. 
  
  If you like Aliens and if you are not going to play very much online with this game then go buy 
 it. 
  
  If you hate Aliens and if your going to play lots of multi player this game is worth a rent.
 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
